 

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project
to make the world’s books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difiicult to discover.

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the
publisher to a library and iinally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.

We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the jiles We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them iind
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specilic use of
any speciiic book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web
at http: //books . google . com/

LAWS

.a--o g 
C“?

1'

OF THE

STATE OF MISSOURI,

PASSED AT THE SESSION OF THE

FIFTEENTH GENERAL ASSEMBLY,

BEGUN AND HEIV AT THE CITY OF JEFFERSON

ON MONDAY, THE TWENTY-FIFTH DAY OF DECEMBER, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
AND FORTY-EIGHT, AND ENDED ON MONDAY THE TWELI-‘TH DAY
OF MARCH, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FORTY-NINE.

CITY OF JEFFERSON:

HAMPTON L. BOON, PUBLIC PRINTER.
1849.

AEG14 1929

see»;

LAWS or THE MISSOURI.

 

PUBLIC ACT sf  ,5; ,.';:;{g./,.«§ .

 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION.

RESOLUTIONS to amend the constitution in relation to the otlices of
Secretary of State, Attorney General, Auditor of Public "Accounts,
State Treasurer, and Register of Lands.

Resolved by the two houses qf the General uissembly, as follows:

§ 1. That the twenty-first section of the fourth article of the consti-
tution of the State of Missouri, be and the same is hereby abolished.
§ 2. There shall be a Secretary of State, who shall be elected by the
qualilied voters of this State, at such time, and in such manner, as shall
be provided by law; he shall hold his otlice for four years, unless sooner
removed by an impeachment; he shall keep a register of the othcial
« acts of the Governor, and when necessary shall attest them; and he shall
lay the same, together with all papers relating thereto, before either house
of the general assembly, whenever required so to do; and shall perform
such other duties as may be enjoined on him by law.
§3. The ei hteenth section of the lifth article of the constitutionpf
the State of issouri is hereby abolished. '
§ 5. There shall be an Attorney General, who shall be elected by the
qualified voters of this State, at such times, and in such manner, as shall
be provided by law; he shall remain in ollice four years, and shall per-
form such duties as shall be required of him by law.
§ 5. The twelfth section of the fourth article of the constitution of
this St ate is hereby abolished.
§ 6. There shall be an Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall be elect-
ed by the ualified voters of this State, at such times, and in such man-
ner, as shrill be provided by law; he shall remain in office four years,
and shall perform such duties as shall be required of him by law: his
&ce shall be kept at the seat of government. ‘
§ 7. The thirty-first section of the third article of the constitution of
this State is hereby abolished. ,
§ 8. A State Treasurer shall be elected by the ualified voters of "this
State, at such times, and in such manner, as shal be provided by law,
who shall continue in oflice for four years, and who shall keep his ollice
at the seat of government. No money shall‘ be drawn from the treasury
but in consequence of appropriations made by law; and an accurate ac-

 

4 AMENDMENTS-—CON8Tl'l‘UTIONAL.

count of the receipts and expenditures of the public money shall an-

nually be publishe . _
§ 9. There shall be a Register of  elected by the qualified vo-

ters of this State, at such time, and°ip'.§uch manner, as shall be provided
by law; he shall hold his ofiiee'-_i‘b°r four years, shall keep his ofiice at the
seat of government, and s_‘h'a_ll"15ér'f'orm such duties as shall be required

of him by law.  

U
C - O .
C

§ 1. Judges ot the su reme court made elec- .3 law for election of said judges; the first
tive; to hold t eir oflice for six years;  ' general election for said judges to be on
governor to issue a writ of election to g the first Monday in August, A. D. 185].

2. The oiiices of the severq supreme judges

b
J

ll vacancy in case of death resignation,
removal out of the State, or lay any other a to be vacated on the first Monday in

disqualification, for residue of the term; g August, A. D. , 1851.
the general assembly shall provide by

Resolved by the General ./Yssembly Qk the State of Missouri, (two
thirds of, each house concurring therein,) .

§ 1. That hereafter the judges of the supreme court shall be elected
by the qualified electors of the State, and each shall hold his office for
the term of six years only, but may continue in oflice until his successor
shall be elected and qualitied; and if any vacancy shall happen in the

office of any judge of the supreme court, by death, resignation, removal

out of the State, or by any other disqualification, the governor shall, u -
onbeing satisfied that a vacancy exists, issue a writ of election to ll
such vacancy; but every election to fill a vacancy shall be for the residue
of the term only. The general assembly shall provide by law for the
election of said judges by the qualified voters in the State; and in case
of a tie, or a contested election between the candidates, the same shall
be determined in the manner to be prescribed by law; and the general
assembly shall also provide for an election to fill any vacancy which
shall occur, at any time within twelve months preceding a general elec-
tion for said judges. The first general election for supreme courtjudges
shall be on the first Monday in August, A. D. 1851, and on the first Mon-
day in August every six years thereafter. If a vacancy shall occur in
the oflice of a supreme court judge, less than twelve months before a
general election for said judges, such vacancy shall be filled by an ap-
pointment by the governor; and the judge _so appointed shall hold his
oflice only until the next general election for said judges.

§ 2. The offices of the several su reme court judges shall be vacated
on the first Monday in August, A. . 1851; and all parts of the original
constitution, or of any amendment thereto inconsistent with, or repug-
nant to this amendment, are hereby abolished.

A-MnnnMnNrs—coNs'rr'rUr1oNA.L. 5

Resolved by the General .dssembly_ off the State of ltfissouri, (two-
thirds of each house concurring therein,) that the following be proposed
as an amendment to the constitution of this State: ‘

§ 1. That so much of the thirteenth section of the fifth article of the
constitution-of this State, ratiiied at the ‘present session of the general
assembly, as provides that the governor shall nominate, and by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint the judges of the circuit
courts, and that each judge of the circuit courts shall be appointed for the
term of eight years, and that every appointment to fill a vacancy of such
judge sbal be for the residue of the term only, is hereby abolished; and
hereafter each judge of the circuit courts shall be" elected by the quali-
iied electors of their respective circuits, and shall be elected for the
term of six years, but may continueiin oiiice until his successor shall
be elected and qualified; and if any vacancy shall happen in the
office of any circuit court judge by death, resignation, removal out of
his circuit, or by any other disqualification, the governor shall, upon

‘being satisfied that a vacancy exists, issue a writ of election to fill such

vacancy, provided thatsaid vacancy shall happen at least six months be-
fore the next general election for said °udge; but if such vacancy shall
happen within six months of the general] election aforesaid, the governor
shall appoint a judge for such circuit; but every such election or ap-
pointment to fill a vacancy, shall be_for the residue of the term only, and
the general assembly shall provide by law for the election of said 'udges
in their respective circuits; and in case of a tie, or a contested election
between the candidates, the same shall be determined in the manner to
be prescribed by law; and the general assembly shall provide by law_ for
the election of said judges in their respective circuits, to fill any vacan-
cy which may occur at any time, at least six months before a general
election-for said judges. The first general election for circuit judges
shall be on the first Monday in August, A. D. 1851, and on the first Mon-
day in August every six years thereafter. No judicial circuit shall be
altered or changed.,at any session of the general assembly next preceding
the general election for said judges. The oflices_of the several circuit

judges shall be vacated on the first Monday in August, A. D. 1851.

,'\_o-\,—-

 

\.f\r\f\ "\/‘~u‘\t\r\4\,-\

 

A

Resolved by the General ./ilssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', (two-
thirds of each house concurring therein,) that the following be proposed
as an amendment to the constitution of this State:

§ 1. That the boundary of this State be so altered anclextended, as to
include all that tract of country lying west of the present boundary of
this State, so that the same shall be bounded as follows, viz: Beginning
at the south-west corner of the ‘State, thence west to the middle of the
main channel of_ Grand river; thence up the same to the mouth of Neo-
sho river; thence up, in the middle of the main channel of the same, to
the northern boundary of the Quapaw land; thence east along said
boundary to the present State line, or to include so much of said bound-

ary as congress may assent to.
Approved March‘ 12, 1849.

I

6 AMENDMENTS-—CONS'I‘ITUTIONAL.

Resolved by the,GeneraI vissembly of the State of Missouri, (two-
tlcirds 3/‘ each house concurring therein, That the following amend-
ment to the constitution of this State, constitutionally proposed, at the
the last General Assembly of the State, is hereby established, confirmed
and ratified as an amendment to the constitution, as part of the same:

§ 1. The House of Representatives shall consist ‘of members to be
chosen every second year, by the qualified electors of the several coun-
ties,_ apportioned in the following manner, to-wit: The ratio of represen-
tation shall be ascertained at each apportioning session of the Legisla-
ture, by dividing the whole number of permanent free white inhabitants
of the State, bythe number of one hundred and forty; each county hav-
ing said ratio, or less, shall be entitled to one representative; each coun-
ty having said ratio and a fraction over, equal to three- fourths, shall bd

« entitled to two representatives; each county having three times said

ratio, shall be entitled to three representatives; each county having four
times said ratio and a fraction over, equal to one-half, shall be entitled to
four re resentatives; each county having six times said ratio, shall be
entitle to live representatives; each county having eight times said ra-
tio, shall be entitled to six representatives; each county having ten times
said ratio, shall be entitled to seven representatives; eaclrcounty havin

thirteen times said ratio, shall be entitled to eight representatives; eacg
county having fifteen times said ratio, shall be entitled to nine re-
presentatives; each county having eighteen times said ratio, shall
be entitled to ten representatives ; each county having twenty-
two times said ratio, shall be entitled to eleven re resentatives;
each county having twenty-four times said ratio, shal be entitled
to twelve representatives; any county having more than twenty-
four times said ratio, shall be represented in the same proportion.
And the General Assembly which shall meet in the year eighteen hun-
dred and forty-eight, and every fourth year thereafter, shall apportion the
nnmber of representatives amon the several counties as herein directed.

' And the members of the Genera Assembly shall receive, as compensa-

tion for their services, not to exceed three dollars per day for the first
sixty days, and after that time not to exceed one dollar per day for the
remainder of the session; except at a revising session, they may receive
a compensation not to exceed three dollars per day for the first one hun-
dred days, and one dollar per day for the remainder of the session; but
the General Assembly inay allow a greater compensation to the pre-
siding officer of each house. No county now established by law shall
ever be reduced by the establishment of new counties to less than twen-
ty miles square, nor to less than five hundred square miles, nor below
the ratio of representation then required; nor shall any county hereafter
established be entitledto a separate representation, unless the number
of permanent free white inhabitants therein shall, at the time, be equal
to three—fourths of the ratio of representation then‘ being, but may be
organized with a smaller number for all other purposes, civil and military.
The second, fourth, twenty-fourth, and thirty-fourth sections of the
third article of the constitution are hereby abolished.

THOS. L. PRICE,
Lieutenant Governor and President of the Senate.

A. M. ROBINSON, _
Speaker of the Home of Representatives.

lMI HTlWTwNAL

Jos. T. Abernathy,
John H. Bean,

Lewis Barnes,
John J. Burtis,

William M‘. Campbell,

J nmes Chiles,
E. L. Edwards,

James Ellison,

Augustus W. Flournoy
James M. Gatewood, ,

John W. Hancock,
Airs Hudspeth,

C. 13‘. Jackson,
David Jones,
Charles Jones,

W. Claude Jones, (opposed,) _
J urns H. Barrron, Secretary d‘ the Senate.

Thomas M. Aull,
Wm. H. Baile ,
Dewitt C. Ballou,
David W. Baker,
Orson Bartlett,
Geo. C. Bingham,
Jos. ,
Thomas E. Birch,
Anderson Bowles,
John Brets,

John Brocltman,
Sol. D. Caruthers,
Jno. P. Campbell,
M. S. Cerre,

J oshua Chilton,
Wm. Cock,
Johnson B. Clardy,
W.W. Com ton,
William T. Cole,
John T. Crenshaw,
Simeon Connelly,

 P. Darnes,

Geo. W. Dyer,
John S. Enloe,
W'1lliam,Edmonston,
Ephraim B. Ewing,
J . W. Fitzhugh,
James Foster,
Edwin French,

A. Fristoe,

Cyrus H. Frost,
Joseph M. Gibson,

Miran Leslie,
Alton Lon , V
Joseph B. Nickel,
J ewett Norris,
Winfrey Owens,

‘ John Polk,

John G. Price,
William Priest,
Preston B. Reed, _
James S. Rollins,

- Robert M. Stewart,

Carty Wells,
Gideon P. Wyatt,
Iaac S. Williams,
Rich’d H. Woolfolk,

Russell Horner,
Isaac N ._ Jones,
John M. Johnson,
R. W. Jordan,

Th. J. Kirk,

J as. Livingston,
Isaac N. Lewis,
John McAfee,
Samuel Melugin,
E. M. C. Moreloclt,
Robert Miller,
Robert Mont omery,
Thomas B. eaves,
Wm. N ewland,
Presley T. Oliver,
George W. Poage,
D. E. Perryman,
Jno. C. Price,

T. S. Richardson,
T. F. Risk,

W. Robinson,
Richard Roberts,
Sam T Rhodes,

B. F. Robinson,
Jose h Sale,

Dani], G. Saunders,
Wm. Sayers,
Reuben Shelby,
Geo. A. "Shortridge,
Chas. Sims,
Thompson Smith,
Henry We 

7!

8 AMENDMENTS-—O0N8TITI_J'rl0NAL.

J. C. Geode, Franklin Smith,
Jerome B. Greer, J Th. T. Swetnam,
Chas. H. Gregory, Wm. F. Switzler,
Harrisontalwinn, Lorenzo D. Thompson,
A‘. S. Harbin, Robert B. Taylor," '
Joel B. Halbert, Abram B. 'I'insley,
W. P. Harris, , Benjamin Tompkins,’
John B. Henderson, _ - WilliamVanderpool,
Madison C. Hawkins, H. Walton,

W-m. Henderson, Wm. Welsh,

George W. Henson, W. L. Walton,

Robert Hicks, James Walker,

John Hyer, H. L. Wilkerson,

C. B. Hinton, H. M. Woodyard,
Thomas W. Higgins, Joel E. Woodward,
Thomas J ._Howe1l,

‘ ‘ BENJAMIN F.'MASSEY,
Clerk of the House qf‘ Representatives.

 

Resolved by the General ./Slssembly of the State Q/'Mz'sso-uri, (two-thirds
qf each House concurring therez°n,) That the following amendment to
the constitution of this State, constitutionally proposed at the last Gen-
eral Assembly thereof, is hereby established, confirmed and ratified as
an amendment to the constitution of the State, as part of the same.
The thirteenth section of the fifth article of the constitution is hereby
abolished, and the following" is adopted in lieu thereof:

§ 13. The Governor shall nominate, and by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court and the
Judges’ of the Circuit Courts.

Each Judge of the Sn reme Court shall be appointed for the term of
twelve years, and each udge of the Circuit Courts shall be appointed
for the term of eight years; and every appointment to till a vacancy shall
be for the residue oi‘. the term only; but in all cases the judge shall con-
tinue in oflice until a successor shall be appointed and qualified. The
Judges of the Supreme Court and Circuit courts shall be eligible to re-
appointment. The oHices of the several Supreme and Circuit Judges
shall be vacated on the first day of March, eighteen hundred and forty»
nine.

THOS. L. PRICE,

Lieutenant Governor and Presidentqf the Senate.

A. M. ROBINSON,
Speaker qf the House of Representatives.

 

AMENDMEN'l'8--CONSTITUTIONAL.

J os. T. Abernathy, -Miron Leslie,

John H. Bean, , Alton Lon ,

Lewis Burnes, Joseph B. Jqickel, ,-
John J. Burtis, Jew_ett-Norris,

William M. Campbell, ‘ Winfrey Owens,
James Chiles, 'John Polk,

E-. L. Edwards, John G. Price,
James Ellison, " ‘William Priest,
Augustus W. Flournoy, Preston B. Reed,

James M. Gatewood, =Jame S. Rollins, v "
John W. Hancock, Robert M. Stewart, '
Airs Hudspeth, Carty Wells,

C. F. Jackson,
David Jones,

Charles Jones,
W. Claude Jones,

J

Thomas M. Aull,
Wm. H. Bailey,
David W. Baker,
Dewitt C. Ballou,
Orson Bartlett,
Geo. C. Bin ham,
Thomas E. Birch,
Jo. Bogy, -

John Bretz,
Anderson Bowles,
John Brockman,

' John P. Campbell,

Sol. D. Caruthers,
Joshua Chilton,
M. S. Cerre,
Johnson B. Clardy,
Wm. Cock,
William T. Cole,
W. W. Compton,
Simeon Connelly,
John T. Crenshaw,
Winiam P. Darnes,
Geo. W. Dyer,
William Edmonston,
John S. Enloe,
Ephraim B. Ewing,
James Foster,

J ., W. Fitzhugh,
Cyrus H. Frost,
A. Fristoe,

Edwin French,

J. C. Goode,
Joseph M. Gibson,

Gideon P. Wyatt, J
Isaac S. Williams, .
Rich’d H. Woolfolk,

Jums, H. Bnxrrou, Secretary Qk the ‘Senate.

Thomas J. Howell,
John M. Johnson,
Isaac N. Jones,

R. H. Jordan,

Th. J. Kirk,

Isaac N. Lewis,
James Livingston,
Saml. Melugin,
John McAfee,
Robert Miller,

E. M. C. Morelock,
Robert Montgomery,
Wm. N ewland,
Thomas B. Neaves,
Presley T. Oliver,
D. E. Perryman,
Geor e W. Poage,
Jno.  Price,

T. F. Risk,

T._ S. Richardson,
Richard Roberts,‘
W. Robinson, *
B. F. Robinson,
Sam. S. Rhodes,
Joseph Sale, ‘
Dani. G. Saunders,
Wm. Sayers,
Reuben Shelby,
Chas.,Sims,

Geo. A. Shortridge,

, Henry W. Smith,

Thompson Smith,
Th. T. Sweatnam,

10 aMnNnMnms—coNsrxrnr1oNAL.—Anmnusrnarron.

Charle H. Gregory, Franklin Smith,
Jerome B. Greer, Wm. F. Switzler,
Harison winn, Robert B. Taylor,
Joe_l B. H bert, ‘ Lorenzo D. Thompson,
A. S. Harbin, Benj. Tom kin,

W. -P. Harris, Abram B. insley,
Madison 0. Hawkins, William Vanderpool,
John B. Henderson, . James Walker,

Geo. W. Henon, . W. L. Walton,

Wnf. Henderson, * Wm. Welsh,

John H er, H. Walton,

Robert iclrs, H. L. Wilkerson,
Thomas’ W. Higgins, ' Joel E. Woodward,
C. B. Hinton, H. M. Woodyard,
Russell Horner,

Brsumn F. Massmr,
Clerk of the House of Representatives.

 

Resolved by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, two-thirds
qf each House concurring thew-ez'n,) That the following amer. ment, con-
stitutionall proposed to the constitution of this State, at the last Gener-
al Assemb y thereof, is hereby established, coniirmed, and ratified as
part of the constitution, to-wit: '

That the fifth article of the constitution be amended by adding the
following section: ‘ -

If there be a vacancy in the otlice of Jud e of any circuit, or if he be
sick, absent, or from any cause unable to ho d an term of court of any
county of his circuit, such term of court may be held by a judge of any
other circuit, and at the request of the judge of any circuit, any term of

court in his circuit may be held by the judge of any other circuit.

 

ADMINISTRATIbN.
AH ACT respecting surviving partners.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. If a member of a partnership shall die, and a majority of two-
thirds in interest of all the creditors of the firm shall present to the court
having probate jurisdiction in the count where the business of the firm
was carried on, a petition asking that e surviving partner or partners
may not be required to give bond and security as is required in the {if-
tieth and fifty-first sections of “An act respecting executors and admin-
istrators,” approved March 26th, 1845, the court hall examine into the
matter, and may take evidence, and if the court shall be satisiied that

anmmrsraarrou. 1 1

two-thirds in interest of the creditors of such firm have signed the peti-
tion, and that injustice would not be done to other parties, it shall make
an order permitting the surviving partner or partners to adjust, close
and settle the business of the firm, without giving such Bond and _secu-
rity; but such surviving partner‘ shall, in other respects, be subject to
the control and superintendence of the court.

§ 2. The bond required by the fiftieth section of the first article of
the above recited act, may be executed by the survibin partner in the
county in which he resides, and may be there acknowle ged before and
approved by the court having {jurisdiction of plrobate business, or the
clerk thereof, and shall be certi ed to the court aving probate jurisdic-
tion in the county in which administration has been granted on the estate
of the deceased partner; and a bond in sutlicient amount, thu taken, shall
be as valid and efectual as if a it had been executed and approved in the
manner prescribed in the above recited act. This. act shall apply to
cases that have already occurred, if bond and security have not been
already given. '

This act shall take effect from its pasage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

   

-AN ACT to preserve real estate of deceased perons.

§ 1. Court to appoint suitable agents to receive ’ §2. If no claimant, court shall certify balance
property of deceased persons in certain to Auditor.
cases; uties defined. 3. Money paid into treasury, maybe drawn by
the rightful hair or legatee.

Be it enacted bywthe General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. If, upon the final settlement of any executor or administrator, it
&all appear to the court that there are lands or tenements composing a
art 0‘? the estate of the deceased, and.that there are no known heirs or
egatees to receive the same, or that the place of residence of such heirs
or legatees is not known; or if such heirs or legatees shall fail to appear
to ta e.possession of such premises, for more than one year after such
6nal settlement; in every such case, the court shall appoint some suitable
person as agent to take possession of and preserve such real estate, who
shall enter into bond to the State of Missouri, with approved security,
for the faithful performance of his duties as such agent; and it shall be
the duty of such agent to rent such premises out, to collect the rent, and
cause the premises, so far as practicable, to be preserved from waste,
injury and dilapidation, and to be kept in good repair and condition,
and to pay the taxes thereon; and the agent shall annually account to
the court having probate‘ jurisdiction in the county for all money re-
oeived by him; and the court shall allow him credit for such sums as
have been paid for taxes, repairs, or other necessary and proper expen-
ses, and a reasonable compensation for his. own. services, and shall
charge the agent with the balance.

12 APPROPRIATION.

§ 2. If no heir or -legatee shall appear to claim such money within one
year after any such annual settlement, the court shall certify the amount
of such balance to the Auditor of Public Accounts; and it shall be the
‘ duty ‘of the agent, within sixty days thereafter, to pay the amount thus
certified into the State treasury, and "he shall take from the Treasurer
duplicates for the same, one of which he shall file in the court having
probate jurisdiction, and receive credit therefor, and he shall file the
other in the oflice’ of the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall charge
the’ Treasurer therewith.
§ 3. Any.money paid into the treasury under this act, may be drawh
therefrom by the rightful heir ‘or legatee, in the manner provided for
drawing money from the treasury in the seventeenth section of the sixth
article of “An act res ecting executors and administrators,” approved
March 26th, 1845. ~ T e provisions of this act shall extend to final set-
tlements heretofore made, as well as those hereafter to be made, if the
-pro erty of the estate still remains exposed or undisposed of.
his act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

,\’~;p\z\p\rv\z\r\r\r\r\r\r\r\/vx/yrxnxvx/~ rxrx rv

APPROPRIATION.

AN ACT appropriating money for the support of Government for the
- years 1849 and 1850. ~

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qftlze Stale of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the following sums, in addition to the unexpended balances
under the several heads which were in the treasury on the thirtieth day
of September, 1848, be, and the same are hereby appropriated to defray
the expenses of Government for the years 1849 and 1850, to be paid out
of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated: For the pay
of civil bflicers, fifty thousand dollars; for pay of the General Assembly,
twenty thousand dollars; for costs in criminal cases, five hundred dollars;
for contingent expenses of General Assembly, one hundred do lars; for
militia odicers, fifty dollars; for copying the laws and journals, two thou-
sand dollars; for distributing the laws and journals, one hundred dollars;
for contingent expenses of the Governor and Secretary of State, five hun-
dred dollars; for contingent expenses of the Auditor of Public Accounts,
one hundred dollars; for contingent expenses of the State Treasurer,
four hundred dollars; for contingent expenses of the Attorney General,
‘fifty dollars; for contingent expenses of the Register of Lands, one thou-
sand dollars; for contingent expenses of elections, one hundred dollars;
for contingent expenses of the militia, five hundred dollars; for assessin
and collecting the revenue, ten thousand dollars; for printing laws an
journals, six thousand dollars; for county revenue, five thousand dollars;
for publishing the decisions of the supreme court, one hundred dollars;

APPROPRIATION.—-APPORTIONMENT. ' r 13

for the general contingent fund, ten thousand dollars; and for the pay-
ment of interest on State bonds, one hundred and forty-ix thousand dol-

lars. .
i This act to take efect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

r\r\/N/\r\/\r\/\r\/\f\I\/\t’\r\I'\/\A\r\I\'\r\P\f\r\I\n

AN ACT to appropriate money.
Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the §S'ta'e of Mzlssauri, asfallows:

§ 1. That there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the trees-A

ury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of one thousand dollars for the
general contingent fund. ,

§ 2. Said sum, or so much thereof as shall be necessary therefor, shall
be applied to the liquidation of the liabilities by the Stateincurred through
the lawful agency of the Commissioner of the Permanent Seat of Gov-
ernment, under and by virtue of the eighth section of an act entitled
“An act roviding for the election of a Commissioner of the Permanent

Seat of overnment, and for other purposes,” approved February 13,

1845.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

"\o\/¥a\/\.l\./\./\.I\&a'\J\/.\«  '\«‘\r\—\4\-I

AN ACT to appropriate money.
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qft/ze State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the following sums are hereby appropriated out of any
money in the treasury not otherwise a propriated: For contingent ex-
penses of Register, two hundred dol ars; for general contingent fund,
one thousaxlid dolllars; for printing; lawsdapidgournals, two thousand dol-
lars; for ta ing t a census, six t ousan o are.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

’\./\/‘~4‘7-./~/ \K

 

/;\/\I\/\/‘\/\/\

. APPORTIONMENT.
AN ACT to apportion representation.

1. A porhonmen' tof representation. gs: Thirtieth district entitled to.
§ 2. Dlleignation of senatorial districts. l 4. Times of.e1ecting senators.

I4 ‘ arroarronuzxr.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly q/‘the State of Missouri, as-follows:
§ 1. Re resentation shall hereafter be apportioned as follows: In the

House of epresentatives, viz., from the county of St. Louis, ten rep-'

resentatives; from the counties of Boone and Platte, each, three re re-
sentatives; from the counties of Andrew, Buchanan, Callaway, C/Papa
Girardeau, Clay, Cooper, Franklin, Greene, Howard, Jackson, Lafay-

’ette, Lincoln, Marion, Monroe, Pike, Randolph, Ray, St. Charles and

Washington, each, two representatives; and from all other counties, each,
one representative.

2. The State is hereby divided into the followin senatorial districts,
an the members of the Senate shall be elected mm the districts as
hereinafter designated, viz: The counties of St. Charles and Lincoln
shall compose the first senatorial district; the counties of Pike and Rails,
the second district; the counties of Marion and Monroe, the third dis-
trict; the counties of Scotland, Lewis, Clark, Knox and.Schuyler, the
fourth district; the counties of Livingston, Linn, Carroll and Daviess,
the fifth district; the counties of Andrew, Holt, Atchison and Nodaway,
the sixth district; the counties of Buchanan, DeKalb and Gentry, the
seventh district; the counties of Platte and Clinton, the eighth district;
the counties of Clay, Caldwell and Ray, the ninth district; the counties
of Grundy, Sullivan, Putnam, Harrison and Mercer, the tenth district;
the counties of Howard and Chariton, the eleventh district; the counties
of Macon, Adair, Randolph and Shelby, the twelfth district; the coun-
ties of Boone and Audrain, the thirteenth district; the counties of Cal-
laws and Montgomery, the fourteenth district; the counties of Frank-
lin, Warren and Gasconade, the fifteenth district; the counties of Ste.
Genevieve, J etferson, Perry and St. Francois, the sixteenth district; the
counties of Cape Girardeau and Wayne, the seventeenth district; the
counties of Scott, Mississippi, New Madrid, Dunklin and Stoddard, the
eighteenth district; the counties of Madison, Reynolds, Ri ley, Shannon,
Oregon, Texas and Wright, the nineteenth district; t e counties of
Greene, Taney and Ozark, the twentieth district; the counties of Law-
rence, Barry, Newton and Jasper, the twenty-first district; the counties
of St. Clair, Dade, Cedar and Bates, thentwenty-second district; the
counties of Jackson and Van Buren, the twenty-third district; the coun-
ties of‘ Lafayette and Johnson, the twenty-fourth district; the counties
of Benton, Henry, Pettis and Saline, the twenty-fifth district; the coun-
ties of Cooper and Moniteau, the twenty-sixth district; the counties of
Cole, Osa e, Morgan and Miller, the twenty-seventh district; the coun-
ties of Pol , Hickory, Camden and Dallas, the twenty-eighth district;
the counties of Crawford, Washington and Pulaski, the twenty-ninth
district; the county of St. Louis, the thirtieth district. -.

§ 3. The thirtieth district shall be entitled,to elect four senators, an
and every other district one senator each.

§ 4. The thirtieth district shall elect three ‘senators at the general
election in the year eighteen hundred and- fifty, and one senator at the
general election in the year ei hteen hundred and fifty-two; the second,
third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eig th, ninth, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, four-
teenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, eighteenth, twentieth, twenty-first, twenty-

A1-'roaNEv eENEnAL.--EiNmNe JouEN.u.s. 16.

second, twenty-third, twenty-tifth, twent -seventh, twenty-eighth and
twenty-ninth districts shall each be enti ed to elect one senator at the
neral election in the year eighteen hundred and fifty. The first,
ourth, eleventh, seventeenth, nineteenth, twenty-fourth and twenty-
. sixth districts shall each be entitled to elect one senator at the general
election in the year eighteen hundred and tifty-two.
. Approved February 27, 1849.

 

ATTORNEY GENERAL.

AN ACT to amend “An act concerning the Attorney General,‘Cir-
cuit and County Attorneys,” approved March 25th, 1845.

Be 2? enacted by the General Jssembly Q/‘the State qf Missouri, as follows:

1. The sixth section of the above recited act is hereby repealed.

2. An election shall be held by the qualified voters of each judicial
circuit on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November in the
year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two, for the election of a cir-
cuit attorney; and each subsequent election shall be held on the same
day; of the same month at the end of every period of four years there-

r. .

This act to take effect from its passage. ' A '

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

BINDING JOURNALS.

AN ACT to provide for binding Joiirnals.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly tithe State qf Missouri, asfoyoum

§ 1.’ The Secreta of State is authorized to have the journals of the
Senate and House 0 Representatives for the present session, substan-
tial] half bound, with leather backs and corners, provided that such
 can be done in a reasonable time, and that the cost of the bind-
’ to the.State shall not exceed twenty-three cents per volume.
"ibis act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

16 BOOKS roa CONVICTS.--BOATS AND VESSELS.
BOOKS FOR CONVICTS.

AN ACT further to provide for the moral and religious instructio'n
‘of the convicts in the Penitentiary.

§ 1. Chaplain may purchaseibooks. _ §3. Two hundred dollars appropriated; Audi-
2. Chaplain to report to inspectors the list of tor required to draw warrant for same.
books purchased; convicts to use said 4. Act to be in force from passage.
books. , .

Be itenacted by the General Jssembly qfthe State w‘ Missouri, asfollows!

§ 1. The chaplain of the Penitentiary, if he shall deem it necessary
and expedient, shall purchase such boo s as he may think. suitable for
the use of the convicts in the Penitentiary of this State; provided he
shall not expend more than two hundred dollars under this act. '

§ 2. The chaplain shall report to the inspectors of the Penitentiary a
list of the books purchased under this act, and the prices paid for them.
He shall also have charge of the library in said prison, ‘and shall from
time to time deliver to the convicts for their perusal, such books as he
may think proper.

§ 3. The sum of two hundred_dollars, out of any money in the treasu-
ry not otherwise appropriated, is hereby ap ropriated to carry into ef-
fect the provisions of this act; and the Au itor of Public Accounts is
hereby authorized to draw his warrant upon the Treasurer in favor of
the‘ chaplain of the Penitentiary for said amount. ‘
§ 4. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its pas-
sa e. -

g Approved March 10, 1849.

 

' sous AND VESSELS.
, AN ACT. respecting steamhoats.

53

Ben? enacted by the General «Z5-sembly of tlie State qf'Mz'ssoarz', asfellows;

§..l. If the captain‘ or other otiicer of a steamboat or other vessel shall‘,
in suitable weather, deposit any freight in proper manner and ingood
condition, on the wharf of any city or incorporated town, and- shall give
verbal or written notice to the consignee thereof, one hour before sun
down of the day on which the same is deposited on the wharf, ‘such de-
positin and notice shall constitute a delivery. If the consignee‘ shall
express y refuse to receive such freight, the captain or oflicer shall cause
the same to be stored at the risk and expense of the owner or consignee;
and if the consignee do not expressly refuse to receive the same, but
shall fail to take the same away, in such case the captain of oHicer of
such boat or vessel shall be at liberty either to cause such freight to be

I

nous AND VESSELS. 17

stored as aforesaid; or to leave the same on the wharf at the risk of the
consignee or owner. A

§ 2. Whe what is among steamboatmen called dunnage, may be ne-
cessary to p eserve any freight from injury or loss, the captain or oilicer

_of the boat or vessel shall be entitled to receive compensation for the

actual cost of such dunnage, from the consignee or owner.
Approved March 12, 1849.

‘‘-/€\./'\/\./ WJ\W 

AN ACT to amend the steamboat law.

§ 1. A part owner of a steamboat may petition 7 §3. Sheriff shall advertise, sell, &c. ‘
to the circuit court or court of common ‘~ 4. Statement of the debts of the boat to be
pleas for order of partition, if designing l delivered to sheriff.

a sale of boat.  5- Court, or judge in vacation, shall enforce
2. The other part may file his answer; court  any order made by him by attachment.
shall decide t e terms of sale. 4

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembl, 1/ qf the State of Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. If a steamboat be jointly owned by two parties, whose interests
are equal, so that neither party has a controlling interest in such boat,

and said parties cannot agree upon a sale or other disposition of the‘

boat, and either party shall desire to have the boat sold, he may prepare
his affidavit, specifically setting forth the facts of the case, and asking
that the boat may be sold for the purpose of partition, and he may pre-
sent such petition to the circuit court or court of common pleas, in term
itme, or to the judge of either of said courts in vacation, having first
given five days notice to the other owner, of his intention to make such
ap lication; and thereupon, the court, or judge in vacation, shall appoint
a ay to hear and dispose of the application; and on the day appointed,
the judge or court shall try and determine the matter in asummary man-
ner, so as to do justice to both parties. .

§ 2. The other party may file his answer, verified by oath, and if ne-
cessary, either party may introduce testimony in the cause; and if upon
a hearing of the parties, the court or judge shall be of opinion that the
statements in the affidavit are true, the court may order the boat to be
sold for the purpose of partition. The court, in its discretion, may or-
der the boat to be sold for cash or on credit, or partly for cash and part-
ly on credit; and if any credit shall be given, the purchaser shall give
two or more 00d and sutiicient securities for the purchase money, or
shall secure t e same by a deed of trust on the boat, together with a
Iu5cient policy of insurance on the same, transferred to the sheriff to
secure the purchase money. _

§ 3. The sherif shall advertise and sell the boat under such order as
Inder execution, and shall deliver the same to the purchaser.

§ 4. When such order shall be made, it shall be the duty of both the
equal owners of such boat, to deliver to the sheriff a statement of the
debts due on account of the boat, and which form a lien on it, and out
of the proceeds of the sale the sheriff shall pay the costs and expenses

2

l8 CLOCK PEDLER8 AND CLOCK DEALERS-—CORPORATION8.

of the proceedings and sale, next the debts that forms lien on the boat,
and the residue shall be equally divided between the equal owners.

§ 5. The court, or judge in vacation, shall have full powe; to enforce
by attachment, any order made by him under this act, and to do justice
between the parties; and shall also make such orders as will be calcula-
ted to avoid ex ense and delay; and also such orders as will guard and

protect the rig ts of creditors. -
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

s/\/\/\/\/\/'\/\/\/\/\/\_/I

CLOCK PEDLERS AND CLOCK DEALERS.
AN ACT concerning clock pedlers and clock dealers.

Be itenacted by the General vissembly qf the State 0/ Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. In lieu of the sum of twenty-live dollars now required by law to
be paid upon every clock pedler’s and clock dealers license, there shall
be evied and paid upon every clock pedler’s and clock dealers license,
the sum of live dollars for the term of every six months. .
~ § 2. All acts and parts of acts repugnant to, or inconsistent with this
act, are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect from and after the first day of July next.

Approved March 10, 1849.

   

CORPORATIONS.

AN ACT to authorize the formation of corporations for manufacturing,

mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes.

10. Liability of stockholders. 23. Indebtedness of companies.
24. Cases; exemption from liability.
25. Books to be ke t, names of stockholders,

amount of stoc , &c.

§ 1. Companies, how to be formed. » § 15. Provision respecting false certificate or
2. When to become bodies corporate. 5 report.
3. Directors to be elected. . 16. Stock held by executors, &c.
4. Election may beheld on any day. 17. Executors, &c., may vote at meetings.
5. Officers. J8. Liability of stockholders.
6. Call or. stockholders by directors. 19- Journal of proceedings, &c. to be kept.
7. Powers of directors to make by-laws. 20. Companies may Increase or diminish stock
8. Stock transferable. 21. Notice thereof to be given.
9. Certificate, copy of to be evidence. 22. Meetings bow organized and conducted.
11. Certificate of payment of stock to be tiled.

12. Annual report to be made and published.
13. Provisions in relation to dividends
14. Stock to be paid in cash.

K

i

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State Q/'Mz'ssom*z', asfullows:

§ 1. At any time hereafter, any three or more persons who may desire
to form a company, for the purpose of carrying on any kind of manufac-

oonpoaarxons. 19

turing, mining, mechanical, or chemical business, may make, sign, and
acknowledge before some oflicer, competent to take the acknowledgment
of deeds, and tile in the oflice of the circuit clerk of the county in which
the business of the company shall be carried on, and a duplicate thereof
in the oflice of the Secretary of State, a certificate in writing, in which
shall be stated the corporate name -of the said company, and the object
for which the company shall be formed; the amount of the ca ital stock
of the said company, whizh shall not be more than. five hundred thou-
sand dollars, not less than five thousand dollars; the term of its exist-
ence, not to exceed fifty years; the number of shares of which the said
stock shall consist; the number of directors, and their names, who shall
manage the concerns of said company for the first year, and the names
of the town and county in which the operations of the said company are
to be carried on.

§ 2. When the certificate shall have been tiled as aforesaid, then the
aforesaid clerk shall issue a license to the persons who shall have signed
and acknowled ed the same, on the reception of which, they and their
successors shal he a body politic and corporate, in fact and in name, by
the name stated in such certificate, and by that name have succession,
and shall be ca able of suing and of being sued, in any court of law or
equity, in this tate; and they and their successors may have a common
seal; ind may make and alter the same at pleasure; and they shall by
their corporate name, be capable in law of purchasing, holding and con-
veying any real and personal estate whatever, which may be necessary
to enable the said company to carry on their operations named in such
certificate, but shall not mortgage the same, or give any lien thereon.

§ 3. The stock, property and concerns of such company, shall be man-
aged by not less than three, nor more than nine directors, who shall res-
pectively be stockholders in such company, and citizens of the United
States, and a majority of whom shall be citizens of this State, who shall,
except the Iirst year, be annually elected by the stockholders, at such

time and place as may be directed by the by-laws of the company; and '

public notice of the time and place of holding such elections, shall be
published not less than ten days previous thereto, in the newspaper
printed nearest to the place where the operations of the said company
shall be carried on; and the election shall be made by such of the stock-
holders as shall attend for that purpose, either in person or by proxy.
All elections shall be by ballot, and each stockholder shall be entitled to
as many votes as he owns shares of stock in the said company; and the
persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be directors; and
when any vacancy shall happen among the directors by death, resigna-
tion, or otherwise, it shall be tilled for the remainder of the year, in such
manner as may be provided for by the by-laws of the said company.

§ 4. In case it shall happen at any time that an election of directors
shall not be made on the day designated by the by-laws of said company,
when it ought to have been made, the company, for that reason, shall not
be dissolved, but it shall be lawful, on any other day, to hold an election
for directors, in such manner as shall be provided for by the said by-
laws; and all acts of directors shall be valid and binding as against such
company, until their successors shall be elected.

§ 5. There shall be a president of the company, who shall be desig-

20 conpoaarroxs.

nated from the number of the directors; and also such subordinate oili-
cers as the company, by its by-laws, may designate; who may be elected
or appointed, and required to give such security for the faithful per-
formance of the duties of their offices, as the company by its by-laws
may require. '

§ 6. It shall be lawful for the directors to call in and demand from the l

stockholders respectively, all such sums of money by them subscribed,
at such times, and in such payments or ihstallments, as the directors
shall deem proper, under the penalty of forfeiting the shares of stock
subscribed for, and all previous payments made thereon, if payment
shall not be made by the stockholders within sixty days after the personal
demand, or notice requiring such payment, shall have been published
for six successive weeks in the newspaper nearest to the place where
the business of the company shall be carried on, as aforesaid.

§ 7. The directors of such company shall have power to make such
prudential by-laws as they shall deem proper, for the management and
disposition of the stocks, and business affairs of such company, not in-
consistent with the laws of this State, and prescribing the duties of oili-
cers, artificers, and servants that may be employed; for the appointment

of all otlicers, and for carrying on all kinds of business within the ob- ‘

jects and purposes of such company.

§ 8. The stock of such company shall be deemed personal estate, and
shall be transferable in such manner as shall be prescribed by the by‘laws
of the company; but no shares shall be transferable until all previous
calls thereon shall have been fully paid in, or shall have been declared
forfeited for the non-payment of calls thereon. And it shall not be law-
ful for such company, to use any of their funds in the purchase of any
stock in any other corporation.

? 9. The copy of any certificate, or license of incorporation, or jour-
na of proceedings of such company, filed in pursuance of this act, eer-
tified by the circuit clerk or his deputy, to be a true copy, and of the
whole of such certificate or license or journal, shall be received in all
court: and places, as presumptive legal evidence of the facts therein
state .

§ 10. All the stockholders of every company incorporated under this
act, shall be severally individually liable to the creditors of the compa-
ny in which they are stockholders, to an amount equal to the amount of

stock held by them respectively, for all debts and contracts made by -

such company, until the whole amount of capital stock fixed and limited
by such company, shall have been made and recorded, as prescribed in
the following section: and the capital stock so fixed and limited, shall all
be aid in, one-half thereof within one year, and the other half thereof
wit in two years from the incorporation of said company, or such cor-
poration shall be dissolved.

§ 11. The president, and a majority of the directors, within thirty
days after the payment of the last instalment of the capital stock so fixed
and limited by the company, shall make a certificate stating the amount
of the capital so fixed and paid in; which certificate shall be signed and
sworn to by the president, and amajority of the directors; and they shall,
within the said thirty days, record the same in the office of the circuit
clerk of the county wherein the business of said company is carried on.

CORPORATIONS. 21

, § 12. Every such company shall annually, within twenty days from the
£rst day of January, make a report, which shall be published in some
newspaper published in the town, city or village, or if there be no news-
paper published in said town, city or village, then in some newspaper
published nearest the place where the business of said company is car-
ried on, which shall state the amount of capital, and of the proportion
actually paid in, and the amount of its existing debts; which report shall
be signed by the president and a majority of the directors, and shall be
verified by the oath of the president or secretary of aid company, and
filed in the oflice of the circuit clerk of the county where the business
of the said company shall be carried on; and if any of said com anies
shall fail so to do, all the directors of the company shall be joint y and
severally liable for all the debts of the company then existing, and for
all that shall be contracted before such report shall be made.

§ 13. If the directors of any such company shall declare and pay any
dividend, when the company is insolvent, or any ‘dividend, the payment
of which would render it insolvent, or which would diminish the amount
of its capital stock, they shall be jointly and severally liable for all the
debts of the company then existing, and for all that shall be thereafter
contracted, while they shall respectively continue in ofiice; proz.-z'a’ed,
that if any of the directors shall object to the declaring of such dividend,
or to the payment of the same, and shall, at any time before the time
6xed.for the payment thereof, tile a certificate of their objections in wri-
ting, with the clerk of the company, and with the circuit clerk of the
county, they shall be exempt from the said liability.

§ 14. Nothing but money shall be considered as payment of any part
of the capital stock, and no loan of money shall be made by any such
company to any stockholder therein; and if any such loan shall be made
to a stockholder, the oflicer who shall make it, or whqshall assent there-
to, shall be jointly and severally liable to the extent” of such loan, and
interest, for all the debts of the company contracted before the repay-
ment of the sum so loaned.

§ 15. If any certificate, or report made, or public notice given by the
oliicers of any such company, in pursuance of the provisions of this act,
shall be false in any material representation, allof [the] oliicers who shall
have signed the same, knowing it to be false, shall be jointly and sever-
ally liable for all the debts of the company contracted while they are
stockholders, or otlicers thereof.

§ 16. No person holding any stock in such company as executor, ad-
ministrator, guardian or trustee, and no person holding such stock
as collateral security, shall be personally subject to any liability as
stockholder of such company; but the person pledging such stock shall
be considered as holding the same, and shall be liable as stockholder
accordingly; and the estates and funds in the hands of such executors,
administrators, guardians, or trustees, shall be liable in like manner, and
to the same extent, as the testator or intestate, or the ward or person
interested in such trust fund would have been, if he had been living, and
competent to act and hold the same stock in his own name.

§ 17. Every such executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, shall
represent the share of stock in his hands at all meetings of the company,
and may vote accordingly as a stockholder; and every person who shall

22 coaponarrous.

pledge his stock as aforesaid, may, nevertheless, represent the same at
all such meetings, and may vote accordingly as a stockholder.

§ 18. The stockholders of any company organized under the provis-
ions of this act, shall be jointly and severally individually liable for all
debts that may be due and owin by the company, to the amount of pro-
fits which have accrued, or divigends which have been declared and paid
upon their stock respectively, and no further.

§ 19. It shall be the duty of the directors of every company organized
under the provisions of this act, to cause to be kept a regular journal
of their proceedings, in which shall be recorded all the proceedings and
orders made by the directors, and also a book, in which shall be record-
ed the exact amount of profits which has been made, and losses which
have been sustained by the company, and all dividends which have been
declared and aid, with the amount of such dividends, and the dates
when declared’, and the persons to whom paid; a copy of which journal,
and all books required by this act to be kept, shall be filed annually with
the circuit clerk of the county in which such company is located, where
they shall be kept [open] upon for the inspection of all persons inter-
ested.

§ 20. Any corporation heretofore formed or company, either by special
act or under the generallaw, and now existing, for any manufacturing, mi-
ning,mechanical or chemical purposes, or any company which may be form-
ed underthis act, may increase or diminish its capital stock, by com lying
with the provisions of this act, in any amount which may be deeme suffi-
cient and proper, for the purposes of the corporations; and may also extend
its business to any other manufacturing, mining, mechanical or chemical
business, subject to the provisions and liabilities of this act. But before
any corporation shall be entitled to diminish the amount of its capital
stock, if the amount of its debts and liabilities shall exceed the amount
of capital to whi it is pro osed to be reduced, such amount of debts
and liabilities sha 1 be satisfied, and reduced so as not to exceed such
diminished amount of capital; and any existing company heretofore
formed under the general law, or any special act, may come under, and
avail itself of the privileges and provisions of this act, by complying
with the following provisions; and thereupon such company, its oilicers
and stockholders, shall be subject to all the restrictions, duties, and lia-
bilities of this act. p

§2l. Whenever any company shall desire to call a meeting of the
stockholders, for the purpose of availing itself of the privileges and
provisions of this act, or for increasing or diminishing the amount of its
capital stock, or for extending or changing its business, it shall be the
duty of the directors to publish a notice, signed by at least a majority of
them, in a newspaper in the county, if any shall be published therein, at
least three successive weeks, and to deposit a written or printed copy
thereof in the post oflice, addressed to each stockholder athis usual place
of residence, at least three weeks previous to the day fixed upon for
holding such meeting, specifying the object of the meeting, the time and
place, when, and where such meeting shall be held, and the amount to
which it shall be extended, or changed; and a vote of at least two-thirds
of all the shares of stock shall be necessary to an increase or diminution
of the amount of its capital stock, or the extension or change of its b_u-

CORPORATIONS. 23

siness, as aforesaid, or to enable a company to avail itself of the pro-
visions of this act.’

§ 22. If at any time and place, specified in the notice provided for in the
preceding section of this act, stockholders shall appear in person, or by
proxy, in number representing not less than two-thirds of all the shares
of stock of the corporation, they shall organize by choosing one of the
directors chairman of the meeting, and also a suitable person for secre-
tary, and proceed to a vote of those present, in person or by proxy; and
if on canvassing the votes, it shall appear that a suflicient number of
votes has been given in favor of increasing or diminishing the amount of
capital, or of extending or changing its business, as aforesaid, or for
availing itself of the privileges and provisions of this act, a certificate
of the proceedings, showing a compliance with the provisions of this
act, the amount of capital actually paid it, the business to which it is
extended, or changed, the whole amount of debt and liabilities of the
company, and the amount of which the capital stock shall be increased
or diminished, shall be made out, signed, and verified by the atlidavit of
the chairman, and be countersigned by the secretary; and such certifi-
cate shall be acknowledged by the chairman, and filed, as required b
the tirst section of this act; and when so filed, the capital stock of such
cor oration shall be increased or diminished to the amount specified in
sue certificate, and the business extended or chan ed as aforesaid, and
the company shall be entitled to the privileges ang
subject to the liabilities of this act, as the case may be.

§ 23. If .the indebtedness of any such company shall at any time ex-
ceed the amount of its capital stock, the directors of such company as-
senting thereto, shall be personally and individually liable for such ex-
cess, to the creditors of such company.

§ 24. No stockholder shall be personally liable for the payment of any
debt contracted by any company formed under this act, which is not to
be paid within one year from the time the debt is contracted, nor unless
a suit for the collection of such debt shall be brou ht against such com-
pany within one year after the debt shall become ue; and no suit shall
be brought against any stockholder who shall cease to be a stockholder
in any such company, for any debt so contracted, unless the same shall
be commenced within two years from the time he shall cease to be a
stockholder in such company, nor until an execution shall have been re-
turned unsatisfied, in whole or in part. ' '

§ 25. It shall be the duty of the directors of every such corporation or
company to cause a book to be kept by the treasurer or clerkthereof,con-
taining the names of all persons, alphabetically arranged, who are, or shall
have been, within six years, stockholders of such company, and showing
their places of residence, the number of shares of stock held by them res-
pectively, and the time when they respectively became the owners of
such shares, and the amount of stock actually paid in; which book shall,
during the usual business hours of the day, on every (day) except Sun-
day, and the fourth of July, be open for the inspection of stockholders
and creditors of the company, and their persona representatives, at the
o$ce or principal place of business of such company, in the county where
its business operations shall be ‘located; and any and every such stock-
holder, creditor or representative, shall have a right to make extracts

provisions, and be ‘

24 CORPORATIONS.-COSTS. - -

-- from such books; and no transfer of stock shall be valid for any purpose

whatever, except to render the person to whom it shall be transferred
liable for the debts of the company, acpording to the provisions of this
act, until it shall have been entered therein, as required by this section,

-by an entry showing to and from whom transferred; such book shall be

presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated, in favor of the plaintiff
in any suit, or proceedings against such company, or against any one or
more stockholders. Every otlicer or agent of any such company, who
shall neglect to make any proper entry in such book, or shall refuse or
neglect to exhibit the same, or allow the same to be inspected, and ex-
tracts to be taken *herefrom, as provided by this section, shall be deem-
ed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the company shall forfeit and pay to the
party injured, a penalty of fifty dollars for every such neglect or refusal,

-and all the damages resulting therefrom. And every company that shall

neglect to keep such book open for inspection as aforesaid, shall forfeit
to the people the sum of fifty dollars for every day it shall so neglect; to
be sued for and recovered in the name of the people, by the district at-
torney of the county in which the business of such corporation shall be
located, and when so recovered, the amount shall be paid into the trea-
sury of said county, for the use of common schools.
This act shall take effect immediately.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\.a\J\/\.I‘-— \/\./\r’\/\/\.4\/\4\.a\./\a\e\./\J\J‘~/ \./\.« \J\/\-o

COSTS.

AN ACT concerning costs in civil cases.

§ 1. Costs for copies of records, &.c., to be 2. No additional fees allowed for obtaining
charged as other costs in the case. them out of the State.

.Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That in all cases when it shall be necessary in the commencement,
prosecution, or the defence of any suit, to file or produce in evidence a
copy of any record, register, docket, or other proceeding, or a certified
copy of any deed or other instrument of writing, the fees allowed the
proper otlicer for making and certifying the same, shall be taxed as other
costs in the case, and paid by the unsuccessful party.

§ 2. When such copies shall be obtained out of this State, no greater-
fees shall be allowed and taxed than would, by law, be allowed to the
proper oflicer in this State for like services.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12th, 1849.

' "COUNTIES. 25

COUNTIES.
AN ACT to organize the county of Butler.

§ 1. Boundaries-and limits. g to transmit to the county court of But-
2. Commissioners appointed, their duties. ' ler county the assessment list for 1849,
3. Governor authorized and required to ap- (if made,) or so much of said assess-
point justices of the county court; how ment as belongs to Butler county; coun-
ong they shall hold their otlice. ty court of Butler county shall pay ex-

4. Location uf the circuit and county courts, 5 ense of same.

until a permanent seat of justice is es- ~ 12. ounty court may appoint a county sur-
tablish . " veyor; how long e shall continue in

5. Time ot holding the tirst term of the otlice.

county court. 13. Justices of the peace of Butler county to
6. Judges of courts shall appoint their clerks. act as such for the county of Wayne;
7. County court shall appointan assessor; county court may appoint additional

how long he sholl remain in oflice; time 2 justices of the peace.

of returning his tax book. 14. Administrators, executors and guardians

 
 

'8. Collectors not compelled to ay State i may remove their duties from Wayne
revenue into the treasury under certain § county.
time. 15. Clerk of the county court of Wayneto
9. Collector of Wayne county shall collect deliver the apers and vouchers to the
the revenue for 1848, and all revenue in coun of utler upon requisition.
either county due him. 16. When t e regular terms of court shall be
10. County clerk of We ne county to fur- held.
nish assessor of But er county withlist 17. Compensation of commissioners; how
of taxable lands in said county; county paid.
of Butler to pay compensation therefor.§ 18. County of Butler attached to Wayne
11. Duty ol county court of Wayne county ; county for purposes of representation.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly Q/' the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That all that portion of Wayne county now lying south of a line
he inning at the mouth of Black Mingo, on the line dividing the counties
of ayne and Stoddard, and running from thence due west till it strikes
the line between Wayne and Ripley, is hereby created a se arate and
distinct county for all civil and military purposes; to be cal ed Butler
county, in honor of William 0. Butler, of Kentucky.

§2. John Stephens, of Cape Girardeau county, William Henly, of
Stoddard county, and Martin Sandlin, of Ripley county, are hereby ap-
pointed commissioners to select the seat of justice of said county; whose
duty it shall be to meet on the lirst Monday of A ril next, at the house
of Thomas Scott, for the purpose of selecting and lqpating the perma-

nent seat of justice of said county.
§ 3.’ The Governor is hereby authorized and required to appoint and

commission three persons, residents in said county of Butler, as judges
of the county court thereof, and one person, also a resident of said coun-
ty, sheriE thereof, who, when so appointed and commissioned, shall have
power and authority to act as such, in their respective otlices, under the
existing laws until the general election in eighteen hundred and fifty,
and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

4. The circuit and county courts to be holden in said county, shall
be held at the house of Thomas Scott, until the permanent seat of jus-
tice shall be established, cr the county court shall otherwise direct.

§ 5. The first term of the county court, for said county, shall be held
on the second Monday in May, eighteen hundred and forty-nine.

§ 6. The circuit or county counts of said county, or judge or judges
thereof, in vacation, shall appoint their clerks, who shall hold their oili-

26 counrms. .

ces until the next general election for clerks, and until their successors
are duly elected and qualified.

§ 7. The county court of said county is hereby authorized and em-
powered to appoint an assessor for said county, who shall hold his odice
until the next general election for assessors, and until his successor shall
be duly elected and qualified; and said assessor so appointed shall not
be required to make a return of his tax book until the second Monday in
August next.

§ 8. The collector of the county of Butler shall not be com elled to
pay the State revenue into the State treasury until the first 1V onday of

ebruary next. _

§ 9. All lands and taxable property subject to taxation, in the county
of Wayne, now in the county of Butler, shall be subject to taxation in
the county of Butler, in the year eighteen hundred and forty-nine; pro-
vided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as
to prevent the collector of the county of Wayne from collecting the
revenue in the county of Butler for the year eighteen hundred and forty-
eight; and, provided further, that the late collector of the county of

' Wayne shall have power to collect all revenue in either county due to‘

said collector.

§ 10. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the county court of Wayne
county to furnish the assessor of the county of Butler a list of all taxa-
ble lands in said county, and the county of Butler shall pay said clerk a
reasonable compensation therefor.

§ 11. It shall be the duty of the county court of Wayne county, should
said county have been assessed for the year eighteen hundred and forty-
nine, to cause to be made out and transmitted to the county court of
Butler county, a list of so much of such assessment as belon s to said
county of Butler; and the county court of Butler county shal pay the
expenses of said assessment, together with the expense of making out
and transmitting the same.

§ 12. The county court of Butler county may appoint some competent
person county surveyor, who shall continue in oliice until his successor
is duly elected and qualified.

§ 13. The justices of the peace within the county of Butler, who have
been commissioned by the county court of Wayne county, to act as such
for the county of Wayne, may continue to act as such for the county of
Butler, in their respective townships; and the county court may appoint
additional justices of the peace if they deem it necessary.

§ 14. The several administrators, executors, and guardians, residents
in the county of Butler, shall have power by law to remove their admin-
istrations and guardianships from the county court of Wayne county to
the county court of Butler county, and the said administrators, executors,
and guardians shall settle all their administrations and guardianships in the
same manner, and with like effect, as if the same had commenced in the
county of Butler.

§ 15. Upon the requisitions of the county court of Butler county, the
clerk of the county court of Wayne county, shall deliver to the clerk of
the county court of Butler county, the papers and vouchers referred to
in the last preceding section. 'I he requisition thus made shall be filed

countries. 27
in the odice of the clerk of the county court of Wayne county, together
with the receipt of the clerk of the county court of Butler county.

§ 16. The re ularterms of the countiacourt of said county shall be held
on the second onday in February, ay, August, and November of
each year, until otherwise ordered by said court.

§ 17. The commissioners appointed by this act shall each receive for
his services a compensation of two dollars per day, for every day they
may be employed in the discharge of their duties aforesaid, to be paid
out of the funds belonging to said county; the amount to be ascertained
by the aflidavit of one or more of said commissioners.

§ 18. The county of Butler shall be attached to the county of Wayne,
from which it is taken, for the purpose of representation in the General
Assembly of this State.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the further organization of the county of Dodge.

/"N

<3 1. Governor shall appoint certain otiicers for
the county.

2. Duties of county clerk and surveyor.

3. Time and lace of holding courts.

4. Justices olathe peace or constable, now in
otlice, to exercise the duties of the same
until the general election.

5. Duties of the county court at their first
meeting.

6. Clerk of the county court of Putnam re-
quired to do certain things.

7. Commissioners appointed for locating the
county seat. . _

8. Place of meeting, and duties of commis-
sioners.

\ 9. Governor empowered to appoint a sher-

,' iii’; his duties.

If 10. Defining the boundaries of the county.

I

.Z\Z\/\/T2"

.
I
9

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State Q/‘lllissouri, as follows: .

§ 1. The Governor shall appoint three persons, residing in the county
of Dodge, as county court justices thereof, and one person to
act as county and circuit clerk, and one person to act as coun-
ty surveyor, who shall perform the duties appertaining to their res-
pective otlices until the first Monday in August, 1850, and until their
successors are duly elected and qualified.

§2. The said county court clerk and surveyor, so appointed, shall
take the oath of ollice and give bond as is now required by law, and
conform in all respects to the law prescribing their several powers and
duties.

§ 3. The first term of said county court shall be held at the house of
Jesse Fowler, in said county, on the first Monday of May next, in the
year 1849, and thereafter at such time and place as may be either fixed
by law, or ordered by said court.

§ 4. All justices of the peace or constables, who now hold oliice in
said county, shall continue to hold and exercise the same until the gen-
eral election of said oflicers; and all acts done by them, are made bin ing
and of full effect.

§5. At the first meeting of said county court they shall proceed to
make all necessary orders in relation to common schools, roads, and

, 28 covnrms.

such other matters relating to county business as said court have juris-
diction of by law.

§ 6. The county court clerk of Putnam county is hereby required
to make out and deliver to the clerk of said Dodge county, all papers,
documents, and assessment list, and other matters appertaining to the
county or citizens of Dodge county; and said county court of Dod
county shall cause to be paid out of the county treasury, to said cler ,
a reasonable compensation therefor.

§ 7. George T. Prichard, of the county of Mercer, David Williams,
of the county of Putnam, and Douglass Farris, oi the county of Schuyler,
are hereby appointed commissioners, for the purpose of locating the
county seat of said county; and the county court of said county are
authorized to fill any vacancy which may take place in said board of
commissioners. ,

§ 8. The said commissioners shall meet at the hdhse of Jesse Fowler,
on the first Monday of May, 1849, and proceed to make a selection of
said seat of justice; and shall locate it as near the centre of said county
as possible, having due re_ ard to the convenience of water, timber, &c.

§ 9. The Governor of tate is hereby em owered to appoint a sheriff
for said county, who shall give bond to the tate, and ta e the oath re-
quired by law. Said sheriff shall exercise all the powers and duties re-
quired of such otlicers by law, and hold his ofiice until the next general
election, and until his successor is duly elected and qualified.

? 10. The boundaries of Dodge county shallbe as defined by an act en-
tit ed “an act to define the boundaries of Dodge county hereafter to be
organized,” approved December 18, 1846; and so much of said act as
attaches the county of Dodge to Putnam county, is hereby repealed;
provided, that the said county of Dodge shall still remain attached to
the county of Putnam for the purpose of choosing one representative,
and shall belong to the same senatorial and congressional district to
which Putnam belongs for the purpose of choosing a State senator and
member of congress.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

G\/\/\ /‘-_z"./‘x/‘~/“-..I‘~\.-' ~.."\_~r‘_/‘ 1-

AN ACT to organize the county of Laclede.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. All that portion of territory comprised within the following limits
shall be organized into a separate and distinct county, for all civil and
military purposes, except representation, and the territory now belong-
ing to the counties of Pulaski, Wright and Camden, is hereby attached
back to such county for representation: Beginning at the north-east cor-
ner of Dallas county, thence east with the line dividing townships thirty-
six and thirty-seven, to the top of the ridge dividing the waters of the
Dry Auglaze from the Wet Auglaze; thence south and east on the mid-

COUNTIES. ' 29

dle of said ridge separating the waters of the Wet Au laze from Bear
creek, until it strikes the range line dividing ranges thirteen (13) and
fourteen, (l4;) thence south on said range line to the township line di-
viding townships thirty-four (34) and thirty-live, (35;) thence south-
east on a straight line to the middle of range twelve; thence south to
the corner of Wright county, thence west with said line to the ran e line
separating ranges seventeen (17) and eighteen, (18;) thence nor with
said range line to the place of beginning. The territory thus organized
shall, as soon as it is entitled constitutionally to a separate representa-
tion, have it. -

§ 2. Thomas Whitacre of Miller county, John Duncan, sr., of Pulaski
county, and Washington Henson of Dallas, are hereby appointed com-
missioners to locate the seat of justice of said county; it shall be the
duty of said commissioners to meet at the house of L. Murphy, as soon
they can conveniently do so, and proceed to the selection of such site,
and they are hereby instructed by the fifth section of “An act to provide
for the organization of counties hereafter established,” approved Febru-
ary 6th, 1845.

§ 3. John Kelly, of Camden county, is hereby apppointed a commis-
sioner, whose duty it shall be to advertise an election in eight of the
most public places in the county, to hold an election for the purpose of
electing all the civil officers of said county; such commissioner shall ad-
vertise at least twenty-five days before the day of election, and shall ap-
point judges of election, who shall hold the election in every respect
as is now provided by law, except returnin the poll books, which shall
be returned to said commissioner, who shal thereupon certify to the
Governor the election of such persons and the office to be filled; and the
persons so elected and commissioned by the Governor, shall hold their
odices until the next general election, and until their successors are duly
elected and qualified; such election shall-be held on the first Monday in
April, 1849.

§ 4. The courts of said county shall be held at the house of L. Mur-
phy until the seat of justice shall be established by law.

§5. The several assessors of the counties of Pulaski, Wright and
Camden shall deliver to the county court so much of their respective
books as applies to the taxable inhabitants of the county of Laclede, and
take a receipt for the same; such receipt shall be a suflicient discharge
from all responsibliity incurred thereby. '

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

J\r\/\r\/xxx;-\r\/\n~.r-\nv\.»%.-v\rxn-\rsr\r\v'\r"

AN ACT to change the name of Van Buren county.

§ 1. Van Buren county—name changed to Cass. J § 3. No rights of county, &c., affected by
2. Laws, &c., in force and applying to Van E change of name.
Buren county, shall apply to Cass. . 4. Odicers in Van Buren county to be cam.
3 in Cm till election.

30 comrrrns.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. All that portion of country included in the limits of Van Buren
county, as now established and defined by law, shall hereafter be known
and called Cass county, instead of Van Buren county.

§ 2. All laws in force relating to the county of Van Buren, shall be
construed to apply in all respects to the county of Cass, and all acts and
things done and performed, and contracts made, and all acts, things and
contracts which may be done, performed or made before the first day of
July, 1849, in the name of the county of Van Buren, shall be as valid
and binding in all places and on all parties concerned, as if done,‘ per-
formed or made in the name of Cass county; and all contracts or busi-
ncss made or entered into, or which may be made or entered into, prior
to the said first day of July, 1849, in the name of the county of Van
Buren, may be continued and completed in the name of Van Buren
county: Provided, however, that this act shall not be construed to re-
quire any contracts made or business entered into after the passage of
this act, to be made or entered into in the name of VanBuren county;

— but the same may be made, entered into and completed in the name of

Cass county.
§ 3. All riohts which said county had under the name of Van Buren

county, shall still remain in full force under the name of Cass county;
and all claims, rights and demand of every kind, which any person or
persons may have against said county of Van Buren, shall remain in full
force against the county of Cass,,and this act shall not be construed to
e&'ect the right of property in any manner whatever; but all contracts to
which said county of -Van Buren may be a party, or in which said county
of Van Buren shall be interested, shall be carried out and completed in
the manner indicated in the second section of this act.

§ 4. All oilicers, civil and military, appointed or elected, or to be ap-
pointed or elected, for said county of an Buren, shall be deemed and
taken to be appointed or elected for the county of Cass, and are hereby
authorized to act as such; and all courts heretofore established and
directed by law to be held in the county of Van Buren, shall, in all res-
pects apply to the county of Cass.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 19, 1849.

 

AN ACT to organize the county of McDonald.

 
 

9. Superintendent to appoint judges of elec-

§ 1. Boundaries and limits delined. §10. Judges of election, how to make returns.
2. Commissioners appointed to select the per- 11. Penalties to be incurred b superintendent
manent seat of justice. and requirements to bet e same as appli-
3. Duties of commissioners. cable to county clerks.
4. Provides to fill vacancies in office of com- 3 12. Compensation of superintendent.
missioners, -» 13. Secretary of State instructed to furnish
5. Where the circuit and county courts shall i copies of this act to superintendent and
be holden. _ commissioners.
6. Coflimdty officers made elective by the qual- 14. Previous acts shall not prevent the opera-
i e voters. lion of this act.
7. Superintendent of elections appointed; 9 15. County not entitled to separate represen-
s all take an oath; his duties prescribed. I tation; but, for such purpose, at present.
8. County ollicers to give bond. é attached to the county of Newton. ’
6

tion. '

counruzs. . 31

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollowi:

§ 1. All that portion of territory included in the following limits, is
hereby declared to be organized into a separate and distinct county, to
be known and called by the name of the county of McDonald: Begin-
ning on the west boundary line of the county of Barry, as defined by an
act passed at the present session of the General Assembly, entitled “An
act to define the western boundary line of Barry county,” at a point on
said line due west of the south-west corner of section number one, in
township number twenty-three, in range number twenty-nine west; run-
ning thence west with the subdivisional lines to the range ‘line between
ranges number thirty-two and thirty-three; thence north to the township
line,between townships twenty-three and twenty-four; thence west along
said township line to the western boundary line of the State; thence
south with said boundary line to the south-west corner of the State;
thence east on the State line dividing the States of Missouri and Arkan-
sas to the south-west corner of Barry county, where the line, as defined
by the act aforesaid, intersects the southern boundary line of this State;
thence north on the said western boundary line of Barry county to the‘
place of beginning.
§ 2. Oliver M. Hickox, Joseph Pearson and James Maytield, of the
county of Newton, are hereby appointed commissioners toiselect the
permanent seat of Justice for said county.
§ 3. Said commissioners shall meet at Pineville, in said county, at such
time as they shall appoint, and shall be governed in all respects, in se-
lecting said permanent seat of justice, by the act entitled “An act to pro-
vide for the organization of counties hereafter established,” approved
February 6th, 1845.
§ 4. If any vacancy shall happen in the office of said commissioners,
by death, resignation, refusal to act, or otherwise, the remaining com-
missioner or commissioners shall till such vacancy by appointing a com-
missioner qualilied as required by law, who shall take the same oath,
possess the same powers, and perform the like duties, as if originally
appointed by the egislature. .
§ 5. The circuit and county courts for said county shall be holden at
the house of J. C. McKay, in said county, until the permaneiit seat of
justice for said county is established, or until the county court shall oth-
erwise direct.
§ 6. That all county ofiicers of said county shall beelected by the
qualified electors of said county of McDonald, in the manner hereinafter
specified.
§ 7. That Barton McGhee is hereby appointed superintendent of said
elections, and, after takin an oath before some lawful ofiioer authorized
to administer an oath, to ischarge the duties imposed on him by this
act, shall proceed to give public notice, at least twenty days previous 4:0
said elections in the respective townships, by putting up three advertise-
ments in three of the most public places in the township, and the time
and place of such election, for the purpose of electing county oiiicers
to serve until the general election and until their successors are duly

elected and qualified.

32 ' COUNTIES.-—COUNTY BOUNDARIES.

§ 8. Said officers, when elected, shall take an oath,»and give bond,
according to the law creating such oflice.

§ 9. Said superintendent shall appoint ‘three discreet and qualified

persons in each township as judges of the election, and furnish them with
poll books, who, before entering upon their duties, shall take the oath as
required by law.

§ 10. Said judges shall make their return of said elections to the su-
perintendent, in such manner as is provided in the law regulating elec-
tions.

§ 11. The superintendent shall discharge all the duties enjoined on
him by this act, and incur the same penalties and requirements as county
clerks in similar cases. -

§ 12. The superintendent shall be allowed such com ensation as the
county court, in their discretion, (for the county of cDonald) may
think pro er and just. '

§ 13. he Secretary of State is hereby required to furnish the said
superintendent and commissioners with a copy of this act, immediately
after its passage. ‘

§ 14. Nothing contained in any act heretofore passed, shall be so con-
strued as to prevent the full 0 eration of this act.

§ 15. The county organize by this act shall not be entitled to sepa-
rate representation, but for all other purposes, civil and military; but,
for the purpose of electing a representative and senator, shall be attach-
ed to the county of Newton, until said county of McDonald shall have
a sutlicient population to entitle it to separate representation.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal the act entitled “An act to organize the county
of Donaldson,” approved January 15th, 1847.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:
§rl. The above entitled act is hereby repealed.

his act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

   

COUNTY BOUNDARIES.

AN ACT to alter the line between Jefferson and Ste. Genevieve
counties.

Be it enacted by the General «is-sembly of the State of.Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. That the line between the counties of Ste. Genevieve and J e0'er-

oomrrv nounmuuns. ' 33

son shall hereaher be as follows: Beginning in the main channel of the‘

Mississippi river, at a point opposite the mouth of Isle an Bois creek,
thence up said creek to Skagg s spring, thence in a direct line to the
south-east corner of section twenty-two (22) in township thirty-nine
(39) of range six KS6) east, thence in a direct line to a point where the
line dividing St. rancois county from the counties of Jefferson and
Ste. Genevieve intersects the said Isle au Bois creek.
This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

   

AN ACT better to define the limits of Mississippi county.
Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, asfoltows:

§ 1. To begin at a point in the middle of the channel of the Mississip-s
pi river, opposite the south-east corner of section seven,township twen-
ty-seven, range seventeen east; thence down the middle of the main
channel of the Mississippi river, with the State line, to a point therein,
south of and opposite to the mouth of the James bayou; thence west-
wardly with the northern boundary of New Madrid county, to a point
in the swam two miles due east of the north-east corner of a certain
tract of Ian situated in the upper end of the Big prairie, originally
granted to one Moses Horley, thence in a northeastwardly direction to

the point of be inning.
Approved arch 10, 1849.

 

\/\./\/\.f\/\/\/

AN ACT, more accurately defining the boundary line between the coun-
ties of Perry an Cape Girardeau.

Be itenactedby the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The southern boundary of Perry county, in this State, is hereby es-
tablished as follows, to-wit: beginning in the middle of the main channel of
the Mississippi river, opposite (due east) the mouth of Apple creek; thence
up and along said creek, pursuing the west or principal fork thereof, to the
line between townships thirty-three and thirty-four north, at or near
where the said township line is intersected by the section line dividing
sections thirty-three and thirty-four, in township number thirty-four, of
range number eleven east of the fifth principal meridian; thence west,
with said township line, to the eastern boundary of Madison county.

§ 2. All acts or parts of acts contrary to this act are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849.
- 3

34 , _ COUNTY novnmams.

AN ACT to alter the lines dividing Lincoln and Montgomery counties.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State Q/ll Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The line dividing the counties of Lincoln and Montgomery is
hereby altered as follows, to-wit: Beginning at the north-east corner of
Montgomery county; thence due west on the township line dividing
townshi s fifty and fifty-one, in range three west, until it intersects the
section line between sections four and five, in township fifty, range three
west; thence ,due south with said section line, until it intersects the
township line dividing townships forty-nine and iifty,'range three west;
thence with the present Lincoln line to the beginning; containing an area
of twenty-four square miles. A

§ 2. From and after the assage of this act the line described in the
first section hereof, shall and the same is hereby declared to be the per-
manent line of division between said counties of Lincoln and Montgom-
ery; and all the territory, as defined in the first section of this act, here-
tofore forming a part of said county of Montgomery, is hereby declared
to be a part of said county of Lincoln.

§3. All acts or parts of acts repugnant to or inconsistent with the
provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to define the boundary line between Madison and Wayne
counties. .

Be it enacted by the General vissembly of the State of Zllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the following line shall be the boundary between the coun-
ties of Madison and Wayne, to—wit: Beginnin on the south-east corner
of section thirty-one, township thirty-one nort , range three east; thence
east with the township line between townships thirty and thirty-one, to
the dividing rid e between the waters of Castor and Crooked creek.

This act to ttgre effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

 

-‘\’\/\/N/'\r\r\r

AN ACT to define the western boundary line of Barry county.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of II/Iissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the west boundary line of the county of Barry shall com-
mence at the north-west corner of section thirty-six, of township twen-
ty-six, of range twenty-nine; thence due south to the southern boundary
line of this State.

'cou1~rrv nouunanms. . 35

§ 2. That the county court of said county cause the same to be sur-
veyed, marked out, and platted, which plat shall be deposited in the
clerk’s oilice of the county court of said county; and that the same be
aid for out of the road and canal fund belonging to said county of
arry. . l ,
§ 3. Allacts and parts of acts, relative to said western boundary, be
and the same are hereby repealed. .
This act to take eE'ect from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849. '

--— .4"\/\.rx/‘~/\/\/xzs/Q‘

 

\..“.

AN ACT to change the line dividing the counties of Wayne and Rey-
nolds. I

Be itenacted by the Gen eralvissembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the present line dividing the counties of Wayne and Rey-
nolds, be and the same‘ is hereby abolished, so far as comes within the
meaning and urview of this act.

§ 2. That t e line hereafter dividing the counties of Wayne and Rey-
nolds shall commence on the east bank of Black river, at the termination
of a dividing ridge dividing the waters of Black river from those of“
McKenzie’s and Big creeks, immediately above the farm where John B.
Carter now lives, rising by the main point of said ridge to the summit;
thence running with the heighth of said divide, in a northwardly direc-
tion, to where the township line dividing the counties of Wayne and
Madison crosses the same; thence due west with said line to Black river. -

§ 3. All that part of Wayne county in the above boundary, shall con-
stitute and be a part of Reynolds county. .

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849. B

AN ACT to define the boundary of Ripley county.
Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Ripley county: Beginning at the southern boundary of the State,
at a oint where the State line, running east and west, crosses the ridge
that divides the waters of the river Eleven Points from the waters of the
river Lafouche de Thomas, (commonly known by the name of Fouche de
Mans;) thence with said ridge, on the top thereof, to a point at which such
line intersects the range line dividing ran es two and three;‘thence north
with said line to the township line which ivides townships twenty-seven
and twenty«eight; thence east with said township line to a point where
it intersects the western line of Wayne county; thence south-eastwardly

36 counirr BOUNDARIES.

with said line to the southern boundary of the State, where the State
line crosses Cane creek in range live east; and thence west with said

State line to the beginning.
2. All acts not consistent with this act are hereby repealed.
his act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

 

--

AN ACT to define more particularly the boundary lines betw_een the
counties of New Madrid, Stoddard, and Dunklin.

Be itenacted by the General ./Zssemibly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The seventy-second section of the act entitled “an act defining the
limits of the several counties in this State,” approved March 28th, 1845,
shall be and the same is hereby amended by striking out after the word
“Whitewater,” in said section, the following words, to-wit: [Thence
with the Stoddard county line to the south-east corner of Stoddard coun-
ty,] and inserting in lieu of said words, which are included in brackets,
the following words, included also in brackets: [Thence down Whitewa-
ter to its junction with Castor river; thence on a line due’ west. until it

. strikes the western edge of Castor and Little river swamp; thence down

the western edge of said swamp to the parallel of thirty-six degrees and
thirty minutes north; thence due south to the State line.:L

§' 2. That part of the said seventy-second section whic is included in
brackets is hereby re ealed.

This act to take e ect and be in force after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT more particularly to define the northern boundary line of
_ Taney county.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The northern boundary line of Taney county shall be as follows: be-
ginning on the range line dividing ranges twenty—four and twenty-live,
on the line dividing townships twenty-six and twenty-seven; thence east
with said township line to the north-west corner of section three, in
township twenty-six, and range twenty-one; thence south to the south-
west corner of said section; thence east to the south-east corner of said
section; thence north to the township line dividing townships twenty-six
and twenty—seven; thence east with said township line to the range line
dividing ranges sixteen and seventeen; thence south with the present

boundary line, &c. _
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

ooumv wan‘n.urrs.—-counrs. 37

COUNTY WARRANTS.

AN ACT -regulating the redemption of county warrants according to
their respective dates. .

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. All county warrants now outstanding, or which hereafter may be
issued, are ‘made redeemable according to their respective dates, the
oldest dates having precedence. And it shall be the duty of the respective
county treasurers in this State to apply the public monies in their possession
and which they may receive from time to time hereafter, to the redemption
or payment of the oldest outstanding county warrants, to be paid in all
cases out of the fund on which the respective county warrants ‘are
drawn; provided, that no interest shall be allowed on any warrant after
the money has been received into the county treasury, suflicielnt for its
redemption, but the treasurer shall set a art and keep the money sufii-
cient for such warrant, which.is applied y this act to the redemption of

such county warrant, (of the oldest date,_) until it is called for by the

holder of such warrant. _
§ 2. The several county clerks of this State are required to furnish

‘their respective treasurers with a list of all county warrants outstanding,

and all that may hereafter be issued by their res ective county courts,
with their numbers, dates, and amounts, toget er with the fund on
which it is drawn, and the person to whom it has been granted.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\/\/\/\./'-/\/

COURTS.

AN ACT prescribing the time and place of ‘holding the supreme court
for the trial of causes originating in the eighth judicial circuit.

§ 1. Two sessions of the supreme court to he ' 3. All conflicting provisions of second sec-

held in St. Louis. _ tion of an act prescribing the time and

2. Duty of the clerk to send original pafpers place of holdin said court,_repealed.
and records of all causes coming em 4. One hundred dol ars appropriated to de-
St. Louis, to that place for trial. fray additional expenses of judges.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zrsembly qfthe State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That hereafter two sessions of the supreme court shall be held
annually, on the third Mondays of March and October, in the city of St.
Louis, in the county of St. Louis, at which, causes tried and determined
in the eighth judicial circuit shall, by the said supreme court, he heard
and determined. ’

§ 2. All causes now pending in the supreme court, coming from the
said eighth judicial circuit and undetermined therein, shall be tried and

38 covers.

determined at the place and time in the first section of this act mention-
ed—and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court to send
to the court mentioned in the first section of this act, all the original pa-
pers and records in the causes in this section specified.
.§ 3. That so much of the second section of an act entitled “an act
rescribing the time and place of holding the supreme court,” approved
Rlarch 27, 1845, as is contrary to or conflicts with the provisions of this
act, is hereby repealed. A
§ 4. In order to defray the additional, expenses to which the judges of
the supreme court would be sub'ected by reason of the chan e made by
this act, the sum of one hundre dollars per year shall be pai to each of
said judges out of the county treasur of St. Louis county, for which
sumnwarrants on the county treasury s all be drawn, semi-annually, in
favor of said judges respectively, at the end of each regular term of said
court held in said city.

§ 5. This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

l

   

AN ACT in relation to appeals and writs of error from certain judicial’

circuits in the State of Missouri.
Be it enacted by the General Jssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That all causes tried and determined in the ninth, tenth, third,
and fourth, except the county of Montgomery,) judicial circuits of
this State, w ich shall be ‘taken to the supreme court by appeal, writ of
error, or otherwise, shall be taken to and be tried and determined in the
supreme court held at the city of St. Louis, in the county of St. Louis,
at the respective terms of said court, in the same manner and under
the same rules of practice as is by law prescribed in cases taken to said
su reme court from the eighth judicial circuit.

his act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to provide for a clerk of the supreme court at St. Louis.

5 1. Supreme court to appoint for said court 2. Title, and scope of duties.
In St. Louis;quah cation.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§bl. The supreme court shall appoint a clerk for the supreme court
to e held in the city and county of St. Louis,who shall reside and keep
his ollice in the city of St. Louis, and who shall have a seal. Said cler

‘ covers. 39

shall have all the powers, and perform all the duties, receive like fees,
give bond, possess the same qualifications, and in every thin be govern-'
ed by, and subject to the provisions of an act regulating cler s, so far as
the same relates to the clerk of the supreme court, approved March
27th, 1845.-

§ 2. The clerk provided for in the preceding section shall be called the
clerk of the su reme court, held at St. Louis, of the State of Missouri, and
his duties shal be confined to said court.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March, 1849.

 

§ 

AN ACT to change the time of holding courts in the twelfth judicial

circuit.
§ 1. Times of holding courts. { § 3. Sale of pro , when to be made.
2. Write and process, when returnable. 4. Repeal of 1 inconsistent acts.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The circuit courts for the am. judicial circuit shall be held at the A

following times, in the counties composing said circuit, to-wit: In the
county of Clay, on the third Mondays of February and August; in the
county of Ray, on the first Mondays in March and September; in the
county of Carroll, on the second Mondays in March and September; in
the county of Caldwell, on the first Thursdays after the third Monday:
in March and September; in the county of DeKalb,' on the fourth Mon-
days in March and September; in the county of Harrison, on the first

Thursdays after the fourth Mondays in March and September; in the '

county of Daviess, on the first Mondays after the fourth Mondays in
March and September; in the county of Clinton, on the third Mondays
in April and October.

§ 2. All writs and process, of every kind, made returnable to the next
term of ‘the several courts in said circuit, under an act entitled “An act
to establish judicial circuits and prescribe the time and place of holding
courts,” approved March 27, 1845, shall be made returnable on the same
day of the first term under this act.

3. In any case when the sale of property may have been advertised
to e made at the term as heretofore established, to satisfy any execution
returnable to such term, the sale shall be made on the same day of the
term to be held under this act.

84. All acts inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed.
is act shall takegeifect from its passage.

Approved January 29, 1849.

 

 

40 COURTS.

AN ACT to change the time of holding the circuit courts in the sixth
judicial circuit.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

? 1. The circuit courts in the sixth judicial circuit shall be held at the
fol owing times, (to-witz) In the county of J aclrson, on the second Mon-
days in March and September; in the county of Van Buren, on the fourth
Mondays in March and September; in the county of Bates, on the first
Mondays after the fourth Mondays in March and September; in the
county of Johnson, on the second Mondays after the fourth Mondays
in March and September; in the county of Pettis, on the fourth Mon-
days after the fourth Mondays in March and September; in the county
of Saline, on the fifth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in March and
September; in the county of Lafayette, on the seventh Mondays after
the fourth Mondays in March and September.

§ 2. All suits and process of every kind, made returnable to the next
term of the several courts in said counties, under an act entitled “An
act to establish judicial circuits and prescribe the times and places of
holdin courts,” approved March twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and
forty-Eve, shall be made returnable on‘ the same day of the first term
under this act.

§ 3. In any case where the sale of property may have been advertised
to be made at the term as heretofore established, to satify any execution
returnable to such term, the sale shall be made on the same day of the
-term to be held under this act. .

§ 4. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby
repealed. ,

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT.concerning courts in the seventh judicial circuit.

§ 1. Laclede county attached and constituted § 3. Terms of holding circuit courts.
a part of seventh judicial circuit. 4. Writs and process, orders, &.c., when re-
2. 0&‘ences committed within limits of La- turnable. '
clede county, indictable in that county; 6. Previous laws repealed.
change of venue not prohibited.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Zllis some‘, as follows:

§ 1. The county‘ of Laclede, established at the present session of the
General Assembly of this State, (for civil and military purposes,) for
the pur ose of having a circuit court held therein, is hereby attached to
and sh constitute a part of the seventh judicial ciruit, and for all pur-
poses whatever; the circuit court and the judge thereof shall have the
same jurisdiction in said county of Laclede, and to as full an extent, as
over any other county in said circuit.

§ 2. All offences which have been committed within the limits of La-
clede county, for which the offenders have not been indicted, nor any

counrs. 41

prosecution commenced, shall be indicted or prosecuted in Laclede
county; but nothing in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit
a chan of venue in cases where the same is allowed by law.
§ 3. he terms of the circuit courts in the seventh judicial circuit
shall be held as follows: In the county
in March and September; in the county of Hickory, on the fourth Mon-
days in March and September; in the county of Laclede, on the first
Mondays after the fourth Mondays in March and September; in the
county of Dallas, on the second Monda s after the fourth Mondays in
March and Se tember; in the county of olk, on the third Mondays af-
ter the\fourth ondays in March and September; in the county of Ce-
dar, on the fourth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in March and Sep-
tember; in the county of St. Clair, on the fifth Mondays after the fourth
Mondays in March and Se tember; in the county of Henry, on the sixth
Mondays after the fourth ondays in March and September.
§ 4. All writs, process, orders and other proceedings, returnable to the
next term of the several courts heretofore established in the seventh judi-
cial circuit, shall be returnable to the first term of the said several courts in
said circuit to be held under this act; nor. shall any thing in this act be
so construed as to discontinue any suit, matter or proceeding now pend-
ing.in said circuit, and all sales of propert which would have been
made at the first term as heretofore estab ished, shall be made at the
first terms to be held after the taking effect of this act. .
§ 5. All laws contrary to the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
§ 6. This act shall take effect from and after the tenth day of June,
A. D. 1849.
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT to 6x the time of holding courts in the eleventh judicial
circuit.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly oftlze State of Missouri, asfollowsr

§ 1. The eleventh judicial circuit shall be com osed of the counties
<S>t;d?.ha1-ilon, Linn, Livingston, Grundy, Mercer, odge, Putnam and
ivan.
§ 2. The circuit courts shall be held in the eleventh judicial circuit at
tihe following ltimeis, to-wit: In the county of Chariton, on the tlfiird Ligan-
ays in Marc’ an September in the county of Linn on the rst on-
days in April and October; in ,the county of Livingstdn, on the second
Mondays in April and October; in the county of Nfrundy, on the third
Mondays in April and October in the county of ercer on the fourth
Mondays in April and October; in the county of Dodge, dn the first Fri-
days after the fourth Mondays in April and October; in the county of
Putnam, on the second Tuesdays after the fourth Mondaysd in April
and October in the county of Sullivan on the second Mon ays after
the fourth Mbndays in April and October:
This act to take effect and be in force from the 4th day of July.
Approved March 7, 1849.

of Benton, on the second Mqndays '

42 covers.
AN ACT to fix the times of holding courts in the twelfth judicial circuit.
Be it enacted by the General ./2sscmbI_i/ no:/‘ the State of Missouri, asfollows:

3 1. The circuit courts for the twelfth judicial circuit shall be held as
fo ow§, to-wit: In the county of Platte, on the first Mondays of March
and September; in the county of Buchanan, on the fourth Mondays of
March and September; in the county of Gentry, on the third Wednes-
days after the fourth Mondays of March and September; in the count
of N odaway, on the third Mondays after the fourth Mondays of Marc
and September; in the county of Atchison, on the fourth Thursdays after
the fourth Mondays of March and Se tember; in the county of Holt, on
the fourth Mondays after the fourth hgondays of March and Se tember;
in the county of Andrew, on the fifth Mondays after the fourth Rlondays
of March and September.
This act to take effect from and after the fourth day of July next.
Approved March 8, 1849.

 

AN ACT to fix the times of holding courts in the thirteenth judicial

circuit.
§ 1. Places and times of holding circuit courts the circuit court of Newton county, when
in the thirteenth judicial circuit pres-h to be held.

cribed. § 3. Writs and process, when returnable.

2. This act not applicable to the coun of 4. Sales of property, when to be made.
McDonald nutll a certain time speci ed;

Be it enacted by the General ./Bssembly Q/‘the State qfMz'ssourz', asfollows:

? 1. That the circuit courts for the thirteenth judicial circuit shall be
he (1 at the following times, to-wit: In the county of Dade, on the second
Mondays in April and October; in the county of Lawrence, on the third
Mondays in April and October; in the county of Jasper, on the fourth
Mondays in April and October; in the county of Newton, on, the first
Mondays after the fourth Mondays in April and October; in the county
of McDonald, on the second Mondays after the fourth Mondays in April
and October; in the county of Barry, on the third Mondays after the
fourth Mondays in April and October; in the county of Taney, on the
fourth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in April and October; in the
county of Greene, on the fifth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in
April and October.

§ 2. This act shall not extend to the county of McDonald until after
the next spring term of said circuit; and the circuit court for the county
of Newton, during the next spring term thereof, shall be held during the
two weeks commencing on the first and second Mondays after the fourth
Mondays in April next. And the several circuit courts in the thirteenth
judicial circuit shall thereafter be held according to the provisions of
the first section of this act.

- oounrs. . 43

§ 3. All writs and process made returnable to the next term of the
several circuit courts as heretofore established, shall be returnable to
the hrst term to be held under this act. '

§ 4. Sales of pro erty which would have been made at the first terms
as heretofore estab 'shed, shall be made at the first terms to be held un-
der this act. -

§ 5. In cases where the sale of property may have been advertised
to be made on any day of the term as heretofore established, to satisfy
any execution returnable to such term, the sale shall be made on the
same day of the term to be held under this act.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change the times of holding courts in the fourteenth
- judicial circuit.

§ 1. Places and times of holding circuit courts § 3. Sales of property advertised, when to take
in the fourteenth judicial circuit pre- place.

scribed. 4. Acts inconsistent with this act, repealed.
2. Writs made returnable.

Be it enacted by the General .€ssembIy qftlne State of .Mz'ssourz', asfollo-ws:

§ 1. The circuit courts in the fourteenth judicial circuit shall be held
at the following times, to-wit: In the county of Crawford, on the second
Mondays in May and September; in the county of Shannon, on the third
Mondays in May and Se temher; in the county of Oregon, on the first
Thursdays after the third Mondays in May and September; in the county
of Ripley, on the fourth Mondays in May and September; in the county
of Reynolds, on the first Mondays after the fourt Mondays in May and
September; in the county of Pulaski, on the third Mondays after the
fourth Mondays in May and September; in the county of Wri ht, on the

fourth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in May and Septem er; in the ~

county of Ozark, on the fifth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in May
and Sepatember; in the county of Texas, on the sixth Mondays after the
fourth ondays in May and September.

§ 2. All writs and process made returnable to the next term of the
several courts in the counties named in the first section of this act, as
the same were heretofore established by an act entitled “An act to change
the times of holding courts in the fourteenth judicial circuit, and pres-
cribin the times and places of holdin courts,” approved February 15th,
1847, s all be made on the corresponding days of the first term to be
held under this act.

§ 3. In cases when the sale of property may have been advertised to
be made on any day of the term as established under the act above re-
ferred to, by virtue of any process made returnable to such term, such
sale shall be made on the corresponding days of the first term to be held
under this act.

44 covnrs.

§ 4. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the foregoing provi-

sions, are hereby repealed.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 19, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change the time of holding the circuit courts in the
county of Cole.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State q/‘Mz'ssourz°, as follows:

§ 1. From and after the first day of June next, the circuit courts -in
and for the county of Cole shall be held on the last Mondays in Febru-

ary and August in each year.
§ 2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby

re ealed. .
his act to take effect and be in force from and after the first day of

June next.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend “An act to establish judicial circuits and pres-
cribe the time and places of holding courts,” approved March

27th, 1845.
Be it enacted by the General Bssemblyiqf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the circuit court within and for the county of Boone shall
hereafter be held on the third Mondays in February and August.
This act to take effect from and after the first day of May next.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT toichange the time of holding the circuit courts in the county
of Macon, in the second judicial circuit.

5 1. Time of holding courts. §3. Sales of property under execution, when

2. Suits and process, when returnable. to be made.
4. A former act repealed.

Be it enacted by the General Bssembly of the State of Missourz} as follows:

§l. The circuit courts in the county of Macon shall be held on
the third Mondays in May and November.

coders. 46

§ 2. All suits and process of every kind made returnable to the next
term of the court in said county under an act entitled “An act to estab-
lish judicial circuits and prescribe the times and places of holding
courts,” approved March twenty-seventh,‘ eighteen hundred and forty-
£ve, shall be made returnable on the same day of the first term under
this act.

§b3. In any case where the sale of property may have been advertised
to e made at the term as heretofore established, to satisfy any execu-
tion returnable to such term, the sale shall be made on the same day of
the first term to be held under this act.

§ 4. So much of the eighteenth section of an act entitled “An act to
establish judicial circuits and prescribe the time and places of holding

courts,” approved March 27,1845, as is inconsistent with this act, is

hereby repealed. _
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT in relation to the time of holding the circuit court in Clay
county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the Stqte of lllissouri, as/‘allows:

§ 1. The act passed at this session of the General Assembly of this
State, entitled “An act to change the time of holding courts in the fifth
judicial circuit,” shall not apply to the county of Clay for the February
term of this year, but shall apply to said county for all succeeding terms
of said court, as provided for in said act.

This act to take eifect from its passage.

Approved February 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to amend ‘an act entitled
‘An act to establish judicial circuits and prescribe the time of
holding courts,’ approved February 27, 1847.”

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Mz°ssouri, asfollows:

§ 1. In the tenth judicial circuit, the circuit court shall be held in the
county of Butler, on the first Fridays after the second Mondays of March
and September; and so much of the above recited act as conflicts with
this act, is hereby re ealed.

This act to take edzect from and after the fourth day of July next.

Approved March 8, 1849.

46 wsrrcns’ covnrs.

J USTICES’ COURTS.

AN ACT to amend an an act, entitled “an act to define the jurisdic-
tion and regulate the proceedings of justices’ courts, in cases of
breaches of the peace,” approved March 10, 1846.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That so much of c the twenty-third section of the aforesaid act, as
requires a justice of the peace to make out, certify, and within ten days
after the date of the judgment, deliver to the treasurer of the county 3.
statement of the case, the amount of the fine, the name of the constable
charged with the collection thereof, be, and the same is hereby re-

ealed.

P § 2. That the justice of the peace shall, within ten days after the
date of such judgment, make out, certfy and deliver such statement to
the treasurer.

§ 3. Any person convicted under the act to which this is an amend-
ment, may appeal to the circuit court, if he shall within ten days after
the rendition of the judgment file an ailidavit, stating that he verily be-
lieves himself aggrieved by the verdict and judgment, and also enter
into recognizance with sufficient securities, householders of the county;
which recognizance shall be in the form and with the condition required
in appeals from a justice of the peace in civil cases.

§ 4. The fifteenth and nineteenth sections of the act to which this is
an amendment, are hereby re ealed.

This act to take effect and e in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 19, 1849.

   

AN ACT to amend an act, approved March 10, 1845, entitled “an act
to define the jurisdiction and regulate the proceedings of justices’
courts, in cases of breach of the peace.”

Be it enactcdby the General dssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That so much of an act, a proved March 10, 1845, entitled “An
act to define the jurisdiction an regulate the proceedings of 'ustices’
courts, in cases of breach of the peace,” as requires juries to be com-
pozedhof twelve com etent men, to try cases arising under said act, be
an t e same is here re ealed.

§ 2. That in all trials bldfore justices of the peace, originating under
the act to which this is an amendment, the jury shall be composed of not
less than four, nor more than six competent men, unless any defendant
shall demand a jury of a larger number, then such jury shall consist of
twelve competent men.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

msrrcns’ C‘OURT8.—-COURTS, DECISIONS or.-A-camns, &c. 47

AN ACT in relation to trespasses.

Be itenacted by the General Jssembly qfthe State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. In all actions in this State for the recovery of personal property
alle ed to be wrongfully detained by any defendant: justices of the peace
shag have jurisdiction, when the amount in controversy shall not ex-
ceed twenty-five dollars; actions in such cases to be conducted after the
rules governing such actions in the circuit courts. The several consta-
bles to have power to execute all process in such actions as sheriffs do
in similar actions in the circuit courts.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

COURTS, DECISIONS OF.

AN ACT concerning decisions of the supreme court.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The Secretary of State shall cause to be furnished to each clerk
of the circuit court, and to the law library of St. Louis, a complete
bound copy of the decisions of the supreme court of this State; and
shall continue to furnish them with the additional volumes, as they may
hereafter be published and bound.

§ 2. Said c erks shall keep saidboolrs in their res ective oihces for the
use of the courts, and shall not permit them to be tagen from their omces,
except to be taken into court.

§ 3. Any person taking said books from the clerk’: o$ce, shall be
subject to be fined by the court as for a contempt.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12th, 1849.

 

CRIMES AND PUN ISHMEN TS.

AN ACT to amend an act concerning crimes and their punishments.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State q/‘lllissouri, asfollows:

The sixteenth section of the ei hth article of an act entitled an-act
concemin crimes and their punis ments, is hereby amended, so as to
read as fogowsz “Every person who shall bet any money-or property
upon any gaming table, bank, or device, prohibited by the precedin
section, or act, or upon any other gambling device, or who shall bet

48 new AND DUMB AND 'BLmn.—nnpos1r1oNs.

u on any game, played at or by means of any such gaming table, or

ot or gambling device, or who shall knowingly and wilfully aid or abet,

or furnish money to any other person to bet at, or_ upon, or play at any
gambling device, or who shall, in any manner, be interested in any such

playing or betting at such device, shall on conviction, be adjudged guil-
‘tly of a misdemeanor, and unished by fine not exceeding twenty-tive
0

llars, nor less than ten do lars.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

DEAF  DUMB AND BLIND.

AN ACT to amend “An act to provide for the instruction of the deaf
and dumb and blind.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly, of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The first section of the above recited act, is hereby so amended
as to include. the deaf, dumb and blind, between the a es of ten and
thirty years. The second section is so amended as to a§ow the sum of
sixty dollars each year; and the third section is so amended as to limit

a the amount allowed each beneficiary, to the sum of two hundred and

forty dollars. ,
This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\/\-/'\/‘K/\fs»'

 

DEPOSITIONS.‘
AN ACT to alter the law respecting depositions.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly q/‘the Stale qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Depositions may be taken in foreign countries to be read in suits
pending in any of the courts of this State, as now authorized by law;
ut in all such cases, the court in which any suit is pending, or the judge
thereof in vacation, may shorten the time for which notice is to be given,
as now required, upon application of the party desiring it, with due no-
tice of such application to the opposite party or his attorney, and notice
of taking depositions given for such time as shall be designated by the
court or judge, shall in all such cases be suflicient.
§ 2. The application for a commission to take depositions, in conform-
ity with the ninth section of the act entitled “an act concerning depo-
sitions,” may be made to the judge of any court in vacation, who is
hereby authorized to entertain the same, and award the commission and
superintend the drawin of the interrogatories, and to do all such acts
relative thereto, as co d lawfully have been done by him_in open court;

DEPOSITIONS.-DIVORCE AND ALIMONY. 49

and in every such case the commission shall issue in like form, and with
the like effect, as if awarded in term time.
This act shall take effect from its. passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

\.l\.l\./\./\./\.z\/

 

AN ACT in relation to taking depositions and acknowledgments of
deeds in other States.

Be it enacted by the General ./issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

An act entitled “An act providing for the appointment of commission-
ers to take depositions in other States,” is hereby amended, to read as
follows: '

“The governor may appoint in each of the United States, one or more
commissioners, who shall have power to administer oaths, and to take
depositions and aflidavits, to be used in this State, and also to take the-
acknowledgment of deeds, relinquishments of dower, powers of attor'-
ney, and other instruments of writing, to be recorded in this State; said

commissioners shall continue in otlice until removed by the governor.
Approved March 10, 1849.

n..J\I\./\.1\.J\J\/K.»

 

\/\./\/\J

 

DIVORCE AND ALIMONY.

AN ACT amendatory of “an act concerning divorce and alimony,”
approved February 28th, 1845.

§ 1. Causes enumerated by which divorce may 3 divorce not to affect legitimacy of chil-
be obtained; by wife. 5 dren.
2; Pregnancy (prior to marriage sutlicient ( 4: Third section of amended act to apply to
cause for ivorce. ’ ist, 2d and 3rd sections of this act.
3. Conviction of crime, unknown to wife,i 5. First section of amended act repealed;

prior to marriage, sufficient cause; such 8

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State of Mtlssozzri, as follows:

§ 1. VVhen a marriage hath been or shall be solemnized between two
persons, and either party at the time of the contract of marriage was
and still is impotent; or had a wife or ahusband living at the time of the
marriage; or has committed adultery since the marriage; or absented
himself or herself, without a reasonable cause, for the space of two
years; or during said marriage shall have been convicted of felony or
infamous crime; or addicted to habitual drunkenness for the space of
two years; or shall be guilty of such cruel or barbarous treatment as to
endanger the life of the other; or shall offer such indignities to the other
as shall render his or her condition intolerable; or when the husband

shall be guilty of such conduct as to constitute him a vagrant within the
4 .

50 EVIDENCE.

meaning of the first and second sections of an act respecting vagrants,
approved February 28th, 1845; the injured party for any of the causes
above enumerated, may obtain a divorce from the bonds of matrimony,
but no such divorce shall affect the legitimacy of the children.

§ 2. Be itfurt/zer enacted, That if any woman at the time of contract-
ing marriage, or at the time of the solemnization thereof, shall be preg-
nant or with child by any other man than the one to whom she is so mar-
ried, and her said pregnancy is unknown to her husband, the husband may
obtain a diyorce from the bonds of matrimony for such cause; and in the
same manner as is provided in the act to which this act is amendatory.

§ 3. Be it further enacted, That if any man, before the contract of
marriage or the solemnization thereof with any woman, shall have been
convicted of felony or infamous crime in any State, territory, or country,
and the same was unknown to the wife, she may obtain a divorce from
the bonds of matrimony in the manner provided in the act to which this
is amendatory; provided, that no divorce for the causes mentioned in
this section shall affect the legitimacy of the children of such marriage.

§ 4. The third section of the act to which this is amendatory shall

. apply to the first, second and third sections of this act‘.

§ 5. The first section of the act to which this is amendatory is re-
pealed.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\4\./\d\a/\/T‘

EVIDENCE.

AN ACT concerning evidence.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State Q/” Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. When any deed or conveyance, affecting real estate, shall have
been recorded more than twenty years, and shall not have been roved
or acknowledged according to law when so recorded, but shal have
been subsequently duly proved and read upon the trial of any litigated
cause in any of the courts of record of this State, and a copy of any such
deed or conveyance shall have been procured in a bill of exceptions ta-
ken and tiled in such cause, and a. transcript of the proceedings therein
shall have been filed in the supreme court: upon proof that said deed or
conveyance has been lost or destroyed, the copy thereof contained in
such transcript, duly certified under the hand and seal of the clerk of
the said supreme court, may be read in evidence in any suit.

This law to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

I

nvxnnncn.-nJncrm=:N'r.--m.1:c'rons. 51

AN 'ACT concerning evidence.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State of Zllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. A copy of the enrollment of any steamboat in any custom house,
or in the ofhce of any surveyor and inspector of customs, duly certified

. by the proper oflicer, shall, as against the persons described as owners

of such steamboat in such enrollment, be primafacie evidence that they

are the owners thereof.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

EJ ECTMEN T.
AN ACT in relatioh to the action of ejectment.
Be itenacted by the General ./fssemblyof the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. In any action of ejectment, where there are two or more plaintiffs,
any one or more may recover any interest they may be entitled to, in the
same manner as if they had brought separate actions, and it shall not be
any objection to a recovery in such action that any one or several of the
plaintiffs do not prove any interest in the premises claimed, but those en-
titled shall have udgment according to their rights, for the whole or such
part or portion as he, she, or they might have recovered if they had

rought separate suits.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

ELECTORS.

.5
I

AN ACT to amend “an act to provide for choosing electors of Presi-
dent and Vice President of the United States,” approved March
10, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State af1|Iz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. The seventh section of the actto which this is amendatory is hereby
re ealed. .-

g 2. It shall be the duty of the judges of such elections in the differ-
ent townships to make returns thereof to the clerks of the county courts
of their respective counties within two days after such election,
which clerks shall, within two days after they receive suvh re-
turns, certify and transmit the same to the Governor, by delivering into
the nearest post oilice on the most direct route to the seat of gm-em-
ment. ‘

52 EXECUTIONS.-—FEES.

§ 3. If there shall be a failure to receive any of the returns at the seat of
government for one mail after the same is due, the Secretary of State
shall dispatch a messenger to the county not returned, with directions
to bring up said returns to the Governor.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 24, 1849.

  

EXECUTION S.

AN ACT concerning executions.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. That hereafter when real estate, situated in a different county
from that in which the defendant in the execution resides, is sought to
be sold under an execution in favor of the plaintiff therein, it shall be
the duty of the plaintiff to cause a notice in writing to be served on the
defendant or defendants therein, if. residing in the State, stating the fact
of the issuing of the same, to whatbclzounty directed, and to what term of
the court said execution is returna e.

§ 2. Said notice shall be served as other notices are required to be

served by the existing law, at least twenty days before the day of sale,
and shall be filed in the office whence the execution issued.

This act to be in force from and after the fourth day of July next.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

FEES.

1

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “an act to regulate fees.”

Be it enacted by the General udssembly of thc.State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the clerks of the several circuit courts shall be allowed to
charge fees for their services, as follows: for a commission to take deposi-
tions, fifty cents; for copying interrogatories, ten cents for every hundred

words.

§2. The clerks of the several county courts shall be allowed to
charge fees for their services, as follows: for a commission to take depo-
sitions, fifty cents.

§ 3. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby
repealed. ‘ "

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

\r_,‘-4 -- 2 \/vx \-\.x- \f\/...' .x\~‘t'—.'vvmv 

rsnams.-covnnNon’s HOUSE. 53
FERRIES.
AN ACT concerning ferries. .

Be itenacted by the General .9ssembZy of the State of Zllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. Upon the application of the owner or owners of lands on both
sides of a river in any county in this State, where a ferry is desired to
be kept, the county courts shall grant to such person or persons the ex-
clusive privilege of keeping a ferry thereat, under the provisions of an
act entitled “an act regulating ferries,” approved J anuary. 27th, 1845;

provided, such person or persons shall keep a good and sullicient ferry

thereat, and comply with the provisions of the act regulating ferries.
§ 2. All acts and parts of acts conflicting with the provisions of this

act be and the same are hereby repealed.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

GOV ERNOR’S HOUSE.

AN ACT to appropriate money to furnish the Governor’s house, and for
other purposes.

§ 1. Two thousand dollars appropriated. §4. Commissioner of Permanent Seat of Gov-
2. Governor authorized to purchase certain ernment required to sell furnituh.
furniture. 5. Governor authorized to supcrintend the
3. Auditor, his duties. building of kitchen.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. The sum of two thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to be applied un-
der the directions of the Governor of this State, to the purchase of fur-
niture with which to furnish the Governor’s house, and for repairing the
same; and to the erection of a kitchen, repairing stable, and building
sheds to the same.

§ 2. The Governor is hereby authorized, either in person -or by his
agent, as may he in his discretion, to purchase such articles of furniture
as he may deem necessary and proper for furnishing and repairing the
Governor’s house, in such manner as will best contribute to the accom-
modation and convenience of a family residence. .

§ 3. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized to draw his
warrant in favor of the Governor, for an amount of said appropriation
sufficient to purchase the furniture as aforesaid; and an account of the
items of said furniture, with the proper receipts thereto attached, shall
be filed in the oflice of the Auditor of Public Accounts. ,

§ 4. The Commissioner of the Permanent Seat of Government is
hereby authorized and required to sell, as soon as practicable, all the
present furniture belonging to the Governor’s house, by outcry, to the

54 eovnnNon’s HOUSE.—-GROCERIE8 am) mum-snops.

highest bidder for cash, by first giving at least ten days’ previous notice
of the time and place of sale, by publication of an advertisement in each
of the public newspapers published in the City of J efferson, which shall
contain a description of the furniture to be sold; and the said Commis-
sioner shall account for and settle with the Auditor of Public Accounts
for the proceeds of such sales, and pay the same into the treasury of the
State, within ten days from and after such sale; provided, nevertheless,
that he shall not sell any articles of furniture that the Governor may safe
proper to retain. ~
§ 5. The ,Governor of this State is authorized to contract for and su-
perintend the erection of a kitchen, and the repairs to the stable, and
uilding sheds to the same. The kitchen to be of brick, one story high,
and thirty-two fee tlong by sixteen feet in width; the wall to be nine
inches thick, with a brick artition wall across the centre thereof, with
a stack chimney in said wa 1; the said kitchen to be erected where the
present one now stands.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

0

AN ACT to appropriate money to pay for certain repairs made on the
Governor’s house and lot.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State qf Missouri, asfdilows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and re-
quired to draw his warrant on the State treasury in favor of John C.
Ldwards, for the sum of one hundred and twenty-two dollars, being in
full for money expended by him in causing certain repairs to be made in
and about the Governor’s house, and the lots thereunto belonging, in the
year 1847, and that the sagne be paid out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriate .

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

GROCERIES AND DRAM-SHOPS.

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to regulate groceries and
dram-shops.”

Be it enacted by the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That hereafter, any dram-shop keeper shall be permitted to sell

intoxicating liquors, in any quantity not exceeding ten gallons at any
one time.

GUARDIAN8. 55
§ 2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
act, are hereby repealed. i
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. '

I

 

GUARDIANS. * '

AN ACT to repeal a portion of an act, entitled “An act to authorize
guardians of minors, idiots and liinatics, to receive and remove from
this State any property to which said wards may be entitled,” ap-
proved December 23, 1844. -

Be itenacted by the General .dssembly of the Stateof Missouri, as follows: ,

1. That so much of the second section of the above act, as reads as
fol ows: “Provided the benefits of this act shall not be extended to the
citizens of any State in which a similar act does not exist, or may not
heriiager be passed; and provided also,” be and the same is hereby.re-

ea e '. - . 0
P This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

C
AN ACT to amend the law respecting guardians.
§ 1. Minors residing out of the State, may have ( slaves to be made, and commissioners‘ap-
curators appointed by probate court. ) pointed. _
2. Minors over the age of 14, who are deaf 2 4. Second section of 74th chapter of Revised
and dumb, to have curators orguardians. ( Statutes repealed. _ _
3. The probate court to cause partition of S 5. 24th section of act concerning guardians
‘ { repealed.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follmbn:

§ 1. If any minor who resides without this State, shall have any estate
therein, the court having jurisdiction of probate business of the county
in which such estate, or a part thereof may be, may apppin_t some com-
petent person to be curator of the estate of such minor, within this State;
and the curatorship which shall be first lawfully granted of the estate of
any such minor, shall extend to all the estate of such minor within the
same, and shall exclude the jurisdiction of every other court. _

§ 2. The courts having jurisdiction of probate business, may appoint
guardians or curators of minors who are deaf and dumb, and w o are
over the age of fourteen years.

§ 3. The courts having jurisdiction of probate business, shall have
power to cause partition of slaves to be made among heirs and distribu-
tees, or a sale of such slaves for the purpose of partition; and may ap-

56 ‘ mus AND ravnnns.

point three commissioners to make the partition, and report to the court
for approval or rejection, or the court may make such partition without
appointing commissioners.

§ 4. So mu'ch of the second section of the seventy-fourth chapter of
the revised statutes of the State of Missouri, approved December 23rd,
A. D., 1844, as provides that the benefits of said act shall not be extend-
ed to the citizens of any state in which a similar act does not exist, or
may not hereafter be passed, is hereby repealed.

§ 5. SO much of the twenty-fourth section of “An act concerning
guardians, curators and minors,” approved March 3rd, 1845, as provides
that guardians and curators “shall give the same notice required of ex-

ecutors and administrators of their settlements,” is hereby repealed.
Approved February 27, 1849.

"\/‘...~ 2* ,.v\,/\/'\/\/\/'\/\v’\/\/\/ \/\/ -x/‘»./’\./' J

INNS AND TAVERNS.

AN ACT to repeal an act respecting inns and taverns.
Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

_ § 1. An act amendatory of an act entitled “An act to regulate inns
and taverns,” approved March 18th, 1835, which was approved Febru-
ary 16th, 1847, is hereby repealed.

Amroved March 10, 1845.

 /\Z‘/5]‘./\. I‘‘/‘‘ J g.*‘\r‘..

I

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to regulate inns and
taverns.

§ 1. Tax to be levied and collected on tavern §3. No greater amount to be collected for

licenses. county, city or town purposes.
2. Tax to be levied and collected on innkeep- 4. The 7th and 8th sections of amended act
ers’ license. \ repealed.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. There shall be levied and collected, for State purposes, on each
tavern license granted for one year, a tax at the following rates, to-wit:
Where the amount of capital and property invested shall amount to as
much in value as five thousand dollars, or less, the tax shall be twenty
dollars; where the capital and property so invested shall amount to more
than live thousand dollars and not exceeding six thousand dollars, the
tax shall be tWenty—four dollars; Where the capital and property so in-
vested shall amount to more than six thousand dollars and not exceeding
seven thousand dollars, the. tax shall be twenty- eight dollars; and so on,
in the same proportion, increasing the tax at the rate of four dollars for

msamz. 57

each additional one thousand dollars’ worth of capital and property so
invested.

§ 2. Therershall be levied and collected, for State purposes, on each
license granted for one year to every inn-keeper, a tax at the following
rate, to-wit: Where the amount of capital and property invested in any
inn shall amount, in value, to as much as five thousand dollars or less,
the tax shall be ten dollars; where the amount of capital and property
so invested shall amount to more than five thousand dollars and npt ex-
ceeding six thousand dollars, the tax shall be twelve dollars; where the
‘amount of capital and property so invested shall be more than six thou‘-
sand dollars and not exceeding seven thousand dollars, the tax shall be
fourteen dollars; and so on, in the same proportion, increasing the tax
at the rate of two dollars for each additional one thousand dollars’ worth
of capital and property so invested. ‘

§ 3. Neither the county courts, city or town authorities, shall levy any
greater amount of license taxes upon inn and tavern keepers, for county,
city or town purposes, than are allowed for State purposes in the two
preceding sections.

§4. The seventh and eighth sections of the act to which this is
amendatory, are hereby repealed.

This act shall take effect from and after the first day of June next,

Approved March 10, 1849. .

 

INSANE. '

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act to establish an asylum
for the insane,” approved February 16th, 1847.

§ 1. Commissioners to decide upon plan and ’ §7. Contractor to give bond; where tiled.
dimensions of building, when; and to 8. Payments, how to be made.
furnish drawings and specifications. 9. Superintendent; how appointed; duties of;
2. Advertisement, what to contain. ayment of.
3. Bids, re lation of. 10. Su scriptions, how collected.
4. Bids to sealed; when opened. 11. Circuit attorney, to give bond; compensa-
5. Contracts, what to s ecify. tion of.
6. Copy to be tiled in e office of Secretary 12. Circuit attorney, to whom to account.
A of State. 13. Compensation to commisioners ; all acts
inconsistent, repealed.

Be it enacted by the General ./7sse.mbly of the State of rllissouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. The commissioners of the lunatic asylum shall, as soon as prac-
ticable after they shall have obtained all the information that they may
deem necessary, decide upon the plan and dimensions of the building,
the materials of which it shall be built, the style and manner in which
the work shall be done, and the point of its location upon the farm ap-
propriated; and shall prepare such drawings and s ecilications as will
enable builders and contractors to frame bids therefbr, and such plans,
drawings and specifications shall be accessible to all persons desirous of

bidding.

58 msmn.

§ 2. Said commissioners shall advertise, in not more than four news-
’ papers of general circulation in this State, and also by handbills for dis-
tribution; in which advertisement shall be specified the gmeral charac-
ter of the buildings to be erected, with a minute description of the work
to be’done, proposing to receive bids from contractors for the erection
and completion of said building according to the plan and specifications
thus prepared. The advertisements shall state where the plans, draw-
ings and s ecifications may be seen.
§ 3. BY s shall be received by the commissioners for the entire com-
pletion of the whole work, and the contract shall be given to to the per-
son or persons who shall make the lowest and best bid; provided, that
no commissioner or superintendent shall be allowed to bid nor to have
any interest whatever in the contract thus made.
§ 4. All bids made as above specified, shall be sealed up and delivered
to the commissioners, and shall be opened in the court-house in the town
of Fulton, on the third Monday of April next, or on such day thereafter
as they may designate.
§ 5. All contracts made under the provisions of this law shall be care-
fully drawn, in which shall be detailed specifications of the character of
the work to be done, the manner in which it shall be executed, and the
time within which the contractors shall be bound to complete the same,
and with penalties for the non—completion of the work, as the commis-
sioners may deem just and reasonable.
§ 6. A copy of every such contract entered into by the commissioners
under the provisions of this act, together with,;,the plans and specifica-
tions of the buildings to be erected, shall be carefully preserved and
filed in the oliice of Secretary of State.
§ 7. Every contractor shall enter into bond, with good and sufiicient
security, to be approved by the commissioners, conditioned for the faith-
ful performance of his contract in a neat substantial manner; such bond
shall be carefully preserved by the commissioners and filed in the oliice
of Secretary of State.
§ 8. The commissioners shall be at liberty to make payment to the
contractors from time to time as the work shall progress, but no payment
shall be made of a less sum than one thousand dollars, and no payment
shall be made in advance of the work actually done; the payments shall
be made by requisitions drawn by the commissioners in favor of the
contractors, specifying the sum to be drawn, and upon presentation, the
Auditor of Public Accounts shall draw his warrant on the Treasurer
in favor of the contractor for the amount of such requisition, payable
out of the funds appropriated for that purpose. .
§ 9. Said commissioners may employ a general superintendent, pos-
sessing the qualifications of a practical architect, whose duty it shall be,
under the direction and control of the commissioners, to aid in the se-
lection and adoption of plans, judge of the quality and durability of ma-
terials that may be used by contractors in the erection and completion of
said building, and who shall take special care that the work be done in
a neat, substantial and workmanlike manner, and according to the spe-
cifications contained in said contract; said superintendent to be paid for

INSANE. J 59

his services, by requisitions drawn by the. commissioners in his favor as .
provided for in the eighth section of this act in the case of contractors.

§ 10. The subscription papers shall be delivered by the commission-
ers to the circuit attorney of the second judicial circuit, who shall be
charged by the Auditor of Public Accounts with the amount of said sub-
scription list, and who shall proceed to collect the same within such time
as said funds may be needed in payment of contracts made for the erec-
tion of said building, provided that said subscription shall be collected
within two years from and after the first day of April, 1849.

§ 11. The circuit attorney, as aforesaid, shall be required by the com-
missioners to give bond and security in double the amount of funds‘ likely
at any one time to come into his hands, and they shall allow him, from
time to time, such compensation for the collection of said funds as they
may deem ust and reasonable, not to exceed three and one-halfper'cent.,
to be paid out of said subscription fund; said compensation to be paid
by requisitions drawn by the commissioners in his favor, as provided in
the eighth section of this act in the case of contractors.

§ 12. Said circuit attorney shall, from time to time, pay into the State
treasury the money collected on said subscription list, whereupon the
Treasurer shall execute duplicate receipts, one of which the said circuit
attorney shall file in the office of the Auditor of Public Accounts, which
said receipt, so tiled, shall be to his credit; said subscription list to bear
interest at six per cent. if not paid before the first day of September,
1849. ' .

§ 13. The commissioners under this act and the act of which this is
amendatory, shall receive for their servicesheretofore, and hereafter to
be rendered, a per diem allowance of two dollars per day, for the time
they shall be actually engaged in discharging the duties imposed upon
them by law, to be paid as is provided in the _twenty-second section of
the act to which this is amendatory, relating to expenses. Such parts of
the act to which this is amendatory, inconsistent with the same, is hereby
repealed.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to appropriate money to the asylum for the insane.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz’, as follows:

§ 1. That the sum of fifteen thousand dollars be and the same is hereby
appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropri-
ated.

§ 2. That said sum of money hereby appropriated shall be applied to
the erection of an asylum for the insane, according to the provisions of
an act entitled “An act to establish an asylum for the insane,” approved
February 16th, 1847. Provided, that no contract shall be entered into
for the erection of such building except upon the condition that said

60 S LANDS.

building shall be finished and completed in all respects for the money
herein appropriated, including former appropriations and subscriptions
made for the same purpose.
This act to be in force from its passage. r
Approved March 1, 1849.

 

_ AN ACT to amend the law respecting insane persons.
B e it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as allows:

§ 1. The probate court of St. Louis county shall have the same power
and authority in relation to insane persons and their property and estate
as is now possessed by the county courts under the general law of
the State, and the judge of said court, in vacation, shall have the
same power and authority over and in relation to insane persons and
their property and estate, and in relation to the appointment of guardi-
ans for them, as is now given by the general law to the presiding justice

, of the county court in vacation.
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

LANDS.

AN ACT for the relief of persons who have bought State lands
which have been rejected.

§ 1. Re_ isters of State land oillces to grant cer- land ofiices may pay the same out of the
ti cates to dpurchasers of rejected lands, money belonging to the same.
as s citie . §3. State Treasurer may receive said certificates
2. Certi cates shall be received in payment —Receivers may be credited with certifi-
for unsold lands belonging to the grant cates on their quarterly returns.

under this act; receivers of the several ,

Wanams, by an act of Congress, approved September 4, 1841, five
hundred thousand acres of land was granted to the State of Mis-
souri for purposes of internal improvement, to be selected by com-
missioners appointed for that purpose, according to the provisions
of the act aforesaid; and whereas, a portion of the lands selected
by the commissioners aforesaid, have been rejected by the Register
of the General Land Office, and also that some of the lands so re-
jected have been sold by the State, and payments made thereon by
the purchasers aforesaid, in whole or in part; therefore,

Be it enacted ‘by the General ufssemblu cf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That it shall be the duty of the registers of the several State land

LANDS. ~ 61

odices, upon the application of any person who may have purchased any ~
lands which have been rejected, as specified in the preamble of this act,
either by themselves or by their legal representatives, at the oflice at
which the lands were purchased, to give the person so applying a certi-
ficate for the amount paid by such person or persons, with six per cent.
per annum from the time such payments were made till the date of such
certificate. '

§2. All certiiicates issued under’ the provisions of this act shall be I
received in payment for any of the unsold lands belonging to the grant
aforesaid, or, at the request of the legal holder of such certificate, the
receivers of the several State land oflices shall pay the amount due on
such certificates, out of any money which may be in their hands belong-
ing to the fund aforesaid.

§ 3. All certificates issued according to the provisions of this act, and
which shall be received by any receiveriof any of the State land oflices
in this State, shall be received by the State Treasurer as so much money,

and the several receivers shall be credited for the same on their quar-
terly returns.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 9, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend “An act regulating the fees of the registers and

receivers of the State land ofiices, and for other purposes,” ap-
proved March 28, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The register of the land office at Savannah is authorized to
keep his ollice in a separate building from that in which the receiver’s
oflice is kept, and the said register and receiver shall each be allowed a
reasonable amount for office rent, not to exceed twenty-live dollars per
year, to be audited as other claims against the State, and paid out of the
proceeds of the sales of the lands belonging to the State, suflicient vouch-
ers therefor being exhibited. So much of the first section of the act to

which this is an amendment as conflicts with the provisions of this act,
is hereby repealed.‘

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

’\F

 

AN ACT to amend an act ap roved February 2nd, 1847, entitled “An
act to amend an act entit ed ‘An act to rovide for the selection and
sale of the lands granted to this State y an act of Congress ap-
proved September 4, l84l,’ approved March 13, l845.”

Be it enacted by the General dis-sembly of the State qfMz'ssoui'z’, asfolldws:
§ 1. That all pre-emption rights upon any of the lands’ belonging to

62 LANDS.

. this State, which have heretofore become forfeited from any cause what-

ever, shall be and the same are hereby revived and continued in full
force and effect, and the said pre-emptors are hereby required and com-
pelled to pay the full amount of the purchase money on such forfeited
lands, in two equal instalments, at the times specified for the payment
of the two remaining instalments upon State lands; and 1f they shall fail
so to do, their respective pre—emption rights shall be and they are hereby
forfeited. ,
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

Wannsas, in the third section of an act entitled “an act to amend ‘an
act to provide for the selection and sale of the lands granted to this
State by an act of congress, approved September fourth, eighteen
hundred and forty-one,’ approved March thirteenth, eighteen hun-
dred and forty-five,” approved February second, eighteen hundred
and forty-seven, it is provided that a quarter quarter section shall in
all cases be a legal subdivision; and, whereas, it appears from the
published copy of the laws of the State of Missouri, passed at the
first session of the. fourteenth General Assembly, that the word
“quarter” was erroneously omitted, thereby rendering the above
provision negatory [nugatory] and of no effect; therefore,

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That of any of the lands granted to this State by act of congress,
approved September 4th, 1841, a quarter quarter section, or forty acre
lot, shall in all cases be a legal subdivision.

 2. That the Secretary of State be required to furnish certified
copies of this act to the registers and receivers of the respective State
land oflices in this State. .

This act to take effect and be in force from and. after its passage.

Approved February 17, 1849.

 

AN ACT to provide for the pay of advertising State lands.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the following charges and fees shall be allowed to the prin-
ters for services rendered under the provisions of an act entitled “an
act to amend an act entitled ‘an act to provide for the selection and sale
of the lands gr: ‘.uL.'.--3 to this State by an act of congress, approved

 

LANDS. 63

September 4th, 184l,_’ approved March 13th, l845,” to-wit: For each
tract of land advertised for sale, ten cents; to be paid out of the pro-
ceeds of the sale of said lands.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1845.

Nés/K/\r"'

AN ACT to amend an act entitled -‘an act to amend an act entitled ‘an
act to provide for the selection and sale of the lands granted to this
State by an act of congress, approved Sept. 4, 1841,’ approved
March 13, 1845,” approved February 2, 184 . '

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly Q/' the State qf Mssouri, as follows:

C? 1. That so much of the sixth section of the aforesaid act as pro-
vi es that persons who may hold pre-emptions on any of the lands spe-
citied in said act, “and shall forfeit or fail to pay for it, shall not be al-
lowed to bid for or buy, either directly or indirectly, any part of the
land which he forfeited; nor shall any person holding a re-emption be
allowed to enter any part of his pre-emption} less than e whole,” be
and the same is hereby repealed. And all ersons who may have for-
feited their pre- emption rights, or who shall) have failed to pay for the
same, shall be entitled to enter any legal subdivision of any such lands in
like manner as other persons.

§ 2. All persons who may have proved pre-emptions under the provi-
sions of the act aforesaid, shall be allowed to pay for a quarter quarter
section, or forty acre tract, or other legal subdivision, and relinquish his
or her claim to the balance so pre-empted; provided, that such persons
proposing to make such relinquishments, shall be required to malpe satis-
factory proof to the register of the land oliice at which such relinquish-
ment is made, that he or she has not committed any waste of timber,
stone or other valuable material on the portion of land which they pro-
pose to relinquish.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 13th, 1849

 

D
I

AN ACT to amend an act, approved February 2d, 1847, entitled “an
act to amend an act entitled ‘an act to provide_for the selection and
sale of the lands granted to this State by an act of congress, ap-

proved September 4, 184l,’ approved March 13, 1845.”
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State qflllissouri, qsfollowa:

§ 1. That the second and third annual instalments specified in the first
section of the above entitled act, shall be made on the first Mondays of

64 LAND&

January, 1850 and 1851; and that so much of th_e first section of said
act as conflicts with this act is hereby repealed.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the Governor to dispose of the lands granted to
' the State of Missouri by an act of congress, approved September
4, 1841, which have not been selected.

§ 1. Governor authorized to sell said lands. the United States, and accept such frac-
2. Purchasers to apply to Governor. tion than 820 acres. .
3. Persons making location to inform the 5. -Certificates issued, transferable by en-
Governor of such fact. dorsemcnt.
4. When holder of certificate shall select a 6. Certificates to be located and returned
fraction less than 320 acres but pay for within two years.
320, Governor to relinquish surplus to

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Jlltssomi, as follows:

§ 1. That the Governol is hereby authorized to dispose of so'much of
the five hundred thousand acres of land, granted to the State of Mis-
souri by the act aforesaid, as remains to e selected, at private sale;

provided, that none of the lands shall be sold for less than one dollar‘

and twenty-five cents per acre.

§ 2. Any person wishing to purchase such land may apply to the Gov-
ernor, and shall, upon ayment in full of the purchase money, re-
ceive a certificate signe by the Governor, and countersigned by the
State Treasurer, acknowledging the receipt of the money, and author-
izing such person, his heirs, or assigns, to locate the quantity of land so
purchased, in conformity with the provisions of the act of congress
aforesaid.

.§ 3. The persons makin such location shall inform the Governor, of
the lands selected, who s all notify the Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, that such selection has been made for the State of
Missouri; and if approved by the Secretary aforesaid, the Register of
lands shall issue a patent to the legal holder of such certificate, in like
manner as is now provided by law. '

§ 4. If the holder of such certificate shall select a fraction or tract
containing less than three hundred and twenty acres, it shall be the duty
of the Governor, at the request of the holder of such certificate, and
upon payment in full for three hundred and twenty acres, to relinquish
the surplus to the United States, and accept such fraction or smaller
tract instead of the three hundred and twenty acres; which request shall
be in writing, and duly acknowledged before the clerk of some court of
record and filed in the ofiice of the Register of lands; and, upon the
filin ()f the same, the Governor shall relinquish the surplus to the Uni-

ted tates, and if approved By the Secretary of the Treasury, the patent
shall issue for such less quantity.

LAN-BS.-LANDLOBDS AND rnminrs. 65

§ 6. The certihcates issued, as herein provided, shall be transferable
by endorsement, and may be located in any part of this State, in accor-
dance with the provisions of the act of congress aforesaid. '

§ 6. All certificates issued under the provisions of this act shall be
located and returned within two years from the time of issuing the
same.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage,

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

I\/\/\f\f'\/\

LANDLORDS AND TENANTS'.

AN ACT to amend an act concernin landlords and tenants in the coun-
ty of St. Louis, approveg February 27th, 1845.

§ 1. Owner of lands or tenements to recover g 2. Demand to be made, and exhibit of title
possession ot same from lessee; when. to lessee. -
and how. 3. Complaint to be filed; plaintiff to recove

' possession; when.

Be itenacted by tlie General Jssembly of the State of Missoicri; asfollows:

§ 1. That any person purchasing lands or tenements in the county of '

St._Louis, which are occupied by any tenant or lessee, or sub-lessee, at
the time of such purchase, and who shall at any time thereafter fail to
pay rent to such purchaser; upon any such failure, the person purcha-
sing such property shall have the right to commence proceedings before a
justice of the peace to recover possession of such premises, as is now
provided for in the act to which this is amendatory.

§2. Before such (proceedings are commenced, the plaintiff, or his’

agent, shall make a emand of rent, as is now provided; and at the time
of making the demand, shall exhibit to the tenant or person in posses-
sion of the premises, the deed under which he claims title, and if, then,
payment is refused, the owner may commence his action as aforesaid.

§ 3. It shall be suilicient for such person to file his complaint, stating
by whom the-premises were leased, and the terms of such lease or rent-
ing, and how he claimstitle to the same; which complaint shall be in

lieu of the aflidavit now required; and upon the trial of the cause, if the ‘

plaintif shows that the party in possession, or those under whom they
claim, rented or leased from a party claiming title to the premises by
deed, and that the plaintiff has acquired the title of the original lessor,
by a deed or deeds regularly acknowledged, he shall be entitled to re-
cover possession. : . *
‘ This act to take effect and_be in force from and after its passage. '
Approved March 10, 1849. ‘ ‘ ~
5 _

66 ' LAWS AND JoUnNA1.s.——L1B1uuur.

LAWS AND JOURNALS.
AN ACT to provide for the sale of the revised statutes of Missouri.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1 The clerks of the circuit courts of the several counties in this
State are hereby authorized to sell the copie of the revised statutes of
Missouri, for the year 1845, deposited with them for sale, either at pub-
lic auction or private sale, at the price of one dollar per copy.

§ 2. The said clerks shall account to the Auditor of Public Accounts
for the amount received under the provisions of this act.

This act to take effect from and after its passage. .
Approved March 10, .1849.

6/‘./JV

AN ACT to pay for the distribution of the journals and constitution of
the late State convention.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly qflhe State Q/‘Missouri, asfoHows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and re-
uired to draw his warrant upon the treasury, in favor of James Lusk,
ilor the sum of two hundred and sixty-seven dollars, as compensation for
distributing the journals and constitution of the late State convention,
held in the City of Jefferson, on the day of November, 1845.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

\I\..-\-/\,/ . /\/\ /-\,p-\/\_,-\_,\_,\,\_,-5,:-\/x/-g,-\,-1.

LIBRARY.
AN ACT for the repair of the library.

Be it enacted by the General Jissembly Qfthe State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The Secretary of State shall cause to be bound in ro er man-
ner, all the books in the library that need binding, and whlc he may
deem worth binding; and shall cause all the maps in the library that are
worth the expense, to be put on canvass,,if the work can be done on rea-
sonable terms; and the whole amount of the cost, under this act, shall
not exceed two hundred dollars. The Secretary of State shall certify
the cost of the work to the Auditor, who shall draw his warrant there-
for on the treasury, in favor of the person who shall do the work.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

: MARRIAGE .coN'r,sacrs.-'-sganamn woman. 67
MARRIAGE CONTRACTS.

AN ACT supplementary to an act concerning marriage contracts.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State qf1llz'ssourz', asfollmas: ‘

§ 1. Any female over the age of eighteen years, and under the age of
twenty-one years, shall have full power to make any written marriage
contract concerning any real or personal property, or any other matter,
with the consent of her father, _if living; but if dead, then with the con-
sent of her mother, if living; but if dead, then with the consent of her
guardian; and such marriage contract, so made, shall be as valid and as
binding on such female and her heir s, and on all persons claiming under
her, as if she had been over the age of twenty-one years at the time cf '
executing the same.

§, 2. Such marriage contracts shall be proven or acknowledged. and
recorded, according to the provisions of the act to which this act is

en lementary, which said act was approved March 27th, 1845.
his act shall talre efect from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

   

MARRIED WOMEN.

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to regulate executions.”

§ 1. Property owned by awoman when exempt §4. Property owned by a _woman before her
from the debts and liabilities of her hus- € marriage, and that which she may acquire

band. . after marriage, not liable for debts con-
2. Pt owned by the husband, when ex- tracted as security for others by the bus-

empt om the debts and liabilities of his band, or for costs against him in criminal
wi e. cases.

 

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. In addition to the property now exempt from levy and sale under
execntion, by the tenth, eleventh and twelfth sections of the act of which
this is amendatory, the property owned by a woman before her mar-
riage, and that which she may ac uire after her marriage by descent,
gift, grant, devise or otherwise, an the use and profits thereof, shall be
exempt from all debts_and liabilities of her husband, contracted or in-
curred by him previous to their marriage, or previous to the time the
wife came into the possession of such property,

§ 2. The property owned by a man before his marriage, and that
which he may acquire after his marriage by descent, gift, grant or de-
vise, and the use and profits thereof, shall be exempt from all debts and
liabilities contracted or incurred by his wife, before their marriage.

§ 3. The property owned by a woman, before her marriage, and that
which she may acquire after her marriage, by descent, gift, grant or de-
vise, shall be exempt from levy and sale, to pay any debt contracted as

68 nrrincnanrs AND GROCERS.

security, or liability incurred as security, by her husband, at any time,
or under any circumstances whatever, and such (property shall be exempt
fromlevy and sale for any line or costs impose on the husband in any

criminal case.
This act shall be in force and take efect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849;

/./xx x,/'._/‘K/‘\/\/"‘\/‘/‘\/‘\/\./\./'\/‘../\/\/‘ /\/N

MERCHANTS AND GROCERS.

AN ACT to regulate licenses and taxes upon merchants and grocers.

' § 1. Taxes to be assessed and levied upon mer- § (5 2. To whom applicable. A previous ad va-

chants and grocers. lorem tax not repealed.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State of Jllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. In lieu of the taxes assesed upon merchants and grocers, license.d
by theexisting law, there shall [be] levied and collected upon every
merchant and grocer’s license, a tax at the following rate, to wit: Where
the amount of merchandise received for sale by any merchant or rocer
shall amount in value to as much as live hundred dollars or less, t e tax
shall be one dollar; where the amount of merchandize so received shall
amount in value to more than live hundred dollars, and not exceeding
six hundred dollars, the tax shall be one dollar and twenty-cents; where
the amount of merchandize so received shall amount in value to more
than six hundred dollars, and not exceeding seven hundred dollars, the
tax shall be one dollar and forty cents; and so on in the same proportion,
increasing the tax at the rate of twenty cents for every additional one

‘hundred dollars worth of * merchandize so received.

§ 2. The provisions of the preceding section shall be applicable to all
merchants, commission merchants and grocers, whether trading as whole-
sale or retail dealers: Provided, that nothing in this act shall be so con-
strued as to repeal the tenth section of an act entitled “An act to license

- and tax merchants,” ap roved March 27th, 1845, so far as the same re-

lates to the collection o an ad valorem tax upon all merchandize offered
for sale as aforesaid.

§ 3. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with or repugnant to this
act, are hereby repealed.

This act shall take effect from and after the first day of June next.

Approved March 12, 1849.

V'\« re/\/\f\/\p\.-\a ~—\/\/'§f\v-\I‘\/ \ §‘\» \p\_-\/-\,r\f\"s./'\-

M1L1r1a.—1u1L1rARv, FUND. 69_
MILITIA.

AN ACT to repeal in part an act ap roved February 11, 1847, entitled
“An act to amend an act, entitled’ an act to re ulate, govern and

discipline the militia of the State of Missouri,’ approved‘ March
27, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zsserizbly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of an act approved February 11, 1847, entitled
“An act to amend an act, entitled an act to regulate, overn and disci-

pline the militia of the State of Missouri,” approved arch 27, 1845,
as requires the assessors to assess any person, or the collectors to collect
any tax, in conformity with the provisions of that act, be and the same

is hereby repealed. . _
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 6, 1849. *

\& r»A~- - ‘A1 /VV\—

IVIILITARY FUND.
AN ACT to distribute the military fund. ~

U

51. Moneys collected under the provisions cl‘ ~’ when ordered by county court, on the
an existin act, and unexpended, to be § -treasurer,‘ treasurer required to pay the
ilhistribut among the counties payiagz 3 Asaéne. th d d

e same. . u itor au orize to raw his warrant
2. Auditor of Public Accounts required tol only in certain cases.

apportion the same; shall issue a warrant ‘;

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Mssouri, as _/bllows:

§ 1. That all money collected. under, and by virtue of the provisions
of an act, entitled “An act to amend an act entitled an act to regulate,
overn and discipline the militia of the State of Missouri, approved
arch 27, 1845,” approved February 11, 1847, and paid into the State
treasury, and unexpended, be and the same is hereby distributed among
the counties paying the same into the treasury, in proportion to the
amount so paid by each county. . . ,
§ 2. That the Auditor of Public Accounts be required to apportion
this fund among the counties entitled to the same, under_ the provisions
of this act; and that upon the order of the county court, the Auditor
shall issue a warrant upon the treasury in favor of the treasurer of said
county, for the amount to which said county is entitled, under this act;
and the Treasurer is hereby required to pay the same.
§ 3. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Auditor of

70 MUSICAL INSTBUMENTS.-—NO'I’1CE8-JUDICIAL.

Public Accounts, that any amount of the money has been received by,
or expended in any county in this State, under the provisions of the
above recited act, it shall be the duty of the Auditor, in making the dis-
tribution, to deduct the amount received by such county or counties,
from the distributive share of such county or counties receiving the
same; and the Auditor shall only draw his warrant in favor of such
county or counties for the residue, if there be any.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

  /VN/\&A '~l‘A/\/\.’\&l\-r‘J\I‘.l\/\&

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.

AN ACT to preserve musical instruments.
Be itenacted by the General ufssembly, of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. It shall be the duty of the quartermaster general, to collect and
preserve all musical instruments belonging to the State, and not hereaf-
ter to permit any person to use or retain any of said musical instruments,
unless such person will enter into bond to the State, in double the value of
such instruments, conditioned that he will take good care of the same,
and return the same in good order and repair, at such time as may be
prescribed or directed by the quartermaster general.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March '12,. 1849.

 

J‘/\/\f

\

NO'l‘ICES——JUDICIAL. '
AN ACT respecting judicial notices.
Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Mz19souri,. asfollowsg
§ 1. Parties required to have orders of publication made, may cause

the same to be published in any public newspaper published and circu-
lated in this State.

Approved March 12, 1849.

Il.*\J"J'\.l'\f\/'\/\%'V'\’\/‘ ” 'VV ‘v’\-".'\'J\J

NOTABIES £031.10. S 71

NOTARIES PUBLIC.

AN ACT concerning notaries public.

§ 1. The governor shall ap oint and commis- §5. Notary required to have and use an omcial
sion notaries public, or the territories of seal. '

Oregon, New Mexico and California. 6. Required to take an oath—and oath pre-
2. Their duties and powers, scribed; shall ive bond.
3. Notary required to keep records of his.acts. 7- Bond how hled; ow suit may be brought
4. Cases of vacancies provided for. g against securities. ' .
8. Fees and compensation fixed.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The governor shall appoint and commission, in each of ' the‘ ter-
ritories of Oregon, New Mexico and California, one or more nbtariesj
public, who shall hold their offices for the term of six years, and until
their successors be duly commissioned and ualiiied.

§2. They shall have power to take an certify relinquishments of
dower, and take and certify the proof or acknowledgments of all instru-
ments in writing, conveying, or in any manner. affecting, real estate si-
tuate in this State; to receive and certify the proof or acknowledgment
of all instruments in writing relating to commerce or navigation; to make
declarations and protests on all bills of exchange, olicies of insurance,
and all other commercial or negotiable paper; to a minister - all oaths or
aliirmations required for any purpose in this State; to take and certify
depositions, to be used in any court in this State; and at the request of
any person interested, whether before or after suit brought, to take and
perpetuate the testimony of witnesses, to be used as prima facie evi-
dence, in any court in this State, against any person in this State, hav-
ing had reasonable notice of the purpose, time and place of taking such
depositions. . ’

§ 3. Every such notary shall keep a fair record of all his ofiicial acts,
and, if required, shall give a certified copy of any record in his oilice,
upon a tender of the fees therefor.

§ 4. If from any cause, the oflice of any such notary become- vacant,
the books and papers belonging to his oflice shall be delivered to his
successor. A , » 4 _ ,

§ 5. Every such notary shall keep a seal, and attest all his official acts

- therewith.

§ 6. Every such notary shall, before enterin on the duties of his of-
lice, take an oath “faithfully to demean himse f in oflice,” whichshall
be endorsed on his commission, and shall give bond to the State in the
sum of. five hundred dollars, with two securities, residents of this State,
to be approved by the governor, faithfully to discharge the duties of his

oiice.
§ 7. Such bond shall be filed in the o$ce of Secretary of State; and

any person injured may cause suit to be brought thereon, to his use;
Provided, that no such suit shall be brought against the securities more
than three years after the cause of action accrued.

72’ I NOTARIES punmc.

§ 8. Such notaries shall be entitled to receive fees for theiriservices,
as follows, viz: for noting bill of exchange, or. other commercial or ne-
gotiable paper, 'for protest, ten cents; entering protest on same, twenty-

ve cents; registering a protest, twenty-five cents; noting bill of ex-
change, or other commercial or negotiable paper, without protest, twen-
ty-five cents; notice to each, endorser, or other party to same, ten cents;
taking proof or acknowledgment of all instruments in writing, twenty-
five cents; for a marine, lire, or other insurance protest, one dollar; each
certificate twenty-five cents; allixing notarial seal, ten cents; adminis-
tering every oath, five cents; signing and certifying depositions, if writ-
ten by others, lifty cents; for writing same, if required, for every hun-

dred words, eight cents; for certifying same, when written by notary, '

twenty-five cents; for taking and perpetuating testimony, the same fees
as for taking and certifying depositions. ‘
This act to take efect and be in force, from and after its passage.

Approved March 3, 1849.

I‘. .«-\,~\,/\ / \ /~.,r\/\z ./N,/\t\/x/\/\/s/\/*4-

AN ACT to explain the law respecting notaries.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows:

_ § 1. Under and by virtue of .“An act supplemental to an act entitled
an act respecting notaries public,” approved January 14th, 1845, which
supplemental act was approved on the 13th February, 1847, all notaries
public have power to take and certify relinquishments of dower by mar-
ried women, in the same manner, and with like effect, as such relin uish-
ments are taken and certified by clerks of courts of record; and al such
relinquishments taken and certified by notaries public, in due form of
law, since the passage of said supplemental act, are declared to be legal
and valid.
This act shall take effect fromgits passage. ’
Approved March 12th, 184 .

«' ..r / , \,-- , 4- 1- .‘ xx/~./~.-~ /r ./~/\/xx

Pnmcrrcn IN 6.0U.n*1's or JUSTICE; _ 73

PRACTICE IN COURTS OF JUSTICE.

AN ACT to reform the Pleadin ‘s and Practice in Courts of Justice in
l880lll‘I.

Arrrcu: I." Of the form of Civil Actions.
IL Of the time of commencing Civil Actions.
III. Of the parties to Civil Actions.
IV. In what counties suits are to be brought.
V. Of the manner of commencing Civil Actions.
VI. Of the Pleadings in Civil Actions. ’
VII. General rules of Pleading.
VIII. Claim and delivery of personal property. .
IX. In'unctions. ‘ .
X. er provisional remedies. . .
XI. Mistakes in Pleading, and amendments and new trial.
XII. J ndgment upon failure to answer.
XIII. Issues and the mode of trial- -
XIV. Trial by J ury.
XV. Trial by the Court.
XVI. Trial by Referees. ,
XVII. Judgment, and the manner of enforcing it.

XVIII. The Execution.

xxx. A pad in Civil Actioufs.

XX. Su mitting a controversy without action.
XXI. Proceedin s against joint debtors, and against heirs, devisees, legatees. and ten-
ants ho ding under a judgment debtor. . .
XXII. Confession of ‘u ent without action. .
XXIII. Offer of the deI'cn to compromise the whole or part of the action.
XXIV. Admission, ins ection, and production of witnesses, and examination of parties.
XXV. Examination 0 witnesses. '
XXVI. Motions and Orders.
XXV II. Entitling Ailidavits.
XXVIII. Computation of time.
XXIX. Notices, and filing and service of papers.
XXX. General and miscellaneous provisions. _
XXXI. Examples of petitions and answers, replications and demurrers which may be
used where applicable; and where not strictly applicable, analogous ones may

be used in analagons cases.
XXXII. When‘ ‘this act shall take effect. '

WHEREAS, it’ is expedient that the present forms of actions and pleadings

in cases at common law should be abolished; that the distinction be-'

tween legal and equitable remedies should no lion er exist; and that
an uniform courseof proceeding in all cases shou d be established;
therefore, ' " I

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qftlze State of Missouri, asfollows:
ARTICLE I.

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. Abolition of distinctions in actions at law E 2. Parties to an action, how designated.
and equity; one form of action declared. .

§ 1. The distinction between the’ditl'erent actions at law, and between
actions at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all, such actions and
suits heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this State,
hereafter, but one form’ of action for the enforcement or protection of
private rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which
shall be denominated a civil action. ,

§2. In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. . , « a-

53

74 . rnacrrcr. IN COURTS or wsricii.
ARTICLE II.

OF THE TIME OF COMMECING CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. Certain sections of act of limitation, of otherwise rovided for; relief on the
1845, repealed; provisions of this arti- ground of raud, within live years.
ale substituted; restrictions to this ar- 5. Actions against a sheriff or coroner, for
ticle. ‘ liability; for enalty or forfeiture upon

2. Periods of limitation prescribed. a statute; wit in three years.

J 3. Actions on writing, sealed or unsealed, 6. Actions for libel, slander, assault, batte-
for the direct payment of money or ry, false im risoninent- statutory pen-
property; also, actions on covenants of a ty or for eiture to the State; within
warranty or of seizen; within ten two years.
years. 7. Actions against sheriff, or other omcer,

4. Actions on contracts and obligations; lia- . for escape; within one year.

bility, &.c.; trespass on real estate; ta- 8. In account current; when cause of action
king, detaining, or injurin goods or accrued.

chattels; recovery of spec‘ c personal 9. Actions _for penalties, &.c., by any person ‘
property; criminal conversation; inju- who will sue, when accrued.

ries to person or rights of another, not 10. Alctiops by the State subject to the same

' imi ations.

§ 1. Sections one, two, three, and four, of article second, and section
second of article third, of an act passed by the General Assembly of this
State, entitled “an act prescribing the times of commencing actions,”
ap roved 27th March, 1845, are-repealed, and the provisions of this ar-
tic e are substituted in their stead. This article shall not extend to ac-
tions already commenced, or to cases where the right of action has al-
ready accrued; but thestatutes now in force shall be applicable to‘ such

‘cases, according to the subject of the action and without regard to the

form.

§ 2. The civil actions embraced within this article can only be com-
menced within the periods prescribed in the sections which follow after
the causes of action shall have accrued, except where in special ‘cases,
a diEerent limitation is prescribed by statute.

§ 3. Within ten years: First, an action upon any writing, whether seal-
ed or unsealed, for the direct payment of money or property; Second,
actions brought on any covenant of warranty contained in any deed of
conve ance of land, shall be brought within ten years next after there
shall ave been a final decision against the title of the covenantor in
such deed; and actions on any covenant of seizen, contained in any such
deed, shall be brought within ten years after the cause of action shall
accrue; Third, actions for relief, not herein otherwise provided for.

§ 4. Within live years: First, an action upon a contract, obligation, or
liability, express or implied, except those mentioned in the last section,
and exce t upon judgments or decrees of a court of record, and except
where a 'Eerent time is limited in this act; Second, an action upon a lia-
bility created by a statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture; Third,
an action for trespass on real estate; Fourth, an action for taking, de-
taining, or injuring any goods or chattels, including actions for the recovery
of specific personal property; F2.’/‘th, an action for criminal conversation,
or for any other injury to the person or rights of another, not arisin on
contract, and not hereinafter enumerated; Sixth, an action for relie on
the ground of fraud—the cause of action in such case to be deemed not
to have accrued until the discovery bythe aggrieved party of the facts
constituting the fraud.

rawrrcn m covers or ms-rrce. * '75

§ 5. Within three years: First, an action against a sheriE_ or coroner,
upon a liability incurred by the doing ‘of an act in his odicial capacity,
and in virtue of his oflice, or by the omission of an oliicial duty, inclu-
ding the non-payment of money collected upon an execution:—but this
section shall not apply to an action for an escape; Second‘, an action on -
on a statute for a penalty of forfeiture, where the action is given to t e

party aggrieved, or to such party: and the State, except where the
statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 6. Within two years: First, an action for libel,‘ slander, assault, bat-
tery,‘or false imprisonment; Second, an action upon a statute for a pen-
al or- forfeiture to the State. a r ' ,

?7. Within one year: an action against a sheriff or other officer for
the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 8. In an action brou ht to recover a balance due on a mutual, 0 en
and current account, w ere there have been reciprocal demands e-
tween the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued
from the time of the last item in the account on the adverse side. * v :

§ 9. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given in
whole or in part to any person who will prosecutefor the same, must be
commenced within one year after the commission of the ofence; and if
the action be not commenced within the year, by a private party, it may
be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the State, by
the attorney eneral, or the circuit attorney of the proper’ circuit.  r "

§ 10. The imitations prescribed in this article, shall apply to actions
brought in the name of this State, or for its benefit, in the same manner
as to actions by private parties. ’ '

ARTICLE 111.

or want rnnrrns ro crvu. acrrons.
§ 1. Action to be in the name of the real par- g 8. When different parties to the same in-

ty in interest. ‘ . strurnent may be sued together.
2. Executors, administrators, &.c., may sue 9. Proceedings 11 :1 death, marriage, or
in their own names, Sic. other disabih y, or transfer of interest
3. Assignment of a thing, in action, not to during the pendency of the action. .
_ prejudice a defence. 10. Court may order other parties to. be
4. Set on’: allowed to defendant. brought in.
5. Who may be joined as plaintiffs. 1]. Abatement, where cause of action shall
6. Who may be’ ined as defendants. not suriive, applicable only to parties
7. Parties unit in interest, when to be adying, . , -
joined. 12. Revival of cases, reference to Art. V.

Practice in Chancery.

§ 1. Every civil action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in the next section.

§ 2. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name without
joining with him the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted.

§ 3. In case of an assignment of a thing in action, the actionby the
assignee shall be without prejudice to an off set or other defence existing
at the time of, or before notice of theassignment; but this section shall
not apply to bills of exehan e, nor to promissory notes for the Phyment
of money expressed on the face thereof, to be for value received, nego-

o tiable and payable without defalcation. '

76‘ PRACTICE IN oounrs or J-U8‘1’I(_!_E.

§ 4. The defendant or defendants will be allowed set o&'s"m‘the cases
and under the circumstances now allowed by law, both before and after
judgments and executions. 1

§ 5. All ersons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in
obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as
otherwise provided in this act.

§ 6. Any person may be made a party defendant who has an interest.
in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff. _

§ 7. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one
who should have been joined as plaintiif cannot be obtained, hejmay be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the petition. 3-

§ 8. Persons severally 1iable,‘including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the same
action, at the option of the plaintiff; and where severally liable, an ex-
ecutor or administrator, or other person liable in a representative char-
apter, iifnay be joined with others originally liable, at the option of the
p ainti . T . «

§ 9. No action shall abate by death, marriage, or other disability’ of
ii party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action
survives or continues. In the case of death, marriage, or other disabili-
ty of a party, the court on motion may allow the action to be continued
by or against his representative or successor in interest. In the case of any
transfer‘of an interest, other than that occasioned by death, marria e or
disability of a party, the action shall be continued in the name o the
original party, or the court may allow the-person to whom the transfer
is made to be substituted in the action.

§ 10. When a complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, the court may order them to
be brought in by an amendment of-‘ the petition, or by a supplemental pe-
tition, and a new summons. ,

§ 11. When one or more of the plaintiffs or defendants die, and the
cause of action shall not survive, the suit shall abate only as to the per-
son or persons so dying, and the surviving parties may proceed without
reviving the suit. .

§ 12. Suits may be revived in the cases,and in‘ the manner and with
the effect now provided in Article V, of Practice in Chancery, so far as
may be consistent with the provisions of this act. ~

ARTICLE IV.

IN WHAT couurv surrs MAYBE nnoucnr.

§ 1. Suits,. instituted by summons, ma be one defendant resides. Defendants all
brought in the county in which p ain- non-residents, then in any county,
tiff or defendant resides. Defendants 2. Suits by attachment, to be brought in the
residing-in different counties, suits may county where the property is found;
be brought in any one of them; where where the property is in several cou_n-
there are resident and non-resident de- , ties, separate writs to such’ counties
fendants then in any county where any may issue.

3. Parties may agree to removal of suit.

§ 1. Suits instituted by summons P; shall be brought: First, when the.

pnacrrcn-us covnrs or JUs'r1c-n. '77

defendant is a resident of the State, either in the county within which
the defendant resides, or in the county within which the plaintiffresidcs
and the defe.ndant may be found; when there are several defendants, and
they reside in different counties, the suit may be hrou_«_;ht in any such
County, and a separate writ may be issued to each County against such
of the defendants as reside therein; where there are several defendants,
some residents and others non-residents of the State, suit may be brought
in any county in which any defendant resides; rS'erm2rl/_z/, if all the de-
fendants are non-residents of the State; and an action will lie against
them, it may be brought in any county.

§'2. Suits brought by attachment against the property of a person,
shall be brought in the county in which such property may be found;
when a defendant or defendants, in a suit instituted by attachment, have
property in several counties, separate writs may be issued to every such
county.

C} 3. If at any time after the commencement of a suit the parties shall
agree upon any other county to which they desire the same to be re-
moved, it shall, by order of court, he removed accordingly to such
county.

ARTICLE V.‘

OF THE MANNER. OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

5 1. Petition tobe tiled in the otiice of the clerk ' § 9. When part of defendants are residents,
of the circuit court. process to be issued against them.

2. Summons, requisites of. 10. Proceedings, on return, that the defendant

3. In what cases a separate summons may is- cannot be found.
sue. 11. Mode of procedure in cases of unknown

4. Summons, manner of service. parties.

5. Copy of petition to be delivered to, or left 12. Publication in newspapers, of notice to non-
at the place , of abode of the defendant resident, absent or unknown defendants.
first summoned. 13. Mode of personal service out of the State

6. Cases in which a service of twenty days I on the defendant.

14. In cases where part of the defendants do not
appear, or are not summoned, &.c.

\

s/\/\/'*~ ’'\I\/'\.’\./\/\/

is ursejuired.
7. Ref to hear read, or to receive a copy

/\"\/‘./\/

of petition and writ. _ _ . 15. The leadings and procedure in suits in at-
8. Proceedings to obtain order of publication , tac ment, to accord as near as may be to
against non-resident defendants. \. the provisions of this act.

§ 1. Every person commencing a civil action, shall file in the office of
the clerk of the circuit court of the proper county, his petition setting

forth the nature of his complaint, and the remedy sought, in the manner ;

hereinafter required and directed.

§ 2. Unless the defendant voluntarily appears, the clerk shall issue a *

summons as now required by the practice at law, directed to the sheriff
of the proper county, requiring him to summon the defendant or defend-
ants to a pear and answer the petition on the return day of such sum-
mgns. ’¥he summons, when issued, shall be endorsed upon or annexed
to'the petition, or a copy thereof; it ‘shall be dated on the day issued,
and made returnable on the lirst day of the next term thereafter, unless
such term be within fifteen days thereafter; and in that case the‘ sum-
‘mons shall be returnable on the first day of the second term. Every de-
fendant served with the summons fifteen days before the return day there-
of, shall be bound to appear at the return term of the writ; and if such

78 BBACTIQI: IN covers or Jvsrrcn.
summons be served less than fifteen days, he shall be bound to appear at
the term next after the return term of such writ. -

§.3. Where there are several defendants residing in different counties,
a separate summons shall be issued to each county, including all the de-
fendants residing therein; and when any defendant or defendants are
non-residents of the State, the plaintif may take his writ against him or
them, or separate writs a ainst each, directed to the sheriff of any coun-
ty in the Statein which t e plaintiff believes such defendant or defend-
ants may betemporarily found. . _ '

§ 4. Every summons shall be accompanied by a separate copy of the
petition; and the service shall be, either first, by reading the petition
and writ to the defendant; or secondly, by delivering to the defendant
who shall he first summoned, a copy of the petition and writ; and to such
as shall he subsequently summoned a copy of the writ; or thirdly, by
leaving such copy at the usual place of abode of the defendant, with
some white person of his family, above the age of fifteen years. _

§ 5. The copy of the petition accompanying the writ, shall be deliver-
ed to, or left at the place of abode of the defendant who shall be first
summoned. . \

§ 6. In all cases where the petition is founded solely upon a bond, bill
or promissory note, for the direct payment of money, and the plaintiff
demands a trial at the first term, as hereinafter provided, each defendant
to authorize such judgment against him, must be personally served at
least twenty days before the return day of such writ, by delivering him
a copy of such petition and writ.

§ 7. In all cases where the defendant shall refuse to hear such petition
and writ read, or to receive a copy thereof, the oR'er of the oliicer to read
the same, or to deliver a copy thereof, and such_ refusal shall be a sufli-
cient service of such writ. .

§ 8. If ° any plaintif, or other person for him, shall file with his eti-
tion an affidavit stating that part or all of the defendants are non-resiciients
of the State, the court, or clerk in vacation, shall make an order directed
to the non-residents, notifying them of the commencement of the suit,
and stating briefly the object and ‘general nature of the etition, and re.-
quiring them to appear on a day to be therein named, al owing suflicient
tune for publication, and answer the petition, or that the petition will be
taken as confessed.

§ 9. If in such case part of the defendants are residents of the State,
process shall be issued against them as in other cases.

§ 10. When a summons shall be issued againstany defendant, and the

. sheriff to whom it is directed shall make return that the defendant can-

not be found, the court, being ‘first satisfied that process cannot be ser-
ved, shall make an order as is required in the preceding sections in case
of non-resident defendants.

§ 11. If any complainant shall allege in his petition that there are, or

that he verily believes there are persons interested in the subject matter

of the petition, whose names he cannot insert therein, because they are
unknown to him, and shall describe the interest of such persons, and
how derived, so far as his knowledge extends, the court, or the judge,
or clerk thereof in vacation, shall make an order, as in case of non-re-

racemes: IN coca-rs or msrien. 79

sidents, reciting moreover all allegations in relation to the interest of
such unknown parties. '

§ 12. Every order ' st non-resident, absent or unknown defend-
ants, shall be publishe 1 in some newspaper published in this State, which
the court, judge or clerk making the order, may designate as most like-
ly to give notice to the erson to be notified; the publication shall be for
eight weeks successive y, the last insertion to be at least four weeks
before the commencement of the term at which the’ defendants are re-
quired to appear.

§ 13. The plaintif may cause a copy of the petition, with a notice of l

the suit, to be delivered to any known defendant, residing or being with-
out this State, at any place within the United States or their territories,
two months before the commencement of the term at which such defend-
ant is required to appear. Such service may be made by any free white
person above the age of ' twenty-one years, who is a competent and disin-
terested witness in the cause, and being proved by the eilidavit or depo-
sition of such person, shall be equivalent to publication as hereinbefore
directed in case of non-residents, .

§ 14. When there are several defendants, some of whom do not appear
and are neither notified nor summoned, the plaintif may proceed against
those, if any, who do pear, or are summoned or-notified, and dismiss
his petition as to the ot ers, or he may continue the cause, and proceed
to bring in the other defendants by process or publication, as the case
may require. , ’ ' ~

§ 15. Suits may be brought by attachment in the cases, and conduct-
ed in the manner authorized by statute in such cases; provided, that the
pleadings and procedure shallbe as near as. may be according to the

provisions of this act. ~

ARTICLE VI.

OF THE PLEADING8 IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 1. First pleading a petition, to be in ordinary § 6. Objection not a on tition to be
and concise language; what it must con- taken by answer. nei er demurrer
tain. nor answer, objection waived except as
2. Pleadings on the part of the defendant de- to jurisdiction and cause of action.
mirror and answer, and when they must 7. Answer—what to contain; to be inordinary
be filed. A and concise language.
3. What the demurrer must contain. 8. Answer may set forth all the grounds of
4. Grounds ot objection must ‘be distinctly ‘ defence. ' V
s in the demurrer. 9. Proceedings where defendant sets up o&cts
5. A er demurrer plaintiff may amend with- in his answer.

in twenty days; also amendment after ( 10. Rules governing demurrer to ofsets.
decision on demurrer. ' ' -

§ 1'. The first jpleadin on thepart of the plaintif is the petition. The
petition shall contain, Fgirst, The title of the cause, specifying the name
of the court and countyin which the action is brought, and the names
of the parties to the action, plaintiffs and defendants. Second, A state-
ment of the facts constituting the cause of action, or causes of action, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner
as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intend-
ed. Third, A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff may suppose
himself entitled: If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount

80 PRACTICE IN cotmrs or JUSTICE.

thereof shall be stated, or such facts as will enable. the defendant an
the court to ascertain the amount demanded. - -
§ 2. The only pleading on the part of the defendant, is either a demur-

-rer or an answer. It must be filed within six days, after the return day -

of the summons, if the term shall so long continue; if not, then within
such time ‘as the court may by rule prescribe. In cases specified in sec‘.
6, of article V, the demurrer or answer shall be filed within the first two
,days after the return day of the summons, and the cause shall be tried
at the return term of the summons, unless continued for ood cause.
The court may, for good cause shewn, extend the time of 'ng the de-
murrer or answer, in all cases. ' ‘
§ 3. The defendant may demur to the petition when it shall appear
upon the face thereof, either, First, That the court has no jurisdiction
of the person of the defendant or the subject of the action; or, Second,
That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or, Third, That there
is another action pending between the same parties, for the same cause;
or, Fourth, That there is atdefect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,
Fgfth, That the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
§ 4. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds. of objection to
the petition; unless ‘it does so, it may be disregarded. -
§ 5. After a demurrer, the plaintiff may amend of course, and with or
without costs, as the court may order. .Upon the decision of the demur-
rer, the plaintiff may amend, or the defendant withdraw his demurrer and
answer. The amendment and answer hall be filed within such time as
the court may-prescribe. .
§ 6. When any of the matters enumerated in section 3, of this article,
do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be taken
by answer. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or an-
swer, the defendant shall be ‘deemed to have waived the same, except
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the subject mat-
ter of the action, and the objection that the petition does not state facts
suflicient to constitute a cause of action.
§ 7. The answer of the defendant shall contain, First, In respect to
each allegation of the petition controverted by the defendant, a specific
denial thereof, or of any knowledge thereof suiiicient to form a belief;
Second, ‘A statement of any new matter constituting a defence, in ordi-
nary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as
to enablesa person of common understanding to know what is intended.
§ 8. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defence as he shall have. They shall be separately stated, and may re-
fer to the. causes of action which they are intended to answer, in any
manner by which they may be intelligibly distin uished. F
§9. If the defendant sets up an offset or oigsets in his answer, the
plaintiff shall within two days after the filing said answer, demur or re-
ply to said offsets. The reply shall be governed by the rules herein pre-
scribed in relation to answers. The court may, for good cause shewn,
enlarge the time for filing the reply. i ’
T § 10. The demurrer to an offset shall be governed by the rules here-
inbefore prescribed, in cases of demurrers to petitions [answers] where

they apply.

\

rnacrrcn IN counrs or JUSTICE. 81

ARTICLE VII.

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.

§ 1. No pleading allowed but petition, answer, E s} 7. Judgments of courts, &.c. how pleaded.
demurrer, and where olfsetts, a reply 8. Private statutes how pleaded.

‘ thereto. ( 9. Conditions precedent, bow pleaded.
2. Egg pleading to be subscribed and veri- 10. Libtel and slander, how to be stated on pe-
ti ion.
3. Presumptions of law, and matters judlcial- ll. Answer in such cases.
ly noticed, need not he pleaded. 12. Different causes of action may be united in
4. Matters of Account, how stated. 3 petition—grounds of defence united _in
5. Pleadings to be liberally construed. answer.
6. Irrelevantor redundant matter to be strick- 13. Original deeds and other writings required

on out. , to be filed.

§ 1. No other pleading shall be allowed than the petition, demurrer,
answer, and in cases of offset, a reply thereto. .

§ 2. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney,
and the petition and answer and reply to offsets, must each be verified
by the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney, to the efect that he
believes it and the matters therein, as stated, to be true. No pleading,

verified as herein required, shall be used in any criminal prosecution

against the party, _as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such plead-
ing, and such verification shall not make any-other or greater proof ne-
cessary ar!‘ the side of the opposite party. ' .

§ 3. Neither presumptions of law nor matters of which judicial no-
tice is taken, need be stated in pleading.

§ 4. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the
items of an account therein alleged, when they exceed twenty in num-
ber; but if they ‘be not set forth, he shall deliver to the adverse party, or
tile with his pleading, a copy of the account, verified by aiiidavit as
herein required of petitions and answers; and if not so setforth,f1led or
delivered, he shall be precluded from giving evidence thereof.

§ 5. In the construction of a pleadin , for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations shall be liberal y construed, with a view to sub-
stantial justice between the parties. .

§6. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby.-

§ 7. In pleading a judgment or otherdetermination of a court or odi-
cer of special jurisdiction, it shall- not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction; but such judgment or determination may be
stated to have. been duly given or made. If such allegation be made in
a- petition, and be not controverted in the answer; or be made in_an an-
swer in relation to an offset, and be not controverted in the reply, it need
not be roved on trial; in other cases it shall be proved’on trial.

§ 8. n pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the
day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicialinotice
thereof.

§ 9. In_ pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a con-
tract, it_shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such perform-
ance; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all

the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be not controverted,
5 .

82 PRACTICE IN comrrs or msrrcn.

stated in section 7, of this article in regard to judgments, it shall not be
necessary to prove it on trial; in other cases it shall be necessary.

§ 10. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the petition any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state enerally that
the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiflg, and if such
allegation be not controverted, as stated in sections 7 and 9, in regard
to judgments and the performance of a condition precedent, it shall not
be necessary to prove it on trial; in other cases it shall be necessary.

§ 1]. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may
in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory,
and any mitigating circumstances legally admissible‘ in evidence, to re-
duce the amdunt of damages; and whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 12. The plaintiff may unite in his petition as many causes of action
as he may have; and in like manner the defendant may unite in his an-
swer as many grounds of defence, including offsets, as he may have, al-
though the same may heretofore have required different actions at law,
or an action or actions at law, and a suit or suits in equity. The plain-
tiff shall reply to the offsets in like manner as the defendant is required
to answer the matter set forth in the petition; and every material alle-
gation in the petition not specifically controverted in the answer as
heretofore required, and every material allegation in the answer in re-
gard to an offset or offsets, not specifically controverted in the reply, as
above prescribed, shall for the purposes of the action, be taken, as true.
But the allegations in the answer not‘ relating to an offset, and the alle-
gations in the reply, shall not in any respect conclude the opposite ar-
ty, who may on the trial avail himself of any valid objection to their
sufliciency, or may controvert them by proof, either in direct denial or
by way of avoidance.

§ 13. If either party shall rely upon any record, deed, or other wri-
ting, he shall file with his pleading‘ an authenticated copy of such re-
cord, and the original deed or other writing if in his power. If he can-
not produce such deed or other writin , he shall so state in his pleading,
together with the reasons therefor; anigi, if the reasons be suflicient, he
may file the best evidence of the contents of such deeds or other wri-
tings, in his power. Original deeds and other writings filed by either

, party as above provided, shall remain on file for the inspection of the‘

other party, until allowed by the court to be withdrawn; and in such
case, copies tested by the clerk shall be substituted by the party with-
drawing the originals.“

ARTICLE VIII.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 1

§ 1. Procedure where possession of personal 3§4. Proceedings where sheriff takes the pro-
property is claimed. f; perty. _ _
2. Defendant required to deliver the property. . 5. Qualifications of the sureties.
3. Bond with surety to be executed by . 6. Cases in which sheriff is ezgempt from li-
plaintifl‘. E ability on the taking of said bond.

 

rnacrxcn IN oounrs or JUSTICE. _ -83

{ 7. Expenses allowed sberiif; ower in execut- erty.
ing order for delivery 0 property. $
8. Enforcement of order for delivery of pl'0p-/ ed, proceedings on it by motion.

- § 1. If the plaintiff, in his petition, claims the possession of any per-
sonal property, he may, either at the time of filing his petition or at any
time afterwards, file his aflidavit or theamdavit of some erson in his

- behalf, shewing, First, That the plaintiff is the owner of t e property

claimed, (suiliciently describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the posses-
sion,thereof by virtue of a special tplroperty therein; Second, That the
E1-operty is wrongfully detained by a defendant; Third, That the same

as not been taken for a tax, assessment or line against the plaintiff, pur-

§9. The end taken, to ‘be tiled—when forfeit-

suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the .

property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt
from such seizure; Fourth, The actual value of such property; and, F;/V/z,
That the plaintiff will be in danger of losing his said property unless it
be taken out of the defendant’s possession or otherwise secured.

‘ § 2. Upon filing such adidavit, the court, or judge, or clerk in v'a'ca-
tion, shall make an order requiring the defendhnt to deliver the property
specified in the affidavit to the sheriff, and requiring the sheriff, if the
same be not delivered to him, to take it from the defendant and deliver
itto the plaintiff. ' _

E? 3. The sheriff shall not receive or take such property until the plain-
ti shall deliver to him a bond, executed by one or more sufiicient secu-
rities, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound to the
defendant in double the value of the property as stated inthe aflidavit,
for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may, for any cause growing out of the order in the cause,
he recovered against the plaintiff. _

§ 4. Upon such bond being executed as aforesaid, the sherif shall re-
ceive the roperty, or if the same be not delivered, shall take the pro -
erty and eliver it to the plaintiff; unless, before such delivery to t e
plaintif, one or more suilicient securities, to be approved by the sheriff,
shall execute a bond to the plaintiff to the efect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the ailidavit of the plain-
tiii‘, for the delivery of said property to the laintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of we sum as may, for any cause
growing out ‘of the taking and detention of such property by defendant,
be recovered against him.

? 5. Each of the securities must be a resident and householder or free-
ho der within the State. They must be worth the amount for which the
bond is iven, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and after
paying 1 just debts. '

§ 6. The sheriff may take such’ security upon his own responsibility,
or he may, before receiving such bond, require the securities to make
a$da'vit to the facts stated in the last section, which shall exonerate him
from liability. _

§ 7. The sheriff shall be allowed his reasonable expenses for taking
and keeping pro era, and may break open doors and enclosures to ex-
ecute the order or a delivery of the property, if upon public demand

they be not opened.

84 . pnacrrcr: IN coonrs or warren.

§ 8. The court may enforce the order for delivery of property, as other

- orders of court are enforced.

§ 9. "When a bond is taken, as in this article is provided, it shall be
returned by the sheriff and filed in court; and if any such bond shall be
forfeited, the party aggrieved may proceed thereon, by motion in open
court, at any time within one year after the determination of the origi-
nal suit, against the obligors in such bond. Notice of such motion shall .
be served on the defendants in such motion, if they be inhabitants of the
county in which the original suit was determined; and if they are not
inhabitants thereof, then a copy of such notice shall be osted up at the
court house door of said county, in each case, ten days hefore the hear-
ing of said motion.

~ ARTICLE IX.

INJUNCTIOII.

9‘ 1. Abolition of injunction and order substi- - § 9. To 0 rate as release of errors.

tuted. “ 10. Bon to be given; condition of the bond.
2. When the order is made by the county . 11. Bond, when tiled; when entered into be-
court, justice thereof, or by a judge of I fore clerk; when suit may be brought
the, circuit court in vacation. ‘ ' on said bond.
3. Injunction in what cases granted. 12. Damages to be awarded on dissolution.
4. Application for injunction when there is 13. Judgment in such case; how enforced.
no circuit court in session, nor any judge 14. Certificate to be ranted when application
thereof within the county. is overruled; ect thereof.
5. Temporary injunction. 15. Punished for disobedience to injunction
6. Where injunctions may be had in certain after its service.
counties, and where the summons shall 16. After answer tiled, motion to dissolve
be directed in such cases. may be filed at any time in the term;
7. Notice of application for injunction to R roceedings thereon.
whom given; may be put up in the clerk’s S 17. - otion may be continued on adidavit.
onice under certain circumstances. ' 18. Proceedings in cases in which no notice
8. Extent of injunction to stay proceedingsj has been given, and where defendant
at law. may be restrained.

§ 1. The writ of injunction, as a provisional remedy, is abolished, and
an injunction, by order, is substituted therefor. The order _may be made

‘by the circuit court in which the action is brought, or by a judge there-

of, in vacation; or, in cases hereinafter particularly specified, by the
county court, or any two justices thereof, in vacation.
§ 2. When an injunction is made by order of the county court, or jus-
tice thereof in ‘vacation, or by a judge of the circuit court in vacation,
such order shall bereturned to and may be enforced as the order of the _
circuit court. ‘
§ 3. When it shall appear by the petition that the plaintiff is entitled
to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, ‘consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of some act of the defendant,
the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would
roduce great or irreparable in'ury to the plaintiff; or when, during the
itigation, it shall appear that t e defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, some act in relation to the pIaintitf’s rights-respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment inefectual, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such act.
§ 4. When an application is made for an injunction to a county court,

rnacrrcn IN covers or JUSTICE. . 85s

or any two justices thereof, as provided in section one, the applicant shall
produce satisfactory proof that there is not than any circuit court in
session, or any judge thereof within such county; and if such proof is
not produced the application shall not be entertained.

§5. In addition to the cases enumerated in section three,,where a
temporary injunction may be granted, it may also be granted in any case
wherein it is particularly authorized by statute.

§ 6. When a petition is filed for an injunction to stay proceedings at
law commenced, or a judgment at law had on proceedings commenced
before this act shall take effect, or to stayiproceedings in cases to which
the provisions of this act do- not extend, it may be intiie county in which
such proceedings or judgment was had or obtained; and the summons -in
such case shall be directed, in the_ first instance, to any county in which
the defendant resides or in which he may be found, or the action may be
commenced as provided in article IV.

§ 7. Before an application is ranted for an injunction to stay pro-
ceedings at law, as provided in %he last section, unless such application
be made in open court after the return day of the summons, reasonable
notice thereof in writing shall be given to the adverse party, if within

this State, or to his known a ent or attorney, if he has any, in the State. v

If he does not reside in the tate, and has no known agent or attorney
therein, notice shall be put up, ten days before the application, in the
omce of the clerk of the circuit court of the county where the proceed-
ings at law were had. ' I

. § 8. No injunction shall be granted to stay any judgment or proceed- .

mgs at law except so much of the recovery or cause of action as the
plaintiff shall shewhimself entitled to be relieved against, and so much
as will cover costs.

§ 9. Every such injunction shall operate as a release of all errors in

the proceedings at law that are prayed to be enjoined.

 10. No injunction (unless on fmal hearing or jud ment) shall issue
in any case until the plaintiff execute a bond, with su cient security, to
the other party, in such sum as the court or judge shall deem sufiicient
to secure the amount or other matter to be enjoined, and all damages
that may be occasioned by such injunction, conditioned that the plaintiff
will abide the decision which shall be made therein, and pay all sums of
money, damages and costs that shall be adjudged against him, if the in-
junction shall be dissolved. - " -

§ 11. Such bond shall be filed with the ‘clerk of the circuit court of
the county to which the "injunction is returnable, and the bond may be

entered into before said clerk, if the court or} judge granting the injunc-

tion shall first approve of the security. Suit may be brought on such .

bond in the manner directed in article VIII, section nine, of this act, in
regard to bonds taken pursuant to that article. .

§ 12. Upon the dissolution of an injunction, in whole or part, dama-
ges shall be assessed by a jury, or if neither party require a jury, by the
court: but if money shall have been enjoined, the damages the reon shall
not exceed ten per centum on the amount released by the dissolution,
exclusive of legal interest and costs.

§ 13. The court shall enter a judgment according to the circumstances

86 - PRACTICE IN counrs or JUSTICE.

of the case, including the damages so expressed, and may award execu-
tion thereon, or otherwise enforce such judgment, according to the rules

. and practice of the court.
§ 14. When any application for an injunction shall be overruled by a A

county court, or by any two justices thereof, or by the judge of the cir-
cuit court in vacation, such county court or justices or judge shall grant
to the defendant a certificate thereof, and neither shall afterwards grant
an injunction in such case. '

§ 15. If any person disobey or violate an injunction after it is served
on him, the circuit court to which it is returned, or any judge thereof in

vacation, shall issue an attachment against him for a contempt; and, un- ~

less he shall disprove or purge the contempt, if in vacation, the judge
may commit him to jail- until the sitting of the court in which the injunc-
tion is pending, or take bail for his appearance in said court at the next
term thereof, to answer for the contempt, and abide the order, of the
court, and in the mean time to observe and obey the injunction.

§ 16. After the answer is filed, a motion may be made at any time in
term to dissolve the injunction; and upon such ‘motion, the parties may
introduce testimony to support the petition and answer, and the court
shall decide the motion upon the weight of testimony, without being
bound to take the answer as true. ~

§ 17. If, after a motion for a dissolution of the injunction is made,
either party will satisfy the court by his own aflidavit, or that of any
other person for him, that any material specified part of the bill or an-
swer to which he objects, is untrue, that he has witnesses whose testimony
he believes he can procure at the next term, or other material testimony
which will disprove the same, and that he has not been able to procure
such testimony by using due diligence, the court may continue the mo-
tion until the next term. '

§ 18. The testimony to be _heard on such motion, shall be taken ‘as in
other cases, except the affidavits which may have been filed with such
petition or answer, which may be read on the hearing such motion; and
depositions taken to support, or dissolve an injunction may be read on
the final trial or other proceedin in such cause.

_ § 19. When an application sha 1 be made for an injunction, as herein-
before is provided, and no notice of such application is required by this
act, and no notice is in fact given, and the court, justices or judge to
which the application is made, shall deem it proper that the defen ant,
or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunc-
tion, he may, by an order, require cause to be shewn at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted, and~he may, in the

‘mean time, restrain the defendant, or make such other order as the case

may require.
‘ ARTICLE X.

OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

5 1. Powers of court as to receivers, deposit of money, &c., and other provisional remedies.

§ 1. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the court may _ap-

rnacrrcn IN counrs or Jusrrcn. _ A 87

point receivers, and direct the deposit of money or other thin in court,
‘ and grant the other provisional remedies now existing accor ing to the
present practice, except as otherwise provided in this act.

’ ARTICLE XI.

MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS AND NEW TRIAL.

§ 1. Material variances, how provided for. ~ § 4. Amendments of course.
2. Immaterial variances, immediately amend- 5. Amendments by the court.

ed. 6. No error or defect to be regarded, unless
3. What to be deemed avariance; on failure affecting substantial rights. -

of proof, new trial, and pleadings to be 7. Supplemental petition, answer or reply.
amended; also, in cases of fraud, perju-  8. Continuance in cases of amendment.
ry, mistake, &.c.

/» \.’¥f‘\/‘g/\;‘\.

§ 1. N o variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof,
shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse
party tohis prejudice in maintaining his action or defence upon the mer-
its. When it shall be alleged that a party has been so mis ed, that fact
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, by adidavit shewing' in
what res ect he has been misled; and thereupon, the court may order
the plea ings to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just.

§ 2. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last sec-
tion, the court may direct the facts to be found according to the evi-
dence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.

§ 3. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defence
to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or
particulars only, but in its entire scope _and meaning, it shall not be deem-
ed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
In case of such failure of proof, and a verdict of the jury or finding of
thecourt against the party so failing, and the court is satislied from the
proof given that the party has a good cause of action or defence, as the’
case may be, and such party will apply for a new trial and undertake to
proceed without unnecessary delay, the courtshall grant such new trial,
and permit the pleadings, it‘ necessary, to be amended, on suchterms as
may be just and reasonable. And in every case where there has been a
mistake or surprise of a party or his agent or attorney, or a misdirection
of the jury by the court, or a mistake by the jury, or a finding contgary
to the direction of the court‘ in any matter of law, or a fraud or deceit
practiced by one party on the other, or the court is satisfied that perjury
or mistake has been committed by a witness, and is also satisfied that an
improper verdict or finding was occasioned by any of the -matters afore-
said, and that the party has a just cause of action or defence, it shall

grant a new trial, and, if necessary, permit the pleadings to be amended, _

on such terms as may be just and reasonable. -

§ 4. Any pleading may be amended by the party of course, without
costs and without prejudice to the proceeding already had, at any time
before the answer to it shall be°filed.

§ 5. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as mayfbe proper,':amend any pleading or proceeding, by add-
ing or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in

|. » n

88 PRACTICE IN counrs or mszrrcn.

the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect material to the
case, or by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

§ 6. The court may, in every stage of the action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the sub-
stantial rights of the adverse party; and nojudgment shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.

§ 7. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case, or praying for any other or different relief or order,
or judgment;

§ 8. When either party shall amend any pleading or proceeding, and
the court shall be satisfied, by affidavits or otherwise, that the opposite
party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance
may be granted to some day in the same term or to another term of the
court.

ARTICLE XII.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§ 1. Judgment, definition of. § 4. In no case, damages or other relief to be
2. Proceedings in cases where the defendant greaterthan that asked for in the petition
has failed to answer. : as filed and served.

3. Court may appoint referees, &c.

§hl. A’ judgment is the final determination of the right of the parties
in t e action.

§ 2. If the action be founded on a bond, bill or note for money, and
there be no answer as hereinbefore required, the clerk may, under the
direction of the court, enter. judgment for the amount which shall appear
to be due. In other cases, where there is no answer as aforesaid, the
plaintiff, may, if he require it, have ajury to assess his damages. If no
jury be required, the court may assess his damages and render judgment
thereon, or give the other relief asked in the petition.

§ 3. If the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into ef-
fect, the court, instead ot taking the account or hearing the proof, may,
in its-discretion, order a reference for that purpose to any person free
lrom exce tion. '

§ 4. Wli)ere judgment is given under the last two sections, the dam-
ages or other relief shall, in no case, be other or greater than that asked
in the petition as originally filed and served on the defendant.

ARTICLE XIII.

ISSUES AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

§ 1. Issues, definition of, and kinds. _ 6. _When issues of fact must be tried by a
2. Cases in which issues of law arise. jury.
3. Cases in which issues of fact arise. 7. Issues, when triable by the court.
4. On issues both oflaw and fact, issues of 8. Separate trials of the several causes of
law to be first determined. action united in the petition allowed;
5. Trial, definition of. ' costs in such cases; judgment on such

separate finding.

"\I'\."\,§

0
I

raacrron IN couars or msrrcn. 89

§ 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They
are of two kinds: First, of law; and, Second, of fact.

§ 2. An issue of law arises: First, upon a demurrer to the petition; or,
Second, upon an allegation of fact in a pleading by the one party, the
truth of which is not controverted by the other.

§3. An issue of fact arises: First, upon a material allegation of the
petition, controverted by the answer; or, Second, upon matter of offset
in the answer, controverted by the reply; or, Third, upon other new
matter in the answer; or, Fourth, upon new matter in reply to offsets.

§ 4. Issues both of law and-of fact may arise upon the pleadings in
the same action. In such case the issues of law must be disposed of,
unless the court otherwise direct.

§ 5. A, trial is the judicial examination of _the issues between the par-
ties, whether they be issues -of law or of ‘ fact.

‘g 6. Whenever in an action for the recovery of money only,‘ or of spe-
c’ c real or personal property, there shall he an issue of fact, it must be
tried by a ‘my, unless a jury trial be waived as‘ rovided in section 1, of
Article X , or a reference be ordered as provi ed in Article XVI.

7. Every other issue is triable by the‘ court, which, however, may
or er the whole issue, or any specihc question of fact involved therein,
to be tried by a jury; or may refer it as provided in the last section, and
those to which it refers.

§ 8. Where there are several causes of action united in a petition, or

where there are several issues, and the court shall be of opinion that all‘

or any of them should be tried separately, by the court or jury, it may,
on the application of either party, direct such separate tria . And such
separate trials may be had at the same, or at different terms of the court,
as circumstances may require-. And in all cases where there are separ-
ate causes of action, united as aforesaid, the court shall award separate
costs against the unsuccessful party, unless for good cause it shall other-
wise order. The judgment upon such separate finding shall await the
trial of all the issues.

7 ARTICLE XIV.

TRIAL BY JURY.

§ 1? Either arty may bring issue to trial. special verdict, and when court may
2. Genera and special verdicts of jury; de- direct s ecial finding.
tinitions of. 4. Special nding, and general verdict in-
3. When jury may render either general or consistent; the former to control.

5. Jury to assess damages, and when.

§ 1. When the action is called to trial, either party may proceed to
try the issues; and in the absence of the adverse arty, unless the court
for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a
dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, or judgment, as_the case may
require. '

§ 2. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general ver-
dict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the
issues, either in favor of the plaintif or defendant. A special verdict

.5

90 raacncn IN counrs or msrrcn.

is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. .'

§ 3. In every action forthe recovery of money only,.or specific real or
personal property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find
a special verdict, in writing, upon all or any of the issues; or may in-
struct them, if they render a general verdict, to 6nd upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writin , and may direct a written find-
ing thereon. The special verdict or fin ing shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. .

§ 4. Where a s ecial finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, t e former shall control the latter, and the court. shall
give judgment accordingly.

. ' § 5. When a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff in an action for the

recovery of money only, the  shall also assess the amount of the re-

covery. So also if they find for the defendant in case of off sets or other
demand for money. -

ARTICLE XV.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

2 § 1. Trial by jury waived; failure to appear, 3. Exce tions, &.c.; when and how taken;

or by consent in writing, or oral. app ication tor a review.
2. On trial by court decision in writing; to 4. On juedfment on issue of law; mode of
be filed with clerk; facts to be stated; proc ure.

conclusion of law on them,and judgment.

§ 1. The trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an is-
sue of fact in the manner following: First, By failing to appear_at the
trial; Second, By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with
the clerk; Third, By oral consent in court, entered on the minutes.

§ 2. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision shall
be given in writin , and filed with the clerk. In’ givin the decision,
the facts shall be grst stated, and then the conclusion of aw upon them.
Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.

§ 3. Either party may except to a decision upon a matter of law ari-
sing upon such trial, in the same manner, and with the same effect as
upon a trial by a jury. And either party desiring a review upon the evi-
dence appearing upon the trial, either of question of law or of fact, may
apply to the court for that purpose, and‘ malt: a case contlpining :0
much of the evidence as ma be materia to t e question to e raise .
The application for a reviewyas aforesaid, shall be made within four days
after the decision of the court is filed, unless longer time is by the court
allowed.

§ 4. On a judgment for the plaintif upon an issue of law, the pro-
ceedings shall be in the same manner as upon the failure of the defend-
ant to answer, as prescribed in sections 2 and 3, of Article XII. If
-judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law, and the taking .of

an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to '

complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered as is provided in ar-
ticle XVI. ’

rnac-rrcn IN coonrs or Jusrrcp. ' 91

ARTICLE XVI.

rruar. BY ‘ nnrsnm-:s.’

,§ 1. Any issue referable by consent. 4. Parties may agreeupon persons to act as
2. Compulsory reference; in what cases di- referees.
rected. 5. General or special commissioners may be
3. Re rt of referees tostand as decision of appointed by the court; their duties
e court upon a trial. prescribed.

§ 1. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of law,
orboth, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties. f

§ 2. Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the appli-
cation of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following
cases: First, Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the exam-
ination of a long account, on either side: in which case the referees may be
directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to re ort upon any spe-
cific question of fact involved therein; or, Second, here the taking of
an account shall be necessary for the information of the court, before
judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect; or, Third,
Where a question of fact, other than u on the pleadings, shelf arise, upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of e action.

§ 3. The report of the referees, upon the whole issue, shall stand as
the decision of the court, in the same manner as if -the action had been

‘ tried by the court; and their decision upon the matters referred may be

excepted to and revived in like manner.

§ 4. In all cases of reference, the parties may a ree upon a suitable per-
son or persons, not exceeding three; and upon ii ing such agreement the
reference shall be ordered accordingly . If the parties do notagree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall
be free from all exception.

§ 5. The court may appoint a general or special commissioner, to
whom any of the matters aforesaid may be referred, when the parties do
not agree on referees, and who shall have the powers, and proceed as
commissioners in chancery, Saccording to the present practice,) are re-
quired to proceed, and with ilre effect.

ARTICLE xvn.

‘JUDGMENT AND THE MANNEB or ENTERING IT.

§ 1; Juggtmegt fpr or against any plaintiff or;  ataetasupedof relief grtzlmteddto plaintifm
een an. . eo am esw ere am esarere-
2. Times at which judgments are to be en- g coverable. ag as
tered. 5. Entry of judgment on records of court.-

§ 1. Judgment may be given for'or against one. or more of the several
plaintifs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it
may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between
themselves.

§ 2. In cases provided for in section»6; of Article V, referred to in the -

last part of section 2, of Article VI, ‘and in cases provided for in Article
XII, and in cases provided for in section 4, of Article XV, the several

92 c ' raacrrcs: IN counrs or -JUSTICE. I

judgments shall be given at the return term of the summons, unless the
court for good cause shall continue the cases. In other cases, the ac-
tions shall be prepared for trial, as far as practicable, at the return term,
and continued until the nextterm, when judgments shall be given therein,
unless the court for good cause shall continue thesame.

‘ § 3. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot
be other or greater than that which he shall have demanded in his peti-
tion, as originally filed andserved on defendant; but in any other case,
the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complainant and embraced within the issue. '

§ 4. Whenever damages are recoverablé,the plaintiff may claim and
receive, if he shew himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages which
he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause of action.

§ 5, The judgment shall be entered on the_records of the court, and
shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action.

ARTICLE XVIII.

THE EXECUTION.

Wltllln five years. sued.

§ 1. Judgments may be enforced any timeg 5. To what counties execution may be is-
2. After five years, execution to be issued; 6. Executions may at same time issue to

only by leave of the court. different counties.
3. Notice, the same as in cases of injunction. 7. Certain existing laws applied to execu-
4. Judgments; how enforced. ' tions under this act.

§ 1. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now
used, are modified in conformity to this act, and the party in whose fa-
vor judgment is given, may at any time, within five years after the entry
of judgment, proceed to enforce the same by execution.
. § 2. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an exe-
cution may be issued only by leave of the court, on motion, with notice
to the adverse party. Such leave shall not be given unless it be estab-

lished by the oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment or some

part thereof remains unsatisfied and due. If any part appears to have
been satisfied or paid, it shall be so endorsed on the execution; and the
remainder only collected. ,

§ 3. The notice prescribed in the last section may be given as pre-
scribed in cases of injunction, in Article IX, section 7. '

§. 4. When a judgment requires the performance of any other act than
the payment of money, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom it is given, and his obedience thereto re-
quired. If he neglect or refuse, he may be punished by the court as for

a contempt. . '

§ 5. An execution may issue for the delivery of real or personal pro-
perty; in such case it must be issued ‘to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated. It shall require the
sheriff to deliver possession of the same, (sufliciently decribing it,) to
the party entitled thereto.

§ 6. Executions may issue at the same time to different counties.

I

PRACTICE IN cotnrrs or‘ JUSTICE. . 99

§ 7. Until otherwise provided by the legislature, the existin provi-
sions of law relating-to executions and their incidents, inclucfing the
sale of property, the powers and rights of odicers, their duties therein,
and the proceedings to enforce those duties and the liability of their
sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this act.

ARTICLE XIX.

APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS-

§   aggpi veg} partyt iréay appeal.‘ ' § 10. N_otic_¢; of appeal, when not taken at the
a es, 0 est a e on appea . circui cour .

3. A peal from _w at judgments allowed; 11. Unless bond be given, appeal not to ope.
ow fyar restricted. rate as asupersedeas.
,4. Intermediate orders affecting judgment, ie- 12. Stay of execution; perishable property to

viewable on appeal. be sold. .
5. On appeal; powers of appellate court. 13. Appeal bonds may be in one or two separ-
6. Exceptions; taken to opinion of circuit ate instruments.

court. 14. Bond, before whom to be executed.
7. Modilication; vacation &.c., of orders made . 15. Amount of bond approval and filing same.
ontof cour_t. . - l 16. Duty of the clerl: on the tiling of the bond.
8. A pea], s cincation of the modes of .ta- 3 17. Judgment not to be reversed; unless error

rig, an requisites. _ committed materially affects the merits of
9. Order of appeal granted, on an inspection g the action.
of the record. 18. Exemption of executors, &.c., as to the giv-
‘ ing of appeal bond.

§ 1. Ai}i‘y pargybag rieved linay appeal to the supreme court, in the
cases ant orize y t is artic e. _

§ 2. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the ad-
verse party as the respondctintl; but the]; titleof the action shall not he
changed in consequence o t e appea . - .

i 3. A;n appeal shall only be taken from a judgment, as defined in Ar-
tic e XI section 1. ~ *

§ 4. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any in-
termediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the
judgment, or any order made on a summary application in an action af-
ter jud ment. —

§ 5. glpon an appeal, the appellate court may reverse, affirm, or mod-
ify th 'udgment; and may, if necessary or proper, order, a new trial.

' §_6. xceptions may he talren to the opinions of the circuit court,
during the progress ,of any civil action, and bills of exceptions shall he
allowed, signed, and made part of the record, in the manner as hereto-
fore. ‘ .

§ 7. An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse party, "

may be vacated or modihed, without notice, by the judge .who made it,
or may be vacated, or modified on notice, in the manner in which other
motions are made.

§ 8. Appeals may be taken as follows: First, By applying to the cir-
cuit court in which the judgment appealed from was rendered, in open
court, within one year from the rendition of ' the judgment, and filing a

—,bond in a sum sniiicient,» executed by one or more sureties, to the effect

that the appellant will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him, occasioned by such appeal: or, Second, By making such
application in writing to‘ the clerk of said circuit court, and filing such
bond, within the term specified. Third, By applying to the supreme

94  rnacrrcn IN couars or JUSTICE.

‘ court, or any judge thereof in vacation, after the expiration of one year

and within two years from the rendition of judgment, upon reasonable
notice to the adverse party, and exhibiting to said supreme courtor
judge a copy of the record, and obtaining an order for an appeal; and
filing the same, and the bond aforesaid, with the clerk of the circuit
court in which the judgment was rendered. -

§ 9. The supreme court or judge shall not grant an order for an ap-
peal, unless he believes from an inspection of the record, that an error
was committed by the circuit court against the appellant, and materially
affecting the merits of the action.

§ 10. Unless the appeal be taken in the circuit court during the term
in which the judgment was rendered, notice in writing of such appeal
shall be given to the respondent, at least fifteen days before the com-
mencement of the term of the supreme court to which such appeal is
to be sent.

§ 11. An appeal shall not be a supersedeas to the proceedings in the '
circuit court, unless the bond shall in addition to the requirements of

section 8, be in a sum suflicient, and also to the effect, that the appellant
shall prosecute his appeal, and shall perform such judgment, as shall be
given by the supreme court, and such as the supreme court may direct
the circuit court to give; and if the judgment, or any part thereof be
afiirmed, that he will comply with, and perform the same, so far as it
may be allirmed; and will pay alldamages which may be awarded against
the appellant by the supreme court. .
§ 12. On filing the bond in the last section mentioned, and perfectin

the appeal, there shall be a stay of further proceedings in thecircuit’

court, upon the judgment appealed from, except in regard to the sale of
perishablehproperty; whichh rlriay be elold, and the proceefils paid into
court, ift e circuit courts a deemt e same necessa an ro r, and
not injurious to the appellant. ry P Pe

§ 13. The bonds mentioned in sections 8 and ‘I1, may be included in
one instrument, or may be in two separate instruments.

§ 14. The bond or bonds may be executed before any judge of the
supreme or circuit courts in this State, or before the circuit court in
which the judgment was rendered, or the clerk thereof in vacation.

§ 15. The court, judge or clerk taking such bond,shall fix the amount
or sum in which it shall be taken, and approve the securities, and take
their acknowledgments and certify the same. The bond shall be filed in
the ofiicei of she clerk of the court in which the judgment appealed from
was ren ere .

(§l 1:. Upon the bond mentioned in section 8, being filed in his oflice,
an t ea eal taken, and if one. ear and not excee in two years from
the renditlign of the judgment, anyorder for an ap eal asg provided in the
third subdivision of section 8, be also filed, the c erk shall immediately
make out and send up to the supreme court, a complete copy of the re-
cord.

§ 17. The supreme court shall not reverse any judgment of the cir-
cuit court, unless it shall believe that error was committed by the circuit
court, against the appellant, and materially affecting the merits of the
action.

§ .18. An executor or administrator, guardian or-curabrysuing or sued

_ personal representatives, heirs,

. ‘ '
pnacrrcn IN -COURTS or warren. — 95

as such, may have an appeal and a stay of proceedings in the circuit

court, without giving the bonds required by sections 8 and 11, or either
of them. ‘

ARTICLE XX.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVEBBY WITHOUT ACTION»

§ 1. Parties may submit a controversy without E 2. In such case, what to constitute the record.
action. ' 3. Enforcing judgment, and appeal therefrom.

§ 1. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of
a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the
facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same, to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had
been brought. But it must appear by allidavit that the controversy is
real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and
render judgment‘ thereon, as if an action were dependin . '

§ 2. The case, the submission and the judgment, sh constitute the
record in the case. ' *

§ 3. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner, as if it had
been rendered in an action, unless otherwise providedin the submission;
and in like manner shall be with costs, and subject to an appeal, unless
otherwise provided in the submission. ~

ARTICLE XXI.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTOR8; AND AGAINST HEIRS, DEVISEES,
LIGATEES, AND TENANT8 HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.

§ 1. Parties not summoned in an action on joint § 4. Affidavit required of amount due on judg-

contract, may be summoned after judg- ment.

ment.s 5. Part summoned may answer and defend.
2. On death of judgment debtor, his represea- 6. Re y and trial as in other actions; the re-

tatives may be summoned. p y and answer to be verified.
3. Contents and service of summons. $

\

§ 1. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of sev-
eral persons, jointly or Jiointly and severally indebted upon a contract,
by proceedings as provi ed in article V, section 14, those who were not
originally summoned to answer the petition, and who did not appear,
may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the
judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.
§2. In case of the death of a ‘judgment debtor after 'udgment, the
evisees or legatees of‘ the 'udgment
debtor, or the tenants of real property owned by him and ad'ected by
the 'udgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should
not he enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their hands
respectively. ‘
§ 3.‘ The summons provided in the last two sections, shall be issued
on the application of the judgment creditor, or his representatives in

case of his death, and shall so state, and shall describe the judgment,

\

96 I rnacrrcn IN connrs or JUSTICE.

and require the person summoned to shew cause, and shall be return-
able and served in like manner as the original summons.

§ 4. The summons shall be accompanied by an afiidavit of the party
on whose application it was issued, his agent or attorney, that the judg-
ment has not been satisfied to his knowledge or information and belief,
and shall specify the amount due thereon. _

§ 5. The party may appear and answer such summons, as in cases ‘of
summons and petition in ordinary cases, except that he shall be allowed
only to deny the judgment, or set up a defence which may have arisen
subsequently; and, in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against ac-
cording to section 1, of this article, he may make the same defence
which he might have originally made to the action.

§ 6. The party issuing the summons may reply to offsets as in other
cases. Issues may be tried and judgment given in the same manner as
in an action. The answer and reply shall be verified in like manner,
and be subject to the same rules as the answer and reply in an action.

ARTICLE XXII.

CONFESSIONIOF JUDGMENT IVITHOUT ACTION.

§ 1. Judgment by confession, on debt, or con- 3. To b ‘ filed, and court, or clerk in vacation,

tingent liability, authorized. to enter 'udgment, it satisfied cf identity
2. Statementin writing,and what it must con- of defen ant. .
 C

§ 1. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either

. for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against con-

tin ent liability on behalf of defendant, or both, in the manner prescri-
be by this article. _

§ 2. A statement in writin must be made, signed by the defendant,
and verified by his aflidavit, o the following effect: First, It must state
the amount for which the judgment may be rendered, and authorize the
entry of judgment thereon. Second, If it be for money dug or to be-
come due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and

must show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become '

due. Third, If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the
liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed
the same.

§ 3. The statement may be filed, and the clerk in vacation, or the
court, may endorse thereon a judgment, and enter the same on the re-
cords of the court; firstbeing satisfied of the identity of the defend-

"ant if present, or if not present that he executed the statement in wri-
' ting, and made the affidavit hereinbefore required.

ARTICLE XXIII.

OFFER or run DEFENDANT TO compnomrsr-2 run wnou: on A PART or
THE ACTION. '

«j 1. Defendant may serve offer to compromise, < conditionallv.

and the proceedings thereon. 3. If the plaintiff accept or refuse the etfect
5.’. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages thereof. ' ’

O

’ . PRACTICE IN COURTS or Jnsricn. ‘ 97-

§ 1. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may at any time
before trial or judgment, serve upon the ‘plaintiff an offer in writin to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum, orto the ‘ect
therein specified. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice
thereof, within ten days, he may file the offer, and an aflidavit of notice
of acceptance and judgment shall be entered accordingly. If the no-
tice of acceptance be not given, the o&'er shall be deemed withdrawn,
and shall not be given in evidence, or commented on before a jury; and

if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall reco- -

ver no costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the
offer. ‘ ,

§ 2. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, at the time
of filing his answer, serve upon the laintiff, an offer in writing that, if
he fail in his defence, the damages ,e assessed at a specified sum, and
if the plaintiff do notggive notice of acceptance thereof, within five days
after receiving such offer, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and no evi-
dence thereof shall be given, or comments made thereon to a jury; if
the plaintid' give notice in writing of acceptance thereof within five

days as aforesaid, the damn es shall be assessed accordingly. If the.

plaintiff do not accept the 0 er, and the damages recovered by him do
not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, he shall recover no costs,
but shall pay the defendant’s costs, accrued in consequence of any ne-
cessary preparation or defence in respect to the question of damages.

ARTICLE XXIV.

ADHIISION, INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION~‘0F WRITINGS, AND EXAMINATION
OF PARTIES. '

§ 1. Eitherpar may he required to admit a

§.9. Where answer to interrogatories contains
paper to e genuine, or pay the expense

new atter.

of proving it. . 10. Action or discovery abolished, eircept as
2. Inspection and copy of a paper, how ob- to petition to perpetuate testimony.

tamed. 11. A party may call is adverse as a wit-
3. Parties how compelled to produce, at or ness. His deposition may a so be taken

before trial, books, papers, &c. and used as that of other witnesses.

4.. Penalty for neglect or refusal to produce
books or papers.

5. Mode by which either party may examine
the other on interrogatories. ,

6. Requisites of atlidavit when the adverse
party is a non-resident; proceedings
thereon. ‘ . ; I

7. Penalty for refusal or neglect to answer
such interrogatories.

8. Answer to the interrogatories may be used ‘

as evidence.

12. Penal
- testi y.

13. Testimony of party may be rebutted.

14. Testimony by a pgrty not res onsive to the
inquiries, ma
the party cal ing him.

16. Persons for whosebenelit action is brought

‘ may be examined by adverse party. -

on party for refusal to attend and

16. Weight of testimony, provision in. rela-

tion to.

rebutted ythe oath of , '

§ 1. Either party may exhibit-to the other, or to his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and request an
admission in writin of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his at-
torney fail to give t e admission within two days after the request, and
if the party‘ exhibitingthe paper be afterwards put to expense in order

to prove its genuineness, and the same’ befinally proved or admitted on the ' ’

trial, such expense shall be paid by the party refusingthe admission, un-
'1

98 rnacricn ‘IN counrs or :'US'l‘ICE.

less itshall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal.‘

§ 2. The court before which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may, in his discretion and upon due notice, order either party to give to
the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission
to take a copy, of a paper in his possession or under his control, con-
taining evidence relating to the merits of the action or defence therein.
If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion, may ex-
elude the paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party refus-
in , or both. '

g§ 3. The court, or judge thereof, may compel, by order, either party
to a civil action to produce, at or before the trial, any books, papers and

. documents in his possession or power: such order may be made upon

application of either party, and reasonable notice to the adverse party
or his attorney, or upon a rule to show cause at a certain time and place.

§ 4. If the party on whom any such order is made refuse or neglect
to obey the same within such time as the court or judge may direct, he
may be punished by the court or judge as for a contempt, or the court
may nonsuit him, or strike out any answer or motion, or debar him from

any particular defence to which the evidence to be produced was to ‘

apply. ,
§ 5. Either party may apply to the court or judge, by motion in writ-

ing, for an order to examine the adverse party on interrogatories in re-
lation to any fact or facts material in the trial of any issue or on the
hearing of any motion. The motion shall state the factshe expects to
prove by the examination of the party, and ‘be accompanied by the in-
terrogatories, and may be made either upon reasonable notice to the ad-
verse party or his attorney, or upon a rule to show -cause at a certain
time and place, to be served as the notice.

§ 6. If the adverse party be anon-resident of the county in which the
action is ending, the party applying for such order shall make an aili-
davit to tile effect, First, That e believes the answer of the party will
be material evidence for him on such trial or hearing; Second, That he

believes he cannot prove the same facts, or prove them so satisfactorily, .

by any other person; and, Third, That the order is not asked to procure
delay. The court or judge may thereupon make an order that the party
answer the interrogatories, or such of them as the court or judge may

‘specify, on oath, and file such answer in the cause within such time as

the court or judge may direct.

§ 7. If the party neglect or refuse to answer such interrogatories and
‘file the same within the time specified in the order, the trial may he stay-
ed until the order is complied with; and, besides being punished himself
as for a contempt. his petition, answer or reply may be rejected, or the
motion, «if made by him, refused, or, if made by the adverse party, grant-
ed; or the court may, by order, declare that the facts stated in the mo-
tion, which were expected to be proved by the answer, stand admitted,
and may be given in evidence accordingly.

§ 8. If the answer to the interrogatories be filed, it may be used as
as evidence by either party; but the court or jury trying the issue, or
the court hearing the motion, shall not be required to give it any other

PRACTICE IN counrs or JUSTICE. 99

or greater weight that it it thinks, under all the circumstances, it is en-
titled to. _ . ’

§ 9. If the answer to the interrogatories contains new matter, relevant
to the issue or motion, but not responsive to the interrogatories, such
new matter may be given in evidence by the party making the answer;
but in that case, the other party shall have a right to file his answer to
or explanation of. such new matter, on oath, in his own favor, and it shall

be received in evidence accordingly, subject, however, to the rule in

regard to weight prescribed in the last section.
§ 10. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the prose-

cution or defence of another action, shall be allowed; but this section
shall not be applicable to petitions to perpetuate testimony.

§ 11. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the in-
stance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse parties,
and for that purpose may be subpoenaed or otherwise compelled to at-
tend and testify, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of
examination, and "under like circumstances, as other witnesses, and his
deposition may be taken and used as that of other witnesses.

§ 12. If a‘party refuses to attend, as in the last section is prescribed,
and testify, either in court or before any person authorized to take‘hi.s
deposition, besides. being punished himself as for a contempt, his etition,
answer or reply may be rejected, or a motion, if made by himse f, over-
ruled, or, if made by the adverse party, sustained.

g 13. The testimony of the party may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

14. A party examined by an adverse party, as insections ll, 12 and_

13is provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any
matter pertinent to the issue; but if he testify to any new matter not
responsive to the enquiries put to him by the'adverse party, such adverse

party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect to the _

new matter, and shall be so received.
§ 15. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted

or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a
witness, in the same manner and subject, to the same rules of. examina-

tion, as if he were named as a party.
§ 16. The evidence taken under the provisions of the five last sec-

tions, shall, as to the weight to be given thereto, be subject to the pro— D

visions contained in section eight of this article.

ARTICLE XXV.
I-:‘.KAMI1§].\TION or wrrnisssss.

§ 1. No witness to be excluded by reason of in-f §:':. Witness not excused from answering ques-
tercst. ' \ tions which may establish that he owes a
2. Qualification of the rule. 8' debt or is subject to a civil action.
3. Admissibilit of verdict or judgment in cer-‘;~ 6. Witness not incompetent on account of re-
tain cases or and against persons testify-‘ liwious opinions: not to be interrogated in
’ ‘ 3 re ationthereto. l
7. Existing laws, where not inconsistent with

me. ,
5). Endocsation by the clerk on petition or doc-,‘
the provisions of this act, retained.

uments of the names of such witnesses,
tc.

§ 1. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of his,

interest in the event of the action.

' 100 rnacrrcrz IN counrs or JUSTICE.

\

§ 2. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action, not to

‘ any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted, or defendant,

nor to any assignor of a thing in action, assigned for the purpose of mak-
ing him a witness. . ,

H§ 3. If any person, other than those mentioned in the lastsection, be
0 ered as a witness, and objected to on the ground that the verdict
or judgment in the action in w ich it is proposed to examine him, would
be admissible in evidence for or against him, such witness shall never-
theless be examined; but, in that case, a verdict or judgment in that ac-
tion in favor of the party on whose behalf he shall have been examined,
shall not be admissible in evidence for him or any one claiming under
him; nor shall a verdict or judgment against the party on whose behalf
he shall have been examined, be admissible in evidence against him or
any one claiming under him.

§ 4. the name of every witness objected to and examined under the
provisions of the last section, shall be at the trial endorsed by the clerk,
at the request of either party, on the petition or document on which the
trial shall be had, together with the name of the party on whose behalf
he was examined; and a copy of such endorsement, certified by the clerk
under the seal of the court, shall be sufiicient evidence that such witness
was examined, in any subsequent proceeding in which the verdict or

judgment shall be offered in evidence.

§ 5., N a competent witness in a cause shall be excused from answer-

. ing a question relevant to the matter in issue, on the ground merely that

the answer to such question may establish or tend to establish that such
witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil action.

§ 6. No person, on account of his opinion in relation to the Supreme
Being or a future state of rewards and punishments, shall be incompe-
tent to testify as a witness, nor shall he be interrogated in relation
thereto.

§ 7. The existing laws in regard to depositions and testimony and wit-
nesses, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, remain in force.

4 ARTICLE XXVI.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

§ 1. Order, definition of. j § 5. Notice of motion, when necessary, must
2. A motion defined. , . be served live days.
3. Motions, how and where to be made. 6. Time within which proceedings in actions
4. Orders may be made with or without notice is to be bad, may e enlarged on aEida-
to show cause. Vih , '

§ 1. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing,
and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 2. An application for an order is a motion.
§ 3. Motions may be made to the court. They may also be made to
a‘judge out of court, except for a new trial on the merits. If made_out
0 court, they must be made in the county where the action is pending,
except in cases otherwise provided in this act.

§ 4. Orders may be made by the court, or by a judge out of court,

where motions are properly made; and may be made upon or without

PRACTICE IN -counrs or JUSTICE. A 101

notice, or n on an order to shew cause, except as otherwise provided in
this act. 0 order to stay proceedings for a longer time than ten days
shall be granted by a judge out of:<;’9u:’t“,, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party, unless otherwise pi"ov.i§le,d by‘ this act. ,

§ 5. When a notice of motion is neceS'S3It‘£',".iiS-'I!l'_liS__i.'. be served five days
before the. time appointed for the hearing, unle.ss3.a..Q.ttl"e;.ent time is pre-
scribed by this act, or the court or judge making a mile-to-‘show cause,

' 5»

may prescribe a different time for the service of such rule‘; _~  3 .

}

§ 6. The time within which any proceeding in an action mrist l)'e.Fhad

after its commencement and before judgment, may be enlarged, tipuii an _
adidavit showing grounds therefor, by- a judge of the court. The afii- .

davit, or a copy t ereof, and a copy of the order, must be served on the
adverse party, ‘or the order may be disregarded.

ARTICLE XXVII.

ENTITLING AFFIDAVITS.

§ 1. Afiidavit defectively entitled, valid.

§ 1. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the action, but
an aflidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall be as
valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it _Were duly entitled, if it
intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

COMPUTATION OF TIME.
§ 1. Time how computed.

§ 1. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If
the last day be Sunday, it shall beexcluded.

ARTICLE XXIX.

NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.

§ 1. Notices to be in writing, and how to be‘; § 7. Where plaintiff or defendanthave dcmu:-'

served. 1 d the A red, and are non-residents, service may
2. Mode of persona an 0 er service- ‘v be on clerk.
3. Service b mail may be made. i (2 8. Where service may be made on the art ’s
4. When an bow served by mail. r‘ attorney. P y
5. Notice, when party to be served resides  9. Excuses in case of contempt, for disobe-
within fifty miles. _  dience to orders of court or judge.
6. Cases where service of notice need not be 3 10. Notices, how and when to be served by
made on a detendant. ~. sheriffs, coroners, and others.

§ 1. Notices shall be in writing; and notices and other papers may be
served on the party or his attorney in the maner prescribed in the next
nine sections, unless otherwise provided by this act. —

§ 2. The service may be personally made bydelivering to the party
or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may e as

.102 I PRACTICE IN connrs or JUSTICE.

follows: First, If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence-
from his ollice, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein or with a per-
son having charge thereof, or, wh_er_e there is no person in the ofiice, by
leaving it, between the hours. pf-six‘ in the morning and nine in the eve-
ning, in a conspicuous 'la,c;e.iri £hé- odice, or, if it be not open so as to admit
of such service, then y’-,I‘ea°vlng it at the attorney’s residence with some
white person q$..'t1i«itqb'le.°arge and discretion. Second, If upon a party,
it may be m'<_tde-_» leaving the paper at his residence, between the hours
of sjcrctin. 't.h_e.'morning and nine in the evening, with some white person
_ of_ irntthliié age and discretion. . _
 :-§- 3. Service by mail may be made where the person making the ser-
-: I ‘vice and the person upon whom it is to be made reside in different places
' between which there is a regular communication by mail. '
§ 4. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the
post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his
place of residence, and the postage paid. When a paper is served by
mail, it shall be double the time required in case of personal service.
§ 5. Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a court or judge,
shall be given at least five days before the time appointed therefor, if the
person to be served reside within fifty miles of the place where the hear-
ing isto be had, an'd for every additional twenty-five miles, one day shall
be added to the time of notice.
§ 6. When the time required shall have expired and a defendant shall
not have answered or demurred, service of notice or papers need not be

made uppn him. _
. § 7. hen a plaintiff or defendant, who has demurred oranswered, re-

sides out 0-f the State and .has no- attorney living in the State, the service
may be made on the clerk of the court wherein the action is pending for
the arty. .

 Where a party shall have, anattorney in the action living in the
town where the action is depending, the service shall be made upon the
attorney instead of the party.

§ 9. When a person is proceeded against for a contempt in disobeying
any order of a court or judge, it shall be sufficient answer to such alleged
contempt, First, That neither notice of the application for such order
or of the order having been made, was served upon him personally, or
otherwise came to his knowledge; and, Second, That he did not avoid
such notice or otherwise prevent or defeat it. ,

§ 10. Sheriffs shall be bound to serve notices equally with summonses
or other writs, and shall be in like manner liable for neglect. When the
sheriff is interested, the coroner shall in like manner be bound, and be
in like manner liable. Notices may also be served, and atiidavit made of
such service, by any person not interested, in the action.

ARTICLE XXX.

J

GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

§ 1. Detiuition of “real property}? ‘ ‘. rights, how prosecuted; in certain cases
2. Definition of “per one] property.” ' existing practice to continue.
3. Definition of “property.” 5 5. Rules and practice inconsistent with this
4. Statvtory provisions repealed; existing 5 actabrogated.

rascrrcn IN comma or JUSTICE. 103

G. This act not to affect certain proceedings ' 9. Proceedings on part of» defendant to set

mentioned underthe existing laws. . aside 'udg‘ment.

7. Service of copy of judgment in certain 10. Plaintid‘ may answer; where decision in
cases. favor of defendant; proceedings.

8. Judgment for want of answer, how set '11. Where defendant succeeds; provisionsas
aside or modified. E to sale of property in hands of innocent

r persons.

§ 1. The words “real property,” as used in this act, are co-extensive _

with lands, tenements, and hereditaments. ‘

§ 2. The words“personal property,” asused in this act, include money,
goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

§ 3. The word “property,” as used in this act, includes real and per-
sonal property.

§ 4. All statutory provisions, inconsistent with this act, are repealed.
But this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which may have been
repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed. All rights of
action given or secured by existing laws, may be prosecuted in the man-
ner provided by this act. If a case shall arise in which an action for
the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or preventionbf
a wrong, cannot be had under this act,’the practice now in use may be
adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

§ 5. The present rules and practice of the courts, in civil actions, in-
consistent with this act, are abrogated, but where consistent with this
act they shall conti.nue in force. _

§6. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this act shall not
affect proceedings upon mandamus, quo warranto, prohibition, informa-
tion, scire facias, to repeal letters patent, nor to any special statutory
remedy not heretofore obtained by action or. bill in equity; nor any ex-
isting statutory provisions relating to actions, not inconsistent with
this act, and in substance applicable to the actions hereby provided, nor
shall this act, except the 25th article, apply to proceedings or actions
before justices of the peace. ‘

§ 7. The plaintiff may at any time after judgment, for want of an an-
swer, serve, in any part of the United States or their territories, upon a
defendant who was not served with a summons, and who did not appear,
a copy of such judgment; and he shall be allowed one year and no more
thereafter, within which to tile his petition, as set forth in the next sec-
tion. ‘ °

§ 8. When °udgment, for want of an answer, has been given against a
defendant, w 0 was not summoned as provided_ in the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th,
6th, and 7th sections of the 5th article; and who did not actually re-

. ceive notice of the commencement or pendency of the action in any of

the ways pointed out in this. act, in time to avail himself thereof; and
who shall not have appeared to the action, or been made a party, as the
representative of one who shall have been summoned, or who shall have
appeared, and upon whom a copy of the judgment has not been served
as rovided in the last section, such judgment may be set aside or ‘modi-
tied’ in the manner followin :

§ 9. The defendant shall file his petition within five years from the
rendition of the judgment complained of, and within one year from a
service of a copy of the judgment,. as provided in section 7 of this arti-
cle, in the court in which said judgment was given. It shall state the

l

104 raacricn IN COURTS or JUSTICE.

existence of the facts set forth in the last section. An affidavit shallbe
filled with the petition, that the facts stated in the petition are true, and
that he believes the petition of plaintiff, upon which the judgment com-
plained of was obtained, is untrue in some material matter,‘(setting it
forth,) or that he has and then had a good defence thereto, (setting such
defence forth,) or both. Notice shall also be given to the plaintiff of
the defendant’s application, whether within or without the State, if with-
in the United States, or its territories, as prescribed in sections 2,
4, and 13 of Article IV, or if plaintiff be dead, then_ to his eitecutor or
administrator, and if there be none, then to his heirs in the United States
so far as they may be known.

§ 10. The plaintiff may,appear_ and file his answer, denying all or any
of the material matters set torth in the petition, and the cause shall be
tried as other causes. If the decision e in favor of the defendant, he
shall have leave to file his answer or demurrer to the original petition of
plaintiff, and the cause shall proceed as it would have done had the de-
fendant appeared to the summons and filed his answer or demurrer to
the petition. .

§ 11. If the defendant succeed, he shall have such judgment as will
re-imburse the money made on the execution against him and legal in-
terest thereon, and which the plaintiff did not finally redover; and the
defendant shall have such further and other judgment and damages or
reversal in whole or in part, or modification of the plaintiffs original
judgment, as justice shall require. But no sale of property under the
original judgment of plaintiff shall be, by such reversal or modification,

avoided, if the property shall be in the hands of innocent purchasers.

ARTICLE XXXL.

EXAMPLES OF PETITIONS AND ANSWERS, REPLICATIONS AND DEMURRERS,
WHICH MAY BE USED WHERE APPLICABLE; AND WHERE NOT STRICT-
LY APPLICABLE, ANALAGOUS ONES MAY BE USED IN ANALAGOU8
CASES.

1. Form of petition; action on promissory note, 3, 9. Foran assault and battery.
payee against maker, when there are no 10. Against the owner of a stage coach for care-
credits; form of affidavit, caption, cor.clu- é less driving and injury thereby to plaintiff.
siou, &.c., to be ‘observed in each example. 11. Commencement and conclusion of a petition

2. Action on promissory note, endorsee against for an injury, either direct or consequential.
maker, when there has been a payment. 12. Trespass in taking goods.

3. Action on promissory note, endorsee against g13. Trespass on land.
endorser, when there are no ayments. gl-4. Against a trustee.

4. Action on promissory note W en there are ‘.15. On eviction, or being turned out of posses-
several payments. i 'sion of land sold by defendant to plaintitf, by

5. For goo s sold and delivered, work done i a person having a better title.
and materials provided, and money lent; ‘I6. Joinder of action on bond for payment of mo-
witb statement of credits. { ney, or bill of exchange, payee against ac-

5. On agreement in writing under seal; speci- 5 ceptor; trespass on land, and on title bond
fic-performance asked in part; and damages \‘ to convey land.

for other breaches. (17. Answer to such petition; aflidavit thereto.
7. Action for a libel. 5'18. Replication to an offset in the answer.
8. Action for slander. ~19. Demurrer to a petition.

No. 1.——Psri-rioN.——Action' on promissory note; payee against maker;
when there are no credits:
5

I

- ‘ PRACTICE IN covers or JUSTICE. .105

John Jones, plaintiff, T In the circuit court,
against
William Davis, defendant, county.

Plaintiff states that" defendant, by his promissory note, hereto annex-
ed, dated , promised, for value received, to pay plaintiff the sum
of dollars, ei htmonths after date, which-, and the interest, are
yet due plaintiff, am? for which he asks judgment.

 

 

Jenn Jones.
John Jones, plaintiff, makes oath and says he believes the above peti-
tion and the matters therein, as stated, are true.
' JOHN Jorucs.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, &e..

In every example, the names of the parties, the court and ‘county, as
in the above caption, and the atlidavit as in conclusion. They will be
omitted, therefore, in those which follow:

N o. ‘2.—-Pn'r1'r1oN.——Action on promissory note—endorsee against maker
--when there has been a payment:

Plaintiff states that defendant, by his promissory note, hereto annexed, '

dated

lars,
said Smith, on

, promised to pay one James Smith, or order, ' dol-
months after date, for value received.. Plaintiff says that
, assigned by endorsement and delivered said note

' to laintiif, who, on said -—-—-—,»‘notified defendant thereof. De-

,‘ , paid ——-—-—— dollars to,‘ plaintiff, and the remain-
der of said note and interest are due plaintiff, for which he asks judgment.
‘ ~ A. B., by C. D., his attorney.

fen ant, on ——

Amdavit as before.

No. 3.——Pn'rrrroN.—Aetion on promissory note—endorsee against en-
dorser-when there are no payments:

Plaintiff states that C. D., by his promissory note, hereto annexed, .

dated , promised to pay to defendant, or his order, T dollars,
in one year from date. The defendant assignedbyendorsement and de-
livered said note to the plaintiff on —————, that plaintiff, on ——-—--,
demanded of C. D. the amount due by said note, who refused to pay the
same, and is and was, when said note became due, insolvent, so that a
suit against him would have been unavailing. That plaintiff, on ,
notified defendant of said demand, refusal and insolvency, and required
him to pay, which he has not done. Plaintif asks judgment for the
amount of said note and interest. A. B.

No. 4.-—Pn*rrr1oN.—Aetion on promissory note when there are several
payments:

Plaintiff states that ‘defendant made his romissory note to plaintiff,
hereto annexed, dated , for dollars, payable immediately.
That defendant on —--——, paid ————— dollars on said note, and on
he paid dollars. That the remainder of said note, and

interest are yet due plaintiff, for which he asks judgment.

   

A. B.

I

106 PRACTICE IN counrs or manor}.

N o. 5.-—Ps'r1'r1oN.—A_ction for goods sold and delivered—work done and

materials provided, and money lent:

Plaintiff states that defendant owes him dollars for goods sold
and delivered by plaintiff to defendant, also that defendant owes plain-
tiff dollars for work done and materials found by laintiif for de-
fendant. Also, that defendant owes plaintiff do lars for money
lent by plaintiff, to him.

The particulars of all which, and also the credits thereon, will appear

 

 

 

by an account hereto annexed and made part of this petition.
Plaintiff asks judgment for ' — dollars, being the balance dxe lgim.
1848. ' C. D. to A. B., Dr.

January 1st, To ———————, &c.

“ 3d, To -—-————, &c.
Feb’y lst, By ————, &c.

Balance due, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$—-—

Afiidavit as before. A. B.

. No. 6.-—Pm'1r1.oN.—-Action on an agreement in writing under seal’, ‘spe-

cific performance asked in part—and damages for other breaches.

Plaintiff states that on , the defendant executed under his hand
and seal, as did also the plaintiff, an agreement, of that date, hereunto
annexed and made part of this petition; that plaintiff duly performed all
the conditions on his part; that the defendant has not performed the con-
ditions on his part, but has failed so to do in this, [here state in what
the defendant has violated his agreementg] plaintiff asks that defendant be
compelled to perform his agreement in this, [here state in what a speci-
fic performance is required;] and plaintiff asks damages to the amount
of dollars, which he has sustained by the other breaches of the
agreement by defendant, above stated. A. B.

No. 7 .-—lP1ar1r1oN.—-Action for a Libel.

 

   

Plaintiff states that defendant, bein the proprietor, [printer, or pub-
lisher, as may be,] of a newspaper published in , called the A ,
the following libel was published therein, on ' , concerning the
plaintiff, that is to say: (here insert it,) and plaintiff says he is damaged
thereby to the amount of dollars, for which he asks judgment.

A. B.

 

N o. 8.—-Prrrrrion.-.-Action for Slander._

‘The plaintiff states that on , at
the following false and slanderous words concerning the plaintiff, that is
to say: (here insert the words,) by which plaintiff says he is damaged to
the amount of dollars, for which he prays judgment.

A. B.

     

No. 9.~——Pi:'r1rroN.-—Action for an Assault and Battery.

Plaintiff states that on , at ———-—-—, defendant assaulted and
beat plaintiff, by which he says he is damaged to the amount of ————-
dollars, and prays judgment therefor. A. B.

, the defendant spoke ~

rmcrxcn IN covers or JUSTICE. 107

No. l0.—-Pszrrrron.-Action against the owner of a stage coach, for
careless driving, and injury thereby to plaintiff.

Plaintiff states that on , the defendant being the owner of a
stage coach, the plaintiii‘ took passage therein, at , to be carried
to . . That the stage was upset by the carelessness of the driver,
and the plaintiff thereby had his arm broken, and was otherwise injured.
In consequence of which he had to expend dollars for medical
attendance, and was otherwise damaged. And says he has sustained
damage to the amount of dollars, for which he prays judgment.

A. B.

 

 

 

No. I1.-—P1=:'rr'r1oN.-—Commencement and conclusion of a petition for an
_ injury, either direct or consequential.

Plaintiff states that on , at . , thedefendant did injury to
the plaintiff, as follows, that is to say: (here state the injury in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition,) by which plaintiff says
he was damaged to the amount of dollars, for which he asks

judgment. . . » A. B.

No. 12.-—Pm*r'r1oN.—Actio_n for trespass in taking goods.

   

 

Plaintiff states that on , at —-—-——, the defendant without
leave, and wron fully, took the following property of the plaintiff, and
has not returne the same, that is to say, (here state the _property,) by
which plaintiff says he is damaged to.the amount of ——--——- dollars, for

which he asks judgment.
A. B.

No. 13-.—PzrIr1oN.,—Action for trespass on land.

Plaintiff states that on , at _ defendant without leave, and
wrongfully, entered on, (describe the land as by quarter sections, &c.,)
of which the plaintiff was then the owner. And the ‘defendant then and
there cut timber to the value of ————-—— dollars, and carried it away;
by which plaintiff was damaged to the amount of --—-——— dollars, for
which he asks judgment. _ A. B.

No. l4.—Pn'rrr1_oN.—-Action against a trustee.

Plaintiff states that on B , defendant by an instrument in writing,
then duly executed by the parties therein named, which is hereto annex-
ed and made part of this petition, took upon himself the execution of
the trusts therein mentioned, and has since committed the following
breaches of said trusts,.to wit: I here state wherein the trusts were bro-
ken by defendant,) whereupon t e plaintifl'(prays that defendant may be
restrained by injunction from any further isposition of the trust prop-
erty, compelled to make plaintiff compensation in damages for said
breaches of trust, which plaintiff says amount to —— dollars, and

removed from the trust, and another trustee appointed in his place.
' i A. B.

108 . PRACTICE IN cotinrs or JUSTICE.

No. 15.—Pr.rr-non.-—Action for an eviction, or the being turned out of

possession of land sold by defendant to plaintiff, by a person having '
a better title.

Plaintiff states that on , défendant executed and delivered to
plaintiff a deed of that date, which is hereto annexed and made part of
this petition, for the north-east quarter of section 14, township 44, and
range 11, in ——-—— county. That the purchase money was
dollars, which was paid by plaintiff to defendant on ; ‘that after-
wards one C. D. brought suit against plaintiff for said land, in the cir-
cuit court of county; and on had judgment against him.
And by force and effect of said judgment and the execution thereon, (a
copy of the record and proceedings in said suit are annexed and made part
.of this petition,) plaintiff was dispossessed of said land~.and said C. D.
put in possession thereof. That plaintiff on , gave notice to de-
fendant of said eviction, and demanded of him said purchase money and
six per cent interest thereon, which defendant has failed to pay, and for
which plaintiff asks judgment.

 

A. B.

No. 16-—PETI'I‘ION.-—F0l1!‘ different causes of action joined. On bond
for the payment of money; on billof exchange payee against ac-
ceptor; trespass on land; and on title bond to convey land.

Plaintiff states that defendant on , executed his bond to plain-
tiff, of that date for _—-—-——— dollars, payable one month after date,
which, and the interest thereon, except the sum of dollars paid
on ————, are yet due the laintiff; for the balance he asks jud ment.
Plaintiff also states that one . D. made to laintiff a bill of exc ange,
in this State, dated on , in which sai C. D. requested defendant
to pay plaintiE dollars at sight of said bill; and said defendant on
same -day accepted said bill .by writing thereon; afterwards said bill was
duly presented to defendants, and payment thereof demanded, which he
has failed to make. Plaintiff asks judgment for the amount due, and
interest thereon. Plaintiff also states that on — , at , he
was the owner of the following tract of land, to wit: -—————, and that
defendant without leave, and wrongfully, then entered on said land, and cut
timber thereon to the value of ——-—--— dollars, and carried the same
away: plaiptiff asks judgment for that amount. Plaintitf also states that
on —- , defendant made his title bond to plaintiff of that date, and
thereby bound himself to convey to plaintiff a good title in fee simple to
the following tract of land, to wit: , on the payment by plaintiff
to defendant of dollars, which payment about one month thereaf-
ter paid to defendant; yet defendant has not conveyed said land to plain-
tiff. Plaintiff asks that defendant be compelled to convey said land, or that
the court will do it for him, Said bond, bill of exchange, and title bond
are annexed to and made parts of this petition.

     

A. B.
No. l7.—Answer to the last petition.

PRACTICE IN copnrs or JUSTICE.-—PUBLIC PRINTER. 109

against .

C. D., defendant,

-Defendant states that on , , he paidthe amount due by said bond
in said petition mentioned, and the interest thereon, to-pltxintitl. De-
fendant further states that he did not accept the said bill of exchange in
said petition mentioned.‘ Defendant further states that plaintiff was not
the owner of said tract of land, to wit: ——————, as stated in said pe-
tition. Defendant also states that he did not enter on said last mention-
ed tract of land, or cut timber thereon, as alledged by plaintiff in said
petition. Defendant also states that plaintiff did not pay defendant the
said sum of ——-—- dollars, or any part thereof, as stated -in said eti-

A. B., plaintiff, g In the circuit court,

county.

 

tion. . .
C. D., defendant, makes oath and says that he believes the above an-
swer, and the matters therein, as stated’, are true. C. D. '

(Atl”1davit.) Sworn to and subscribed before me, &c‘.

No. l8.——Rep1ication to an offset in the answer.

A. B. a ‘ainst C. D. In the circuit court, county.

Plainti says that he did not execute the said promissory note, set up
as an offset in the answer of defendant. A. B.

(A$davit.) Sworn to and subscribed before me, &c.

No. l9.—Demurrer' to a petition.

A. B. against C. D. In the circuit court, county.
The defendant demurs to the petition of plaintiff, because it does not

state facts sufiicient to constitute a cause of action, in this (here insert
the objection.) , C. D.

A_RTICLE ixxxn.

VVHEN ‘Tizfls ACT SHALL TAKE EFFECT.
§ 1. Period at which this act shall take eH'ect.

§ 1. This act shall take efect onlthe fourth day of July next, but shall
not a ply to actions previously brought. ‘
pproved February 24, 1849. Q

'\/\4'\/‘ \/\./\/\/‘‘/‘\a \./'\/‘-../'\/“w"&

PUBLIC PRINTER.
AN ACT in relation to the Public Printer.

§ 1. Prices allowed for rule and. figure work; - laws of each session; and ofrevisfng al-
for job work. sion. _ _
2. Prices allowed for printing the laws, jour- 5. Manner of. and compensation for binding
nals and decisions of the supreme court. journals. . _ .
3. What shall be co1zsider(-Ll book work. 6. Dut of senate and house committees on
4- Manner of,- ;u.¢l compensation for binding pu lic printing. ‘

7. Acts inconsistent with this act repealed. O

110 _ ’ PUBLIC PRINTER.

Be it enacted by the General .9ssembl3/ of the State qflllissouri, as follo ws:

§ 1. All rule and figure work shall be printed with brevier. For rule
and figure work the public printer shall receive fifty per cent. more than
the prices allowed for plain work for the first hundred copies, and for
all copies after the first hundred the same prices as allowed for plain
work. For printing bills, resolutions, or other job work ordered by the
General Assembly, the [public] printer shall receive fifty cents per
thousand ems for the first hundred copies, and ten cents per thousand
ems for every additional hundred co ies, till the number exceeds one
thousand, and four cents per thousan ems for every additional hundred
copies till the number exceeds one thousand, and four cents per thousand
ems for every additional number of copies over one thousand.

§2. For printing the laws, journals and decisions of the supreme
court, and all other book work, when the number of copies ordered to
be printed shall not exceed one thousand, the public printer shall be al-
lowed thirty-five cents per thousand ems for the first hundred copies,
and five cents per thousand ems for every additional hundred copies;
when the number of copies ordered to be printed shall exceed one thou-

sand, and be less than two thousand, the public printer shall receive‘

thirty cents per thousand ems for the first five hundred copies, and five cents
per thousand ems for every additional hundred‘ copies; when the number
ordered to be printed shall exceed two thousand, and be less than four
thousand, the public printer‘ shall be allowed twenty-five cents per thou-
sand ems for the first five hundred copies, andfour cents per thousand
ems for every additional hundred copies; when the number of copies
ordered to be printed shall exceed four thousand, the public printer shall
he allowed twenty cents per thousand ems for the first five hundred co-
pies, and three cents per thousand ems for every additional hundred.

§ 3. All reports, messages, or other documents, printed in book form,
which shall contain sixteen pages or more, and having more than two
thousand and five hundred ems to the page, or having as much as forty
thousand ems in the whole, shall be considered book work, and the pub-
lic printer shall be paid for the same, as provided in the second section
of this act.- \

i 4. The laws and joint resolutions of each session, shall be substan-
tia ly half bound, in one volume, withleather backs and corners, andlet-
tered; and for each volume thus bound, the public printer shall receive
twenty-five cents. The private and local acts passed at the revising
session, shall be bound in the same manner, ‘and at twenty-five cents per
volume. The revised statutes passed at the revising session, shall be
well bound in sheep, and for binding the same the public printer shall
receive forty cents per volume.

§ 5. The journals of each house shall be substantially half bound, with
leather backs and corners, and lettered. The reports and public docu-
ments sball be contained within the journal, as at present, under the head
of appendix; and for binding each volume of the journals and appendix,
as above provided, the public printer shall receive twenty cents.

. § 6. It shall be the duty of the senate‘ and house committees on pub-
lic printing, at each session of the general assembly, to act jointly, and

REVENUE. 1 11

as far as practicable, to have all rinting of the same matter ordered by

the two houses done as one and t e same job. V
§ 7. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this

act, are hereby repealed:
This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

0"u/Vfl“/’-cf\&I‘JVNI\/\%.’\"-/\P~/\/ ,/'\/\/‘-/’L/ /‘.-'\/f ./‘~J”‘J\/N
I

REVENUE.

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “an act to provide for levying, as-
sessing and collecting the revenue,” approved March 27, 1845.

§ 1. Register of lands to record delin uent lists. § 3 Persons redeeming lands sold, to pay dog.

2. Collector to require payment 0 purchase 3 ble the amount aid by purchaser.
money at time of’ sale. a ‘ ‘ 4. Certificate of col ector to purchasers,to be
2 prima facievevidence of title.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly} ofthe State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. It shall be the duty of the register of lands to’ record in a well
bound book the delinquent lists of lands returned to his oflice annually,
which book shall be a full and complete copy of the delinquent lists as
returned to his oilice by the, several collectors of the State; and the re...

gister shall, without fee, show "said list to any person ‘who may wish to

see the same?
§ 2. Whenever any lands _or town lots are exposed to sale by the col-
lectors, under the provisions of ‘the act to which this is amendatory, the

. collector is hereby authorized to require of the purchaser of any lands -

or town lots, paymentof the amount by_hi-m bid for the same, as soon as
any land or town lot may be struck off to him, and it shall be the duty
of the collector, at the instance and request of any person,‘ to demand
of the purchaser the payment of the amount by such person bid for any
land or town lot, as soon as the same is struck off to him; and if the
purchaser fail to-malre payment immediately, it shall be the duty of the
collector to offer such land or town lot for sale again immediately, and
shall not consider the bid of the person so failing to make payment. ’ .

§ 3. Upon the redemption of any lands or town lots by any person en» a
ti

ed to such redemption, the person redeeming shall pay into the trea-
sury, for the benefit of the purchaser of such lands or town lots, double
the amount of all taxes that such purchaser has paid’ as near as he can
ascertain, prior to such redemption, and subseqlaent to such urchase.

§ 4. The certificate. of purchase required to ‘e given by t_ e collector
to the purchaser of lands sold for taxes, according to the ninth section
of the fifth article of “an act to provide for levying,‘ assessing and
collecting the revenue,” approved March 27th; 1845, shall be prima fa-
cie evidence of title to the remises thus sold until the time for the re-
demption of such lands shallhave expired, arid shall warrant the pur-

1 12 REVENUE.

chaser in taking possessiori of, and using the premises; but such pur-
chaser shall not cut or carry away any timber on the land so purchased,
until the expiration of the time for redemption. t ‘
This act shall take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal so much-of section 14, of an act entitled “an act to
sustain the credit of the State,” as relates to private individuals.

Be it enacted by the General./Yssembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of the fourteenth section of an act, entitled “an
act to sustain the credit of the State,” approved_ February 16, 1847, as
relates to the assessment of the salaries of private individuals, be and
the same is hereby repealed.

Approved February 27, 1849.

   

\/'\/

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “an act to provide for levying, as-
sessing, and collecting the revenue,” approved March 27th, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General ./jissembly qf the State qf Missouri, asfollows:
- S 0
§ 1. For the support of the government of the State, the payment of
the public debt, and the advancement of the public interest, a tax shall .
be levied upon the following objects: Allfree male persons over twenty-one

'and under fifty-five years of age; all lands, lots of ground, including

the houses and improvements thereon; all slaves; gold and silver plates;
all libraries, except such as belon to sunday schools and bible societies,
over the value of two hundred doflars; pianos; household property over
the value of two hundredidollars; pleasure carriages of all kinds; horses,
mares, and geldings over two years old; work oxen, and all other cattle,
over two years old; mules and asses over six months old; clocks and
watches, with their chains, seals, and -other appendages; shares of stock
in banks and other incorporated companies; all moneys invested. in the ’
trade and products of this State, whether the same be on hand’ or sent
off for sale; all bills of exchange, bonds, notes, and other securities; and
all money on hand, taken, negotiated, and kept by brokers and exchange
dealers, in their business as such, other than such as belongs to citizens
of_ this State except themselves; all money on hand, and all money de-

posited with banks or other incorporated companies, brokers, exchange .

dealers, or other persons, for safe keeping or other purposes; all money
loaned at interest, whether secured by bills of exc range, bonds, notes,
or otherwise, upon solvent persons or corporations; all State and county

warrants, and all State bonds held by persons in this State; all bills of .

I

REVENUE. . 113

exchange,’ bonds, notes, and other securities held upon solvent persons
or corporations, whether the same be for money loaned, or goods, wares,
and merchandize, or other property sold; all public stocks; all property
owned by incorporated companies, over and above their capital stock;
shares of stock, and all other interests held in steamboats, wharf boats,
keel boats, and all other vessels; all toll bridges; all dwelling houses,
store houses, ware houses, shops, ofiices, livery stables, or other edifices
of whatever kind, erected on any lot of ground granted by congress for
the use of schools. colleges, or for religious purposes, the same being
leased or occupied by other than such schools, colleges, or religious so-
cieties; all printin presses, type and machinery therewith connected; all
shot towers, and a l machinery therewith connected; all smelting furna-
ces, and machinery belonging thereto; all grist mills, saw mills, oil mills,
tobacco, hemp and cotton factories, tobacco stemeries, rope walks, man-
ufactories of iron, nails, glass, clocks, and all other manufactories what-
soever, including all their machinery and other appendages; all wool
cardin machines, and buildings containing the same; all distil-
leries,gbreweries, nnd tanneries; all iron, copper, brass, and other foun-
deries; all post coaches, carriages, wagons, and other vehicles, and stock
used by any persons in the transportation of the mails of the United States
in this State; all carriages, hacks, wagons, buggies, and other vehicles
of every kind and description, kept or used by the owners of livery sta-
bles; all cabs, hacks, omnibuses, and other vehicles, used by persons in
the transient transportation of persons; all lands owned by individuals
or companies, reserved for cemeteries or grave yards, for the purpose
of speculation; and all paintings and statuary kept for exhibition.

§2. The first section of the first article of the act to which this is

amendatory, is hereby repealed.

This act shall take effect from and after the first day of September.

next.
Approved March 10, 1849.

‘ .*~. ‘J./*2-./\a\r~ra /*J'\/.-r In .2 xvs. \/‘‘Jv .. an‘/.4 / t/‘\/\p

AN ACT to repeal part of an act entitled “An act to provide for levy-
ing, assessing, and collecting the revenue,” approved March 27th,

1845.
Be itenacted by the Gcneralufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the fourteenth section of the second article of the above‘re-

cited act, be and the same is hereby repealed.
This act shall take effect from its «passage.
Approved February 14, 1849.

I ~v vw¢yvv vy‘v’vv~'v\»/vv»

l 14 ' » . REVENUE.
AN ACT for the relief of the several collectors of this State.
Be it enacted by the General .dssembly,qf the State of Missouri, asfollowss

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and re-
uired to settle with the several collectors for the several counties of this
gtate, for the year eighteen hundred and forty-eight, and allow them
their commission and mileage, and release them from all liabilities and
penalties in consequence o settlement and payment not‘ havin been
made according to law; provided, the several collectors shall ma e full
payment of the revenue due from their respective counties by the tif-
teenth day of February, eighteen hundred and forty--nine; and, provided
further, that said collectors shall be allowed the usual time, prescribed
by law, to prove up their delinquent lists.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

/\/\/ é\/\/\/?\/\/5/\/‘./\/\£

AN ACT further defining the duties of the Collectors of the Revenue,
the Auditor of Public Accounts, and the county courts.

§ 1. Duty of collectors. ; of United States land ollice, containing
2. Duty of clerks of coun courts. g all taxable lands in said counties.
3. Duty of Auditor of Pub ic Accounts. g 7. Clerks to enter upon such maps all lands
4. Auditor shall add up e ch column ot'ab- furnished for taxation from register’s

 

stracts, and show to I amount of pro- oflice.
perty, and taxes on the same. , 8. Said maps to be bound and kept in clerk’s
5. Special term of courts to be held, and otlice.

collectors to make returns of delinquent 9. Assessor to have access to said maps.
lists of said terms. 10. Expenses of procuring said ma s to be

6. County court to procure maps of register . paid by State and county, equa ly.
Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The collectors of the revenue, in making returns of licenses
glpanted in their respective counties, shalall set out, in separate cfoltlxlmnsj
t e amount of -the license tax in one co umn, and the amount 0 t e a
valorem tax in the other.

§ 2. The clerks of the county courts, in making returns to the Auditor
of Public Accounts, of the amount of licenses granted in their respective
counties, shall state separately the amount received for licenses, and the
amount for ad valorem taxes. .

§ 3. It shall be the duty of the Auditor of Public Accounts, in making
his reports to the legislatur-e,to state dislt"1nctly,hin separatefccilumnds, th1e
exact amount of license taxes in one co umn, t e amount 0 t e a va -
oremltaxes in another, and the total amount collected from each county
in a t ird column, each and all of which columns shall be added u , and
the total amount stated. P

§ 4. The Auditor shall, in like manner, add up each column of the ab-
stracts of property charged against the several counties, showing the
total number of polls and the amount of taxes thereon; the total number
ol acres of land, the value thereof, and the taxes thereon; and in the same

 

nnvnmn. .. 115

manner shall add up .all the columns of said abstracts, showing in every
case the total amount of property, and the amount of the taxes on the
same.

§ 6. There shall be held a special term of the county court in each
county, on the third Monday in December of each year, to receive, ex-
amine, and correct the delinquent land tax lists, and it shall be the duty
of the collectors of the revenue to make returns of their delinquent lists
at said special term.

§ 6. It shall be the duty of the county courts whenever, in their 0 in-
ions, there are taxable land in their respective counties, not on the and
list of the county, to procure from the register of the United States land
otlice, for the district in which such county may be, a map of such coun-
ties, containing every entry or location of taxable lands in the same, de-
signating by some significant mark the entered or located taxable lands
upon the same; provided, said maps can be procured upon reasonable

and fair terms.
§7. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the county courts to (put up-

on the maps, herein required to be procured, all lands furnishe annu-
ally for taxation by the register of lands. -

§ 8. Such maps may be made out by townships, or any other mode
most convenient for use; and the said clerks shall have all such maps
bound in a substantial manner, and kept in their respective oliices.

§9. The assessors shall have free access to said maps, during the
time of assessment, with a view to ascertain what lands are taxable; and
upon the return of the tax books to the county courts, the said courts
shall compare the same with the map of the county, and in all cases
-where any lands have been omitted by the assessor, they shallbe placed
upon the tax books and taxed as other lands; and where the name of the
owner or claimant of any lands cannot be ascertained by the assessor,
such lands shall be taxed by the numbers, and if the taxes are not paid
upon the same, they shall be sold and conveyed by their numbers, with-
out reference to the names of the owners or claimants.

§ 10. The ex enses incurred in obtaining said maps shall be home
equally, one-ha f by the State, the other by the county.

Approved March 10, 1849.

to

-~15 2

 

S AN,AQ'T for the relief of the several collectors of this State.
Be  ‘by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the several county courts’ in this State are hereby author-
ized and required to allow the several collectors of the revenue in this
State, their delinquent list for military lines imposed by the military

courts martial, for the year, 1847, which they- have been unable to col- '

lect. I
This act to take efect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

l 16 REVENUE.--RAILROAD.

AN ACT to repeal an act entitled “An act to regulate the treasury deo
partment.”

Be itenacled by the General s/Zssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz’, as follows:

§ 1. That an act entitled “An act to amend the law re ulating the
treasury department,” approved March the 24th, 1845, e and the
same is hereby repealed.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

, ‘r-.-—\/\,'.; ,A ,a’.

RAILROAD.

road.

  AN ACT giving the right of way for the Mississippi and Pacific rail

Be it enacted by the General sdssembly Q,’ the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The State of Missouri hereby grants and guarantees to the Uni-
ted States the right of way through this State for a great national rail
road, to be located and constructed under authority of an act of congress,
from the Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean, and hereby authorizes
the otiicers, agents, and contractors, actin under an act of congress for
that purpose, to locate, construct, contro and use said rail road; and
such road may commence at such point on the Mississippi river, and

leave this State at such point in the western boundary line of this State_

as may be determined on by or under an act of congress; provided, that
in the location, construction, and use of said rail road, private property
and individual rights shall be guarded and protected, and that just com-
pensation shall be made to those persons whose property or individual
rights may be injured or impaired by reason of the construction or exis-
tence of such road.

§ 2. The State of Missouri agrees to extend to the United States all

reasonable and proper facilities and co-operation in the construction of
said rail road.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

aoans. V 1 17

ROADS.

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act for o ening and

repairing public roads and highways,” approved IV arch 26th,
1845.

§' 1.— County courts shall lay off public roads in be indicted for neglect of duty.
their re ective counties; shall keep a §5. Grand _ jury of the respective counties to

record a their roceedings. inquire into manner in which overseers

2. Shall appoint sui ble num er of justices discha their duties; shall present any i
of the peace, who shall allot the hands one of t em ne lecting the duties enjoin-
subject to work on roads. ed on them by aw.

3. H'()VtVtel)dandS to work on roads shall be al- 6. Complensation allowed hands in working

o . roa s.- ‘

4. Overseers to be appointed; their duty; shall 7. Compensation allowed overseers.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfolloias:

§ 1. That hereafter, the several county courts of this State, at suita-
ble times, regard being had to the public interest, shall proceed to lay
off the several public roads'within their respective counties, without re-
gard to township boundaries, into convenient road districts, numbering
them, and shall keep a fair record of their proceedings herein, among
their county records.
§2. That said county courts shall, as aforesaid, appoint a suitable
number of justices of the peace, at suitable points in their res ective
counties, without regard to townshi boundaries, 'whose duty it shall be,
and they are hereby empowered and’ required, to allot the hands subject
to work on roads within said counties among the overseers of the seve-
ral road districts so laid out, without regard to townshi boundaries,
consulting on the public interest and the interest of such persons ,as
far as practicable. i
I § 3. That such allotting justices, in so allotting the hands subject to
work on roads, as aforesaid, shall allot such hands as near as may be to
work on the roads nearest them and in which they have the most inte-
rest, and shall make return of their proceedings as now required by law.
§4. That such county courts shall appoint some suitable person, a
householder of the county,'under the provisions of the act of which this
is amendatory, to act as overseer over each of said road divisions or dis-
tricts, whose duty it shall be to keep said roads within his said division
or district in good repair, according to the provisions of said act, which,
if he shall neglect, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
be indicted and fined as in said act ex ressed.
§ 5. It shall be the duty of the grang jury of each county in this State
to make special inquiry into the manner in which the overseers of the»
respective road districts uithin said county discharged their respective
duties, and to resent each one who may be found to have neglected the
duties enjoine on him by law, and permitted his road district to be and
continue in a dilapidated condition; and it is hereby made the duty of
the judges of the circuit courts in this State to give this act in charge
to their grand juries at each session of their courts in their counties of *
their respective circuits. .
§6. Every person who shall, at the request of the overseer of his

I 18 ROADS.

road district, furnish a plough, cart ‘or wagon, with a pair of oxen or
horses and driver, shall, for each day’s work of such team and driver,
receive a credit of three days work on his liability to work on such road,
or, at his election, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents per day in money,
to be paid according to the 48th section of article first of the act to
which this is amendatory, and if there be no such fund, then to be paid
out of the road and canal fund. .

§ 7. That such road overseers shall be entitled to one dollar for every
post, sign or finger board that he may erect according to the act to which
this is amendatory, to be paid as required b lifty-"eighth section of ar-
ticle iirst of said act; and if there be no we funds, then to be paid out
of the road and canal fund. ‘

§ 8. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the foregoing provi-
sions, are hereby repealed.

‘ This act to take e&'ect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

-'‘\/'\/'\I'\/\ '\r\r\/\r-vx ex»-\/\r\r\v~/\/\/~.v\/s/'\/\/\«'\/I

AN ACT in relation to roads.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qfthe State of Missouri, as follows: 8

§ 1.- The act entitled “An act to authorize the establishment of private
roads,” approved January 7th, 1847, is hereby repealed.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

h 

 

AN ACT to repeal the first section of an abt entitled “An act to
amend an act entitled ‘An act for opening and repairing public
roads and highways.’ ”

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the first section of the above recited act, approved Febru-
ary llth, 1847, is hereby repealed.

§ 2. The thirteenth section of the act entitled “An act for opening
and repairingpublic roads and highways,” approved March 26th, 1845,
is hereby re-enacted and declared to have full force and effect, except
so much of said section as comes in conflict with the provisions of the
second section of the act entitled “An act to amend an act entitled ‘An
act for opening and repairing public roads and highways,’ ” approved
February 11th, 1847.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

RIVERS. . I '1 19

RIVERS.
AN ACT to appropriate money to improve the Des Moines river.

§ 1. Amount of money appropriated. _ » §6. Commissioner named on the part of the
2.  of the county court to appoint a < State, to proceed to Iowa; shall report to
suitable person to expend the money. the Governor of this State.
3. Commissioner shall 've bond. 7. If State commissioner refuse or fail to act,
4. Bond, when forfeit . Governor to appoint another commis-
5. Auditor authorized to draw his warrant < sioner.
for money appropriated. 5 8. Ccgifinty court _to fix and pay compensation
commissioner.

 

Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Jllissouri, asfollows:
§ 1. That the sum of twelve hundred and eighty dollars, out of any

‘money in the treasury not otherwise disposed o , is hereby appropriated ‘

to improve the Des Moines river, from the town of Alexandria (in)
Clark county, where the said river empties into the Mississippi river, to
.a point on said river known as Motts’ ferry.

§ 2. The county court of Clark county shall appoint a suitable person
to expend said sum, or so much as shall be necessary to remove the sand
bars and deepen the channel of said Des Moines river from the town of
Alexandria to Motts’ ferry, on the same, so as to make it navigable for
steamboats and other water crafts.

§ 3. The said commissioner shall enter into bond in the sum of three
thousand dollars, with good and suhicient security, to be approved by
the said county court, payable to the State of Missouri, conditioned for
the faithful performance of his duties under this act.

§ 4. If the said commissioner shall fail to apply the money that may
come into his hands as commissioner as aforesaid, for the object above
specified, his bond shall be considered as forfeited.

§6. The Auditor is hereby authorized to draw his warrant on the
treasury, in favor of the said commissioner, for the said sum, when he shall
present to the said Auditor a certihcate of the clerk of the county court
of the county of Clark, under the seal of said court, certifying that the
said court had appointed said commissioner and that he had entered into
bond with security as above required.

§ 6. James S. Green, of Lewis county, is hereby appointed a commis-
sioner on the part of this State to visit the State of Iowa and learn from
the Board of Public Works whether the State of Iowa intends to improve
that part of the Des Moines river between Motts’ ferry and the mouth
of said river, where it empties into the Mississippi at the town of Alex-
andria, which part of said river is a bounda between this State and the
State of Iowa; and if he shall be satisfied t at the State of Iowa did not
intend to improve said part, then it is made the duty of said commissioner
to examine the channel of the said above described part of said river,
and if he regards it important that the river should be im roved without
delay, and that the above sum would be usefully expended, united to the
sum that Clark county will give, he shall report the fact to the Governor
of this State, who shall cause the Auditor of Public Accounts to be no-
tified, and the above sum shall be drawn out of said treasury as above

120 ' A _ nrvnns.

' provided; but if said commissioner should be satisfied that Iowa intend-

ed to improve the above described part of said river, or that the above
sums would not be usefully expended, or that it is not important that any
improvement should be made before the meetin of the next General
Assembly, he shall so report to the Governor, an the above act shall be
null and void.

§ 7. If the said Green should fail or refuse to act within one month
after being notitied of his appointment, the Governor shall appoint some
other suitable person to act as commissioner as above provided.

§ 8. No money drawn from the treasury under provisions of this act
shall be aid to the commissioner aforesaid, but the county court of Clark
county slnall fix his compensation and pay the same out of the distribu-
tive share of the internal im rovement fund belonging to said county.

This act to take effect an be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal “An act concerning Salt river.”
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly Q/‘the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. “An act concerning Salt river,” approved February 15th, 1847,
is hereby repealed. But it shall be the duty of every person who owns
or keeps a mill-dam in said river, or who may hereafter keep such dam
therein, to provide and keep in good repair and condition a good and suf-
ficient slope, with a windlass and rope, so as to enable keel-boats, bat-
teaux, and flat-boats to pass the same without diliiculty, danger or un-
necessary delay.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to declare a portion of Beaver creek, in Taney county, to
be a navigable, stream.

Be it enacted by the General «Zssembly of the State Q/' Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That all that portion of Beaver creek, in Taney county, lying

between Samuel D. Nelson’s mill and its confluence with White river,

is hereby declared to be a navigable stream, for all practical purposes.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

I

\/\I\fs \’\4—/~d'\l\IS—‘\I‘.VJ< fury" "‘r‘J./K/‘J\/‘.‘\l\/\/-_A ‘- \*" /KNJV

mvnns. 121

AN ACT to amend “An act declaring B1-yant’s Fork of White river
a public ,highway.”

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly Q/itlie State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Bryant’s Fork of White river is hereby declared a public
highway, from where said stream crosses the State line, in Ozark coun-
ty, up to the mouth of Spring creek, which empties into Bryant’s Fork
above the town of Rockbridge. .

§ 2. The act to which this is amendatory be and the same is hereby

re ealed. n
his act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal an act entitled “An act declaring the Ni-chi-na-
bot-na a navigable stream and public highway.

Be it enacted by the General uissembly q/‘the State Q,’ Missouri, asfoEo'ws:‘

§ 1. That the act entitled “An act declaring the Ni-chi-na-bot-naa
navigable stream and public highway,” approved February the first,

1839, be and the same 18 hereby repealed.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

 

\/\/N/*

AN ACT declaring Big Piney Fork of Gasconade river a public high-
way.

§ 1. What ortions of said river to be declared §3. Suitable passways for rafts to be kept
a u lic highway. . open. _ .
2. Not ing to be construed to prevent the 4. Punishment for violating above provisions.
building of dams.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State Qf Missouri, asfollocus:

§ 1. All that portion of Bi Piney Fork of Gasconade river,‘ from the
mouth of said river to John . Newberry’s saw-mill, in Texas county,
be and the same is hereby declared a public highway.

§ 2. Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to prevent any person
or persons from building dams, or keeping in repair ams now erected
across said stream, for the purpose of propelling any machinery, of
whatsoever kind they may wish to erect on said stream.

§ 3. To entitle any person or persons to the benefit of the provisions of

the receding section, they are hereby required to keep at all times, in
goo repair, a suitable passwaypopen for rafts to pass over said dams.

122 SALVAGE.--SCHOOLS.

§ 4._Any person or persons violating the provisions of this act, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be pun-
ished by tine not exceeding fifty dollars for such offence.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after the first day
of July, 1849. _

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

SALVAGE.

AN ACT supplemental to the act respecting salvage, approved Feb-
ruary l4th, 1845. ‘

Be itenacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. If the money as referred to in the 18th section of the act to which
this is a supplement, shall remain longer in the hands of the sheriff than
six -months, without being claimed by the owner, it shall be the duty of
the sheriff to pay the money into the county treasury, taking duplicate
receipts therefor, and he shall tile one with the county court clerk, the
other with the clerk of his circuit court.

§ 2. For any violation of duty by the sheriff, under this or the act to
which this is a supplement, he shall be liable to pay the value of the
property or money, with damages, to be recovered by the injured party
in an action of debt.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

   

SCHOOLS.

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to apportion the State
school money equally among the children in the State,” and to
amend an act entitled “An act to provide for the organization, sup-

port and government of common schools,” approved March 27th,
1846. -

§ 1. County court to appoint person to take the 2. County court may allow such person com-

census of chil ren in each munici al pensation.
township; manner of performing his u- 3. Repealing clause.
ties.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as ollows:

§ 1. The county courts in the respective counties, shall, on or before
the first day of July, in every year, appoint some suitable person in each
municipal township in the county, whose duty it shall be to ascertain the

-scnoons. 193
number of whitechildren residin in each congressional township in-
cluded within his municipal township over six years of age, and under
twenty years of age, on the last day of the year previous, and the names
of the parents, or otherpersons, with whom such children repectively
reside, and the number of children residing with each; when it o hap-
pens that a_ congressional township is divided by a municipal township
pr county line, it shall be considered to be in that municipal township
in which the greater portion of the sixteenth section lies; or, if the
township is not laid od‘ into sections, in that municipal township in which
the greater part of the congressional townshiéi lies; and in those coun-
ties or _parts of counties which are not laid 0 into congressional town-
ships, their apportionment of money shall be loaned out as other county
or township funds are loaned out, until said counties, or parts of coun-
ties, are so laid off, and their money shall be apportioned to the several
congressional townships therein, in proportion to the number of children
in each; and such person shall make his report thereof to the clerk of
the county court, on or before the first day of September next after his
appointment; and such person shall state in such report, separately, the
number of such children in any city, town or village, the inhabitants of
which have had a grant of lots or lands for the use of schools therein,
by virtue of any law of the United States; and such person shall make
a$davit to such report, statin that the same, so far as he could ascer-
tain, istrue and correct; and t e clerks of the respective county courts
shall certify, under their seals of oflice, to the superintendent of common
schools, the number of children in each municipal township, and in each
township, village or city, as stated in the report; and shall‘ also state the
whole number of children in his county, entitled to distribution under
this act, as the same shall appear from the report aforesaid; and the su-
perintendent, in making the ap ortionment of the State school moneys,
shall take the reports of the c erks of the ‘county courts, as the basis
u n which to make the same accordin to t is act.

P; ?.dThe cougitlylcourts may,tiin tlifeirfllliscretion, allow totlie pers(pns pp}
pom e a reao a e. com ensa on or eir services, c pai on 0
their respective county trleasuries.

§ 3. The third section of the act of which this is amendatory, is here-

by repealed.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT amendatory of “An act to provide for the organization, sup-
port and overnment of common schools in the State of Missouri,
approved arch 27th, 1845,” and an act supplementary thereto,
approved February 9, 1847.,

Be it enacted by the Gencralufssembly Q/' the  qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That sections seventeen, nineteen, and twenty-seven, of article

124 ' scHoor.s.--sLavns.

one; sections twenty-seven, thirty-four, and forty-one, of article three;
sections thirty-two, forty-nine, fifty-one, and lifty-two, of article four;
sections nine and thirty-three, of article five; sections one and three, ‘of
the last above recited act, be so amended as to include ‘all white chil-
dren between the ages of live and twenty years, instead of six and
twenty.years, as now provided for in said acts.

This act shall take e&‘ect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

A further act respecting schools.
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly Q/‘the State cf Missouri, asfollows:

‘ § 1. If any children shall reside near to a township or school district
line, so as to render it more convenient and desirable to have them sent
to school in the adjacent township or school district, the directors of the
township may set off such children, and attach them to the adjacent
township or district, for school purposes; and shall pay the proper pro-
portion of school funds for the tuition of the children thus set of and
attached.
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

SLAVES.

AN ACT supplementary to an act, supplementary to “An act concern-
ing slaves,” approved 27th March, 1845!‘

Be itenacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Missouri, asfoUows:

§ 1. If the balance of the money as referred "to in the 5th section of
the act to which this is a sup lement, shall remain in the hands of the
sheriff over twelve months, t en he shall pay the same into the State
treasury, and shall take duplicate receipts; one he shall tile with the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the other with the clerk of his .circuit
court, to be recorded and filed by said clerk.

§ 2. For any failure of duty by the sheriff, as required by this act, he
shall be liable to the injured party, on his oflicial bond. '

Approved March 12, 1849.

&&A/\Aa \/%‘-a

STATE '1-onacoo wsnnnovsn. 125
STATE TOBACCO WAREHOUSE.
AN ACT to authorize the sale of the State tobacco warehouse.

§ 1. Agents appointed- duties of. 6. Deed to be made; when and how.

2. To make report of proceedings to Gover- 7. Description of deed; what to convey.

nor. - 8. On failure of sale, agents to lease; when.
3. Duty of Governor. 10. Accounts for ubhshin advertisements
4. Conditions of sale. to be certitie to Audi 1- of Public Ac-
5. Manner of payment. counts; by whom.

Be it enacted  the General ./Yssembly Q/' the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Edward Walsh, George R. Taylor, and Henry Walton, be
and they are hereby appointed agents on the part of the State, whose
duty it shall be to advertise the State tobacco warehouse for sale,'in
such newspapers as have a general circulation in this State, for a rea-
sonable time, with an accompanying statement that proposals for the pur-
chase of said warehouse will be received up to a certain day, to be
named by said agents in said advertisement.
§ 2. It shall be the duty of said agents, after receiving all such pro-
posals for the purchase of said warehouse as may _be made, to lay the
same before the Governor of this State, accompanied with all the infor-
mation in their possession, as to the nature and character of such propo-
sals; which of the same, in their judgment, would be, if accepted, of
most advantage to the State, and whether it would be to the interest of
the State, all things duly considered, to accept any of said proposals.
§ 3. Whenever the Governor shall receive from said a ents the pro-
posals contemplated in the preceding section, and he she be satisfied
that the interest of the State will be promoted by the acce tance of any
of them, it shall be his duty to inform said a ents of his ecision upon
the subject, and to give to said agents such aglvice and directions in the
closin of any ne otiations in reference thereto‘ as may be deemed, in
his jli ent, to t e best interest of the State, and the said agents shall
be governed in their action by such advice and directions in all things
pertaining to the same.
§ 4. No sale of said warehouse shall be made unless one-third of the
urchase money be paid in hand, but a reasonable time may be allowed
at the remainder, if by giving such time the interest of the State may
be promoted; and in the event that said warehouse shall be sold upon the
terms herein contemplated, the said a ents shall re uire ample and suf-
ficient securi for the payment of all t at portion o? the money not paid
in hand, and s all retain a lien upon said property as a further security
for the ayment of said purchase money. ‘
§ 5. n making payments for said property, the purchaser shall deposit
the money in the bank of the State of Missouri, to the credit of the trea-
surer of the State, and the said a ents shall receive certificates of such

' as law,.ful payments for e same.
6. If at any time said property shall be sold in the manner herein -

prescribed, the Governor shall, upon being informed by said agents that
thepurohaser has made payment, and given his bonds with the proper se-
curity for the remainder of the purchase money, make out and forward

126 sra-rr. rosacco wAannousE_.——'rowN pure.

‘to said purchaser a bond, with the proper conditions, that a deed of gen-
eral warranty will be made on the full payment of allsums, and interest
thereon, romised to be paid for such property.

§ 7. Ufpon the full amount of purchase money being paid for said pro-
perty, as provided in the preceding section, the Governor shall make and
cause to be delivered to the said purchaser a deed of general warranty,
conveying the right, title, and interest of the State of Missouri in and to
said property to the said purchaser.
§ 8. If said agents shall not be able to effect a sale of said property,.as
herein prescribed, they shall then, by and with the advice and consent of
the Governor, lease the same upon the best terms that can‘ be effected,
reserving at the same time the ri ht to sell the said property, should an
offer be made that may be deemed advantageous to the State. «
§ 9. It shall be the duty of said agents to certify to the Auditor of
Public Accounts, the amount due and owing to each publisher of a news-
paper employed in advertising said property, and the Auditor shall draw
is warrant in favor of the holders of such certificates, for the amount
due each person, and the treasurer shall pay the same out of any money ,

in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend an act to regulate the inspection of tobacco.
Be itenacted by the General ./Zssemblyq/' the State qf Zlrlissouri, as follows:

The seventeenth section of an act entitled “An act to re ulate the
inspection of tobacco,” approved March 27th, 1845, be and the same
hereby is so modified as not to require the presence of more than one in-
spector at the performance of the duty of that otiice, between the first
day of October and the first day of April in each year; and the oath to
be administered to tobacco inspectors shall be so modified as to conform
with this act. '

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

‘vf‘J‘\ r\/\f\

TOWN PLATS.   «  {.2

AN ACT to preserve town plats. «_"' "

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of MzZ9sourz°, asjhfibwsr

(l

§ 1. Hereafter all plats of towns, and of additions to and subdivisions
of towns, cities, or villages, required by law to be acknowle:d*geld'Ii!!fthe
recorder’s oflice, shall, in the county of St. Louis, be executed*§n‘d"ac-

rlwsrnns. - , 12.7

lcnowledged in the recorder’s ofiice, in a book to be by the recorder pro-
cured and ke t in his oflice, to be entitled “a book of plat.s;” said plats
of towns, ad itions, and subdivisions, shall he of uniform size as nearly
as practicable.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the recorder to record all plats now of tile
in his oflice into said book of plats, and when necessary to preserve uni-
formity, he shall reduce the scale of the original plat, and on each copy
so made he shall endorse the following certificate, under his hand: “This
plat’is truly copied from the origins in my oflice. (Signed,) Recor-
der.

§ 3. Copies of all original plats, or of the record of plats, from said
book of plats, and properly certified under the hand and oflicial seal of
the recorder, shall be evidence in all courts of justice.

§ 4. It shall be the duty of the recorder to procure the copies of said
maps to be made on the most economical terms, and present his bill to
the county court for allowance and payment.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

TRUSTEES. ~
AN ACT respecting trustees.
Be itenacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. If any trustee, in a deed of trust to secure the payment of a debt
or other liability, shall die, or become insane, or remove from the State,
without having completed the performance of the duties imposed on him
by the deed of trust, any person interested in the debt secured by such
deed of trust, may pre are his aflidavit, stating the facts of the case spe-
ciiically, and present t e same to the circuit court of the county in which
the property or estate, conveyed by such deed of trust, orapart thereof,
may be situated; and if such court shall be satisfied that the facts stated
in such aflidavit are true, it shall make an order appointing the sheriff of
the county trustee, to execute such deed -of trust,in place of the original
trustee; and thereupon such sheriff shall he possessed of all the rights,
power; and authority possessed by the original trustee, underthe eed
of trust; and such sheriff shall proceed to sell and convey the property,
and topay off the debts and liabilities, according to the terms and direc-
tions of the deed of trust; and shall do all acts that the original trustee
had power to do, and with the same force and effect.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

   

128 - rnvsrmas.

AN ACT concerning testamentary trustees.

§ 1. Trustee to 've bond. ; ' ’ § 4. If trustee fail to‘ give bond, his trusteeship
2. Manner o proceeding. shall cease; court shall appointanew
3. Manner of executing nd prescribed. trustee.

' Be it enacted by the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Every trustee appointed or who may be appointed by any last will
and testament to hold, manage, or dispose of any property or estate,
real, personal or mixed, for the use or benefit of any other person, may
be required by the court in which such will shall be proved and record-
ed, to give bond in such sum and with such securities as the court shall
direct, conditioned for the faithful execution of the trust, unless the will
creating such trust shall, in express terms, dispense with security.

§ 2. Phe manner of proceeding shall be as follows: A'ny person hav-
ing a beneficial interest, present or future, absolute or contingent, in the
trust property, may apply to the proper court for security, by a petition
in writing stating plainly and brietly why security ought to be given by
the trustee, and shall deliver to the trustee a copy of the petition and a
notice in writing of the time when it will be presented, at least ten days
before the application is made. The trustee may answer the petition in
writing, and the court shall hear and determine the application summa-
rily, and as nearly as may be in the manner in which like questions con-
cerning executors, administrators and guardians are heard and deter-
mined, and shall either reject the petition or direct the trustee to give
security.

§ 3. When security is directed to be given, the bond shall be to the
State of Missouri, for the use of all persons beneficially interested in the
trust roperty‘ or estate, and in such sum as the court shall direct, and
shall e executed, approved by the court or a judge thereof, and filed in
the otlice of said court within the time to be specified in the order of
court. . ’
§ 4. If the trustee fail to give bond and security in the time and man-
ner required by the court, his trusteeship and all his title, right and
power to, in and over the trust property, shall cease, and the court shall
appoint a new trustee in his stead, who shall immediately be invested
with all the title, right and power of the former trustee; and the court
may, upon its own motion, or upon the application of any person inte-
rested, require and cause the new trustee, from time to time, and as of-
ten as may be, to give such security as shall be sutlicient to ensure the
faithful execution of the trust, or, in default thereof, to dismiss him and
apmt another trustee in his stead, who will give the required security.

' act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

Umvnasrrv. ' . ' 129
UNIVERSITY.
AN ACT respecting the State University.

g» 1. Number of curators; where appointed § § 5. Manner of computing accounts, and duty

from. . of Treasurer.
2. Commencement and duration of term of § 6. Manner of filling vacancies. '

omce. ;f 7. What number to constitute a quorum.
3. Times of meeting. , 8. Bienniel reports of curators,,what to con-
4. Compensation.  lain. ,

. ; 9. Arts inconsistent with, repealed.

Be it enacted by the General ufssemblu of the Slate lof Missouri, as foEows:

§ 1. The number of curators hereafter shall be eighteen, and shall be
chosen in the following manner, to-wit: One from each judicial circuit,
and four from the county of Boone.

§ 2. The present board of curators shall go out of office on the lirst
day of April next, and the new board hereby created shall be elected by
the present General Assembly, one-third, or first class, for two years;
one-third, or the second class, for four years, and the remaining third, or
third class, for six years, from and after the first day of April next; and
hereafter the General Assembly shall appoint one-third of said board,
as their terms of service may expire, for 'the term of six years there-
after. ~

§ 3. There shall be two regular semi-annual meetin s of said board
of curators in each year. The first meeting shall be on e first Monday
in July, and the second meeting shall be on the fourth Monday in De.-
cember, unless different days shall be fixed upon by said board.

§ 4. The said curators shall receive, each, for his services, six cents
per mile for each mile travelledby him in going and returning from the
meetings of said curators, and the sum of two dollars per. day for each
day said board may be in session, provided that no session shall continue
longer than six days. ' ' I

§ 5. The mileage allowed said curators shall be computed and esti-
mated according to the shortest racticable route, and the accounts of
said curators, including their mi eage and per diem, shall be allowed by
a committee appointed for that purpose, and the Treasuaer shall pay
such allowancesout of the seminary fund, keeping,a correct account of
the same, as well as all other allowances of every kind and character,
and the Treasurer shall lay before the General Assembly, at each regu-
lar meeting thereof, and within the first three weeks of the session, a
certified copy of all such allowances and payments as may be ordered
by said board.

§ 6. In  cases of vacancies in said board, the Governor shall fill the
same as now prescribed by law, but shall not make an appointment from
any judicial circuit other than the one in which the vacancy may exist,
nor shall any such appointment be for a longer time than the setting of
the next General Assembly. _

§ 7. At the semi-annual meetings of the board, eleven curators shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but seven curators attending any
special meeting, shall. constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordi-
dary business; provided, that no board composed of a less number than

_ 130 umvansrrv.

eleven shall have power to malre appropriations of /money, or contracts
which may require appropriations of money to complete the same.

§ 8. It shall be the duty of said board of curators to cause to be fur-
nished to the Legislature, at each regular meeting thereof, and within
the three first weeks of the session, a list of the names of all the stu-
dents that may have been taught at said institution during the two pre-
ceding years, giving the names, the ages, the place of residence of each,
and the time that each one has been taught, as well as the tuition fees
charged per session for the various branches of study. It shall likewise
be the duty of the treasurer of said board to furnish the Legislature
with an abstract of the amounts annually paid to the President and each
professor, teacher or other oflicer of said institute.

§ 9. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with or repugnant to this

' act are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

   

AN ACT to provide for a Normal Professorship in the State University.

9 1. County court to make selection, when;.§ § 5. A propriation for Normal‘ Professorship;
qualsfications of candidate. 4 om what funds.
2. Candidate, when to enter University; 6. Duty of Auditor in relation to dividendof
pledge of. seminary fund.
3. Reports of selections, how made out; 7. Candidates selected, when received; privi-
where tiled. I esof.
4. Duty of curators of University. 8. Can idates selected,howlong to remain in
the University.

~.I“'J‘ ‘~d'\/\Pa\l‘ I‘&\4‘

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The county courts of the several counties in this State shall,
during the regular term of their respective county courts, in the month
of May, A. D. 1849, and every two years thereafter, proceed to select
one boy to every representative to which each of said counties is enti-
tled, between fourtpen and twenty years of age,'of intelligence, talents,
steady habits and good moral character, as a candidate for admission, as
a student into the university of the State of Missouri.

§ 2. Said candidate when selected shall be sent to the university at
the commencement of the next session after he is selected, under his
written pledge that he will teach school for at least two years within the
State of Missouri.

§ 3. Duplicate reports of said selections shall be made out by the

‘clerks of the several county courts in the counties in which selections

are made, under the seal of the court, one of which shall be forwarded
to the superintendent of common schools, by him to be kept on file in
his oflice, and the other to the president of the university, to be filed
and recorded in the ofiice of the secretary of the board of curators.

§ 4. The curators of the university are hereby authorized and requir-
ed, as s mm as practicable to establish an additional professorship, to be
devoted to the theory and practice of teaching, to be called “the normal

UNIVERSITY. 131

professorship,” and to call some suitable individual to the charge of said
professorship. ' »

3 5. For the support of said professorship there is hereby appropria-
te the sum of one thousand dollars per annum, to_ be paid out of the in-
come of the seminary fund of the State.

§ 6. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and requir-
ed, so soon as a dividend is declared by the bank, on the seminary fund
of the State, and the same shall be paid into the treasury of the State,
to'draw his warrant semi-annually on the treasurer of this State, in fa-
vor of the treasurer of the board of curators, for the above sum of one
thousand dollars.

§ 7. That whenever the reports of the several_county clerks, of the
counties from which selections are made, shall be made to the president
of the_ university, and filed and recorded by the secretary of the board
of curators, the candidate selected for admission from such county,
shall be received as a student of the university, and shall be adinitted
to all the privileges enjoyed by the other students free of charge.

§8. The students selected for admission into the university under
this act, shall not remain in the university longer than two years.

This act to take etfect,and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. “

r\v\’\'\"\: V\ &“. '~ r-/\--

AN ACT authorizing the curators of the university of the State of
Missouri to appropriate money collected on subscription list, to
certain objects.

Be itenacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The curators of the University of the State of Missouri are here-
by authorized to audit and allow any debt justly due and owing by the

‘trustees of Columbia college. at the time of location of the University,

and to pay the same outof anymoney belonging to the subscription fund,
or which may hereafter be collected upon the subscription list; provided,
that said debts shall not amount-to more than the sum of three hu,-ndred
dollars. 3 , ' i _

§ 2. That the remainder of the subscription fund, or such part thereof
as may be necessary for the purpose, the curators are authorized to ap-
propriate to the improvement of the walks leading to and from the uni-
versity, outside of the university grounds, in such manner as they may
deem most expedient.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 17, 1849.

132 UNIVERSITY.-WOLVES.

AN ACT concerning the subscription fund belonging to the State uni-
versity.

Be it enacted by the -General yfssembly of the State of 1|Iz'ssom~z', asfollows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby required to certify to
the treasurer of the board of curators, the balance of the subscription fund
remaining uncollected, as the same appears on the books of his ollice.

§ 2. Upon the production of the original subscription list by the form-
er circuit attorney, for the second judicial circuit, the treasurer of the
board of curators shall receipt to him for the same; and upon the pre-
sentation of such receipt by the attorney aforesaid to the Auditor of
Public Accounts, he is hereby authorized to balance the account of the
subscri tion fund upon the books in his. oflice.

? 3. he curators are authorized to employ some person to collect the
ba ance of said subscription fund, who shall be charged, upon deliver-
ing to him the subscription list, with the balance appearing to be due
thereon, by the treasurer of the board, and who shall be credited from
time to time as the same may be collected and paid over.

This act to take effect from its passage. 0 ‘

Approved March 12, 1849.

-'‘'—I\. J“ 3.-‘--‘_._\_ \ ‘

WOLVES.

AN ACT supplementary to “An act to encourage the destruction of
wolves,” approved January 16th, 1847.

Be it enacted by the Gen eral ./fssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follo ws: ‘

§ 1. The act to which this is a supplement, shall not be so construed
as to privilege the several clerks of the county courts in this State to
charge or receive any fee from any person who may prove a wolf-scalp
or scalps before said clerks.

This act to take efect from itsipassage.
Approved March 12, 1849. 5.

I

  ACTS or APRIVATE NATURE.

t'\,/N./'\;" -/\/‘Ts/\4’\-/‘—’\.-’~-"~o"~/'~ /‘x/\’”\.I' ' .5-./'* ‘

BRIDGES.

AN ACT supplemental to “An act to authorize Robert A. Ewing and
Robert R. J elferson to build a bridge across the Moreen,” approved
' February 25th, 1845. " -

Wrmarzas, it is represented to this general assembly, that the bridge
erected by the said Ewing and J eiferson, in pursuance of the pro-
visions of the above recited act, has since the erection and comple-
tion thereof, fallen down; therefore,

Be itienacted by the General ufssembly Q/' the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Four years are hereby allowed to the said Ewing and Jefferson
to rebuild‘ said bridge, from and after the passage of this act.

§ 2. Said Ewing and Jefferson may associate with them any other per-
son or persons to assist them in the erection of said bridge.

§ 3. The privileges granted by the act to which this is supplemental, -

shall commence and continue in force for twenty years from and after

the passage of this act.
This act to be in force, from and after the passage thereof.

Approved February 10, 1849.

- mv@A an ~../v-vxtvso

 

AN ACT to authorize Frederick Myers to build toll bridges.

§ 1. Bridgesto be erected, where. ' i 4. Privilege cease.
2. Duties, and rates of toll. 5. Period of time.
3. County court, duty of. _ 6. Collection of toll.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Frederick Myers, of Lexington, is hereby authorized to
erect two bridges, one across Little Sni creek, and the other across Big
Sui creek, where the road runs leading from Lexington to Wellington,
in Lafayette county, called the lower or river road, where it crosses the
same.

§ 2. Said Myers shall erect good, substantial bridges, and keep them
in a good state of repair, so as to render crossing safe and easy; and
may charge and receive the following rates of tol s, to wit: For a man

134 nnmsuz CLAIM.--CORPORATIONS.

~ and horse, ten cents; for each footman, five cents; for each single horse,

mule, jack or jennet, five cents; for each head of neat cattle, two and
a half cents; for each head of other stock, one cent; for each one horse
carria e or buggy, twenty-five cents; for each two horse pleasure car-
riage fty cents; for each two horse wagon, thirty-seven and a half cents;
for each three horse carriage, fifty cents; for each four horse wagon, sixty-
fivecéits; for each six horse, or ox wagon seventy-five cents. ,

 3. If the county court of Lafayette county shall see proper, at the
expiration of fifteen years from the time the said bridges are finished,
to purchase the same, by paying said Myers, or his heirs, the costs of
the same, the. county court shall have the privilege so to do. '

§ 4. If the owner of said bridges shall suffer the same to go to decay,
so as to render it unsafe, for the space of six months at any one time,
the privilege herein granted shall cease and determine.

§ 5. The privileges hereby granted shall continue for the periodof
twenty years, and no longer. - , _ '

§ 6. This act shall not be so construed .as to allow the collection of
toll upon more than one bridge. I

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

I

~J‘- 2 x/\/\/\.J\. \/\J\./\/\/\/\.a‘\.P\;\/\z\4\/'~

DELISLE CLAIM.
AN ACT to provide for defending the DeLisle claim.

Be itenacted  the General ./fssembly qf the State Q/‘ Missouri, asfoliaws:

§ 1. That the sum of fifteen hundred dollars is hereby appropriated
out of any money in the State treasury not otherwise appropriated, for
the purpose of employing counsel to defend the title of the State against
said claim; and the governor of the State is hereby authorized to em-
ploy counsel for the purpose in this bill specified, and cause to be paid
such counsel the money in this act appropriated.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

‘C QRPORATION S.
AN ACT to amend the acts respecting the Orphan’s Home.

. § 1. Powers and duties of the corporation. | 2. Board of managers, its powers, duties, &.c.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qfthe State of Missozzri, asfollows: r

§ 1. The third section of “An act to incorporate the Orphan’_s Home,”

conrorwrrons. 135

approved February 27th, A. D., 1845, is amended, so that the whole of
said section shall read as follows: said corporation shall hold an annual
meeting for the election of omcers, at which there shall be chosen by
ballot, a board of managers, including a hrst and second directress, se-
cretary and treasurer, all of whom shall continue in otlico until others
are chosen; any ten of the members-of the corporation, duly convened,
shall be a quorum for the» transaction of business, and five of the board

of managers so convened, shall be a quorum of the board; and in case '

of a failure to obtain a quorum of the members of the corporation, at
the annual meeting thereof, such election may be made at any duly con-
vened meeting of said members, not less than ten being present; or, in
case of a vacancy or vacancies occurring in the board of managers, the

same may be filled by the board, or by the corporation, at any duly con- ,

vened meeting of said board or corporation.

§ 2. An act to amend an act entitled “An act to incorporate the Or-
grams Home,” approved February 27th, 1845, which was approved

ecember 7 th, 1846, is hereby amended, so that the whole of said act
shall read as follows: The board of managers shall have the entire con-
trol of all the property of the institution, of its receipts and disburse-
ments; and of the orphans and destitute children entrusted to their care;
they shall have authority to receive sick and destitute persons into their
home, and also to accept a surrender, in writing, by the father, or where
there is no father, by the mother, of any child or children, to the care
of said institution, and to bindout, in virtubus families, such any child or
children so surrendered; any orphan so supplied and relieved by them,
if a girl, until the age of eighteen years, or marriage; if a boy, until the
age of twenty-one years; Provided, that any parent whose child shall
have relief or support, or who shall have been bound out as aforesaid,
shall have liberty to receive such child, upon aying to the treasurer of
the institution the expenses incurred in his or er relief, as aforesaid.

This act shall take eifect from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

Ifuf ./'f— »'u'V‘~IfJ\JWn'i'VV'@VVI J\f\/fV%\4/'5/ffV'\’¥\f\I'\t'\u‘4‘A‘sf.

AN ACT to incorporate the’ Independence Lyceum.

§ 1. Style of the corporation; its powers. 4. Property of corporation not taxable.
2. May make constitution and by-laws. i 5. Duration of corporation.
3. Who may be members, see. -

Wnrnnas, an association called “the Independence Lyceum,”has been
formed in the town of Independence, the objects of which are, the
mutual improvement of its members in oral discussion and litera-
ture, and the establishing a permanent library; now, in order to se-
cure the permanency of this institution, and aid it in accomplishing
its purpose, «

Be it enacted by the Generaluissembly Q/' the State of Missourz', as follows:
§ 1. That John W. Modie, F. H. Hereford, R. R. Rees, D. J. Cald-

136» - coarourrous.

well, F. L. Aud, Wm. Chrisman, Joseph A. Cogswell, Jesse Henry, A.
Camingo, R. S. Symington, G. W. Modie, and their associates and their
successors, be and they are hereby constituted a body corporate, under

the name of “The Independence Lyceum and Library Association,”_

and by that name to have continual succession, and be capable of suin
and bein sued,‘ to plead and be impleaded, to answer and be answereg
unto, to gefend and be defended, in all courts and places, whatsoever;
that they and their successors may have a common seal, and may chan e,
break or alter the same at their pleasure, and be in law capable of ho d-
ing and conveying any estate, real, personal or mixed, for the useof
this corporation; provided, that said corporation shall not hold any real
estate, except such as may be necessary for the use of the society.

§ 2. That said corporation shall have the power to ordain a constitu-
tion and by-laws for the government of the members thereof, and to al-
ter or amend the same at pleasure: provided, that nothing in such con-
stitution or by-laws shall be repugnant to the laws of this State.

§ 3. That any person may be a member of this corporation, who shall
be elected by the members of said association, and may continue such
membership by complying with the laws and constitution thereof.

§ 4. That the property held or owned by this corporation, shall be
free from all taxation whatsoever.

§.5. That the corporation hereby erected, shall continue so long as it
faithfully observes the objects of its institution; but the general assem-
bly, whenever satisfied that it has failed to accomplish or pursue these

objects, or has violated any of the provisions of this act, may alter or T

repeal the same. a
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to incorporate the Lexing-
' ton Fire Company,” approved January 25, 1847.

. Be it enacted by the Generalufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The said corporation shall not consist of more than one hundred
active members, and as many honorary members as they by their by-
laws may regulate, not to exceed one hundred; which members shall
make such contributions for the support of the company as they, from
time to time, may regulate in their by-laws; but no person shall enjoy
the privileges of honorary members, unless he contributes at least five
dollars per annum for the support of the company.

§ 2. All the acting, efficient and honorary members of said corpora-
tion, shall be, and they are hereby exempt from the performance of mil-
itary duty in time of peace, and service upon juries during their contin-
uance as members of said cor oration. -

This act to take effect and e in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

coaroasrxons. . 137

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to: incorporate the Cityvof -

Hannibal,” approved February 215*, 1845.
Be it eriacted by the General dssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

 1. That the following lands, to wit: Beginning at a point on the
southern boundary line of the City of Hannibal, forty-eight poles west
of the southeast corner of the southwest quarter of section twenty-nine;
thence west along said line one hundred and twelve poles, to the south-
west corner of said southwest quarter of section twenty-nine, thence
north with said section line, between twenty-nine and thirty, one-half
mile; thence east one hundred and twelve poles, be, and the same is
hereby detached and excluded from the corporate limits of said city,
and from the jurisdiction thereof, any law to the contrary notwith-

standing. ~
This act to take effect and be in force fromits passage.
Approved February 5, .1849.

AN ACT to incorporate the Saint Louis Temperance company -in the
City of Saint Louis. .

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. There i hereby established and incorporated in the city of Saint
Louis a company to be ‘called and known by the name and style of the
“St. Louis society of the Sons of Temperance,” which said com any,
when organized as hereinafter prescribed, shall have and enjoy all ne-
cessary powers, as an incorporated company, to procure by subscription,
purchase, bequest, or otherwise, one or more town lots in the city of St.
Louis, not exceeding in quantity one block, and to improve the same by
building thereon; to have, use, and hold the same free from all taxes, in
a corporate capacity; and, again, to rent, lease, sell, or otherwise dis-
pose of the same, as the said company may deem proper, always saving
and protecting private rights. ‘

§ 2. The company sha 1 be composed of the stockholders therein; pro-
vided, that no erson shall be ca able of taking stock in said company
unless he is at t e time a Son of emperance, and an actin member, in
good standing of a division of the order of the Sons of Temperance,
within the United States. But if said stock is not taken‘ by the Sons of
Temperance, after they shall have an opportunity of so doing, in the
manner and at the time iixed by the regulations and by-laws of the com-
pany, then it shall be lawful for the said ‘company to providefor the ta-

ing of said stock, or any portion thereof, by persons other than Sons of
Temperance; and stock so taken, shall be held and enjoyed, as if the
same were taken by members of the order; and, provided mrther, that
for the organization thereof, the following named -persons shall compose
the company, viz: James S. Pool, Estes Wallingford, Bernard Bryan,

138 conroaa-rrous.

Richard S. Tilden, John Smith, William F. Lacy, William H. Maurice,
James Spore, James P. Morris, A. W. Scharrit.

§3. The persons named in the last section, or a majority of them,
shall determine the amount of a share, prescribe the terms of payment,
and at such times and places, as they may deem best,may open books of
subscription of the capital stock of the company; and when a suilicient
amount shall have been taken, shall call a general meetin of the said
subscribers, and lay before such meetin a statement an list, in wri-
ting, of such subscriptions. The stock olders, or a majority of them,
when so convened, shall proceed to elect from their number,.a president,
not less than twelve directors, (the number to be determined by the per-
sons named in the second section, or a majority of them,) a secretary,
and treasurer, and such other officers, agents and servants as said com-
pany may deem necessary, and may prescribe their duties, and fix their
obligations.

§ 4. The company shall cause to be kept a journal, in which shall be
recorded all the proceedings of the company, which shall be signed by
the resident and secretary, and the record or certified copy thereof,
shal be evidence in all matters between the said company and any mem-
ber thereof, and also between any members of the company.

§ 5. The capital stock of said company shall not exceed one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, and u on payment of said stock, or such se-
curity therefor as-may be agreed upon, a certilicate for each share shall
be issued to the subscriber, which certificate shall be transferable by as-
signment or delivery.

§ 6. The company by the name and style aforesaid, may have and hold
by purchase, bequest, or otherwise, real and personal property, and_may
again sell, use, lease, or in any manner dispose; of the same, to the use
of the company; provided, that the said company shall, as soon as prac-
ticable, proceed to build in the city of St. Louis atemperance hall or edi-
lice, and such other apartments thereto as may be agreed upon; but except
as individual members of the company the order of the Sons of Temperance,
as such, shall have the rights of property therein by virtue of this act; pro-
vided, however, that the order of the Sons of Temperance, and its di-

visions, shall enjoy the use of said Temperance Hall, and other apart-'

ments therein designed for its divisions, free of charge, under and sub-
ject, however, to the control and direction of the president and direc-
tors of said company. . '

F 7. Not less than two general meetings of the stockholders shall be
ca led in each year, and full settlements and statements of the adairs of
the company shall be made at least once in each and every year; and all
regulations and by-laws, providing for the election of directors and other
oliicers of the company, or for the transaction of any other business of
the company contemplated by this act, which shall be adopted by the
company, shall be good and binding on the members thereof, and a ma-
jority of the shares shall always be competent and necessary.

This act shall be a public act, and be in force from and after its pas-
sage, without limitation.

Approved February 27, 1849.

I

CORPORATIONS. . 139

A37 ACT ts incorporate Fayette Lod e.No. 47, of Ancient, Free,
and Accepted asons.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

1. That Robert P. Prewitt, Silas H. Runsbarger, and ,Newton G.
E 'ott, the master and wardens, and their associates, members of Fay-

” ette lodge, number 47, of Ancient, Free, and Accepted Masons, and

their regular successors, be and they are hereby created a body politic
and corporate, by the name and style of “Fayette Lodge, No. 47, of An-
cient, Free, and Accepted Masons,” andiby that name are hereby in-
vested with power and authority to acquire, hold, possess, occupy and
enjoy real property in or near the town of Fayette, Howard county, not
exceeding one half acre; and to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of the
same under the by—laws, rules, and regulations thereof; and the said cor-
poration, by its said name, shall be competent to contract and be contract-
ed with, to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded, answer and be an-
swered unto, defend and be defended, in all courts and places whatso-
ever; to have and use a common seal. and to alter the same at pleasure;
provided, that the powers hereby granted shall not be used for banking,
insuring, or any otherpurposes than those of improving, enjoying, and
disposing of the aforesaid real property, and of exercising the ordinary
functions of a masonic lodge.

§ 2. The right to re eal, alter, or amend this act at any future time,
is hereby reserved to the legislature; provided, that the said lod e may,
in a reasonable time after such repeal, sell and convey any reg estate
held by it for the benefit of said lodge.

Approved February 24, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the “ Saint Louis German Roman Catholic
Benevolent Society.”

Wnsanas, it has been represented to the General Assembly that an as-
sociation called the “Saint Louis German Roman Catholic Benevo-
lent Society,” has been formed and organized for the laudable pur-
pose of rendering aid and comfort to the members, and the families
of, the members thereof, in cases of accident, or sickness, or death,
and of making provision against the calamities to which the muta-
bility of earthly things renders men liable; and, whereas, for the
more complete organization of said society, it should be, invested
with certain corporate powers, and enjoy certain immunities and
privileges; now, therefore, in order to encourage so praiseworthy

and useful an institution, and give strength, permanency, and dig- .

nity to the same,

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. John Amend, Henry Niemyer, Anton Holle, William Roterman,
Peter Kuhlager, William Stuurwald, Franz Witte, and Herman Kline,

\

-140 . CORPORATIONS.

their associates and successors, be and they are hereby ordained, con-
stituted, and declared to be a body cor orate and politic, by the name
and style of the “Saint Louis German oman Catholic Benevolent So-
ciety,” and by that name they may have continual successors, and shall
be capable of suing and being sued, pleading and being impleaded, an-a
swering and being answered unto, defending and being defended, in all
courts and places whatever; that they and their successors may. have .a
common seal, and may change, alter, or break the same at their pleasure;
and that they and their successors shall be, in law, capable of holding,
purchaain , and conveying any estate, real, personal, or mixed, for the
use of said corporation; and shall hold and enjoy, in their corporate ca-
pacity, all the property, real, personal, or mixed, which the said society
now have, or hereafter may acquire; provided, the said corporation shall
not hold any real estate exceptsuch as may be necessary for the use and
convenience of said society.

 2. The said corporation shall have power to make._,a constitution and
by-laws for their government, and to alter and amend the same at plea-
sure; provided, that nothing therein contained shall be repugnant to the
laws of the land.

§ 3. The said corporation shall have power, by their by-laws, to regu-
late the election of their oflicers, and impose lines for malfeasance or
non-feasance in office, and ‘collect the same.

§ 4. In order to create a fund for the purchase of a house and lot for
the use of said corporation, they shall have power, by their by-laws, to
levy a contribution upon the members, impose fines for non—attendance,
and other dereliction, and enforce ayment of the same. The action and
operations of said corporation sh be confined to the objects and pur-
poses specilied in this act. '

§ 5. The corporation hereby created shall continue so long as it shall
faithfully and beneficially fulfil the objects and intention of its creation;
but the General Assembly, whenever satisfied that it has failed to ac-
complish these objects, or has violated its charter, may alter or repeal
the same.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage. '

Approved February 24, 1849.

'. -\/~./'»r~ .4\.r\xx;

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Liberty Female Academy, in Clay county,

Missouri.
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Edward M. Samuel, Samuel Ringo, Alvan Lightburn, John
T. Hughes, and William A. Morton, be and they are hereby constituted
and appointed a body corporate and politic, to be known by the name of
the trustees of the Liberty Female academy, and by that name shall
have perpetual succession, and a common seal; and may sue and be sued,
implead and be impleaded in any court of law or equity in this State;

CORPORATIONS. 141

and may purchase, receive, and hold any lands, tenements, heredita-
ments, goods, or chattels which may be given, devised to, or purchased
by them, for the use of said academy, an shall sell, convey, and dispose
of the saipe, ipl‘-suclli manner as they may deem most conducive to the
interest o sai aca emy. '
§ 2. The trustees of said academy shall have power to appoint a trea-
surer, and such professors, tutors, and oiiicers as may be deemed neces-
sary, and to_ make and establish, from time to time, such by-laws, rules,
and regulations as they may think necessary for the government of said
acaiillemg, not contrary to the constitution and laws of the United States
or t is tate.
§ 3. When any vacancy may happen in said board of trustees, or their
successors, the remaining trustees, or a majority of them, shall have full
power to nominate and appoint a suitable person or persons to supply
such vacancy, who shall be_vested with the same power and authority
as if es ecially named in this act.
-  4. ere shall be two stated meetings of said trustees annually, to-
wit: On the second Saturday of March and October; and the chairman
of the board of trustees, (who shall be chosen by said trustees,) at ‘the
request of two of the members, shall have power to call a ecial meet-
ing, by giving five days previous notice pf said meeting, ma'ority of
all theftrusttlees, slhall be capable of doing and transacting all t e busi-
ness o sai aca emy. A .
 5. The corporation hereby established, shall be subject to such gen-
eral regulations, as may be provided by law for the government of acad-
emies. ' .
This act shall take effect and be in force ‘from and after its passage.-
Approved February 5, 1849. ' .

‘ /'\/\/\/' IF‘/\o4\.r ‘~.J"- ' \a"

 

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis Commercial Insurance Company.

9 1. Style of company amount of capital. §8. Powers of the directory.

2. F. Kennett and o era, to open books. 9. 8tocl:_to be considered personal property.
3. Declared a bed olitic-—powers. 10. Additional powers of company.
4. What amount s I be pai before compa- ll. Policies, how attested.

ny can commence operations. 12. A portionment of stock in certain cases.
5. General were of corporation. 13. is act a public act; its duration.
6. A&in 0 company how conducted. 14. Certain privileges to inure after expiration
7. Duties of directors. . of charter.

§e it enacbd by the General Assembly qf the State qf Missouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. An insurance company, to be called the “Saint -Louis Commer-
cial Insurance Company,” shall be established in the City of St. Louis,

with a capital stock of fifty thousand dollars, which may be increased at -

the will of the stockholders to any amount not exceeding four hundred
thousand dollars, divided into shares of one hundred dollars each, to be
subscribed and paid for by individuals, companies, or corporations, in
the manner hereinafter specified.

142 , CORPORATIONS.

§ 2. Ferdinand Kennett, R. C. McAl.lister, Wait Barton, L. Picker-
ing, L. Riggis, N. Ranney, R. W. V. Kercheval,John Smith, J. D. House-
man, P. A. erthold, J. L. Cabanne, John S. Thomson, Thomas Web-
ster, J. Sigerson, J. E. -Woodruff, and E. R. Mason, or any three of them
shall be, and they are hereby authorized to open books for subscription
in said city for the capital stock of said company, on the first Monday
in April next, and keep them open every day from ten o’clock in the
forenoon, until four o’clock in the afternoon, for the space of six days,
when the same shall be closed. If within the said six days five hundred
shares shall have been subscribed for, it shall be lawful for the subscri-
bers to meet, after fifteen days notice given in some newspaper printed
in the City of St. Louis, and choose their directors, who may, at any

time after ten days public notice given, cause the subscription books to.

be opened, and to continue open until the whole amount of said stock
shall have been taken.

§ 3; The subscribers for the stock of the company aforesaid, their’as-
sociates, successors and assigns, shall be and they are hereby, ordained,
constituted and declared a body corporate and politic, by the name and

style of the “Saint Louis commercial Insurance Company,” and by that

name they and their successors shall have perpetual succession, and
shall be capable in law and e uity, of contracting and being contracted
with, of suing and being sue , of impleading and being impleaded, of
answering and being answered unto, of defending and being defended
against, in all courts and places whatever, in allmanner of actions, suits,
eoniplaints and causes, and they and their successors may have and use
a common seal, which may be changed or altered at pleasure.

. . § 4. The payment of the stock subscribed shall be made and comple-
ted by the subscribers respectively, at_,the time, and in the manner fol-
lowing, that is to say, after the election of directors, and before the
company shall go into operation, there shall be paid upon each share ten
dollars, and the balance upon each share shall be subject to the call -of
the directors; and the said company shall not be authorized to make
any policy or contract of insurance, until the whole amount of shares

‘ subscribed shall be actually paid, or satisfactorily secured to he paid,

on demand, by approved notes, by hypothecated stocks, or by ‘mortgage

. on real estate.

§ 5. The corporation hereby created, shall have full power and au-
thority to make all kinds of insurance against losses on goods, chattles,
wares and merchandize, in the "course of transportation, whether hap-
pening on the land or on the water; to make all kinds of insurances upon
ives; and to make such other insurances as they may deem expedient;
to lend money upon respondentia and bottomry; to lend their surplus or
unemployed capital or money on interest, at such rates as private indi-
vidua s may from time to time be allowed by law to receive; and gen-
erally to do and perform all necessary matters and things relativie to, or
connected with these objects, or with either of them; and ‘they may also
cause themselves to be insured against risks upon their interests which
they may have in any vessel, goods, chattles, wares or merchandise, in
virtue of any such loans, on bottomry or respondortia.

§ 6. The stock and affairs of the company aforocmicl, or corporation,
shall be managed and conducted by five directors, who Shall be residents

conponarrons. 143

of this State; they shall after the first year, be elected on the first Mon-
day in April in each year, at such time and place in the City of St.
Louis, as the board of directors for the time being shall appoint, and
shall hold their offices for one year, and until others shallbe chosen, and
no longer; ten days public notice of such election shall be previously
given; and the election shall be held under the inspection of three
stockholders, to be previously appointed by the board of directors for
that purpose, and shall be made by ballot, by plurality of the stockhold-
ers present, allowing one vote for every share; and stockholders not
personally present may vote by proxy, made in writing, directly to the
person representing them at such election. In case that it should hap-
pen at any time, that an election of directors should not be made on any
day when pursuant to this act it ought to have been made, the said cor-
poration shall not for that cause be deemed to be dissolved, but it shall
and may be lawful, on any other day, to make and hold an election of
directors, in such manner as shall be regulated by the by-laws and ordi-
nances of the company. ’

§ 7. The directors chosen regularly by the stockholders of said com-
pany, shall, as soon as may be, after every annual election, proceed to
choose out of their body one person to be president, who shall preside
until the next annual election thereafter; or in case of the death or re-
signation of the president, or any director, the vacancy may be filled by
the board of directors; and in case of the absence of the president, the
board of directors shall have power to appoint a pfesident pro tempore,
who shall have all the powers, and perform all‘the duties of the president
regularly chosen.

§ 8. The,directors may, by the by-laws or ordinances of said compa-
ny, direct what number of directors shall constitute a board, and be
competent for the transaction of the business of the corporation; and _
they shall have power, subjectto said by-laws, to appoint from their own
body, one or more personsto act, or assist in the performance of the
business of the company, with uch salaries and allowances as they may
think proper; and also to appoint a secretary, and such clerks and other
servants as they may deem expedient; and they shall have power also
to declare and make dividends of the profits of the business arising from
the company; and make and prescribe such by-laws, rules and regula-
tions, as to them may seem proper, touching the business and interests
of said company; provided, that a majority of the whole number of di-
rectors shall be necessary to make any‘such by-laws. .

§ 9. The stock of said com any shall he considered personal proper-
ty, and shall be assignable an tranferable, according to such rules and
ratrictions, and, as the board of directors shall, from time to time, make
and establish; subject, however, to the laws of this State, as the same
exist, or may be changed hereafter. . . (

§ 10.’ It shall be lawful for said company to purchase and hold such -
real estate, as may be convenient for the transaction of its business, not
exceeding twenty thousand dollars in value; and also to take and hold
any real estate as a security, or in mortgage, or in pledge,to secure the
payment of debts, due in good faith to said company, either for shares
of capital stock, or otherwise; and also to purchase real estate at any
sale made in virtue of any judgment at law, or decree in equity,‘ made

144 ‘ CORPORATIONS.

in favor of said company; to receive and take in satisfaction of any debt
previously due to said com‘pany, any real estate; to hold all such real
estate, except that herein rst mentioned, (which is intended for the or-
dinary use and accommodation of the company,) so long only as shall be
necessary to enable said company to make sale of the ame, for money
or other personal property; but it shall not be lawful for the said com-
pagy tpruse and] empilotyg guy parrgzsof idtsnptpclllc, falllds or capital, in buying
an se in goos ca es wa an ecanise.

§ 11. A l policies or contracts of insurances which may be made or
entered into by said'corporation, shall be subscribed by the president, or
president pro tempore, or by such other otiicers as shall be designated
for that purpose hy the by-laws, and attested by the secretary; and being so
signed and attested, shall be binding upon said corporation, without the
seal thereof, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and meaning
of such (policies and contracts; and all such policies and contracts may
be signe and carried “on without the. presence of the board of directors,
by assistants or committees, if done in conformity with the by-laws, shall
be bindin upon the company to all intents and purposes.

§ 12. I a greater amount of stock be subscribed for than is contemplated
in the first and second sections of this act, the same shall be apportioned
among the subscribers in such equitable manner as the directors shall
ap oint. ‘ ' . -

£13. This act shall be, and is hereby declared to be, a public act,
an the same shall be construed as such. This act shall take effect and
be in force from and after the passage thelreof, and shall continue in force
for the term of twenty-five years and no onger. .

§ 14. Notwithstanding the expiration of the term or period for which
the said corporation is created, it shall be lawful to use the corporate
name, style, and capacity, for the purpose of suits for the final settle-
ment and liquidation of the affairs and accounts of the corporation, and
for the sale and disposition of their estate, real, personal and mixed, but

. not for any other purpose, or in any other manner whatever.

Approved January 24, 1849.

 5\/\Y\f./&.%.5/‘X /'\./’~..fw ‘\-

AN ACT to incorporate the Saint Louis Marine Railway and Dock
‘ Company.

§ 1. Company established; amount of stock. ‘
2. Books of siibscri tion to be_ opened; by
whom; when an where.

rection election held; how made; ‘stock-
holders may_vote by proxy.

 

3. Declared a body corporate and politic; ed, &c.
name and style; may have seal. 7. Board how constituted; their powers and
4. Amount of stock to be paid in before com- duties.
pan shall go into operation. 8. Stock considered personal property.

 

shall be stockholders; when elected and 10. Additional powers of the cdmpany.
where; term of service; under whose di- 1]. Contracts of company; how made; their

5. By w om managed and conducted; who E 9.- Privileges of the company.
§ force, tic.

0

§ 6. Directors; duties of; president how appoint- _

; conronarrons. - 145

Be it enacted by tlae General .«2ssembly Q/‘(he State tflllissoziri, asfollows:

‘§ 1. That a marine railway and dock compan shallbe established in
the county of St. Louis, _with a capital stock o forty thousand dollars,
which may be increased atthe will of the stockholders of said company
to any amount not exceeding one hundred "thousand dollars, divided‘in-
to shares of onehundred dollars each, to be subscribed and paid for by
individuals, companies or corporations, in the manner hereinafter speci-

tied. ‘

. 2. That Peter Brooks, Joseph Throckmorton, Thomas O’Flaherty,
_- Jo S. McCu'ne, C. T. McSheny and Samuel Gaty, having given pub-
" licpnotice, be and they are hereby authorized to open books of subscrip-

tion in said city, for the capital stock'of said company, on the lirst Mon-

day in April next, and "keep them open every day from ten o’clock, A.

M.,‘ tillthree o’clock P. M., for six days, when the same shall b'e closed,

if within the six days ‘four hundred shares shall be subscribed for, it

shall be lawful for thesubscribers to meet after ten days’ notice shall‘

have been given of the time and place of the election, and ‘choose their
directors, who may at any time after ublic notice given, cause the sub-
Wcription books to be re-opened and’ to continue open until the whole
amount shall be taken; provided, that, should any thing occur to prevent
the openin of the books for subscription on the first day of April next,
as provide , it may be lawful for said commissioners ‘to open books for
subscription. on any day within the year eighteenhundred and forty-nine,
on giving due notice of the same. b '
‘ § 3. That the subscribers for the stock of said company, their asso-
_ciate.s, successors and assigns, shall be and they are hereby ordained,
constituted‘ ‘and declared a body corporate and politic, in name and in
fact by the name and style of the “St. Louis Marine Railway and Deck
Company,” and by that name they and their successors shall have per-
petual succession and be capable in law-of ‘contracting and being con-
.tracted with, of sueing and being sued, ofiimpleading and being im-
pleaded, of answer-in and being answered unto, of ‘defending and ‘being
defended against in a l courts and places whatever, in all manner of "ac-
tions, suits, complaints and causes, and they and their successors may
have and use a common seal, and may change, alter and break the

' same at pleasure. ' A ’
§ 4. That after the election of directors and before the company shall
a into operation, there shall be paid of the capital stock, forty thousand

ollars, the balance to be subject to the call of the directors. '
§6. That the stock and affairs of the said company or corporation
shall be managed and conducted by seven directors who shall be stock-
holders of said company and residents within the State; they shall after
the Erst year be elected on thetirst Monday of April in each year, at
such. time and place in «the city of St. Louis, as the board of directprs
for the time bein shall appoint and shall’ hold theiroflices for one year
and until others a all be chosen to supply their places and no longer, ‘ten
days public notice of such election shall be previously iven, and the
dection shall be held under the inspection of three stoc holders to be
previously appointed by the board of directors for that purpose, and
shall be made by ballot, by a plurality of the votes of theustockholders

r I  —_ .

C‘

I46 .com=ona'rroNs.

present, allowing one vote for each share and stockholders not personal-
y present may vote by proxy made in writing directly to the person
representingt cm at such election. In case that it shoul-.1 .happen at
any time, that an election of directors should not be made on any day
when pursuant to this act it ought to have been made, the said corpor-
ation shall not for that cause be deemed to be dissolved, but it shall and
may be lawful on, any other day to hold and make an election of direc-
tors in such manner as shall be regulated by‘the by-laws and ordinances
of. the company. _

§ 6. Tint directors regularly chosen by the stockholders of ' said com-
pany, shall as soon as may be necessary after every annual electiong.
proceed to choose out of their body, one person to be resident,_ whb
shall preside until the next annual election thereafter, an, in case of the
death or-resignation of the president or of any director, the vacancy
may be filled by the board of directors, and in case of the absence of the
presidenttheboard of directors shall have power to appoint a president
pro tempore who shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of

_ the president regularly chosen.

§ 7. That the major art of the directors of said company shall con-
stitute a board and shal be com etent to the transaction of the business
of the corporation and they shal have power (subject to the by-laws)
to appoint from their own body, one or more persons to act or assist in
the performance of the business of the company with such salaries and
allowances as they maythinl: proper, and also to appoint a secretary and
such clerks and other servants as they may deem expedient and they
shall also have power to declare and make dividends of the profits ari-
sin from the business of the company, and make and prescribe such
by-(laws, rules and regulations as to them shall seem proper, touching

the business and interests of said company.
§ 8. That the stock of the company shall be considered personal

property and shall be assignable and transferrable according to such

_ rules and restrictions as the board of directors shall from time to time

make and establish, subject however, to the general laws of this State
as the same now exist or may be changed hereafter. .

§ 9. That it shall be lawful for said company to purchase and hold
such real estate as may be convenient for the transaction of its business
not exceeding thirty thousand dollars in value, and also to take and hold
any real estate as a security or in mortgage or pledge to secure the pay-
ment of debts due in good ‘faith to the said company, and also to pur-
chase real estate at any sales made in’ virtue of any judgment at law or
decree in equity made in favor of saidcompany, and to receive and
take, in satisfaction of any debt previously due to said company, any
real estate, to hold all such real estate except that herein first mention-

_ ed (which is intended for the ordinary use and accommodation of the

company.) So long only as may be necessary to enable said company
to make sale of the same for money or other personal property; but it
shall not be lawful for the said company to use or employ any part of its
stock, funds or money in buying and selling goods, wares and merchan-
disc; nor in brokerage operations or business; nor in the purchase and
sale of any stock or funded debt created by or under any act of the
United States or any particular State; nor to emit any notes or bills, or
make any contract for the payment of money, except in the line 01 the

oonromu-Ions. 147

I
t

ordinary business of said _ corporation; but it shall nevertheless be law-
ful for said company to purchase and hold any such stock or funded
debts as aforesaid for the purpose of vesting any part of the stock, funds
or money of said company therein, to be made available in the line of
its ordinary business and also to sell and transfer the same and re-invest
the roceeds thereof in other stock or funded debt, when and as often
as’ c e ' enciesgof the said corporation may require.

§ 10. [flint it shall be lawful for‘said company to purchase, establish,

build or construct a dock or docks, a marine railway or railways of any

kind or description, and all implements, tackle and machinery whatso-
eye:-, necessary for the purpose of raising steam boats and other vessels
free from the water and for making repairs thereon, with the right of
using and disposing of the same at pleasure and to purchase, hold and
use ‘agsemuch ground upon the river bank as may be necessary for a per-
 location of said docks and marine railways and for the purpose
of ‘repairing steamboats and other vessels raised on said docks and rail-
ways, and to employ such suitable person or ersons as may be neces-
sary to superintend the management of said oclrs and the repairing of
steam boats and other vessels raised thereon, to employ such mechanics
and other persons, and to purchase such timber and other materials for
the repairing of steamboats and other vessels raised thereon, and for the
construction of other docks and marine railways for their own use and
for the use of others, and to make and prescribe such by-laws, rules and
regulations,» and to do and perform all such matters and things touchin
the business of said company as may be necessary to the proper and fuld
exercise of its business, not inconsistent with ‘the provisions ‘of this act.

§ 11. That all contracts which may’ be made or entered into by the.
saidicorporation shall be subscribed by the president or the president
pro tempore, or by such other otlicer, as shall be designated for that pur-
posa".bythe by-laws and attested by thesecretary, and being so attested
andisfgned, shall be binding upon said corporation without the seal there-
of ‘gedording to the tenor and efect, true intent and meaning of such
contracts, and all such contracts may be so signed and attested, and the
business of _said corporations may be otherwise carried on and conduct-
ed without the presence of the board of directors by assistants or com-
mitteesto be appointed for such purpose, and the acts of such assistants
or comngittees, If done in conformity with the by-laws, shall be binding
upon company to all intents and. purposes.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved January 18, 1849.

vvv~w.&\/v A ‘J ./‘.’\I\/\/\r"u/\l\/V'\'

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act to incorporate the city‘ of
Lexington,” approved March 8th, 1845. ' ‘

Be it engcted by the General ./Zssembly the State qf Missouri, as,/bllows:

§ 1. All that district of country lying within the following limits: Begin-
ning at a stonejat the north.-xest corner of the city of Lexington, near the

l48 CORPORATIONS.

Missouri river, and near the mouth of Lower Mill creek, and being at the
junction of the south side of Water street, and the east side_of Lower Mill
street; thence on a straight line to the north-east corner of the lot of ground
on which the Masonic college is erected; thence south along the eastern line
of said college lot to the south-east corner thereof; thence on a straightline
to the north-east corner of the town of Lexington; the-nce_south along the
eastern boundary of said town to the south-east corner thereof; thence west
one hundred and eight chains and eighty-nine links to a stake in the original
boundary of said city; thence south 41 degrees, west 13 43-100 chains to a
stake; thence north 41 degrees, west live 20-100 chains to a stake; thence
south 4! degrees, west four 50-100 chains to a stake; thence north 39 de-

rees west to the middle of the main channel of the Missouri river; thence

own the middle of the main channel of the Missouri river to a point in the
middle of the main channel of said river, immediately north of the begin-
ning corner of said city; thence south to the beginning, shall be and the
same is hereby declared the limits of the city of Lexington.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate Jones’ Commercial College.

§ 1. gppointrrient 0;‘ professors, are. P 5. Further powers of President and profes-
2. owerso pro essors. sors.
3. Duty of President. 6. Limitation of corporations. -

4. Powers and duties of President.

Wnnruras, It has been represented to the General Assembly of this State,
that great and important advantages would accrue to the commercial
community of the city of Saint Louis by the incorporating of a com-
mercial college to educate young men for mercantile pursuits, and
afford facilities to such persons as may wish a scientific knowledge of
double entry book-keeping, commercial calculations, commercial law,
and penmanshi ; and whereas, for the promotion of this object, it is
the design of t e association hereinafter mentioned to procure or erect
such ‘buildings as may be suited to the wants of the association. Now,
therefore, in order to encourage and facilitate the aforesaid object, and
render the same more permanently and extensively useful,

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qfMz'ssaurz', asfollows:

§ 1. That Jonathan Jones, public accountant and principal of a commer-
cial school in the city of Saint Louis, be, and he is hereby empowered to
associate with him competent professors to fill the following chairs, to wit:
one for double entry book-keeping, one for commercial law,one for commer-
cial calculations, and one for penmanship, the same,(when thus appointed,) in
company with the said Jonathan Jones, shall, to all intents and purposes,
be, in law, a body corporate; and they, their associates and successors, are
hereby created, constituted and declared to he a body corporate and politic,
by the name and style of “Jones’ commercial college,” and by that harm:

oonroasrrons. 149 _

they may have perpetual succession, and shall be capable of sueing and
being sued, pleading and being impleaded, answering and being answered
«unto, defending and being defended, in all courts and places whatsoever;
that they and their successors may have a common seal, and alter, change
or break the same at will, and that they may be capable,in law, of acquiring,
holding and conveying so much property, real, personal and mixed, as may
be necqlsary and requisite for the association, in the furtherance of its ob-
jects, netekceedin g fifty thousand dollars. ' ' '
 That the said Jonathan Jones, his associates and their successors, shall
have ' A power to grant diplomas, award such degrees, confer such honors,
and orerciseall and singular the privileges common to commercial colleges,
authorizedby law, in other States; they shall have the power to appoint their
own st1o_:cessots,and such additional professors and servantsas may be neces-
sary’to_ carry into effect the designs of this association; provided, nothing in
this section be so construed as to condict with section fourth of this act.
§3"-.-. When‘ five or more students shall have completed a full course in
double’ entry hook-keeping, commercial calculations and commercial law,
and acquired a legible hand writing, (or shall otherwise satisfy the president
as to their competency,) then it-shall be the duty of the said president or his

representative, by and with the advice and consent of the candidates for ‘

graduation, their parents or guardians, to appoint a‘ committee of not less
than three, nor more than live practical accountants, whose duty it shall be
to examine the aforesaid candidates in allmf the above branches, and if the
said committee award a certificate, setting forth their competency to take
charge of a set of books, ‘and perform the duties of an accountant, scientifi-
cally and practically, then section second shall remain in full force; but in
no case shallaediploma be awarded, except upon the recommendation of the
committvhey i

§ 4. That the said Jonathan Jones shall be the first president; he, and his,

successors, in the otiice of resident, shall have the power to fill, suspend
and vacate all or either of t e above chairs, at option, by serving a written
notice upon the professor to be suspended or removed at least thirty days
prior to such removal; provided, always,‘ that nothing in this section be so
construed as to confer the power to said president, or his successors, to per-
manently vacate, alter or add to the number of professors in section first of
thisf'ac‘t;except that of the professor of mathematics, whose chair may be
addfe‘d’«t6’_thelt of the president. ' '

§' 51 _That the said president and professors shall be a board for the overn-
ment of this institution; they and their associates and successors sha l have
the power to make their own by-laws; provided, nothing therein conflict
with the laws of the land, or the provisions of this act, a ‘

§6. That this corporation, hereby created, shall continue so long as it
faithfully observes the objects of its institution; but the General Assembly.
whenever satisfied that it has failed to pursue the above objects, may alter or
repeal the-same.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved January 24, 1849. ‘

 

\

150 ‘ conronarrons.
A AN ACT to incorporate Chapel Hill College.

§ J1. Trustees vested with corporate powers;* 3._Further powers of trustees.
style of corporation. 4. Corporation may. have a seal, &c.
2. Powers and duties of board of trustees. 5. Property, how appropriated, to.

Wncnzas, The literary institution established in Lafayette county, entitled
“Chapel Hill Seminary,” was founded, and has been supported by A.
W. Ridings; and whereas, for the purpose of giving permanence, ele-
vation and extensive usefulness to this institution, it is the desire of its
founder, with the aid of such friends of learning, as may concede it a
claim to their confidence and liberality, to raise for it a sutlicient endow-
ment, and to place it under the direction of an incorporated board of
curators, who shall conductit on the principles of its foundation,namely,
as an institution purely literary, afiording instruction in ancient and
modern languages. the sciences and liberal arts, and not instituting any
regulations which would render a place in its classes offensive to reason-
able liberal minded persons, whatever may be their religious persuasions.
Therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the corporate powers shall be, and are hereby vested in a board
of trustees, to consist of a number not less than ten, nor greater than seven-
teen, to be known and designated by the name and title of the “board of
trustees of Chapel Hill college,” which board shall have power, from time to
time, to till all vacancies in their body by the vote of a majority of two-thirds
of all the trustees who shall be in otiice, and that Archibald W. Ridin s.
Robcrt~C. Ewing,Nathaniel W. Calhoun, Albert A. Moore and William .
C. Ewing, of the county of Lafayette, and George Woodward,of the county
of Ray, and John Lewis, Samuel H. Woodson, Warham Easley, Anthony L.
Davis and Waldo, of the county of Jackson, and Benjamin F. Wal-
lace, of the county of Henry, and John Gallimoore, of the county of "Van
Buten, and Andrew Robinson, of the county of Clay, and Brinkley Hornsby,
of the county of Johnson, shall be the first members of said board.

§2. That said board of trustees may displace any of its members who
shall become disqualilied for their duties by age, infirmity of body or mind,
or shall neglect their duties, from a disregard of the interests of the institu-
tion, and may, by election, as provided in section first, supply the seats so
forfeited. -

§ 3. That said board of trustees, and their successors forever, shall have
full power and authority to appoint all such ofiicers and servants as they
shall judge convenient and useful; to displace the same, and to declare the
tenures, duties and emolments of their respective ofiices; to enact and en-
force by reasonable penalties, or otherwise, all such statutes and ordinances
as they may deem expedient, as well for the better management of the reve-
nues and proprietary interests of the college, as for the advancement of piety,
science and learning, so that the same be not repugnant to the laws of the
land; to confer degrees and distinguish merit by such literary honors and
rewards as they may judge proper, and, generally, to possess and enjoy all
those powers, rights and privileges usually exercised by colleges; provided,
no corporate business shall be_ transacted at any meeting unless seven mem~
hers be present, which number shall be a quorum.

 

 151

§ 4. That said corporation shall have a common seal, and all deeds and
other instruments signed and delivered by the treasurer of said board, and
sealed with said common seal, by order of the board. shall be, in law, the act
of said corporation. Said corporation may contract and be contrrzcted with,

and may sue and be sued, by said Corporate name, in all actions, real, perso- t

nal and mixed, and may receive and hold by gilt, grant, devise, or
otherwise,any lands. tenemcntsand hereditaments, money. rents, goods,
chattels and effects which are given, granted or devised to, or purchased by

. said trustees for the use of said college, and may sell, mortgage, lease or dis-

pose of the same in such a manner as may be judged most expedient for the
interests oi said college. .

§ 5. That the property and funds of said college shall be appropriated by
the board to the endowment and supportof said institution in such manner
as shall most e§r-ctually promote virtue, piety and learning; provided, that
no property or funds, given for a specilied purpose, sha l be appropriated in
behalf of any objects other than those intended by the donors.

That theperson lirst named in the board of trustees be, and he is hereby
authorized to fix the time and place of holding the lirst meeting of said board,
of which he shall give notice in writing to each of the trustees, at least five‘
days previous thereto.

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.

Approved January I6, 1849.

   

AN ACT to amend an act entitled an act to incorporate Chapel Hill
College.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly qftlte State of Missouri, as follows:
’ ' t

6 1. That there be prefixed to, and read in connexion with an not passed
during the present session of the General Assembly entitled “ 11 act" to

incorporate Chapel Hill College,” the enactin<.! clause required by the thirty- ’

sixth section of the third articie of the constitution of this State.
This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 16, I849.

'\/\f'\/'\/'\’\’\/\3'\f\’V\P\"\f\/\I\"‘s}\ 4\f‘/\f\/\f\I‘

AN ACT to incorporate Miami Academy.

§ 1. Academy where established. ) 7. Further additional powers.
2. P. D. Booker and others,a body politic. 3 8. Each share to have one vote. ‘
3. Building, how used. 2 9. Duties of trustees.
4. Trustees, tenure of office. 8 10. Further were of trustees.
5. Election of trustees, when held. \ 11. Annual ividends.
6. Powers of trustees. f

Be it enacted by the General ./Qsscmbly of the State of Zlfissouri, as follows:

$1. An academy isherjcby established in the town, of Miami, county of
Sn 'ne. .

.
» I

152 ceaponxrions.

§ 2. Pink D. Booker, John Brown, Wm. S. Brown, Daniel R. Parsons,
and John B. Herring, having been electt-d by the stockholders in the
building erected tor the purpose, are hereby constituted a body. corporate
and politic, by the name and style of “ Trustees of Miami Academy,” and as
such, shall have perpetual succession and aQommon seal, and may contract

and ‘ac contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in any _

court Ol law and equity.

§3. The building having been erected ly the stockholders, the first or
lower story for an academy, and thelupper story for a Masonic Hall or
Lodge, shall he used by the trustees for these purposes respectively.

§4. The trustees above named shall hold their office for one year from
the 1st day of.l-anuary, 1849, and until their successors are elected.

§ 5. an election of trustees shall he held annually, on the las-tSaturday in
December, and shall have power to fill any vacancy which may occur in
the board from death, resignation, or otherwise; a majority of whom shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

§ 6. Theytrustees of said academy shall have power to purchase, receive,
and hold any lands or tenements now held, or hereafter acquired by them,
for the use of said academy, not exceeding in value fifty thousand dollars.

§7. The trustees shall have power to issue certificates of stock to the
individuals of the company, which shall be held and disposed of by them as
any other property, by giving notice of the same to the trustees; provided,
said disposition does not conflict with the third section of‘ this act.

§ 8. In election of trustees, each share shall be entitled to one vote.

§ 9. It shall be the duty of the trustees to lease or dispose of said building
as they may deem most advantageous to the cause of education, having due
regard for the interest of the stockholders; provided, that it shall not be
disposed of by them for any other purposes than those for which it was
erected. N —

§ 10. The trustees shall have power to take and receive subscriptions to
.-aid academy, and in case any person fail to pay his or her subscription. they
shall have power to enforce the payment thereof, before any court having

jurisdiction of the same.

§ II. It shall be the duty of the trustees to make an annual dividend on
the morning of the last Saturday in December, and pay over the same to
the stockholders, in amounts proportioned to the number of shares held by

each.
Approved February 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Mammoth Mining Company.

§l. Number of company; amount of stock; g 5. Powers of the board of directors.
declared a body corporate ; powers. ( 6; Books to be open to inspection.
2. First board of directors; their powers and g 7. Stock assi nable, &c.

duties. E 8. Powers 0 the company.
3. Three thousand dollars being subscribed; 9. Dividends annually declax ed.
first meeting shall be held.  10. Election of directors may be held, when .

4. President; bow and when elected.  1]. Limitation of existencelof corporation.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssembly Q/' the State of Jllissouri, asfollows:
§l. A company is hereby created and incorporated, to be called the

coaponu-tons. A 163

Mammoth Mining Company; with a capital stock of fourhuudred thousand
dollars, divided into shares of twenty dollars each; and the holders of said
stock, their associates, successors, and assigns shall be a body corporate, and
by that name shall have continued succession, shall have power to sue and
be sued, plead and be impleaded,defend and be defended against, may have,
use, alter, and renew a common seal; may make contracts, and conveyances;
acquire, hold, use, and enjoy real estate for the purposes of said company,
and dispose of the same; and shall have power to make rules, regulations,
and by~laws, for the government of said company, not repugnant to the
laws and Constitution of the United States. or of this State.

§ 2. James Hun t, Alexander Vancourt, David A. Hunt, James N .Reading,
Charla- Bairtles, Samuel K. Hamilton, Peter J. Clark, and Thomas Taylor,
or any live of them, shall constitute the first board of directors of said
company; they shall hold their oliices until their successors shall be elected
and quali6ed; they shall have power to cause books to be opened for the
subscription of the capital stock of said company, at such times and places,
and in such manner as they may direct, and may cause the same to be closed
and reopened, when they may deem proper, until the whole of the capital
stock of said company shall be subscribed.

§ 3. Whenever five thousand shares of said stock shall be subscribed, said
directors shall cause a meeting of the stockholders to be held, at such time
and place as they shall desi nate, and adyertize; and at such meeting the
stockholders shall elect live irectors to superintend and conduct the business
of said company; they shall hold their oliices until their successors shall be
elected and qualilied; and live directors shall be elected every year thereafter,

at such time and place, and in such manner, as shall be provided, by the _

by-laws of the company.

§4. Soon after the election of said directors, they shall meet and organize
as a board of directors, and shall elect one of their number president, who
shall hold his oliice for the term for which he was elected director. and until
his successor shall be elected and qualilied, and shall do such other business
of the company as may be necessar .

§5. The board of directors shall have power to control the funds and
property, and conduct the business of said compan ; to appoint. control,
and remove otiicers, agents, and servants, to prescri e their duties, and fix
their compensation; to make contracts for the company; and to adopt such
measures as they may deem best calculated to promote its prosperity and
usefulness. i A ,

§ 6. The board of directors shall keep fair and correct books and accounts,
and shall at every annual meeting make to said company a full and fair exhibit
of its business and accounts; and shall make a re ort of the amount of its
business and receipts, when required, to the genera assembly; and the books
of said company shall be always open to the inspection of a committee
appointed by the general assembly.

§7, The stock of said company shall be assignable; every stockholder
shall have one vote for each share held by him, and he may vote by proxy;
every person shall cease to be a member of said company so soon as he shall
cease to be a stockholder, and no delinquent stockholder shall be entitled to
a yote in said company. The directors may call for the payment of the
whole or any part of said stock at any time by giving thirty days notice of
such call, insome newspaper published in this State, and it any stockholder
shall fail to pay the amount called for, for ten days after the time when it

154 qourou-rtosrs.

ought to be paid, the directors may declare his stock forfeited, and cause
the same to be sold. ,

§ 8. Said company shall have power and authority to carry on the business
of mining, smelting, and manufacturing, in the counties of Washington,
Jefferson, and Franklin; and for that purpose may acquire, hold, use, and
enjoy, and transfer real and personal estate in said counties, and may erect
buildings, machinery, and other improvements, and use the same in its
business; and may sink shafts, erect steam engines, mills, furnaces, bloomeries,
foundries, and other establishments necessary or useful in mining, smelting,
and manufacturing ores, metals, and minerals, and may construct roads,
causeways and railroads in connection with their works, and may do such
other lawful acts as may be necessary and proper to carry on said business
successfully and prosperously. . '

§ 9. Dividends of the profits of said company shall be declared annually,
but the directors may reserve a portion of the profits as a contingent fund
to meet losses and expenditures; and the capital stock of said company shall
never be impaired by such dividends.

§ 10. If any election of directors of said company shall not be held at the
appointed time, an election shall be held at some other time to be designated
by the directors.

§ 11. Said company shall go into operation within one year after the
'passage of this act, and this act of incorporation shall continue in full force

- for twenty-five years.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

   

_—

\

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis Horticultural Society.

§ I. Corporation declared; its at le, object, sec. 3. Present constitution and by-laws binding
2. Corporation may havea seal; its powers. i until changed.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssemblyqf the State Qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Thomas Allen, Lewis Bissell, William Milburn, James Blake,
iW1lliatn Salisbury, Edward Haren, A. B. Chambers, E. Mallenchrodt,
F. M. Meline, F. E. Robinson, James Turner, Nicholas Rich], and James
Sigerson and their associates and successors, forever, are hereby con-
stituted a body corporate, by the name of “The Saint Louis Horticul-
tural Society,” for the urposes of encouraging horticulture and rural
art, and improving rura taste.

§ 2. The corporation hereby created may have a common seal, and
change the same at pleasure, may contract and be contracted with, sue
and be sued, acquire, purchase, hold, mortgage and sellreal and, person-
a1 estate for the purposes aforesaid, and may make and enforce such

constitution, regulations and by-laws, as may be requisite for the good

government of the‘ corporation, and not inconsistent with the public
aw.

conronarroxs. 155

§ 3. The constitution and by-laws of said society now in force, shall
govern the corporation hereby created until regularly altered, or repeal-
ed by the society; and the present otiicers 09 said society shall be the
officers of the corporation hereby created, until their respective terms

of oflice expire or be vacated.
Approved February 10, i849.

~t\/'\/\/\I'v‘\r\»'\#'\/\/\r'\/\I'\f'\/'\/\

 

AN ACT to amend an act to incorporate the .Home Mutual Insurance
Company of St. Louis.

I

§ 1. Cpiunty director in certain counties; con-z 5. Fifth’ secti‘on of preceding act repealed;
itions. duties un er twenty-second section.‘
2. Members in counties, their rights and du- g  totvolte by proxy given.
ties. . . res: en - 18 powers.

3. Duties of count or district director. 2 8. The amount to be represented by a vote.
4. May act as Ioc agents; duties. '« 9. Duties of Directors.

Be it enacted by the General .«9ssembl;y qf the State qf Missouri, asfollosvs:

§ 1. In every county in which property to the amount of twenty-Eve
thousand dollars is insured by said company, there shall be a county di-
rector; and any two ad’. ining counties in which property to the amount
of twenty-five thousan dollars is insured, may be associated together,
so as to form a district, and shall be entitled to selecta district director.

§ 2. The members of the company in such county or district, shall on
the iirst Monday in A ril in each year, meet at the county seat, or at
some other suitable place, and elect a county or district director; the
person receivin a majority of the votes shall be county or district di-
rector, and shal hold his oflice for one year, and until his successor shall
be qualified; he shall receive a certificate of his election, signed by all
the members of the company in such county or district, who desire him
to act as such director. If no election shall be held at the time appoint-
ed, such county or district director may be appointed by a written pow-
er signed by a majority of the members of the company in such county
or district. '

§ 3. The county or district director, shall attend the annual meetings
of said company, and may attend any other meetings thereof; and in all
elections of directors, and in the decision of all other questions that may
be brought before said company, he shall cast the votes of all the mem-
bers of the company in his district or county, who are not present, and
who are not otherwise s ecially represented. If any county or district
director cannot attend t e annual or other meetings of the company, he
may authorize some other person by a‘ written power, to act in such
meetin as he himself would do if he were present.

§ 4. he county and district directors shall act as local a ents of said
company, in their respective districts and counties, and she I have a su-
periutending control over the affairs of the company; they shall hear
evidence, collect information, and «adjust losses that may happen
in their respective districts, ‘and transmit a correct account and

156 CORPORATIONS.

.statement of their ‘proceedings to the oflice of“ the-company at St. Louis;

which shall be received as evidence of the truth of the statements

» therein made.

§ 5. The fifth section of an act to which this amendatory, and which
was approved on the 28th of March, in the year 1845, is hereby repeal-
ed, and the twenty-second section of said act is so modified as to re-
quire the directors to make an annual report to _the company, and a bi-
ennial report to the general assembly.

§ 6. Powers to vote by proxy in said company shall be in writing, shall
state the name of the person authorized to cast the votes, and s all be
signed by the member or members from whom the powers are received,
and they shall not be required to acknowledge the same before a public
oiiicer. If such powers be given to a county or district director, he shall
judge of the ‘genuineness of the signatures thereto, and shall cast the
votes of the persons for whom he acts.

§ 7. The president of said company shall have ppwer to approve and
confirm, or to reject, any assignment of any policy issued by said compa-
ny, and every such approval shall be in writing.

§8. Every person who shall have property insured in said company
to the amount of iive hundred dollars or less, shall be entitled to one
vote in the election of directors, and in the decision of all other ques-
tions in said com any, and to another vote for every additional five hun-
dred dollars wort of roperty he may have insured therein.

§ 9. The board of irectors of said company shall, by their by-lawsy

provide for the mode of proceeding of the county and district directors,
the manner of forming districts and conducting elections and making
returns, and shall furnish such county and district directors with proper
forms and directions, so as to secure uniformity and accuracy in their
proceedings. ‘
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act to incorporate the
' City of Lexington.” .

Be itenacted by the General dssembly Q/' the State qf Missouri, as follows;

§ 1. That the eleventh section of an act entitled “an act to incorpo-
rate the City of Lexington,” approved March 8th, 1845, be amended so
as to prohibit the mayor and councilman of said City of Lexington to
levy a tax upon real or personal property exceeding one-fourth of one-
per centum per annum upon the assessed value thereof, and also that the
said mayor and councilmen shall charge for licenses granted, not more
than one-hall of the amount charged by the State for the same purposes;

provided, that they may charge shows and circuses in any amount under
the provisions of said act.

§2. That the 23rd section of said charter be so amended, that the

' thority to acquire, hold, ossess, use an

conponarroxs. 157

mayor and_councilmen of said City of Lexington, shall be prohibited
from expendin more than three hundred dollars for salaries of the may-
or and other 0 cers of the corporation in any one year. '
§ 3. That the mayor and councilmen of the City of Lexington be and
are hereby authorized to pay three thousand dollars to the Grand Lodge
of the State of Missouri, of Free and Accepted Masons, the amount of
their subscription for the location of the Masonic College’ at Lexington.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 24, 1849.

 

AN ‘ACT_to incorporate Arcadia High School.

§ 1. Company incorporated style, powers, sac. 4. Manufacturing privileges nted.
2. Certain property transferred to corpora- 5. President and secretary, t eir duties.
hon. 6. Stockholders may eel and transfer stock.
3. May confer literary degrees, are. 7. N at subject to 13th section of a certain act.

Wannus, a literary institution, located at Arcadia, Madison county,
Missouri, called “Arcadia High School,” has been in successful
operation for the last two years, the founders and pro rietors of
which. hsve erected extensive, commodious and costly uildings,
sufficient to accommodate a large number of students, its continued
prosperity and present flourishing condition,being attributable alone
to individual enterprise, unaided by legislative authority; therefore,
for the encoura ement of such enterprise, the advancement of the
great cause ‘of e ucation, and the perpetuation of the institution,

Be it enacted by the General ufssevnbly qftlze State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Jerome C. Berryman, Josias Berryman, and Zachariah J.
Harris, and such others as may hereafter be associated with them, and
their successors, are hereby constituted a body corporate and politic, and
shall have perpetual succession, by the corporate name of “Arcadia High
School,” and by that name shall be competent to contract and be con-
tracted with, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be
answered unto, in all courts of law and eguity; with full power and au-

en'oy, and the same to sell

convey and dispose of, al such real, personal or mixed estate, as is, 0;
may beynecessary for the use of the corporation; and may have and «use
acommon seal, may alter or change the same at pleasure; and may also
make and put in execution such by-laws, rules and regulations, as shall
be necessary for the efficient ‘government of the oiiicers of the corpora-
tion, students of the institution, and management of their concerns; pro-
vided, such by-laws are not repugnant to the constitution and laws 'of the
United States and of Missouri.

§ 2. All the real, personal, and mixed property now owned by the said
Jerome C.Berryman, Josias Berryman, and Zachariah J. Harris, under
the firm of J. and J. C. Berryman, and co., is, by this act, included with-
in this corporation.

158* conroaarxons.

§ 3. Said corporation shall have power to confer such literary honors
or degrees as are usually conferred by colleges of the United States
upon any student who may possess the requisite moral and intellectual
attainments, diplomas or certificates of the same, shall be signed by the
president and secretary of the institution.

§ 4. Said corporation shall have the privilege of manufacturing such
articles as they may deem proper.

§ 5. The persons hereby incorporated, ‘shall elect from among them"-
selves, a president and secretary, cause accurate accounts of their busi-
ness transactions to be kept; and shall select competent teachers of good

moral character.

§ .6 Either one or In re of the individuals hereby incorporated, or.

their executors, adminis rators or assigns, may sell and convey all their
right, title and interest in the premises incorporated by this act; such
conveyance shall be made as other real estate is conveyed by law, and
the purchaser shall be entitled to all the immunities, rights and privi-
leges that the original owners possessed.

§ 7. This act of incorporation shall not be subject to the thirteenth
section of the first article, of an act entitled “An act concerning cor-
porations,” approved March 19th, 1845.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5th, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the “Athensen Society,” of the University of
the State of Missouri.

{§ 1. Sogiety incorporated; itsstyle, powers, 3 3. Constitution now in force to govern; till
c. when.
2. May make constitution and by-laws.

Be ilenacted by the General ufssembly qftbe State qflllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. All and every ‘person who shall, at the time of the passage of this
act, be members of the Athenaan society of the university of the State
of Missouri, and their successors, shall be and they are here y created and
declared a body corporate and politic, by the name and style of the “Athe-
naen society of the university of the State of Missouri,” and by that name
shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, lead and be im-
pleaded, in all courts of record or elsewhere; may purc ass and receive,
ave, hold, and enjoy to them and their successors, books, ma s, charts,
philosophical and chemical apparatus, mineralogical and ot er speci-
mens, and also such other personal property as may be necessaxiy in car-
r ing out the objects of their association; and the same may se , grant,
a ien, and dispose of; also‘ such as they may acquire by gift, testa-
ment, or otherwise; and a common seal, which they may alter at plea-
sure.
§ 2. The said society shall have power to make and enforce such con-
stitution, by-laws, regulations, &.c., for the government of the same, for
the appointment of its oflicers, and management of its affairs, as may not

conroaa-rions. r 159

be contrary to the laws of the land, and may amend or alter the same at
pleasure. ‘

' § 3. The constitution and by-laws.of said society, now in operation,
shall overn the corporation hereby created, until regularly altered or
repealed; and the present otlicers of the society shall be the oflicers of
the corporation ‘hereby created until their respective terms of office
shall regularly expire or be vacated. '

This act to talre effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 10, 1849. .

 vV\&/“ffgy

 

AN ACT to authorize the city of St. Louis to subscribe stock in the

Ohio and Mississippi railroad company.
\

§ 1. City may subscribe for stock on certain 8. Bonds must yield 95 cents in the dollar.
conditions. —

3

§_ 9. Bonds to issue on calls of company.

2. Duties of mayor under this act. f» 10. Council may impose ‘special tax on cer-

3. Test, or election; how conducted. » tain conditions.

4. Additional duties of mayor. _ g 11. Special tax to cease; when.

5. City subscription, in what event binding. ; 12. Cit may sell stock when deemed advisa-

6. No bonds to issue until five millions of g b e. -
J
)

stock is paid in. _ 14. Copy _of act to accompany subscription.
7. Bonds may be issued from time to time. 15. Additional powers of council.

Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows:

1. The city of St. Louis, subject to the proviso hereinafter contained,
is ereby authorized to subscribe stock, not exceeding the sum of five
hundred thousand dollars, to the Ohio and Mississippi railroad company,
incorporated by an act of the legislature of the State of Indiana, for
the purpose of connectin the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, by arailroad
running from the city of t. Louis to the city of Cincinnati, throu h the
States of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio; and to issue the bonds of saig city,
not exceedin said maximum sum of stock, to pay for the same, and to
levy a specialtax on all taxable property in said city to pay the interest
on such loan; provided always, that the qualified voters of said city shall
be in favor of such subscription, and that such loan and subscription
shall be conducted in conformity to the several provisions of this act.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the mayor of said city, immediately after
the passgge of this act, to order ten days public notice, containing a ‘,1’
copy of is act, to be given in all the daily newspapers published in i
said city, in order that the sense of the qualified voters of said city may
be tested, as to the propriety of such subscription and loan, on behalf of
said ci . '
§ 3. ‘-The test shall be conducted in every respect in accordance with
the article on elections, contained in the charter, and with the city ordi-
nance in conformity to said charter, saving that the judges of election
shall, if the board of aldermen of said city he not in timely session, be
appointed by the mayor and the presiding ofiicers of the two branches
of the common council of said city, or any two of said ollicers. No bal.

l‘6O . . CORPORATIONS.

lot shall be counted unless the words “for the railroad loan,” or “against
the railroad loan,” be written or printed thereon. And if it shall appear
that there are more ballots “for the railroad loan,” than “against it,”
then the mayor and city council of said city and their successors in of-
fice shall subscribe said stock and issue said bonds in the name of said
city to the amount of one half a million of dollars to ‘said railroad com-
pany, subject however to all the restrictions and provisions herein con-
tained. And the said city shall be capable of exercising and enjoying
any right or privilege that may be exercised or enjoyed y other stock-
holders of said company. "

§ 4. If in order to accomplish the intent of this act, it be at any one
or more times necessary, the mayor of said city, for the time being, shall

‘have power to convene a special session of the city council thereof.

§ 5. No subscription of stock shall be binding on said city until at
least five millions of dollars shall have been subscribed, including the
subscription authorized by this act, by good and responsible individpals
or cor orations. -

§ 6.PThe mayor and city council of said city shall issue no bonds be-
fore the said whole amount of live millions shall have been bona tide
subscribed, in manner mentioned in the preceding section, and they shall
be the judges of that fact.

§ 7. It shall be lawful for the mayor and city council of said city to
cause the bonds of said city to be executed, from time to time, to an
amount not exceeding in all onedhalf a million of dollars, payable not
more than twenty years after the date thereof respectively, bearing in-
terest payable semi-annually, and not exceeding t e rate of six per cent.
per annum, and to deliver such bonds to said railroad company in full
payment for the stock to be subscribed by the city as aforesaid, at par.

§8. The railroad com any aforesaid shall not be allowed to sell,
pledge, or in any manner ispose of any one or more of said bonds, di-
rectly or indirectly, for less than ninety-five cents on the dollar, upon
penalty of absolutely releasing the said city from the payment of the
said bonds so disposed of, and a clause of forfeiture to that effect shall
be inserted in each bond.

§ 9. The said city shall issue said bonds from time to time, during the
progress of the work on said railroad, in just proportion to the calls
made by said company on its individual stockholders. ‘

§ 10. Whenever it shall be necessary the city council of said city
shall be authorized to impose a special tax, sufficient to pay the said in-
terest on said loan, but not to exceed one-fifth of one per centum, on
the assessed value of all the taxable property in said city. The proceeds
of such special tax, as well as dividends and all other funds connected
with or arising from the transactions contemplated by this act, are to be
held separate from all other funds of said city until the whole indebted-
ness, on.account thereof, shall have been fully paid, and are not to be
appropriated for any other purpose. ' _ .

11. The special tax herein authorized, shall cease to belevied so
soon as, and whilst the dividends arising from said stock, sh_aI1_~‘b'e suffi-
cient to pay the interest on said loan, and all dividends over and above
the amount of said interest, shall be set apart by the council as a
sinking fund to liquidate the principal of said loan.

conronarrom. 1&1

§ 12. The said city shall. be authorized, whenever deemed advisable,
to sell its stock in said railroad company, or any part thereof, and with
the proceeds to liquidate said bonds or any number of them, or to ex-
change its stock for said bonds, or to buy in aid bonds.
§ 13. The said city is authorized to-subscribe said stock to* said rail-
road company, upon the express understanding that the construction of
said road is to be begun and completed from both ends towards the cen-
tre simultaneously, as near as compatible with the nature of the work;
- and it is hereby provided that a material failure in this respect shall re-
lease said city from all further liability on account of said subscription
of stock. -
§ 14. The subscription of said stock by said cityto said railroad com-
pany, shall be accompanied by a copy of this law.
§ 15. The city council of said city shall have power to pass all ordi-
nances and adopt all measures necessary to carry this act into succes-
ful operation, and it shall be the especial duty of the city council afore-
said to make all orders and pass all ordinances that shall be necesary
and proper to secure and protect the interests of said city in the pram-
ises.
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

v\,‘~ :'\"\r\t‘\. r-.r‘\"\ '\r\ r"\<‘\ *\".,t"‘

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Charles Reading Association.
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State _Of Missouri, asfollows:

§ l.-That all and every person who shall, at the passage of this act,
be members of the association called the “St. Charles Reading Associ-
ation,” and their successors, shall be and they are hereby declared and
created a body politic and corporate, by the name, style and title of the
“St. Charles Readin Association,” and by the same shall have per et-
ual succession, and s all sue and be sued, implead and be impleade , in
all courts of record or elsewhere, and pay, purchase and receive, have,
hold and enjoy, to them and their successors, books, maps, charts, ‘philo-
sophical and chemical apparatus, mineralogical and other specimens,
calculated to improve the minds and add to the usefulness and appiness
of the members; also, such real estate as shall _be necessary for the use

and occupancy of said association, and the same may sell, grant, devise, .

alien or dispose of; also, such funds as they may acquire by gift, testa-
ment or otherwise, and such bonds, deeds of trust, mortgages and annu-
ities as may be necessary for the investment of said fund; they may
also ‘have a common seal, and alter the same at pleasure, and may malre
such constitution, regulations and by-laws as may be requisite for its
government and not contrary to the laws of the land, and may alter the
same at leasure .

§ 2. he constitution and by-laws of said association now in opera-
tion shall govern the corporation hereby created until regularly altered

ll -

I62 coaronarroxs.

or ‘repealed by the association, and the present oflicers of said associa-
tion shall be otiicers of the corporation hereby created until their res-
pective terms of -otlice shall regularly expire or be vacated.

§ 3. The Legislature may at any time alter, amend or repeal this act,
provided such alteration, amendment or repeal shall not affect the title
to any property acquired or conveyed under its provisions.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved February 17, 1849.

   

AN ACT authorizing the trustees of the inhabitants of the town of
Columbia to license and tax owners and exhibitors of menage-
ries, and the owners and managers of circuses, half a mile out-

side the limits of said town, as well as within them, and for cer-
tain other purposes.

§ 1. Additional powers of the board of trustees. § 5. Recorder to be elected; his powers and

2. Limits of t e corporation declared. duties.
3. Board of trustees, further owers of. 6. This act declared to be a public act.
4. Additional powers of the card. 7. Acts repugnant to this, repealed.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State Qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the board bf trustees of the inhabitants of the town of Co-
lumbia shall possess the following owers, in addition to those already
granted by the general law of the tate authorizing county courts to in-
corporate towns, as well as in addition to those specially granted by an
act of the General Assembly extending the corporate limits of said town,
‘aipproved February the fifth, eighteen hundred and forty-five, to-wit:

hat the said board of trustees shall have power to license and tax own-
ers and exhibitors of menageries, and owners and managers of circuses,
so called, exhibiting and performing in their common modes, not only

'’ within the town, but to the extent of half a 'mile on the outside of its

corporate limits; and for all breaches of any ordinance passed by the
board of -trustees under the power here ranted, the said board shall
possess the power to im ose lines and to co lect the same by an action
of debt, before any lega tribunal having competent jurisdiction.

 2. That the corporate limits of said town are hereby declared to be
as follows, and to include all that district of country, with its inhabi-
tants, here to be specified, to wit: Beginning at the south-west corner of
the town, as originally laid out by Peter Wright, under the direction Of
the commissioners of the county of Boone appointed by the Legislature
to locate a county seat for said county, and proceeding thence due south
to a point directly west of the west end of the line that runs between
the eleven acre in-lots, known, in the deed of division of the Columbia
[formerly Smithtown] tract of land, of record in the recorder’s o&ice in
the said county of Boone, as in-lots numbered 17, 18, 19 and 20, on the
north side thereof; thence due east to the west end of said line, and then
along it to the range line running between ranges 12 and 13; thence

- i oonronurons. 153:

north on said ran e line to the north-east corner of the eleven acre inc
lot already named, number 7; thence due east one-eighth of a mile;
thence due north to the quarter section line running between the soutlu
west quarter of section number 7 and the north-west quarter of section
number 18, and range 12; thence due east, on the last named line, one
hundred and forty yards; thence due north to a point directly east of the

north-east corner of the eleven acre in-lot known in the deed of division '

aforesaid as in-lot N o. 24; thence west, on the north line of in-lots known
in said deed of division as Nos. 24, 32, 26, 23 and 24, to a point directly
north of the north-west ’corner of the town as originally laid out by
Peter Wright; thence due south to the said north-west corriei of said
town; thence still south on the west line of said town to the place of be»
ginning. , ,
§ 3. That the board of trustees of the town of Columbia shall pos-
sess the further power to impose a" poll tax, not exceeding the amount
that may be imposed upon citizens living within the town, upon all white
' males over the age of twenty-one years living outside of the corporate
limits of said town, but who occupy or keep their odices, stores or shops

within the corporte limits thereof, when daily or generally they attend,

and when they transact or carry on their business according to their
respective callings or professions; the said trustees shall possess the
the power, when there are failures to pay such poll tax as maybe im.
posed by ordinance, to enforce the payment of such pol-1 tax in the same
manner as they are authorized to enforce the payment of all othentaxes
when there is a failure to pay them. -

§ 4. That the board of trustees as aforesaid shall also possess the fol.
lowing named additional powers, to-wit: first, to provide by ordinance
that owners or occupants of lots or parts of lots in the town shall kelep
the side--walks or footways, gutters, near half of the street and alleys
jacent to said lots or parts of lots free from obstructions of any kind;
secondly, to provide by ordinance that the owner or occupants of lots
or arts of lots in the town- shall keep the adjacent footways or side»-
? ks, gutters, alleys, both public and private, and the near half of the
street free from offensive offal or litter of every kind, and clean,.and if

any owner or occupant of any lots or parts of lots shall fail or refuse to .

remove said obstructions, or to keep clean the said footways or side-
walks, uaters, alleys, whether public or private, and near half of the
street, Ebeing adjacent to said lots or parts of lots,] as may he required
by ordinance, the said trustees may cause said obstructions to be re-
moved, and said footways or side-walks, gutters, alleys, whether public
or private, and near half of the street, to be freed from litter of every,
description by others, at the expense of the said owners or occupants
thus failing or refusing, and to recover the full amount thereof from said
owners or occupants, by an action of debt in any court having compe-
tent jurisdiction.

§ 5. That at the time and lace, and for the same period of service of
that of a trustee, there shal be elected by the qualified voters of the
town, a recorder, who shall possess the same qualifications as toeli '-
bility as any trustee; the recorder shall have jurisdiction throughout e
corporate limits of the town, and, so far as menageries and circnses are

164 CORPORATIONS.

concerned, his jurisdiction shall extend half a mile on the outside of said
limits; he shall be a conservator of the peace, shall have all the powers
and jurisdiction now vested in justices of the peace, and shall receive
the same fees for his services. The recorder, as well as the justice of
the peace residing within the town, shall have concurrent jurisdiction
‘in all civil actions arising under any ordinance or provision of this act,
and after he is elected and qualified, he shall have exclusive jurisdiction
in all actions for the recovery of lines and forfeitures, and for the breach
or trespass of any ordinance passed by the authority of the town. The
recorder shall have power to issue all necessary writs to bring parties
before him forthwith, and to hear, try, and determine and punish offences
against any ordinance of the town, in a summary manne rand according to
the provisions of any ordinance, the breach whereof is charged; provi-
ded, however, that appeals may be taken, in all cases over five dollars,
to the circuit court of the county, to which appeals may lie upon the
conditions of the laws of the state. The recorder shall have full juris-
diction over all actions wherein the town is a party, under one hundred
and fifty dollars, as well of otlicial bonds, breaches of contracts and de-
linquencies of officers, under provisions of ordinance, as of debts, fines
anJ forfeitures; provided, that the corporation may elect to.proceed
- against official delinquencies or for breaches of contracts before any
other tribunal having jurisdiction. The recorder shall hold not less than
one term of his court in every month; but, in all actions which, in the
nature of the case, require immediate action, and, according to the pro-
visions of ordinance, he may at any time issue his warrant to bring the
offenders before him, and try and determine the case in a summary man-
ner.
§ 6. That this act is declared a public act, and may be used in evi-
dence in all courts of law or equity in this State without further paoof;
ane all ordinances of the town may be proven by the seal of the corpo-
ration, and, when printed in a book or pamphlet purporting to be print-
ad and published by authority of the corporation, the same shall be receiv-
ed in evidence in all courts and places in this State without further proof.

§ 7. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of

this act are hereby rgpealed.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and ‘after the passage
thereof. ‘ '

Approved February 13, 1849.

Afr‘.4".\/\/\/-.o\/\d\/‘\/.¢'4'*.-\.\,A.¢s/\A /xxn - -_.A.&A,A\-3

AN ACT to incorporate a Benevolent Society by the name of Mercy and

Truth.
§ 1. izle of tbs corporation; its powers. j 3. May elect ofiicers, impose hues, &.c.
2. y form a constitution and by-laws. 4. Construction of this act.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. Solomon  Levi, John M. Myers, ‘_M. Slettheimer, A. S. Asher, R.

CORPORATIONS. « 165

Lands, and their associates and successors be and they are hercbyordained, '

constituted, appointed, and declared to be a body corporate and p litic, by
the name and style ot M« rvy and 'l'ruth,_nnd by that name they mav have
perpetual succession. and by that name shall be capable ol sut.-mg and being
sued, pleading and being impleaded, answering and beluga: snared unto,
defending and being defended. in all courts ul law and equity; that they
and their successors may lmve a common seal, and may cha go and alter
the same at their pleasure; that they and their successors may purchase,
and hold, and sell, and convey any estate, real, pvrsonal, or mixed. for the
1: anti said corporation: provided, that said corporation slmll not hold more
real estate than may be necessary for the convenience ot said society.

§ 2. The said corporation shall have power to form a constitution, and
make by-laws for their guVCl'lllIlt2l'll, not incou.-istent with the constitution
and laws of this Slate. and the same to alter or amend at pleasure.

§ 3. The said corporation shal have power. by their by-laws. to regulate
and provide for the elrction of their otlicers, and unpo:e lines for malfeasance
or non-feasnnce in ofiice, and to colle ct the same. ‘

§4. The powers conferred by this act shall be strictly conlincd to acts of
charity and benevolence, and not otherwise.

Approved February 17, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the managers of the Roman Catholic male and
female orphan asylums of St. Louis.

§ 1. Company incorporated. 4. Certain property authorized to be con-
2. Vacancies; how tilled. veyed to company. i
3. Constitution and by-laws may be made. ‘ 5. Certain other propetty' to be conveyed.

6. Continuance of company.

Be it enacted by the General .«9ssembly Q/' the State of Ma'ssour2', as follows:

§ 1. That John B. Sarpy, Edward Walsh, Bryan Mulanphy, Amadee
Valle, Joseph Murphy, John Haverty, Thomas Gray, Thomas O’Flaher-
ty, and Patrick J. Ryder, and their successors, are hereby created, con-
stituted and declared to be a body corporate and politic, by the name
and style of the managers of the Roman Catholic orphan asylums of St.
Louis, and by that name they may have perpetual succession, and shall
be capable of suing and being sued in all courts; that they and their
successors may have a common seal, and may alter the same at will; and
that they may be capable in law of acquiring, holding, and conveying
property, real, personal or mixed, for the exclusive and sole use and
purpose of maintaining, clothing, educating, and providing for poor and
un rovided children. ~ t
2. That all vacancies occurring in said corporation, by death, re-
signation, or otherwise, shall be filled up by the remaining members
electing such person or persons as they, or the majority of them, shall
deem tit and suitable for the purposes of said corporation.
3. That said corporation shall have power to make a constitution
an by-laws, provided that nothing therein contained shall be contrary

166 ~ conroiurrmts.

‘to the constitution and laws of the State of Missouri, or incompatible

with the purpose for which said corporation is created.

§ 4. _T at Peter Richard Kenrick, of the city of St. Louis, is. hereby
authorized to convey: to said corporation the property given to.
him by the late Mrs. Anne Biddle, for the ysiurpuse of erect-
ing thereon a female orphan asylum in the city of t. Louis, together’

with the building already erected thereon, for the purpose of more ef- .
* fectually carrying out the intention of the donatrix.

§ 5. That Angela Hughes, Frances A. McEnnis, Prudentia Dorsey,
Winifred Mullon, Milome Doyel, and Bibiana 0’Meally, who wer@n-
corporated by the General Assembly of the State ofMissouri, by act ap-
proved l3th February, 1841, entitled “An act to incorporate a second
orphan asylum in the city of St. Louis,” or the survivors or successors
of them, under the aforesaid act, are authorized to convey to the said
corporation created by this present act, exclusively for the purposes for
which said corporation is now created, all and singular the property,
real, personal, or mixed, which they may have acquired under the afore-
said act of 13th February, 1841, or to which they might in the course of
time become entitled in consequence of any grant, gift, devise, or bequest,
made or to be made to them under the style and title aforesaid; and that
from and after the execution of such conveyance, and the recording
thereof in the recorder’s ollice of the county of St. Louis, said act of
13th February, 1841, be and the same is hereby declared to be repeal-

. ed; and the said- corporation, created by this present act, is declared to

be entitled to receive and hold, exclusively for the purpose for which

said corporation is created, whatsoever the said Angela Hughes, Fran-
ces A. McEnnis, Prudentia Dorsey, Winifred Mullon, Milome Doyel,

and Bibana O’Ma.lly§ or their successors, under the aforesaid act of 13th V

February, 1841, con d have received, held, or become entitled to.

§ 6. The corporation hereby created shall continue so long as it shall
faithfully answer the ends of its creation, and the General Assembly,
whenever it shall be satisfied that it has failed in this respect or has vio-

lated any of the provisions of this act, may alter or repeal the same.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

 

AN ACT supplementary to an act to incorporate the town of St. Joseph,
approved February 26th, 1845.

‘§ 1. .0.dditioual powers granted to board of §3. Board of trustees to regulate. jurisdiclielb
trustees. process, see.

2. Chairman of board of trustees; his juris- 4. Ordinances of town; how proved.
diction and power. 5. Declared a public act.
6. Reserved right; to alter amount or repeal-

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State QfMz1ssauri, as follows: —

§ 1. That the board of trustees of the town of St. Joseph in addition
to the powers granted to them in the act to which this is a supplement,

' coaroiiazrroiis. V 167

shall ‘haste power within the corporate limits of  town, by ordinance,
to provide for the erection of all needlul buildings for the use of said
town; to regulate the police of said town of St. Joseph, to impose fines,
forfeitures and penalties for the breach of any ordinance of said town,
and provide for the recovery and appropriation of such fines and forfei-
tures and the enforcement of such penalties, and to this end, the tribu-
nals“which have or shall have (jurisdiction of cases arising under the or-
dinances of the town aforesai , are hereby authorized and empowered in
addition to the means already ‘provided in the act to which this is a sup-
plement t'or_the enforcement of the ordinances of said town, to hear,’ try
and determine all cases arising under the ordinances of said town, in a
«eaminary manner; provided, that all trials shall he hy.a jury of six men,
if the -same he demanded by the defendant, and to enforce the judgment
‘in such cases, they are hereby an-tgorized and empowered to commit the
defendant to the common jailot uchanan county for any period not
exceeding dive days; and the jailer of said cokunty is hereby authorized
and required to receive «all persons so committed to said jail into the
same.

§ 2. The chairman of the 'board of trustees shall be a conservator of
the peaoe.wit‘hin.-the corporrwte limits of said_town., and shall have origin-
al, exclusive Jurisdiction over all cases arising under the ordinances of
said town, when the hie, Apenal-ty,fo4'feiture or -dam.ages claimed does not
‘exceed one hundred and hfty dollars, subject to an appeal to the circuit
court within and for the-county of Buchanan, and every slpchfappeal
shall be taken and granted in the same manner and with li e e ect, as
appeals are taken from and granted by justices ,of the peace to the cir-
cuit court under the provisions of the 15th 16th 17th and 18th sections
of an act, entitled “An act to define the jurisdiction and regulate the

proceedings of justices courts, in cases of breach of the peace,” ap-

proved March 10th, 1845.
§ 3. The board of trusteess shallliave power to pass orrdina-nces regu-
lating the mode in which the chairman shall exercise his jurisdiction, and
to authorize him to issue warrants, and all other process, which may be
necessary to carry into execution the powers herein granted.
§ 4. All ordinances of the town aforesaid may be proven by ?thecor-
pdrattion seal, and when printed and published in book form, and pur-
porti to have been printed and published by authority of the corpora-
tion, t eisame shall be received ‘in all courts and places without further
proof. ~
§ 5. This act and the one to which this -is a supplement, are declared to
be public acts, and may be read in evidence in all courts -of law and
equity in this State, without further proof.
§ 6. Thisact may be altered, amended or repealed by the General As-
sembly at any -time hereafter, and shall take effect from and after its pas-
s . .
‘geihpproived March 3rd, 1849.

168 _ CORPORATIONS. '

AN ACT to incorporate the Chouteau Spring Company of Boonville.

§ 1. Incorporation of company. 5 8. Treasurer; his duties.
2. Powers ofcompany to hold certain land. 9. President of Company.
'3. Capital stock of company.’ 10. Stock transferable.

, 4. Books to be opened. 11. Rules, regulations and by-law:,may be
5. Ollicers of company. ‘ made. '

6. Vote 01 stocklluluers. 12. Assessment on stockholders.
7. Board of directors; its powers. ‘

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly qftlze State of Missouri, asfollpws:

§ 1. That Bennett C. Clark, and others, his associates, as owners and
shareholders in a certain tract of land lying in Cooper county, viz: The
southeast quarter, and the east hall‘ of the southwest quarter of section
sixteen, township forty-eight, of range 18 west, containing two hundred
and forty acres; said owners and shareholders having heretofore formed
‘themselves into an association known and called the “Chouteau Spring .
Company of Boonville,” shall be, and they are hereby incorporated an
made a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of the “Chen-
teau Spring Company of Boonville-;” and by that name shall have per-
petual succession, and shall be able to contract and be contracted with,
to sue and be sued, itnplead and be impleaded, in any of the courts of
law and equity in the State of Missouri; to make and use a common
seal,.and the same to change and alter at their pleasure; and the said
company shall have full power and authority to erect all such buildings,
and to make all such improvements, as they may deem proper for the en-
tertainment of visitors or travellers; and all such as they may deem pro-
par for the full use, benefit and enjoyment of the mineral waters of said
s rm s.

P§ 2g. The said company shall have full power and authority to hold
said tract of land, and to contract for,purchase and hold, any real estate
in the county ‘of Cooper aforesaid, adjoining said tract, or which may be
deemed necessary by said company, to the use, enjoyment, or further
improvement of sand tract; provided said company shall not hold more
than one thousand acres.

§ 3. The capital stock of said company shall consist of five hundred
shares of ten dollars each, in addition to the lands herein before named,
and such lands as may hereafter be acquired by said company, under the
provisions of this act; and if, at any time hereafter, a majority of the
stockholders shall deem it necessary and beneficial to the interests of
the company, it shall be lawful for the said company to increase the cap-

ital stock to one thousand shares. '

§ 4. That the owners and shareholders aforesaid,who have subscribed
and paid the amount of their subscriptions, and all other persons who
shall subscribe, and pay to the treasurer of the company ten dollars:
after opening the books of subscription as hereinafter provided, shall be
stockholders in said company. Books for the subscription of stock In
said company, shall be opened on the first Monday of April next, by the
board of directors hereafter provided for, and shall be kept open for
three months; and after the closing of the books for subscription Of
stock, the directors may order them to be opened at such times, and up‘
on such terms, as they may deem proper.

CORPORATIONS.‘ _ . 169

§ 5. The odicers of the company shall be a president, secretary, trea-‘
surer and seven directors, who shall be stockholders; they shall be’
elected by the stockholders at their regular annual meetings, at such-

time and place, and in such manner, as may be fixed by the by-laws or

regulations of the company, and shall hold their odiees for one year, and‘

until their successors are duly elected; provided, however, that the per-

sons heretofere elected by the said company mentioned'in the first sec--

tion of this act shall, as president, secretary, treasurer and directors, be
considered the officers of said company for one year from and after their
election. ' ~
a§ 6. In all elections for ofiicers of the company, each stockholder
shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of stock he may hold,
and may be re resented by proxy, with a written authority to that pur-
pose; provide that the number of votes cast by any one stockholder,
may be limited to such number as the company may determine.

§ 7. The board of directors shall have the general management, su-

ipermtendence and care, of the property, expenditures, business and

such other ofiicers as they may deem necessary, an

prudential concerns of the company, and shall make a report of their
actings and doings at each annual meeting of the company; they shall
have the supervision of all improvements ordered to e made by the
company; a majority of the board shall constitute aquorum for the trans-
action of business. ~
§8. It shall be the duty of the treasurer, before entering upon the
duties of his oflice, to give bond and security for the performance of the
duties of his ofiice, in such sum as the board of directors may re uire,
and to be approved by them; he shall receive, and safely keep, al mo-
neys belongingzto the company, and disburse the same in such manner as
the company-, by its by-laws or regulations, may direct‘ and rescribe.
He shall keep a book of accounts, in which he shall enter all sums of
money received and paid out; and hold his books of accounts, and all
orders, receipts and vouchers, subject to the inspection of the board of
directors, or any member thereof; and it shall be his duty, upon full pay-
ment being ma e by any stockholder, of all sums due for stock subscri-
bed for, to make out and deliver a certificate of stock to each stock-
holder paying his subscri tion. _
§ 9. The president of "t e com any she‘! oe ex-oflicio Presidentof the
board of directors, and shall cal ah. eting of the board whenever re-
quested by any two members of the board, and give the casting vote in
case of a tie; provided, however, that the board may hold a 'ourned
meetings from time to time, as they may order. ' _
§ 10. The stock of said company shall be deemed personal property,
and may be transferred on the books of said company; and transfers of
certificates of stock may be made in such manner as the company may
b b -law direct.
y§ Isl. The company may make, ordain, establish and put in execution,
such by-laws, rules and regulations, as they may deem necessary and
proper for the good government of said company, and the prudent and
emcient management of its ollicers; and may prescribe the powers and
duties of the officers of the company, by such by-laws, rules and regu-
lations, not herein provided for, as they may deem proper, and appoint

provide for a va-
12

\

170 _ oonroxarroxs.

cancies in any otlice; provided, such by-laws, rules and regulations are
not inconsistent with, or contrary to this charter, or to the laws and con-
stitution of this State, or the United States.

§ 12. The said company shall have power to make an assessment up-
on such stockholders for raisin funds required by the company for pur-
poses of improvement, or purchasing lands in such amount as they may
deem proper; provided, however, that all assessments shall be equal,
and shall never exceed in any one year, fifty per cent. upon each share;

-and provided alsb, that the amount by each stockholder under any such,
"assessment, shall be placed to his credit on the books of the company;

.. share, by paying

and whenever the amount aid under assessment shall be equal to the
share, the stockholder she be entitled to an additional share of the
stock; and if the amount assessed and paid be less than a share, each

stockholder, thus paying, may have the privilege of taking an additional .
t

e amount of a share, less his assessment paid in.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

. ".I\.f\/‘ /\"'\."\.p

AN ACT to incorporate the’ Palmyra and Mississippi Railroad Company.

§ 1. Design and purpose of companyyuclared 9. Where railroad crosses public roads.
a body corporate. i 10. Rate of tolls.

2. Capital stock, tbirt thousand dollars. ll. Exhibit to be made to General Assembly.
3. Books to bee ne . . 12. Toll therer; excess of tell.
4. Election of o c . 13. Pena ty and punishment for injury to
5. Vacancies; how tilled. road, &.c.
6. Failure to pay assessment. 14. Consent of owners of land.
7. Otlicers; appointed. 15. Time in which road is to be Enished.
8. General powers of company. 5 16. On forfeiture, scirefacias to issue. J

Wnnnms, It has been represented to the General Assembly. that Moses 1).
Bates. Walker Louthan, William H., and Joseph W. Thompson, Lewis
Bryan, William Blakey, Wade H. Hushill, Peter J Owens. Elias
Fletcher. and many other persons of Marion county, State of Missouri,
have subscribed a large sum of money, to wit: about thirteen thousand
dollars, for the purpose of building and constructing a railroad from
Palmyra to the Mississippi river, in said county: and whereas, said road
has been surveyed, and about four thousand dollars worth of work dune
on the same; and whereas, it is believed that the citizens of saial town
of l’ul.'nyx:|, and Marion county, would be advanced by creating a body
corporate, therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§‘l. That Stanson Buckner, as president of a company to be called
and known as the Palmyra and‘Mississippi Railroad Company. and Albert
D. Sprague, Joseph W. Thompson, Thomas E. Hateher, Thomas E.
'l'honv;~mzu. Berkley S. Summers, John Valliant, James F. Malian. and

Willimz ll. Walker, as directors of said company, and all such persons as.

now u:':-, or shall hereafter become stockholders of said company, shall be,

oonroan-tons. 17 l

aadtbey are hereby created a body_ corporate and politic, in that and name,
by the style above set out;_and by the same title, the stockholders shall
have perpetual succession, and be able to sue and be sued, implead and be
impleadcd, in all courts of record and elsewhere; and to purchase, receive,
have, hold, and enjoy, to them and, their successors, lands, tenements and
bereditaments, goods, chattels, and all estates, real and personal, or mixed,
of what_kind or quality soever, and the same from time to time to sell,
mortgage, grant, alien, or dispose of, and to make dividends of such portion
of the profits as they deem proper, and also to make and have-a common
seal, and the same to alter or renew at pleasure; and also to ordain, establish,
and put in execution such by-laws, ordinances, and regulations as shall
appear necessary and convenient for the government of the said corporation,
notbeing contrary or repugnant to the laws of the United States, or of the
State of Missouri; and generally to do all and singular the matters and
things which to them it shall lawfully appertain to do. for the well being of
said corporation, and for the due management and ordering of the affairs of
the same; provided, always, that it shall not be lawful for the said corporation
to deal, or use, or employ any part of the stock funds or money in buying
or selling any wares or merchandtze in the way of tratiic, or in banking or
brokering operations.

§'2. The capital stock of said corporation shall be thirty thousand dollars,
diviled into six hundred shares, of lifty dollars each; and such corporation
may, immediately after its organization under this act, proceed with, and
carry on the proper business of said railroad, under the privileges, conditions,
and restrictions of this charter, and may, if necessary to complete said
railroad and appurtenances, increase their capital stock five thousand dollars,
but not until the original stock has all been appropriated and expended.

§ 3. That the president and directors shall have power to open books for
the subscription of stock, at such time and place as they may deem best.

§ 4. That the above named president and directors shall hold their oliices
until the second Monday in May, 1849, and until their successors are elected;
that on the said second Monday in May, 1849, and on the second Monday
in May of every year thereafter, there shall be elected by,,the stockholders,
having one vote for each share held by them, nine directors, under whose
control and management said corporation shall at all times be, and from,
their own number one shall be elected'as president. No person shall be a
director unless-he be a share holder; said elections shall be held at the time
of day and place designated by the board of directors; and if for any cause
there should be a faiiurc of election. the president shall have power to cause
an election on any day by him named, and at any place in the town of

' Palmyra; and if said president shall fail to order an election, any three

stockholders may order the same; all elections to be published for one month
in some newspaper printed in said county of Marion; voting shall be by
ballot. and a plurality of the stockholders present, or their proxies in writing, ,
shall elect the directors, and in case of a tie, the then president shall decide
it; all elections shall be superintended by three of the stockholders. 098 Of
whom shall-act as clerk, and the other two, together with the president,
shall act asjudges. r _

§5. In. case of the death, resignation, or absence of the president» 1he
heard nmy appoint one protempore; live directors shall form a quorum to
do business, and a majority shall decide all questions coming before them
tor their action; a vacancy in the board of directors, from any cause, may

172‘ A conronxrrons.

|
be iilled for the remainder of the term by a vote of the board of directors,
without/any election of the stockholders. \
§ 6. That if any stockholder shall fail to pay any sum required of him by
the president and directors, or a majority of them, which may be due on
account of his subscription of stock in said company. within twenty days
after the same shall have been advertized in the newspaper hereinbeforc
mentioned, it shall be Iawtul for the said president and directors, or a majority
of them, to sell at pnblic auction, and convey to the purchaser, the share or
shares of such stockholder so failing or refusing, giving twenty days notice
of the time and place of sale, in manner aforesaid, and’ after retaining the
sum due, and all charges of sale, out of the proceeds thereof, to pay the
surplus over to the former owner, or to his legal representatives; and it’ the
sale aforesaid should not produce the sum required to be advanced, with
the incidental charges attending the sale, then the president and directors
may recover the balance of the original proprietor, by action in the circuit
court, or before a justice of the peace of the proper county, provided, the
amount demanded be within the jurisdiction of said justice; and each
purchaser of stock of said company under the sale of stock of the company
by the president and directors. shall be subject to the sau.e rules and.
regulations as the original proprietor. -»
§7. That the board of directors shall have power to appoint a treasurer,
clerk, engineer, and such other officers and servants as they may deem.
necessary, and to say what shall be their salaries; but no oiiicer except the
engineer shall recover any pay for his services until after the completion of
said road; nor shall they or either of them be an undertaker of any work
upon‘ said railroad, said board shall have power to declare semi-annual
dividends of profits when they deem it expedient, to fix the time and place
of the payment of calls on the subscriptions and stock of said company, the
meeting of the board, transfer of stock, and all matters appertaining to the
business of said company. .
§ 8. That the president, directors, and corn any of said railroad company
shall have power to survey, lay down, ascert in, mark, and fix such route
as they shall deem expedient for a single or double railroad track, beginning
at Palmyra, in the county of Marion. State of Missouri, thence by the most
practicable route to a point on the Mississippi river, at or near Marion City,
in said county,~and that for said purpose the president and directors of said
company, their otiicers, agents, and servants shall have full power and
authority to enter upon all lands and tenements, through which they may
judge it necessary to pass in the construction of said road, and to lay out
the same according to their pleasure, so that neither the dwelling house,
yard, garden, or eurtilage of any person be invaded without his or her
consent; the width of land so entered upon shall not exceed one hundred
feet, and if the president and directors of said company cannot agree with

_ the owners of said lands as to terms, then the rate of compensation for said
‘lands shall be ascertained and paid in the manner hereinafter prescribed,

that is to say, the board of directors, and the person through whose land
said read passes. are to choose each three persons, disinterested, and not of
kin to the person claiming damages, nor a stockholder in said read, and
these six to choose an umpire. and said person so chosen shall value the
damages sustained by the owner of said land, and report their proceedings
to the circuit court, with a plat of the land, and their award shall be a
judgment against Said COIDPWII. and shall have the effect of vesting the title

-

eoasoazrrrons. ' 173

of the land condemed in the company, so soon as they shall pay the damages
awarded; provided, either party may except to the report when tiled in the
circuit court for illegahility, or irregularity, and if either party shall refuse, or
fail to select his person as above provided. after ten days notice, or if such
owner of land shall be a minor, feme covert, out of the State, unknown, orof
unsound mind, then said valuers may be appointed by the county court of
Marion county, or any two judges thereof, in vacation; and in all cases such
persrns shall be citizens ofsaid county of Marion, and not living immediateiv
on the road; and in all cases the company shall pay the costs of the first
valuation, hut in cases of appeal, or exceptions, the unsuccessful arty shall
pay costs. But in all cases, the president and directors, their ogcers. and
agent; may proceed before any steps are taken, and shall not be compelled
to wait the decisions of courts in said condemnations.

§ 9. Whenever said railroad shall cross any public road established bv
law, said comnany shall make good crossings, and the county court shall
have power tobuild over said read any bridge which may not obstruct the
said road. ' ‘

§ 10. That said president and directors shall have power to determine,
and atpleasure alter all rates of toll, frcights or passage of persons, and
things, that may be conveyed upon said railroad; provided, that said rates
of toll shall not exceed seven cents per. mile for every passenger, and ten
cents per mile for every ton of freight, except that in no case shall the
company be bound_ to receive a passenger or package for less than ten
cents for any distance.

§ II. The president and directors shall once in four years present to the-

general assembly of Missouri, a full and perfect account of their proceedings,
showing expenditures and receipts, dividends and liabilities; and all property
conveyed on said road sgall be bound for the charges on the same, as well
as the charges against t e owner, and may be retained until such charges
are paid, and if not paid in a reasonable time, may be sold at public sale
after thirty days notice insome newspaper printed in said county of Marion,
for the sums due and costs; and any balance over and above said dues, to
be subject to the order of the owner. '

§ 12. That any toll g-ttlierer charging more than the stated charges shall
forfeit to the person aggrieved twenty dollars, to be recovered with costs
for each offence, before any Justice of the peace, by action of debt. '

§ 13. Any person who shall unlawfully trespass upon the chartered rights
and immunities of the said corporation. or who may injure the property of
said company, or who shall throw earth, stones, logs, trees, rubbish, or any
other matter. or things whatsoever, upon the said read, or who shall in any
manner injure the same, or its‘ appurtenances, shall be indicted before the
circuit court of Marion count for a misdemeanor, and on conviction, shall
be fined double the amount o damage sustained, one half to the company,
and one half to the school fund, and pay all costs; and may also be imprisoned
in the common jail of Marion county, tor not' less than twenty-four hours,
and not more than six months,and shall also be liable in an action of trespass
on the case to any person, whose person or property may be injured thereby;
and that if death shall ensue from any unlawful, wanton, and malicious
removai, or disturbance of the construction ofsaid road, or from the wilful,
w mtnn, and malicious putting and placing ofobstructions on the saidrailroad.
said person or persons, so otlending, shat he deemed guilty of murder, and
upon conviction thereof, shall suffer death.

6

$74 ' conronuroars.

§ 14. The written consent of any owner or proprietor of any lands, over
which said railroad shall pass, shall have all the etlect of a_decd, and. shall
give to said company all powers over the land covered by said road, as if the

same had been condemned or deeded. . . _ .
§ 15. That if said company shall not finish said railroad in four years

from the passage of this charter, then the said company shall forfeit all rights

under the same. , \
§ 16. The judge of the circuit court for said county of Marion shall have

power, upon the application of any party interested, to issue a scire factas
against the president and directors, to show cause why the charter of said
company shall not be forfeited, but said scire factas sh‘ ll state specifically
the cause or causes which are relied upon for the forfeiture, and either
party shall have the right of trial by jury.
Approved March 1, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the New Madrid and Stoddard Canal Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated; capital one hun-\ 5. President to be elected.

dred thousand dollars. 6. Power of board of directors.
2. Directors constituted. 7. General powers of company.
3. Vote of stockholders. 8. Right of way; proceedin to obtain.

4. Meeting to he held; proceedings thereat. 9. Any county may subscri e.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly Q/'t_he State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. A company is hereby incorporated to be called the'New Madrid and
Stoddard canal company, with a capital stock of one hundred thousand dollars,
in shares of one hundred dollars each, and by that name shall be a body poli-
tie and ccrporate, may we and be sued, plead and beimpleaded, defend and
be defended against, may have, use, alter and renew a common seal, may
make contracts and acquire, hold. use and enjoy real and personal estate'for
the purposes of said company, and convey and dispose of the same; and

shall have power to make rules and regulations, and hy-laws for the govern--

ment of said company, not repugnant to the laws and constitution of this
State, or of the United States.

§ 2. Godfrey Lcsieur, Hardeman Walker, H. P. Maulsly, R. G. Watson,
John Martin, of New Madrid county, and Orson Bartlett, Henry Miller,
Sol. G. Kitchen, Thomas J. Walker, Henry Harper, H. H. Bedford and
Reuben Owen, of Stoddard county, or any tive of them, shall constitute the
first board of directors of said company, and shall hold their otlice until
their successors shall be elected and qualitied; they shall cause books to be
opened, for subscription of the capital stock of said company, at such times
and places, and in such manner as they may direct, and may cause the same
to be closed and reopened when they may deem proper, until the whole of
the capital stock of said company shall be subscribed.

§ 3. Every stockholder shall have one vote for each share he'd by him.
and ire may vote by proxy; every person shau cease to be a member of
said company so soon as he shall cease to be a stockholder‘, and no dr-lin.
quent stockholder shall be entitled toavote in said company; the directots

CORPORATIONS. ’ p 175
shall have power to call for the payment of the stock at any time. giving
thirty days notice in some public newspaper, and if such stock shall not be
paid within ten days of the time appointed, the directors may declare the
stock forfeited. and cause the same to be sold. _

§ 4. Whenever one thousand shares of said stock shall be suhscribethsaid
directors shall cause a meeting of the stockholders to be held, at. such time
and place rs they shall designate and advertise. and at such meeting the
-stockholders shall elect five directors to superintend and conduct the business
of said company, and they shall hold their otiice for one year, and until their
successors shall be elected and qualified; and five directors shall be elected
every year thereafter, at such time and place, and in such manner, as shall
be provided by the by-laws of the company.

§ 5. Soon after the election of said directors they shall meet and organize
as a board of directors, and shall elect one of their number president, who
shall hold his ofiice for the time which he was elected director, and until his
successor shall be elected and qualified. '

§ ti. The board of directors shall have power to conduct the business of
said company; to appoint, control and remove its ofiicers, agents and ser-
wants, and to prescribe their duties and fix their compensation; it shall have
power to make contracts for said company, and to adopt suchmeasures as
they may deem best calculated to promote its prosperity and usefulness.
The board of directors shall keep fair and correct books and accounts, and
shall, at every annual meeting, make the said company a full and fair exhibit
of its business and accounts, and shall make a report of the amount of its
business and receipts. when required to do so by the General Assembly; and
the books of said company shall always be open to the inspection of a com-
mittee appointed by the General Assembly.

§ 7. Said company shall have power to survey, locate, construct, use,
manage and‘conttol a canal in the counties of New Madrid and Stoddard»
commencing on the Mississippi river, at a point near to Point Pleasant. and
shall extend to the Great Swamps; and thence into Stoddard county, so as
to terminate near Bloomfield. in,Stoddard county; and shall have the neces-
sary power to make dams, locks, embankments, levees, and all other build-
ings, Iixtures and improvements necessary to the nsecltnd enjoyment of said
canal and improvement; and may take such tolls, and charge such rates for
the freight of passengers and produce, and for the other use of said canal, as
they may deem proper to carry out the objects of said company; and may
regulate the passage of boats; and may use, rent or sell water-rights for
propelling mills and machinery; and shall have such other powers as may be
necessary to carry this act into successful operation.

§ 15'. Said company shall have power to acquire the right of way for such
improvement, or for any feeder or branch thereof, in said counties, and the
guardians of minors may, subject to the approval of the county court, make
relinquishments of the right of way through the lands of such Ininofs; and
if anyowner of land he unwilling to relinquish the right of way, in favor of
said improvement, on such terms as said directors may deem reasonable, or
if the owner of any land, needed ft r said improvement, be a non-resident of
this State, the circuit court of the county in which the land lies. 0!‘ the judge
thereof, in vacation, may appnintthrce disinterested tommissioners to view
the premises and return the plat thereof. accompanied by an assessment of
the damages that would be sustained by reason of -said improvement. taking
into consideration the advantages of such improvement to the land, and a

.176 ' coaaoasnons.

full report of their proceedings, allof which shall be liledin the o$s.e of the
clerk of such court; at least ten days notice of the intention to apply for the
appointment of such commissioners shall be given to the owners of such lands
or their guardians, and if they be non-residents, the notice may be given by
publication in some newspaper in this State for four weeks; when such report

shall be made, the court may confirm or reject the report, and it it shall i

reject the report, new commissioners may be appointed to View the premises
and assess the damages, who shall report as above provided. If such report
be confirmed, the land claimed shall vest in the company, so soon as the
damages assessed shall be paid or tendered.

§ 9. Any county in this State may subscribe to the stock of said company.
Approved March 10, I849.

l\/\/'\4"'./‘\./'~."‘./\/\/\"‘/\.f-.~‘X \/'\ 1"‘/‘s-'\f‘s

AN ACT to extend the corporate limits of the town of Fulton, in the county
of Callaway, and for other purposes.

2. Exemption from working on roads.

6. Theatrical and other amusements; license
3. Process executed in new limits. ' '

of. .

§ Ii. Limits of the town of Fulton extended. §§ 5. Powers granted herein; additional. -
>
-I

4. Duties of certain justices of the peace.

Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follotes:

§ 1, The town of Fulton, as heretofore established, is hereby extended
and enlarged. so as to include, within its corporate‘ limits, all the land lying‘
within the following boundary, to wit: beginning at the north-east eornerot
the addition made to said town by James H. Jamison, on the llth day of
September, in the year 1845; and proceeding thence due north seventy
yards; thence (lue west eighty-three yards to the section line between
sections eighteen and seventeen, in township forty-seven of range nine;
thence north along said section line seven hundred and sixteen yards;
thence due west se§'e.t'httndted and twenty-three yards; thence due south
thirteen hundred and sixty-five yards; and tltence due east, in part, along
the southern boundary of the town to the south east corner of said town;
thence north along its eastern boundary to James H. Jamisonfs addition ‘to
said town; thence east along the southern boundary of said addition to its
south-east corner; thence north along the eastern boundary of said addition:
to the place of beginning. ‘ ' _

§ 2. That all persons residing within the corporate limits of the aforesaid
town shall hereafter be exempted from working on roads without the cor[?0-
ration l mits of said town, and from paying any tax or fine relating to the
same. ‘

§ 3. The constable or marshal appointed by the trustees of the inhabitants
of the town of Fulton, giving bond and amrle security for the performance
of his duties, is hereby authorized, hereafter, to execute orders and process
arising under the ordinances of said town, and who, within the corporate
limits of said town, shall have concurrent power with the constable of the
municipal township in which said town is situated, to execute all orders.
notices, wri's and other process and duties that may be executed by the CO“'

eonroaawiims. ' 177

stable of said’ township, with like elfect, and shall receive the same fees

therefor. I

§ 4. It shall be the_duty of every justice of the peace living in the same
municipal township in which Fulton is situated, upon application by the
town constable or marshal, to issue a warrant to bring any person forthwith
to trial before the justice, granting the same for the breachof any ordinance
of said town, if it appear that there is danger of loosing any claim,debt or
fine if such warrant be not issued; every such application shall besustained
by the nliidiivit of the person making the same.

§ 5. The powers herein granted to the corporate authorities of the townof
Fulton aw, in addition to those heretofore conferred upon towns incorpo-
rated by county courts. ° . -

§ 6. That all ordinances now in force in the town of Fulton, and all which
may be hereafter passed, with regard to the Iiccnsin and regulating of
theatrical and other amusements, within such town, shal have the force and
edect, to the distance of one half mile from the corporate limits of said
town, that they have in said town, and may be enforced to that distance,
and no further, as other ordinances are enforced in said town.

This act to take etlect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March I0, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the improvement of North Grand River. .

§ 1. Certain counties incorporated, are; their 2 § 17. Alit declared a public act.
powers. _ _ 18. Clerk; his duties_.&.c.
2. 0 ject. and designof the association. § 19. Moneys how drawn; to whom paid and
3. Amount of capital stock. g how appropriated.
4. Directors, liow ap ointed. g 20. Powers of the association in relation to
§

5. Otlicers; their qua itications. lands or lots required for the use of the
6. Duty of President and commissioners?’ ‘

7. Contracts, &c., how attested. I
8. Other counties may join said association;

company. .
21. Jury to try damages, to take an oath and
renderjudgmen .

conditions, etc. . 22. Damages assessed, to whom paid.
9. Quorum, how constituted. 23. Penalty for injuries done.
10. Treasurer to give bond; his duties. 24. Notice of organization to be given.
11. Votes, how regulated. 25. First election, when held. _
12. Meetings, when and how called. 2 26. Directors, how and when appointed.
13. To receive lands donated by the U. $tates 27. Maps, lets, &c., to be it ‘trend to the
Government. P Presi ent. _ ~
14. Dividends to be made semi-annually. 28. Individuals may take stock; conditions,
15. Agents to give bonds. &.c.

16. No contract to be made beyond available
means.

 

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of tliissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the counties of Chariton, Carroll, Livingston, Daviess and
Grundy, and such other counties as shall invest funds in the association
hereby established, be and they are hereby incorporated, to be known in '
law and equity by the name of the “Grand River Association,” and by
that name shall have perpetual succession, sue and be sued, complain
and defend in any court of law or equity, to make and use a common
seal, and alter the same at pleasure; to receive by gift, grant or dona-

I

P

l78 coupons-rrons.

tion, and to hold, purchase, convey, sell or lease all species of property
or hereditaments, as the purposes of the association may require; to con-
tract and be contracted with, to appoint such officers and agents, to em-
ploy surveyors, engineers, mechanics, laborers and others, and to do all
other things necessary or proper to carry out and accomplish the object
and design of this ‘association; and also to make by—laws, not inconsist-
ent with any existing law, for the control of its ollicers and the manage-
ment of its affairs, property and business.

§ 2. That the object and design of this association created by this act
is to enter upon North Grand river in this State and to im rove the nav-
igation thereof from its mouth to the mouth of Big cree£, on the west
fork thereof, and to the town of Trenton, on the east fork of said river,
for steamboats, vessels, rafts, and ether crafts; and for that urpose, the
association hereby created is vested with full power and ant ority to en-
ter u on North Grand river, and lands adjoining, by their otlicers, agents
or ot ers, and to improve the» navigation of said river, by constructing
and erecting locks and dams, or both, or by clearing out the snags,
rocks and other obstructions, and by deepening, contracting, straighten-
ing or filling up the channel or other parts of the river, or by other
means or ways proper to accomplish the object and design of the asso-
ciation. The improvements made in such river may be so devised and
constructed as to make or create and produce water power for mills and
machinery, or manufactories, and the association shall have power to
sell, lease, or otherw.ise dispose of such water power; but such works
shall not be so constructed for the purpose of making or creating water
power so as to injure or impair the navigation of said river; and this as-
sociation shall have power and authority to permit any individual or in-
dividuals to construct locks and dams in such river for the use of the
water power thereby produced, upon such terms and conditions as
the association shall deem proper, to improve the navigation of said
river. '

§ 3. The capital stock of this association shall be two hundred thou-
sand dollars, to be divided into shares of twenty dollars each.

§ 4. Each county court having funds invested in this association for
their county, shall at point some corn etent person a director to repre-
sent such county in this association, w 0 shall hold his oflice for the terrn
of one year; and such director, before he enters upon the duties of his

' otlice, shall take an oath as is prescribed in the next succeeding section-

§5. The oflicers of. this association shall be a resident, treasurer:
clerk, and two commissioners, who shall be-elected y the directors, and
shall hold their oflices for two years and until their successors shall be
elected and qualified, unles sooner removed by the directors, who 811911
have power therefor; and the directors, president, clerk and commis-
sioners shall, before thev enter upon the duties of their respective offi-
ces, each take an oath, before some judge or justice of the peace, that

-he will faithfully and honestly dischar e the duties of his ollice, and that

he is not and will not be interested eit er directly or indirectly in any
contract for the improvements to be made in Grand river while he con-
tinues in ollice. The directors may allow the president, treasurer and

clerk of the association a compensation for their services out of H10 _

funds of the association, which they may deem reasonable. The direc-

. shall be, invested, and when the same shall be made available, and what

 

concussions. 179 5

tors shall have a superintending government and control over the whole ‘
business and affairs of the assdciation, and over the oilicers and commis-
sioners, and shall determine in what manner the improvement of the nav-
igation of Grand river shall be made, when the work shall be com-
-menced, what engineers, workmen, laborers and others shall be- employ-
ed, in what manner c ntracts for work shall be let, and what security
shall be required for iheir performance; how the funds of the association  

and how tolls shall be levied and collected; and the directors shall make
all by-laws for the government of the business affairs, property, ofiicers
and Gommhsioners of the association.

 It shall be the duty of the president and commissioners to exe-
cute the orders and by-laws made by the directors. and they shall have
the immediate management of the business, funds and aE'airs of the as-
sociation.

§ 7. All contracts, deeds, conveyances and other instrumentsof wri-
ting, made by this association, shall be signed by the president and at-
tested by the clerk, with the seal of the association, or such contracts,
deeds, conveyances and other instruments shall not be binding on the
association.

§ 8. The county court of any county in the State, upon its own mo-
tion, may, on application by petition of a majority of the taxable inhab-
itants in-the county, to be ascertained from the list of the precedi
year, shall invest in this association the money by their county received
from the sale of the five hundred thousand acres of land donated to this
State by the act of Congress approved September 4th, 1841, or the road
and canal fund, or_ the funds which such county now has or may here-
after have or may hereafter receive from the State or otherwise; and
upon application of the inhabitants as aforesaid, by petition to the county
court, setting forth the number of shares to be taken by such county, the‘
county court of such county shall levy and collect the amount thereof
from the taxable inhabitants of such county, to be assessed and collected
in the same manner as State revenue, to be invested in and paid to the’
association hereby established; and all money or property so invested
shall be honestly and faithfully applied to carry out and accomplish the
object and design of the association, and for no other purpose.

§ 9. A number of the directors representing a majority of the shares
paid into such association, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, and the president and one commissioner shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business within their jurisdiction, and the
directors shall cause to be kept a true and correct record of their pro-
ceedings and by-laws; and the president of the association shall cause
to be kept a true and correct journal of the (proceedings of himself

6:

and commissioners separate from the records of the directors, and

the record and journal shall be opened to public inspection; and it shall
require a vote of a majority of the shares paid in, represented by the
directors present at such meeting, of a quorum, to adopt any by-law, rule,
or order for the control or management of the. odice or business of the as-
sociation; and the ayes and noes shall be entered upon the ‘record in a
vote upon any uestion, at the desire of any director, at‘ a meetin of

‘directors, and e ayes and noes shall be entered upon the journa of

I80 - conponartous.

‘ the commission rs, in a vote upon any question, at the desire of the pre-

-sident or one I the commissioners; but it shall require, at any meeting
of the president and commissioners, two votes to decide any question in
the transaction of the business of the association.
§ 10. The treasurer shall give bond to the association in a sum, and
with good and sufficient security, to be approved by the president and
commissioners, for the faithful discharge and performance of his duty as
treasurer; and further conditioned that he will faithfully keep true and
correct accounts of .all money, property, or evidence of debt, that shall
come to his hands, and that he will faithfully account for and pay over
all money and deliver all property or evidences of debt which shall come
to his. hands, to his successor in oflice,’or the person entitled thereto.
§ 11. The director of a county-shall be entitled to give as many votes
upon all questions, as the county he shall represent shall hold shares in
the association. -
§ 12. The directors and commissioners shall hold stated meetings for
the transaction of business, and the same shall be established by the by-
laws; but the president and one commissioner may call a meeting at any
time when they may deem it necessary.
§ 13. The association may receive from the government of the United
States any lands which may be given, granted, or donated for the pur-
pose of improving the navigation of Grand River; and may sell the same
or otherwise dispose of such lands; but the proceeds thereof shall, with-
out delay, be faithfully applied according to the conditions of the‘ gift,
grant or donation, or any money in like manner.
§ 14. Semi-annual dividends may be made.of the profits or income
from the improvements and water power, among the several counties and
other shareholders in the association, in proportion to the shares held by
each; but no dividends shallbe made so long as the association is in debt
over and above the available funds and means to pay off and liquidate
such indebtedness.
. § 15. The commissioners shall require bond, with good security, from
all odicers or agents of the association, and the bonds shall be executed
to the association with such conditions as the case shall require for the
faithful discharge of their duty.
§ 16. No contract for the construction of any work or improvement
shall be made by the association beyond available means or funds be-
longing to the association.
§ 17. This act is declared to be .a public act, and may be read in evi-
'dence, without any proof or pleading.
§ 18. The clerk of the association shall keep the record of the direc-
tors, journal of the commissioners, and also a true and correct account
of the finances of the association, as well as of the property and business
of the association. ,
§ 19. All funds appropriated by the State, directly for the improve-
_ment of the navigation of North Grand river, and the distributive share
coming to a county of any funds arising under an act of the General
Assembly of this State, entitled “an act for the ‘distribution of the pro-
ceeds of the sales of the 500,000 acres of land donated to this State, by
the congress of the United States,” approved March 27th, 1845, which

shall be invested in this association bythis act, shall be paid by the State

cannon-nous. 181.

treasurer, directly to the treasurer of this association upon the warrant
of the Auditor of Public Accounts, who is hereby‘ required to draw his
warrant in favor of the treasurer of this association therefor upon the
State treasurer, and such distributive share, or the road and canal fund
which shall be hereafter directed by the order of any county court to
be invested in the association and which is or shall be in the State trea-
sury, shall be paid directly to the treasurer of this association, as herein
directed, upon the presentation to the Auditor of Public Accounts the-
order of the county court of the county entitled thereto, signed by the

president of such court, and attested by the ‘clerk thereof with his seal

of otlice thereto atlixed.

§N. -In any case when the association shall need or require any lots
or lands adjoining or near the Grand river, upon which to erect or con-
struct any building, fixture, looks or dams, or to secure to the associa-,
tion the use and benefit of any water power, created or‘ produced by any
improvement or work, and shall require land near or adjoining the same,
an the person or persons owning such lots or‘ lands will not donate such
lots or lands to the association, or when such owners demand an unrea-
sonable price therefor and no contract can be made between such owner
and the association, or when the owner is unlmown or absent or disabled
to contract or sell such lots or lands, it shall be lawful for the associa-

tion to give notice thereof to the judge of the circuit court in the coun- .
1

ty in w ch such lots or lands are situated, stating in such notice the
bounds and limits as well as the uantity of lands or lots needed or re-

uired by the association, and w ere located; and it shall be the duty of

e judges thereupon to a point three disinterested, discreet persons as a
jury to examine or view t e lots or lands re uired by the association as
stated in the notice, and the jury so appointed shall fix a time when they
will view and assess the damages and value of such lots or lands, of
which notice shall be given by the jury to the association and the owner
of such lots or lands, if he reside in the county and it be known to the
jury, or such notice may be given to the tenant residing on such lands;
but if the owner be unknown to the jury or he shall reside out of the
county, and there be notenant residing on such lands, notice of the time
of the meeting of the jury may be given by at least three advertisements,
which shall be put up in three public places in'the county in which such
lots or lands are situated; which notice shall be iven at least twenty
days before the meeting of the ‘my, the notice of t e a ointment of the
jury by judge may be served y any person who is a awful witness‘ or
any constable, and the notice to the association and to the owner of the
lands at the time of the meeting of the jury may be given by a consta-
ble or any person who is a lawful witness, and the service or puttin up
of said notice shall be verified by the aflidavit of the person who s all
serve or put up the same, 'or by the certificate and return of the consta-

ble; if the owner of such lots or lands is a married woman, the notice__

may be served onher husband, or if a minor or person of unsound mind;
than upon the lawful ardian or curator, or if there be no guardian or
curator the circuit ju ge may appoint some one to defend for such mi-
nor or person of unsound mind.

§ 21. The jury before entering upon the dischar e of their duty shall
each take and subscribe an oath before some judge or justice of the

IBB oonroaurrosus. --

peace faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties of their a int-
ment, and honestly assess the damages and value of the lots and ands,
and also estimate the value or enhancement of the lots or lands by the
improvements adjoining thereto held by the owner, and then thereby as-
certain the damages, if any, to the owner of the lots or lands required
by the association, which oath shall be attached to the order of the ap-
lpointment by the judge. It shall be the duty of the jury to go upon the
ots or lands and examine the same and adjudge and report the damages,
if any, as required by their oath and the amount thereof, which report
shall be signed by the jury and returned to the oflice of the clerk of the
circuit court of the countyin which the lots and lands are situated, and‘
said clerk shall file the same and enter judgment on the records of the
court’ in accordance with the report of said jury and the findings of the
jury shall be final and conclusive unless one or both parties are dissatis-
fied by the decision of the ‘my, and shall within five days afterthe filing
of the report file in the 0 cc of such clerk their objections to such de-
cisions and re ort; said objections shall be examined by the judge of the
circuit (court as soon thereafter as may be, and if the same be-deemed
suilicient and just he shall order a review by another jury in the same
manner as herein provided; but not more than one review shall be grant-
ed the same party and in all cases of objections being filed, the clerk
shall not enter a judgment thereon until the same is approved of or set
aside by the judge of said court.
§ 22. All damages assessed by the jury in the manner above stated
may he paid to the owner or owners or persons appearing on behalf of
said lots or lands, and in case the owner 18 unknown or there be no per-
son or agent authorized to receive the same, the association may pay the
amount into the county treasury in which such lands are situated, and

whenever the association shall file in the allies of said clerk the receipt’

of the owner, person or agent authorized to receive the same or‘ there-
ceipt of the county treasurer for the amount assessed by the jury ‘the fee

simple title and interest in so much of said lots or lands as the associa— _

tion required, shall be vested in said association as fully and completely
as if proper deeds of conveyance had been made therefor; provided,
however, that in all cases where the said association shall have tendered
before the appointment of a jury to the owner or owners of any such lots
or lands a sum equal to the amount assessed by the jury, and the same
shall have been refused, the owner or owners shall pay all costs attending
the assessment thereof. _

 23. Every person who shall wilfully and maliciously injure or obstruct
the navigation of said river or any part thereof and shall cut down or
in'ure, break or destroy any bridge, lock ‘or dam, on any other work or
e itice, or any machinery belonging to or connected with the improve-
ment on such river constructed by the association, or shall willfully in-
'ure any embankment or make or cause to be made any aperture in any

' ock, dam or embankment constructed by the association with thexintent ~

to injure or destroy the same, shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeasmr;
and shall be punished by imprisonmentin the county jail not exceeding
one year or by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by botlrstich
line and imprisonment. ~

§24. As soonpas the association shall be organized by the appoint-

conrolumosrs. 188

ment of a president, treasurer, clerk, and commissioner, and they shall
be qualified to enter upon the dutiesof their respective_ offices, the pres-
ident shall give notice thereof to the several county courts interested in
the improvement of said river, and thereupon the treasurer of the asso-
ciation shall be authorized to receive and receipt for all funds that may
be invested in the association, and shall give such counties or persons
investing the same credit therefor, and a certificate of the number of
shares paid in, which certificate shall be attested by the clerk with the_
seal of the association.

§ 25. The first election for president, treasurer, clerk, and commis-
sioner shall be the first Monday in June, A. D. 1849, or so soon thereaf-
ter as a majority of the directors shall meet, and on that day every two
years thereafter. . '

§ 26. The directors of the association shall be appointed by the coun-
ty courts on the first Monday in May, annually, and if not appointed at
that time, then at the first term of the court thereafter, and shall hold
their otiices for the term of one year, and until their successors are ap-
pointed and qualified; but at any time after a county court shall have in-
vested funds in the association, the county court of such county may
appoint a director of such county, who shall hold his oflice until the
tint Monday in May thereafter, and until his successor is elected and

ualified. .

q § 27. All maps, plats, surveys, notes, estimates, and other papers and
documents relating to North Grand river, or concerning the same, in the
possession of the State, made by the chief ° engineer or board of com-
missioners, or under their superintendance, under the act of the Gener-
al Assembly of this State, entitled “an act to establish a general system
of internal improvements in the State of Missouri, and an act supple-
mentary thereto,” approved 'Eebruary 13th, 1839, are hereby directed
to be delivered over to the president of the association so soon as he
shall be elected and qualified by the Secretary of State, or librarian,
or other persons in possession of the same.

§ 28. Individuals may take stock in the association at any time by pay-
ing the money to the treasurer of the association, and the president and
clerk shall issue a certificate of stock, of the number of shares so taken
by each, and the individual stockholders may elect one director, who
shall be entitled to as many votes in the board of directors, in the con-
trol and management of the business of the association and‘ in the elec-
tion of its officers, as the individual stockholders hold» shares in the as-
Iociation. The director on the part of the individual stockholders, shall
be elected at the same time and shall hold his oflice for the same term,
and shall hold his oflice until his successor shall be elected and qualified
as directors appointed on part of a county, and may be removed by a
majority of the private stockholders. The president of the association
shall appoint a place at which the election of the director, on the part of
individual stockholders shall be held, and in the election of such direc-
tor, and in deciding any other question or matter among themselves, and
on their part each individual stockholder shall be entitled to as many
votes as he shall hold shares in such association. Should a vacancy oc-
our in the ofiice of director, on the part of the individual stockholders,
the president of the association shall appoint a convenient time and

1184 GORPOBA'HON8.'

place for an election" to be held to till such vacancy, and shall give notice
thereof to the private stockholders.

This act to be in force and take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. '

 

\/\a\./'\./\./\&./'~/\.a\J'w ' gr
0

AN ACT to incorporate the High Point Mining and Manufacturing
' Company, in the county of Moniteau.

§ 1. itlvle of the corporation. §l5. Directors to regulate time of payment of
2. ay '

have a common seal. 3 stock.
3. Obyects of corporation declared. 3 16. Stockholders failing to pay, proceedings
4. Corporation may hold real estate. ? thereon.
a

5. Amount of capital stock. 17. Corporation not to purchase lauds, until
6. Commissioners ap ointed, too en books ‘ when.

7. Amount to be pan at time of su scription. 3 18. Books of record and account to be kept.
. 8. Alfairs to be managed by a board of direc- ’ 19. Stock to be deemed personal property.
tors. 20. Dividends to be declared, when.

\
9. Manner of appointment of other officers. 9 2|. Stockholders indebted, to be deprived of
10. Duration of term of otlice of directors. 5 certain privileges.
ll. Manner of holding lirst election. 3 22. Directors to take oath; treasurer to give
12. Manner ol' holding subsequent elections. bond.
13. Number of votes to which each stockhold- g 23. Duration of cor oration.
eris entitled. , %. General Assem ly empowered to repeal

14. Votes may be given by proxy. ~ charter, when.
Be it enacted by the Generalufssembly qf the State of Mzicsozzri, as follows:

§ 1. A company to be called the Hi h Point Mining and Manufactu-
ring Company, to be established at Hig Point, in the county of Moni-
teau, State of Missouri, is hereby incorporated as a body politic and
corporate, and as such may by that name sue and be sued, plead and be
impleaded, in all courts of law and equity within this State, and may
contract and be contracted with as natural persons.

§ 2. The said incorporation shall have a common seal, may adopt by-
laws for their government, and generally shall have power to do all things
incident to the nature of incorporations.

§ 3. The objects of this incorporation are declared to be the mining,
smelting, and manufacturing of lead at the. High Point lead mines, in
the county of Moniteau, or of any other metal or minerals that may be
found on the lands of the company in said county or elsewhere, as alsp

the erection of such buildings, machinery, appertaining to saw or grist '

mills, or carding and fulling machinery, as the said company may deem
useful and profitable to attach to any s are or surplus steam or other
power that they may own and use for t e carrying on of their mining
operations, or manufacturing processes; and said company shall have
power and authority to transact all such business as may be necessary
to carry on their operations, as above named and described. '

§ 4. The said company may purchase and hold lands, with the appur-
tenances and privileges thereto belonging, and‘ sell and convey the
same. to such extent, in the county of Moniteau, or elsewhere within

the State of Missouri, as the incorporation may deem necessary for car-
rying out the objects of this incorporation.

coaroaasrroxs. ' 185

. 5. The capital stock of said- incorporation‘ shall be fifteen thousand
do ars, to be divided into shares of fifty dollars each; and if after the
organization, and the commencement of active operations, two-thirds of
the stockholders, and a majority of the board of directors shall deem it
necessary, and beneficial to the interest of the company, it shall be law-

‘ful for said company to increase the capital stock fifteen thousand dol-

lars, making in all thirty thousand dollars capital stock. - _

§ 6. John Johnson and J. B. Morgan are hereby appointed commis-
sioners to obtain subscriptions of the stock of said corporation to that
cfect; they or their assigns or agents shall cause books of subscription
from [fog saidstock to be 0 ened in the town of California, the county
seat of oniteau county, an in the different county seats of the coun-
ties adjoining or abutting tosaid county of Moniteau, and elsewhere in
the United States, as the said commissioners my deem expedient, first
giving twenty days previous notice thereof, by putting u six or more
handbills at the most public places in said counties, or ot er places of
snbscri tion. ‘ -

§7. ach subscriber of stock shall at the time of making his sub-
scription, pay the sum of five dollars on the amount of each share sub-
scribed; and for the security of the subscribers, the amount paid at the
time of subscribin shall not be paid to the commissioner or agent, but
the same shall be eposited in some moneyed institution, or other place
of depositing, at or near the place of subscribing, deemed safe by the
commissioner or his agent; and the money so paid shall be deposited to
the credit of the High Point Mining and Manufacturing Company, to be
drawn from them in such manner as the board of directors shall re-
scribe, after said commissioner ' has paid all necessary expenses w ich
have accrued. ‘

8. The affairs of said company shall be managed by live directors,
to chosen from among the stockholders, three of whom shall consti-
tute a uorum for the transaction of business.

, § 9. he directors shall appoint from their own number a president,
and shall have power to appoint a secretary and treasurer, andsuch
other omcers, agents and servants, as they may deem necessary for the
management of the affairs of the corporation.-

§ 10. The directors shall hold their o$ce for one year, and until their
successors areduly elected and qualitied. w
§ ll. The commissioners above’ named, or a majority of ‘them, shall

ix the time and place of holding the first election for directors, and shall
give at least twenty days notice thereof, in the same manner, and in the
same places, as where booksvof subscription for stock shall have been
opened by said commissioners or their agents, and stock actually sub-
scribed for. ' - n

§ 12. All subse uent elections for directors, shall be holden-annually
at such time and p ace as the directors shall appoint, ten days revions
notice whereof shall be given by the.secretary to each stockhol er, who
shall be a resident in the counties aforesaid, by mail or otherwise.

§ 13. In all elections for directors, or. in transacting any other busi-
ness of this corporation-on which it shall be necessary for the stock-
holders to act, each stockholder shall  entitled to one vote for each
share held him or her.

186 oonrenu-ions.

a§ 14. Votes may be given by proxy, duly authorized in writing to that
e éct; and at all meetings of the stockholders, either for the election of
directors, or the transaction of other business of the corporation, a ma-
jority of votes present shall govern. . ,

§ 16. The directors may require the payment of stock in such sums,
at such time and place, and under such conditions, as they shall direct;
and «shall cause twenty days notice to be given‘ to each subscriber, in
writing, by mail or otherwise; the installment, however, not to exceed
at any one time twenty-live per cent. of the stock subscribed for.

§ 16. If any stockholder shall fail to pay the proportion or installment
of stock which the directors shall require him to pay, he -shall forfeit to
the corporation the amount previously paid in by him; and the directors
may cause the amount of stock he shall have subscribed for, to be sold
to any person for such price as may be agreed on.

§ 17. This corporation shall not purchase lands, or commence opera-
tions, until one-fourth of the capital stock of fifteen thousand dollars

shall have been paid in.
§ 18. The directors shall cause to be kept proper books of record and
accounts, in which shall be regularly entered all the transactions of the

company, which shall at all times be open to the inspection of the stock.-‘

holders.

§ 19. The stock of this corporation shall be deemed personal property,
and shall be assi able and transferable upon the books of the corpora-
tion only, accorgi-hg to such rules and regulations as the directors shall
establish. ‘

§ 20. The dividends of the profits arising from the business of said
corporation, shall be made at least annually, and shall be paid at such
time and lace as the directors shall establish.

§ 21. o stockholder, who shall be indebted to the corporation shall
be permitted to assign or transfer his stock, or receive a dividend, -until
such debt shall be paid, or secured to the satisfaction of the directors.

§ 22. Every director shall, before he takes his seat as such, take an
oath or aflirmation faithfully to perform his trust, and the duties. of his
ollice; and the board of directors shall require and take from the treasu-
rer of the company, for the time being, such suflicient bond and security
for the amount of money and other property of the company, that may
be placed in or pass throu h his hands.

§23. The corporation hereby created, shall exist and continue for
the term of twenty-five years, and no longer, for the object specified in
this act, but shall continue to exist after that time for the purpose of sell-
ing and disposing of their property and effects, and the general winding
up of their affairs, and until that object shall have been accomplished.

§ 24. The general assembly shall have power to repeal this charter,
provided said corporation do not commence active operations within five
years from the passage of this act, or in case said company shall violate
the object and leadin provisions of. the charter.

This act to take e ect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

coitpoltarronsi‘ 187

AN ACT to authorize the erection of a toll bridge across the Mer-
imac river.

§ 1. Bridge authorized to be erected. § 7. Time limited for building bridge; rate of
2» Style of the corporation, powers of. tolls established. .
3. Amount of capital stock. 8. Rates of toll to be posted up.
4. Concerns of company, by whom managed. 9. Count courts of certain counties author
5. Firstboard of directors, duties of. ize to urchase said bridge, when.
6. Number of votes to which each stockhold- 10. Manner o construction. V ;.
er is entitled, ‘ 11. Pritwgleges of corporation to cease in car-
'n events. . 0

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. James Hunt, Benjamin Johnson, jr., and Charles S. Rankin, of
the county of Jefferson, and John Simonds, Jackson Vancourt, Edward
Charless, and Frederick Dent, of the county of St. Louis, and such
other persons as they may associate with them, be and they are hereby
authorized to erect .a toll bridge across the Merimac river, on the line
between the counties of J e&'erson and St. Louis, at some suitable point
between Fine’s ferry and Catalan’s ford, on said river, having first pro-
cured the consent of the proprietors of the land, or the title thereof,’
upon which it is proposed to erect said bridge.

§ 2. The persons named in the first section of this bill,.with such oth-
ers as they may associate with them, and their successors, being stock-.
holders in the same, are hereby created and made a body politic, by the
name and s_tyle of the “Merimac Brid e Company,” and by that name
may sue and be sued, plead and be impgeaded, in r courts of record and

elsewhere, may have and hold, purchase and receive lands, heredita-

ments, goods,‘ chattels and effects, and the same sell, grant, alien, de-
mise, convey and dispose of, during the term of twenty years from and
after the first -of May, eighteen hundred and forty-nine, but _shall not’
have power to hold more real estate than will be necessary for the erec-
tion of said bridge and toll house. The said persons, and their succes-
sors, shall have power to use a common seal and alter the same at plea-

sure, also to make by-laws, and regulations not inconsistent with the laws;

of the United States and of this State.

§ 3. The capital-stock of said company shall be 20,000 dollars, and
be divided into shares of fifty dollars each, and the subscribers of said
shares shall pay the same to the president and directors of said company
at‘ such time and in such installments as they may require.

§ 4. The concerns of said company shall be mana edrby seven direc- -

tors, one of whom shall bepresident, and shall hold t eir office for three
years and until their successors shall be duly elected, a majority of whom
shall constitute a board for the transaction“ ofbusiness. "

§ 5. The persons named in the iirst section of this act are hereby ap-'
pointed the first directors, who shall serve for two years from the pas-
sage of the same, and are authorized to open books and receive sub-
scri tions, receive the funds and transact all other business n'ecess,ary to
be one to carry into elfectthis act. They shall likewise have power to
designate the time and place of the meeting of the stockholders for the
purpose of electing oflicers, and shall superintend the election of the
same. i

l88_ , coaroparxous.

§ 6. Each stockholder shall ‘be entitled to cneevote for every share‘.

owned by him, and the stock of the company shall be assignable under
the regulations of the president and directors of the company.

§ 7. The said persons mentioned in the first section of this act shall
have three years from the passage of. the same to complete said bridge,
and when completed they shall be entitled to demand and receive the
following tolls for passing the same: For each man, woman or child, of
twelve years or upwards, on foot, 10 cents; for every man and horse, 25
cents; for each gig and horse, 50 cents; for every wagon and two horses,
oxen or mules, 60 cents;‘for every _wagon and four horses, oxen or mules,
75 cents; for every pleasure carriage drawn by two horses, onerdollar;
for every pleasure carriage drawn by four horses, ond dollar and 2.: cents;
fog Each head oil‘ caitgle, 5 cents; for each sheep or hog, 2 cents; for each

e orse or mu e cents.

§ 8. Said comp,an(y shall keep the said rates of toll posted publicly at
each end of the bri ge on some suitable sign. .
§ 9. The county court of either Jefferson or St. Louis county shall, if
they deem it to the interest of the county or the public at large have.
power, at the expiration of twelve years after the completion olf said
ridge, to purchase the same from the proprietors thereof, for the pur-
pose of making the same a free bridge at such time and on such terms
as maybe fixed by three disinterested iraluers, residence [residentsgl of
the county wishing to make such purchase, one of which valuers s all
be appointed by the county court, another by the proprietors of said
bridge, and the third by the two selected.

. § 10. The owner or owners of said bridge shall construct the same so
as not to interfere with the navigation of said river, by either making a
draw therein or making the same so high as to admit boats to ass under
without obstruction; and in the construction of the same, shallp not inter-
fere with any ltnown and established ford.

§ 11. If the owner or owners of said bridge shall suifer the samexto
go to decay, so as to render it unsafe for passen ers, and it shall remain
so for three months, and no safe means proviged by said company for
passing said river during the time said bridge shall be out of repair,
tlhen, and in that case, every privilege herein granted shall cease and
etermine.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to establish a female Academy in the county of Daviess.

§ 1. Style of the corporation; style of. 4. County court to constitute the first board
2. May receive donations. 5 of trustees.
3. Corporate power; vested in whom. § 5. Trustees may establish by-laws, &c.

4

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly Q,’ the State of Missouri, asfollows:

_ § 1. There shall be, and hereby is ordained, constituted and established
2n the cm-nty of Daviess, a body po'itic and corporate, with perpetual suc-

coaponrrrons. 189

cession, by the name and style of the "Daviess county female academy,”
and by that name shall be competent to contract and be contracted with, to
sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, in
all courts and places whatsoever, with full power and authority to acquire,
hold, use, possess, occupy and en'oy the same, to sell, convey and disposg of
all such real estate and personal’ property as is or may be necessary for the
use of said corporation, and may have and use a common seal, and the same
may bealtered or changed at leasure; and may also make, ordain, establish
and put in execution such by- aws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall
be proper and necessary for the prudent and eliicient management of the
adiiirs of said corporation, and for the good government of the academy to
be established 'by said corporation; provided, however, that no by-laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations of said corporation shall be contrary to or
iéieonsistent with the laws or constitution of this State, or of the United

tates. ‘ -

§ 2. The said corporation shall have power to take and receive, as adona-
tion,or otherwise, any lands and tenements, money, rents, goods, chattels
and effects which may be given, granted, donated er devised to said corpo-
ration for the purposes of education.
, § 3. The corporate powers shall be vested in a board of trustees, to con-
sist of seven, a majority of whom shall constitute a quorum to do business.

§4. Said trustees shall have power to fill all vacancies that shall or may
occur in their body.

§ 5. The county court of Daviesscounty shall have power to appoint the
lirst board of trustees; any three of whom shall have power to call a meet-
ing of said board, by giving ten days previous notice thereof, by hand-bills or
advertisements, set up in three of the most public places in said county.

§6. That said board of trustees, and their successors, may, from time to
time, establish such otiicers, and provide for the election of such persons to
fill the same as they may deem proper, and make and ordain such constitu-
tion, by-laws, rules and regulations, for the well-being and government of
said academy, as they may deem expedient, and annex to the same reasona-
ble pecuniary penalties for breach thereof.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT extending the corporate ‘limits of the city of Glasgow. _
Be ilenacted by the General dssemblj of the State qf.Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§l. The mayor, councilmen and citizens of the city of Glasgow, are
hereby authorized and empowered to impose the same tax or license on all
circuses, menageriesand shows exhibited within one half mile of the present
limits of said city, as if the same were exhibited within said limits.

This act’ to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. ' ‘

190 conroaarroxs.

AN ACT to incorporate the Belleville Hydraulic Company, and for other

purposes.

5 1. Style of the co oration. 13. Directors to regulate the payment of stock
2. Shall have a sea . 14. Stockholder failing to pay; proceedings
3. Objects of the corporation; declared. thereon.

4. May hold real estate. 15. Books of record and account to be kept.
5. Amount of capital stock. 16. Dividends may be declared.
6. Commissioners appointed to open books of 17. Stock to be deemed personal property.
subscription. 18. Stockholder indebted; deprived of certain
7. Directors; how chosen. privileges.
8. Other oiiicers; how appointed. _ 19. Cor oration empowered to do certain
9. Commissioners to appoint the time for t ings. .
' electing the first directors. 20. Judgment may be rendered against corpora-
10. Times for holding subsequent elections. tron for damages. ‘
11. Number of votes to be given by each 21. Time for corporation to commence work;
stockholder. limited. A

12. Voting may be proxy.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssemlily qf the State of Missouri, asfallaus:

§ 1. A company, to be called the “Belleville Hydraulic company,” to be
established on the east fork of North Grand river, in the county of Living-
ston, in this State, is hereby incorporated as a body politic and corporate,
and as such may, by that name, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in
all courts of law and equity within this State, and may contract and be
contracted with, as a natural person. .

§ 2. The said incorporation shall have a common seal, may appoint by-
laws for their government, and, generally, shall have power to do all things
incident to the nature of incorporations.

§ 3. The objects of this incorporation are declared to be the building of a
saw mill and a grist mill at, or near, a point called the Little Blulf, about one
mile and a half north of McGee’s ferry, on said east fork of North Grand
river, in said county of Livingston, and such other machinery as said com-
pany may deem useful to be attached thereto, and to transact such business
as may be necessary to keep said mills and other machinery in operation.

§4. The said incorporation may purchase and hold lands sutiicient for
the building of said mills, and the out-houses and tenements appurtenant,
and may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the same.

§ 5. The capital stock of said incorporation shall be three thousand dol-
lars, to be divided into shares of fifty dollars each, and the stock may be
increased to ten thousand dollars.

§ 6. James R. Bell, Amos Walker and Joseph Haskins, are hereby
appointed commissioners to open books for the subscriptions of stock of said
incorporation, who, or a majority of _ whom, shall cause said books to be kept
open, at the town of Springhill, in Livingston county, for three months, and
as much longer a- they shall deem expedient, giving due notice of the time
and place of opening said books, by advertisements, to be set up in four of
the most public places in said county. ' .

§ 7. The affairs of said corporation shall be managed by three directors,
who shall be chosen from amongst the stockholders, and such directors shall
hold Eheit‘ oliices for one year, and until their successors are duly elected and
qua i _ed. '

§ 8. The directors shall appoint, from their own number, a president, and
shall have power to appoint a secretary, treasurer, and such other oliicers,

oonoau-tons. ' 191

agents. and servants as they may deem necessary for the management of the
affairs of the corporation. i ' .

§ 9. The commissioners above named, or a majority of them, shall fix the
time and place of holding the first election of directors, and shall give at
least ten days notice thereof, by handbills, in four of the most public places
in said county. '

§ l0. All subsequent elections for directors shall be held yearly, at such
time and place as the directors shall appoint; ten days previous notice thereof
shall be given by the secretary to each stockholder, who shall be a resident
of the county at the time.

§ 11. In all elections for directors, or in the transaction of any other
business, under this act, in which it shall be necessary for the stockholders
to act, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for every share by him
or her held in said corporation. .

§ l2. Votes may be given by proxy,duly authorized to that effect in wri-
ting; and at all meetings of the stockholders, whether for the election of
directors, or the transaction of other business of the corporation, a majority
of the votes present shall govern.

§ 13. The directors may require thepayment of stock subscribed, in
such sums, at such times and places, and under such conditions, as they
shall direct, and they shall give twenty days notice thereof to each sub-
scriber. *

§ 14. If any stockholder shall fail to pay the proportion of stock
which the directors shall require him to ay, he shall forfeit to the cor-
poration the amount previously paid in y him, and the directors may
cause the amount of stock thus forfeited to be sold to any person upon
such terms as may be a er-ed upon. ‘

§ 15. The directors all cause to be kept, books of the accounts of
the corporation, and records of all its transactions, which shall be open
at all times for the inspection of the stockholders.

§ 16. The dividends arisin ‘ from the business of this co oration shall
be made at such times and pgaces as the-corporation shall etermine.

§ 17. The stock of this incorporation shall be deemed personal pro-
perty, and shall be assignable and transferable on the books of the cor-
poration, only according to such rules as the directors shall establish.

§l8. No stockholder who shall be indebted to the corporation shall
he ermitted to assign or transfer his stock, or receive a dividend until
sue debt shall be paid or secured to the satisfaction of the directors.

§ 19. The ‘aforesaid incorporation is hereby authorized to build and
maintain a dam, for the purpose of propelling mills and other machinery,
across the east fork of North Grand river, at the point before mentioned
in this act; which dam shall be so constructed as to collect the main
current of the river to a chute, which shall be not less than thirty feet
wide, and eighteen inches deep, with an apron at least five feet in length
for every foot the dam is high; said apron being so constructed as to con-
fine the water on the slope while passing over, and a rope and Windlass
sutlicient to draw keel-boats up the slope of said dam, shall be provided
by said corporation, and so arranged as to answer that purpose.

§ 20. If the land of any individual shall be overflowed or injured by
the back water, in consequence of said dam, he or she may apply ‘to the
ciicuit court and obtain a ‘writ of ad quad damnum, to summon a jury

1.92 conronsrioxs.

to assess the damages by him sustained’ in consequence of such dam,
and the proceedings shall be under the direction of the circuit court,
and if any damages be assessed, judgment shall be rendered against
said corporation for the amount thereof.

§ 21. If the corporation, by this act incorporated, shall not within six
months after the passage of this act, commence to build the mills as in
this act provided, then it shall be lawful for any other person or persons
to construct a dam, upon such conditions as are prescribed in the nine-
teenth section of this act, for like purposes; and if said corporation shall
not construct and put in operation a saw and grist mill, according to the
provisions of this act, within two years from the passage thereof, the
same shall be dissolved.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to appro riate money for the survey and marking out the
annibal and St. Joseph railroad.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qf the State of JHz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. Thesum of five thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the surveying
and marking out the Hannibal and St. Joseph railroad, from Hannibal in
Marion county, to St. Joseph in Buchanan county.

§ 2. Whenever the president and directors of the said railroad com-
pany shall be informed that the congress of the United States have do-
nated alternate sections of the public lands, to the extent of six miles
upon each side of the said contemplated railroad from one end to the other,
it shall then be the duty of the said president and directors to employ
some skillful and competent surveyor, and such number of assistants and
hands as may be necessary, for the speedy completion of said survey,
and have the same done without delay.

§ 3. When said survey shall be completed upon the terms and condi-
tions herein provided, the president of the said company shall certify to
the auditor of ublic accounts the amount due each and every erson
who may have heen employed in making said survey; and it shall e the
duty of the auditor thereupon, to draw his warrant upon the treasurer
for the amount thus ascertained to be due any person employed as afore-
said in the surveying and marking out said road; and it shall be the duty
of the treasurer to pay the warrants thus drawn out of the fund herein ap-
propriated for said work; and the State of Missouri shall at any time be-
fore the Hannibal and St. Joseph railroad is completed, upon the pas-
sage of an act by the General Assembly to that effect, be entitled to re-
ceive from the Hannibal and St. Joseph railroad company certificates of

stock in said company to the amount of the appropriation made by and
under this act.

-Approved March 8, 1849.

oonronazrlens. 193

AN ACT to.-amend-an act entitled‘ “An actto incorporate the the town
of Lagrange, in Lewis county.” A

‘Be it enacted by the Gen eral dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

' § 1. That the twelfth section of an act entitled “An act to incorporate
the town of Lagrange, in Lewis county,” approved Marhh 24th, 1845,

be and the same is hereby repealed. 9,

. § 2. Nothing in said act shall be so construed that the citizens within
the said incorporatedlimits of the said town of Lagrange shall'be exempt
from working upon any road or roads beyond the limits of said corporation,
orfrom paying any tax to procure laborers to work upon said road or roads.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

l\f\/'\/‘VT '\’\F\f\}

AN ACT to incorporate the Cotton Wood Female Academy in Lewis .

county. '
§ 1. Institution incorporated; its owers. ' 7. Trustees shall cause building or buildings
2. Trustees named; time they s all serve. to be erected.
3. Time of holding election; qualilications 8. Trustees shallelect a secretary and treasur-.
requisite to vote. ’ er; their duties, and penalties for violation
4. Trustees shall elect a president and per- of duty.
form other duties. 9. Trustees shall be ex-omcio curators.
5. Majority of trustees shall constitute a 10. Provides for endowment for said academy
uorum- have authority to fill vacancies; in certain cases. ' _
iihall tahe an oadi. , - ll. Trustees ma add a preparatory department
6. Trustees have power to take and receive to the a my.

subscription; may enforce payment there-
of in cases of non-compliance.

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. An institution is hereby created and established as a body public
and corporate, between the town of Tully and Canton, as near as prac-
ticable to each, in the county of Lewis, to be known as the “Cotton
Wood Female Academy,” for the object and pur ose of educating fe-
males, and to encourage and diffuse useful lrnowled’ e: and such institu-
tion shall have perpetual succession b its name, an to sue and be sued,
complain and defend in any court of aw or equity, to make and use a
common seal, and alter the same at pleasure; to hold, purchase, receive
by gift or devise, and to sell, lease or convey all kinds of property, real,
personal or mixed, to appoint such oliicers and a ents to employ profes-
sors, tutors, teachers and others, and to do all ot er matters and thin s
necessary to carry out and accomplish the objects and purposes of t e
institution; it shall have power to make by-laws, not inconsistent with
any existing law, for the management of its affairs, business and proper-
ty, and the regulation of its oflicers and their duties, and for the sale,
leasing or conveyance of its property.

§ 2. That Z. T. Kni ht, Selby Simpson, James Nelson, Chancy Dur-
lree, Jose h H. Blain, gamuel H. Stuart, Thomas 0. Reese, Asher B.
Owsley, (fregory F. Hawkins, Thomas Bayne, William Pritchard, Ben

Harper, John H. Stith, William Ellis, William B. Martin, William H.

194 oonroasrrous-.

Stewart and John H. -Owsley; are hereby appointed trustees of said
“Cotton Wood Seminary,” who shall hold their trust for two years from
the time of their organization, or first meeting, and until their succes-
sors shall be elected and qualified.

§ 3. An election for trustees shall be held at the oflice of said acade-
my, on the firlt Monday in May, 1851, and every two years thereafter;
and every person who shall have subscribed the amount of ten dollars
or more shall be entitled to a vote, and may do so by himself or proxy.

§ 4. The said trustees at their first meeting shall elect a president who
shall preside at all of their meetings, converie the board when necessary,
and sign all conveyances made by said trustees under their seal, attested
by their secretary. . ‘

§ 6. A majority of said trustees, shall constitute a quorum to do busi-
ness, and they shall have authority to fill vacancies. But before entering
upon the dischar e of their duty, shall take an oath to support the con-
stitution of the nited States, and the State of Missouri, and faithfully

. to demean themselves in oflice; and shall hold their meetings semi-an-

nually, subject to be convened at any time by the president.
§ 6. The said trustees shall have power to take and receive subscrip-
tions in money, notes, real and personal estate, for the use ’ of said
academy, and in case and person shall fail to comply with his subscrip-
'tion, and pay the same, they may enforce the payment thereof before any
court having jurisdiction of the case.
§ 7. So soon as a sufiicient amount of funds is raised by subscription
or otherwise, the trustees of said academy, shall cause a suitable build-
ing or buildings to be erected, at such place as near equi distant from
the business part of said towns as practicable, having due regard in the
erection of such building, to additions that may hereafter be made.
§ 8. The trustees at their first meeting shall elect a secretary and
treasurer, who shall hold their ofiice for the term of two years, and until’
their successors shall be elected and qualified; and before entering _upon
their duties, shall take and subscribe the above prescribed oath, which
said oaths shall‘be filed in the archives of said academy, and the trea-
surer shall give bond with approved security, by at least two household-
ers, to the use of the said academy payable to the said trustees and their
successors in oliice, conditioned for the faithful performance of his dua-
_ties, under such rules and regulations as the board may adopt, and it
shall be lawful for said board to obtain judgment, for the amount thereof,
or for any special delinquencies, incurred by him under the same on mo-
tion, in any court of record in this State, against the treasurer and his
securities, his or their executors or administrators, upon giving ten days’
notice of such motion, and also, twenty-five per cent. per annum, upon
such delinquency, and the treasurer may be indictable for embezzlement,
and may be lined in any sum not less than one hundred dollars, nor more
than five hundred dollars, or may be imprisoned in the county ail, not
more than three months, nor less than fifteen days, or both by suclffine
and imprisonment; the fine to be applied to the use of such academy.
§ 9. The said trustees shall be ex-oliicio curators of said academy,

and the same may be reduced as low as five at any time by the qualified -
voters herein.

conronarroris. ‘ 1915

§ 10. Any conference, association, synod or grand lodge of .a religious
or moral institution, who shall secure to the satisfaction of said trustees,
an annual income of five hundred dollars, as an endowment for said

academy, shall be entitled to select a ma'ority of said trustees; provided,
such endowment be made on or before the first Monday in June, A. D.,

1851.

§, 11. The said trustees may at any time, should they deem it advisa-
ble, add to said academy, a preparatory department for the tuition of
males, and may secure the services of a competent teacher. '

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 8th_, 1849.

O%\&l 

AN ACT to incorporate the Platte county Male and Feinalelnstitute.

\

§ l. Omcers of incorporation named; their du- point teachers; their qualihcations requir
ties. ed.
2. Powers of incorporation; may purchase 8. Power of board of control, to grant diplo

and hold property. a - mas. . ,
3. Corporation to be an institute of learning; 9. Form and style of diplomas.
professors to be appointed; wars to 10. Appeals may be taken from the board of

point board of visitors; their uty. control to the board of visitors.
4. Operations of incorporation limited. 11. Board of control shall have owerto make
.5. Incorporation power to receive and col- constitution, by-laws, or inances, rules

lect subscription. and regulations for the government of in-
6. Donations shall be faithfully employed. corporation.

7. Duty of the board of controll; shall ap-

Bs it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Julius O. .P. Bonfils, Gratia J. B. Bonfils, and such others as they
may associate with them and their successors, shall be and are hereby
constituted a body corporate in fact and in law, in the name of the
“Platte county Male and Female Institute,” for the purpose of conduct-
ing a seminary of learning in Platte county; and by the name and style
aforesaid, shall have succession andbe capable of suing and being sued,
defending and being defended, in all courts of law and equity, and in all
other places, and in all manner of actions and causes whatsoever.

§2. Said incorporation may have a common seal, and change it at
pleasure, and by that name and style be capable in law of purchasing and
enjoying to them and their successors. for the purposes above mentioned,
any real estate, in fee simple or otherwise and any goods, cbattles 01'
other personal estate necessary to the object of said institution; and of
sellin or otherwise d’ osin of the same either real or ersonal,~at
their grill and leasur “P g , ‘ P

e. a

§ 3. Said ingtitute shall be an institution of learning, with a male and
female department, under the ‘direction, mana ement and professorship
of the members of said incorporation aforesaid, who shall form a boar
of control for the mana ement of said institution, who shall have pow-
er to appoint a board ofg visitors, whose duty it shall be to report semi-
annually the condition and management of said institution, which said

. report shall be published in some newspaper of the county as often as

made. ’

196 conponarrons.

§ 4. The operations of said incorporation shall be limited and confined
exclusively to the objects contem lated._in the third section of this act.

§ 6. Said incorporation shall have power to receive and collect all
subscriptions and contributions which may be made ‘for the aid of said
institution. _ _

§ 6. All such contributions made for the aid of said institute shall be
faithfully appropriated as the donor or contributor may direct.

§ 7. It shall be the duty of the board of control of said institution to
make annually provision for the selection of one malevand one female in
the two departments of said institution who will give satisfactory assu-

. rances, that they will teach a primary or common school for at least

twelve months, after leavin said institution, who shall receive at least
twelve months tuition in sai institution free of charge upon giving the
assurances mentioned in this section, and showing good moral character,
with an active and industrious mind; provided, that no such gratuitous
tuition shall be allowed any one person more than two years.

§ 8. The board of control of said institution, shall have power to
grant di lomas, and award prizes. - '

§ 9. 11 such diplomas shall have the seal of the institute aflixed to

them, and the si nature or signatures of such omcer or oiiicers as the.

said board may irect.

_ § 10. Appeals may be taken from the board of control upon all deci-

SIODS upon applications for diplomas to the board of visitors, whose deci-
sion shall be final.

§ 11. The said incorporation by their board of control shall have pow-
er to make such constitution and by-laws, ordinances, rules and regula-
tions, for the government of the same and said institute, as to them shall
seem necessary and proper and not inconsistent with, nor repugnant to
the provisions of this act, nor incompatible with the laws and constitu-
tion of this State, nor those of the United States.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 17th, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate Fairmount Academy.

§ 1. Academy incorporated. officers; to fix compensation; and make
2. Trustees appointed; their powers. by-laws.
3. Further powers of trustees. 5. Property shall not be alienated, or disposed
4. Time of meeting of trustees; power to of, unless bya vote of a majority of trul-
appoint president, treasurer, and other tees; corporation may be dissolved, h0W-

Be it enacted by the General ./Ysscmbly of the State of Mzlssouri, as follow-9-‘

§ 1. An academy is hereby estabished in St. Louis county, to be called
“Fairmount Academy,” and by that name shall be a body corporate and
politic, shall have continued succession, may contract and be contracted
with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, defend and be defended.
and may have, use, alter, and renew, a common seal.

ooaponsrroxs. ~ 1957

§ 2. Lewis Bissel, Adolphus Meir, John Maguire, Angus Chute, and
Philauder Salisbury shall be the first trustees of said academy; and they
and their associates and successors shall have power to direct and administer
the atiinirs of said institution, and to (ill any vacancy that may occur, in said
bard of trustees, by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise. ' .

§ 3. Said trustees shall have power to receive, acquire, recover, hold, and
enjoy any money, or real or personal property or estate, that has been or may
be subscribed for the use of said academy; and to acquire by gift or purchase
any real or personal property or estate necessary for its use; and hold the
same to them and their successors, and may use control, and dispose of the
same in such manner as will best advance and promote the interest of the
academy. '

§ 4. Said trustees may meet at any time and place in, the county of St.
Louis that they may agree upon; a majority of the trustees shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business, and shall have power to appoint a president,
treasurer, teacher, and other otiicers, agents, and servants, to prescribe their
duties, 5: their compensation, and remove them at pleasure; and to make
all necessary rules, regulations, and by-laws for the ‘government of the
academy, not repugnant to the laws and constitution of this State, or of the
United States. The first meeting of said trustees shall be within six months
after the passage of this act.

§ 5. No property belonging to said academy shall be alienated or disposed
of, unless by a vote of a majority of all the trustees. A majority of all of the
trustees may dispose‘of all the real and personal property and estate belonging
to said academy, after having given sixty days notice, in some newspaper
published in St. Louis, of their inten tion to close and settle the affairs of the
corporation; and when said trustees shall have paid all the debts and liabilities
of every kind due by said corporation, and shall have disposed of all its real
and personal property, said corporation shall be dissolved, and this act of
incorporation shall then cease and terminate.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to-amend an act entitled " an act to incorporate an Academy in
the town ol St. Ferdinand, in the county of St. Louis,” approved
March 13th, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qf the State qf Missouri, as foEows:_

§ 1. Any three of the trustees named or elected, or holding the otiice of
trustees, under and by virtue of the act _to which this is an amendment,
shall form a quorum to transact any business, or exercise any powers
conferred upon the said trustees. ' .

And this act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849. -

198 coapoautons.

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis Wharf Boat Company.

§ 1. Company established; capital; shares. 5. Directors elected, and powers.
2. Books to be opened, when, how long. 6. Company may buy and build personal
3. Company incorporated; style; powers. property. A,
4. Other powers. .1!’

Be it enacted by the General aissembly Q/‘the State qf Missouri, asfoUows:'

§ 1. That a wharf boat company shall be established in the city of St.
Louis, with a capital stock of one hundred thousand dollars, divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each, to be subscribed and paid for by indi-
viduals, companies, and corporations, in the manner hereinafter provided.

§ 2. That John H. Corl, Albert Billings, C. C. Cady, Benjamin F. Stout,
and Abraham Van J uyle, or any three of them, having given public notice,
are hereby authorized to open books of subscription in said city, for the
capital stock of said company, on the first Monday of March next, and keep
them open every day, from ten A. M. to three 1-. u., for the space of six days,
when the same shall be closed. If, within the six days, two hundred shares
shall be sulscribed for, it shall be lawful for the subscribers to meet, after
ten days notice shall have been given of the time and place of election, and
choose the directors, who may at any time after such notice cause the
subscription books to be reopened, and to continue open until the whole
amount of stock shall be taken.

§ 3. That the subscribers for the said company, their associates, successors,
and assigns shall he, and they are hereby constituted. a body politic and
corporate, by the name of “St. Louis Wharf Boa‘. Company,” with all the
powers incident and belonging to corporations by the laws of this State;
and the payment of the stock subscribed for shall be made and completed
by the subscribers respectively in the time and manner following: that is to
say, at the time of subscribing, there shall be paid upon each share one
dollar; after the election of directors, and before the company shall go into
operation, such amount as the directors may direct for the carrying on ‘the
improvements and erections necessary to commence operations.

§4./ The corporation hereby created shall have the power, within the
limits of the wharf of the city of St. Louis, of mooring and keeping at the
wharf of said city, from one to three wharf boats, with suitable erections
thereon for the storage of freight and merchandize, and to receive all freight
delivered at said boats, and to store the same at the ordinary rates of storage",
and generally to do and perform all necessary matters and things relating
to or connected with said objects, or either of them; provided, however,
that all boats or vessels that are moored or landed at said wharf boat or

,boats shall be liable to the same rates of wharfage, and to the payment of all

other taxes, that they would be subject to if moored or landed at the wharf
of said city. _

§ 5. There shall be three directors of said company elected on. the -first
Monday of May in each year, who shall constitute a board of ‘directors;
and said board; may, out of their number, elect a president; and said oliicens
shall hold their ofiices until their successors are duly qualified. And said
directors shall have the power to appoint a secretary and treasurer; and ‘the
said board of directors may make such by-laws and constitution, for the gov-
eznmcnt of the oflicers of said company, as may not be inconsistent with the
laws of the land. And the said board of directors may generally transact

ooamasrsons. 199

all the business of said company, and do all thing necessary therefor; but
no contract with said company, cuept for storage, shall be binding, unless
signed by the president, and attested by the seal of said company.

§ 6. It shall be lawful for said-company to buy and sell personal property
Q all kinds that may be convenient for the transaction of its business, to‘
wit: gboats, buildingsthereon; and do all other necessary things for the

carrying out of the objects in this act specified.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend the charter of the Grand Lodge of Odd Fellows’.
Bee’! enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:
- 1

§ 1. In addition to the powers, authority and immunities granted by
“An act to incorporate the Grand Lod e of the Independent Order of
Odd Fellows of the State of Missouri,’ approved February 22nd, 1843,
the said corporation is hereby authorized to ac uire and hold real and
personal property for the use and benefit of t a subordinate lodges,
working under the jurisdiction of said Grand Lodges, or of schools ‘and
seminaries of learning, in any of the cities and towns of the State of
Missouri; which property may be acquired, held, used and disposed of,
in the manner, and subject to the conditions, provided for in said act of
incorporation -above mentioned. The~property thus to be acquired shall
not in the a gregate exceed one hundred thousand dollars, in addition to
the amount eretofore authorized. ‘

§ 2. Any subordinate lodge of said order of Odd Fellows, connected
with and working under said Grand Lodge, may acquire, own, hold,
manage and control real estate, for the urpose of a lodge or meeting,
not exceedin ten thousand dollars in v ue, the same to be held in trust
for the bene t of any such lodge. . ~

This act shall tpke effect from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849. ~ .

 

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis Mutual Savings and Life Insu-
rance Society. ‘ '

5 1. Com y. incorporated, powers. losses unless. Bonds of onicers.  2
2. Fun established; powers of company. 5. In relation to closing corporation. -
3. Funds to be received and paid out; xmsde- 6. Right of Legislature reserved. .

manor. 7. Incorporation void, when. ' ‘

4.  to receive no pay, nor liable for , L '3. » .
Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the Smte of Missouri, as’/ollpsos:

I ' - 
§l. John Simonds, Joseph P. Rogers, James S.»Pool, Thomas S.

Warne, William A. Lynch, Isaac A. Hedges, Amos B. Roff, Joseph

200

Woodman, Smith Baldwin, David Francis, Joseph  Stone, Leverett
Mills, George B. Hicks, and their associate members of the “St. Louis
Mutual Savings and Life Insurance Society,” and their successors, are
hereby created a body olitic and corporate, by the name and style of
the “St. Louis Mutual avings and Life Insurance Society;” and by that
name shall be incorporated for and during the existence of the said so-
ciety;‘ and shall be competent to contract and be contracted with, sue
and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered, defend
and be defended, in all courts and places whatsoever; and to have and
to use a common seal, and the same to alter at pleasure.

§ 2. It shall be lawful for the said corporation, under such rules and
re ulations as a majority thereof may from time to time adopt, to establish
a und by weekly, monthly, or annual instalments, for their mutual relief
and assistance, and to loan and invest the same, in such manner as a ma-
jority of the board of directors, regularly elected in accordance with
the constitution and by-laws of said. society, may determine; and the
said society shall have power to insure their respective lives, or the lives
of others, and to make all and every insurance appertaining to, or con-
nected with life risks, upon such rates and terms as may be fixed by the
constitution and by-laws of said society; provided such constitution and
by-laws be not contrary to the constitution .of this _State or of the Uni-
ted States. . ‘ _

§ 3. The society hereby incorporated, shall only receive and pay out
notes of the bank of this State, and gold and silver coin; and if any 0&-
cer, clerk or agent thereof shall appropriate the funds thereof to his own
use, or the use of others, without the authority of the board of directors,
at a regular meetin of the board, it shall be deemed a misdemeanor,
and on‘ conviction t ereof, he shall be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or, hot .

§ 4. No director shall receive as such, any pay or emolument for his
services, nor shall the directors be liable for losses that may accrue,
without such loss shall arise from misconduct on their part; and they
shall require all ofiicers who may receive or disburse the funds of said
society, to enter -into bonds in a suflicient sum, not less than five thou-
Eand dollars, with good security, for the faithful performance of their

uties.

§ 6. In case of closing this society by a repeal or forfeiture of this
act, or by the determination of at least two-thirds of the members there-
of, or otherwise, should there be any funds unappropriated on hand, over
and above the debts and expenses of the society, it shall be equitably
divided, pro rate, among those who have been bona fide members of said
society, at least one year previous to the dissolution of the corporation.

§ 6. The right of any future legislature to amend, alter or repeal this
act, is hereby reserved. .

§ 7. This act of incorporation shall become inoperative and void, if
the members shall at any time neglect, for the space of five years, to use
the same for the purposes herein contemplated.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 13, 1849.

OGRYORLTIEBIB.

' CORP0BAT!bN8$ ‘ 3'01

AN ACT supplementary to an act entitled ‘fAn act to inco crate the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, approved ebruary,

16th, 1847. "
Be itenacted by the General .dssembty of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. The aforesaid company shall have four years from the passage 

this act to commence the construction of said road, any law to the con-

notwithstanding.
Thisact to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

AN ACT respecting. certain streets in St. Charles.

Be it enacted by the Generalauissemblu Q/’ the State of Missouri, asfollawg:

~ § 1. The ladies of “The Sacred Heart,” in the town of St. Charles,
shall be authorized to enclose that portion of Lewis street which lieg
between Second and Fourth streets, and that part of Third street which
lies between Decatur and Clark streets, and to keep the same encloggd
as a yard or pasture, or as grounds for recreation and exercise, for the
use of the sc ool taught by them, but they shall not erect any buildings
on said streets. The privile e of keeping said grounds thus enclosed
shall continue until the pub ic authorities of the town or city of St.
Charles shall, at the instance of persons interested in other real estate
in said city or town, make an ordinance directing said streets to be

opened as public streets.
Approved March 12, 1849.

'\ ’\’~. ° \"\/‘\"\./\ f‘\ -\ *~— I-.>.r\/xgwxr r\o\-\ »\y\p-,_,-_ .~‘,‘..

AN ACT to amend “An act to incorporate the St. Charles and St.
Louis Turnpike Company,” approved 12th February, 1841.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of tlie State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the St. Charles and St. Louis Turnpike Company may elect
to construct a plank road instead of a McAdamized road, under the same

power and restrictions as is provided for in the act to which this is amen.
datory; but if said company shall make a plank road, they shall not be

obli ed to make it twenty-four feet wide.
T is act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849. e

14

202 ' 'COR'PORATION5.

I

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act to incorporate the
St. Louis Arsenal Turnpike Company,” approved February 1st,

1847.

1. Certain parts of acts repealed, what. \ § 3. Width said road shall be opened. -

2. Time and place of opening books of sub-  4. Number of toll gates to be erected, an
scription; superintendent named. > rates of toll.

Be it enacted by the General .4ssembl_y qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the second, eleventh and thirteenth sections of the act to
which this is amendatory be and the same are hereby repealed.

§2. In lieu of said second section, the following is enacted, to-wit:
Books for the subscription of stock, in shares of twenty—five dollars each,
shall be opened on the third Monday of March next, (1849) in the city
of St. Louis, under the superintendence of Mathias Steitz, Isaac Mc-
Hose, John Dunn, Patrick M. Dillon and Christian Ruff, any three of
whom may act, and continue open for' thirty days, unless the amount of
stock be sooner taken; and if the amount of stock be not then taken,
said superintendents or the directors of said company may cause said
books to be continuedopen, or re-opened, at such time and places as

' they may direct, until the wholebe taken.

§ 3. In lieu of said eleventh section, thefollowing is hereby enacted:
Said road shall be kept open at least sixty feet wide, twenty-live of

which shall be McAdamized.
§ 4 In lieu of aid thirteenth section, the following is hereby enacted:

Whenever said road shall be completed as far as the Gravois road, said
company may erecttwo or more toll gates, but the toll upon said road shall
in no case exceed the following: For each man and horse, 6 1-4 cents;
£01‘ each loose horse, 4 cents; for each four horse wagon and team, 30
cents; for each two horse wagon and team, 20 cents: for each cart and
horse, 15 cents; for each gig or buggy and horse, 20 cents; for each two
horse pleasure carriage, 25 cents; for each head of cattle, 2 cents; for
each s eep, hog, or other animal, 1 cent; and for all other animals, con-
veyances, &c., the toll shall be in proportion as herein set forth.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

«AA/vv\ /|/\.F\y“./\.4‘~./\I-.'.‘—’-'-/‘ '-I

 

AN ACT to..amend “An act to incorporate the St. Louis Commercial
Insurance Company.”

Be it enacted by tlie General vfssembly of the iS‘tate oflllissomi, asfollowg;

§. 1. The sixth section of “An act to incorporate the St. Louis Com-
mercial Insurance Company” is amended so as to provide that the num-
ber of directors of said company shall be nine, instead of five, the num-
ber rovided for in said act.

T is act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849. -

CORPORATIONS. 

AN ACT to incorporate Fulton Division No. 37, Sons of Temperance.

Be it enacted by the General vissembly of the State qfMz'ssourz', asfolloasst

§ 1. James McClanahan,tJames Love, James Whiteside,..Aaron Wells,
F. T. Letcher, and Isaac N. Hockaday, .and their associates, members
of the Fulton Division No. 37, Sons of Temperance, of the town of Ful-
ton and county of Callaway, and their regular successors, be and they
are hereby created a body politic and corporate, by the name and style
of “Fulton Division No. Thirty-Seven, Sons of Temperance,” and by
that name are hereby invested with power and authority to acquire, hold,
possess and occupy and enjoy real and personal estate to the amount of
ten thousand dollars, and sell and convey and otherwise dispose of the
same, under the by-laws, rules and regulations of the aforesaid Fulton
Division N o. 37, provided such by-laws, rules and regulations benot con-
trary to the constitution of this State or of the United States; and the
said corporation, by its name aforesaid, shall be competent to contract
and be contracted with, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, an-
swer and be answered, defend and be defended, in all the courts and
places whatsoever, and to have and use a common seal, and the same to
alter at their pleasure; provided further, that the powers hereby granted
shall not be used for banking, insuring property, or doing anything not
expressly granted by the provisions of this act. .
§ 2. That the right of any future legislature to alter, amend or repeal
this act is hereby reserved. .,
§ 3. This act ofincorporation shall become void and inoperative if the
members shall at any time neglect for the space of five years, to use the
same for the purposes herein contemplated. ‘ '

O

This act to take eifect and be in‘for,oe from and after its passage. 
Approved March 12, 1849. .

\ '°\/\ ’\ /\a‘\/\' \/'V'\/\l'\/\fV'\¢

AN ACT to amend the act to incorporate the Washington Fire
' Company.

He itenacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. If any member of the Washington Fire Company of St. Louié
shall have faithfully served or shall hereafter faithfully serve for seven
years as an active member of said company, he shall receive a certificate
of such service under the seal of said company, and shall thereafter be
be exempt from militia service in time of peace and from service ‘on
uries.
J This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 13, 1849.

_ 204 conroaxrrous.

AN ACT to incorporate the Farmington Library Association.

Wnrnus, an association has heretofore been formed in the town of
Farmington, in the county of St. Francois, called the Farmington
Library Association, the object of whidi is the establishment of a
library and reading room, the collection of a scientific cabinet and
apparatus, and of works of art, and for other literary and scientific
purposes; now, therefore, in order to encourage and promote the
above declared objects of the said association:

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the Slate qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Amos H. Ro ers, William D. McCracken, John -Cobb, Henry
W. Crow, D. D. cSwain, Milton P. Cayce, and Ross Jelkyl, of the
county of St. Francois, and their associates and successors forever, are
hereby declared and created a body corporate by the name and style of
the “Farmington library association,” and by that name shall have per-
petual succession, shall be capable in law to contract and be contracted
with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded with, in all courts of
competent jurisdiction; may receive, acquire, and hold real and person-
al property and effects suitable to the carrying out of the objects of the
association; may have a common seal, and alter the same at their plea-
sure; may make such constitution, regulations, and by-laws as may be
requisite for its government, and for carrying out the objects of the as-
sociation, and not contrary to the laws of the land; and may alter the
same at their pleasure.

§ 2. The constitution and by-laws of said association, now in opera-
tion, shall govern the corporation hereby created until regularly altered
or repeale by the association; and the present otlicers of said associa-
tion shall be otlicersof the corporation hereby created until their res-
pective terms of oiiice shall regularly ex ire or be vacated.

This act shall be a public act, and shal be in force from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

~.f\./\I.%'\./\/‘s/"I‘/‘~d‘WJ'.«“./\/\f‘./\r\tl' ’./\:‘I'

AN ACT to incorporate Prairie lodge number ninety, in the county of
Cass.

§!. Incorporation; power to purchase real 3. Corporation empowered to sell real es-
estate. tate.

2. Proceedings in purchase of real estate. 4. Corporation to have a seal.
5. General powers of corporation.

Be it enacted by the General./Yssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollaws:

' $1. Prairie lodge number ninet , free, accepted, ancient Masons,
(o the county of Cass, Mo.,) are areby created and declared to be a

conroaamoss. 90!

corporate body, so far as to enable said lodge (hereby incorporated) to
purchase and hold real estate in the town of Harrisonville, (in said coun-
ty of Cass,) in its corporate capacity.

§ 2. When said lodge shall be about to purchase any real estate in said
town, there shall be appointed, by and on behalf of said lodge, some
suitable member or otiicer thereof to act for and on behalf of said lodge
in the purchase of such real estate, and whose contracts touching such
real estate shall be valid and binding, as well on said lodge as on the
party thus contracting with said lodge.

§ 3. Said lodge is hereby authorized and empowered to sell any real
estate acquired by virtue of this act. Such sale to be made by a mem-
bergor ollicer of said lodge, appointed as in the last section provided.

§ 4. Said corporation or lodge shall procure and keep a seal, which
shall be used by the person contracting on behalf of said lodge as afore-
said, in all contracts touching the purchase or sale of any real estate;
and the alhxing of said seal to any such contract, shall be Q11] proof that
such- contract was made by authority of said corporation, nd said cor-
poration shall be bound thereby.

§ 5. Said lodge is hereby authorized also in its corporate capacity to

_ contract in the manner above prescribed for the improving of any real

estate obtained by virtue of this act; and any contract made by said lodge
forjtheimprovement of such real estate, is hereby declared to be valid,
as well against said lodge as against the party with whom said corpora-
tion or lodge may contract; and said corporation is hereby declared ca-
pable of suing and being sued, pleading or being impleaded, in its cor-
porate capacity, touching any contract made by virtue of the foregoing
sections, and in any case where a cause of action may arise touchin

the real estate acquired by this act. '

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Washington Female Seminary, at the city
of Cape Girardeau.

§ 1. Style of the incorporation. 3. Trustees appointed; duties of.
2. Powers of. i 4. Real estate exempt from taxation.

Be itenacted by the General aissembly of the State qf'1llz'ssaurz', as follows:

§ 1. A seminary is hereby incorporated in the city of Cape Girardeau,
and the county of Cape Girardeau, to be called the Washington female
seminary. « »

§ 2. All ersons who are or who shall hereafter become stockholders
in the Was ington female seminary, shall be and are hereby incorporated

206 I coaponarrons.

by the name and style of “the Washington female seminary,” and by
that name shall have power to contract and be contracted With, sue and

be sued, implead and be impleaded, in all the courts; and shall have full’

I

power to purchase and hold sufficient real estate, and receive donations

or the purpose of advancing and carryingqon said seminary.
§ 3. George Trask, Edward Dobbins, oah Handy, John B. Martin,

John D. Cook, Wilson Brown, and Samuel A. Hill, are hereby appointed
trustees for said seminary, who shall have full power to control and su-
perintend the management thereof, to employ professors, tutors, and
teachers, and fill all vacancies in their own body.

§ 4. The real estate and buildings of this institution are hereafter ex-
empt from taxation by county and State.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

0

 

AN ACT amendatory to an act entitled “An act to incorporate the
Central fire company of St. Louis,” approved December 21, 1836.

§ 1. Members, after certain time, entitled to i 2. Additional privileges granted.
certain privileges. 3. Secretary to keep a true record.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State of lllissouri, as follows: .

§ 1. N 0 member of said company shall be compelled to do duty in it
for a longer period than seven years, when he sha I be entitled to receive
from the captain and secretary, under the seal of the company, a certi-
ficate that he has thus served as a fireman during the period of seven
ears.
5’ § 2. No person having received such certificate shall be compelled
tso do duty in the militia, in time of peace, or set on any jury within the
tate. '
' § 3. The secretary shall keep a. true record of all certificates granted
to members under this section, and the certificate authorized to be is-
sued by the captain and secretary of the corporation created by it, shall
/be1I'ec!e1dved as evidence in all of the courts of this State, courts martial
mc [H e . ~

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

conponuions. 207

AN ACT to incorporate the Commerce Steam‘Mill Company.

§ 1. Style of the incorporation.  holder is entitled.
2. May have a seal. 5 14. Votes may be given by proxy.
3. Objects of; declared. 15. Stockhol ers may iicrease the capital
4. May hold real estate. stock; how.
5. Amount of capital stock. - 16. Directors to re late the payment of stock.
6. Commissioners appointed; duty to open a 57. Stockhoiders ailing to pay; proceedings
books of subscription. thereon.
7. Amount to be aid by each subscriber. 18. Corporation forbid to purchase lands; until
8. Management 0 the affairs of the corpora- when.
tion. 19. Books of record and account to be kept.

9. Otiicers of; how appointed. 20. Dividends may be declared.

10. Directors; duration of otiice.  2]. Stock to be deemed personal property.

11. First election of directors; when. ‘- 22. Stockholder who is indebted; deprived of

12. Subsequent elections; when held. ‘ certain privileges.
13. Number of votes to which each stock-- 5

Be it enacted  the General ./Yssembly qftlie State of Missouri, asifqllows:

§ 1. A company, to be called the “Commerce steam mill company,” to be
established in Commerce, in the county‘of Scott, State of Missouri, is hereby
incorporated as a body politic and corporate, and, as such, may, by that
name, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all courts of law and
equity within this Sta_te, and may contract and be contracted with, as natu-
ral persons.

§ 2. The said incorporation shall have a common seal. may erect b_\-laws
for their government, and, generally, shall have power to do all things inci-
dent to the nature of the incorporation. l

§ 3. The objects of this _inco:'poration are declared to be, the building of
a steam saw, grist and flooring mills, at or near Commerce, aforesaid, and
such other machinery as the said company may consider useful to attach
thereto, and transact such business as may be necessary to keep said mill and

other machinery in operation.

§ 4. The said corporation may purchase and hold lands sutiicient‘ for the
building of said mill, and the out-houses and tenements necessarily appurte-
nant thereto, and may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the same.

5 5. The capital stock of said corporation shall be live thousand dollars,
to be divided into equal shares of twenty dollars each. {

§ 6. Thomas M. Shaw, Abraham Hunter and John Harbinson, are hereby
appointed commissioners to obtain subscriptions of the stock of said cor ora-
tion to that effect; they, or a majority of them, shall cause books 0 sub-
scription, for said stock, to be opened, in the town of Commerce aforesaid,
and kept open for one month, and as much longeras said commissioners may
consider expedient, first giving ten days previous notice thereof, by putting
up six handbills at six of the most public places in the cpunty.

§7. Each subscriber of stock shall, at the time of making his subscription
pay the sum of five dollars on each share by him subscribed.

§ 8. The affairs of said corporation shall be managed by five directors, who
shall be chosen from amongst the stockholders. . A ,

§ 9. The directors shall appoint, from their own number, a president. and
shall have power to appoint a Secretary, :1 treasurer, and such other officers,
agents and servants as they may deem necessary for the better management
ot the affairs of the corporation. , ‘

§ 10. The directors shall hold their oflices for one yeat‘€_aI1d until their

successors are duly elected and qualified.

208, coaponsnons.

§ 11. The commissiohers above named.‘ or a majority of them, shall lix the
time and place of holding the first election for directors, and shall give at
least ten days notice thereof, by handbills, in six ofthe most public places in
said county. ‘ - '

i § 12. All subsequent elections for directors shall be holden annually, at
such time and place as the directors shall’-appoint; ten days previous notice
whereof shall be given. by the secretary, to each stockholder who is a resib
dent of said county at the time.

§ 13. In all elections for directors, or in transacting any other business of
this corporation. on which it shall be necessary for the stockholders to act,
each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share held by him
or her. .

§ 14. Votes may be given by proxy, duly authorized in writing to that
effect, and all meetings of the stockholders, whether for the election of direc-
tors, oi; the transaction of other business of the corporation, a majority of
the votes present shall govern. ,

§ 15. The stockholders of said corporation, at a general meetin , and by
a vote which shall represent a majority of the whole stock of suit? corpora-
tion, are hereby empowered to increase the capital stock of said corporation
to ten thousand dollars, to be civided into as many shares as said stockhold-
ers, representing said majority of the whole stock, may direct, and to be
employed in the manner aforesaid, and shall have power to direct the manner,
time and place of the sale or dist~'ibution of such increase of stock.

§ 16. The directors may require the payment of stock subscribed, in such
sums, at such time and place, anc under such conditions as they shall direct;
and shall cause twenty days notice thereof in writing to be given to each
subscriber. '

§ 17. If any stockholder shall fail to pay the proportion or instalment of
stock which the directors shall require him to pay, he shall forfeit to the
corporation the amount previously paid in by him, and the directors may
cause the amount of Sl.O( k which he shall have subscribed to be sold to any
person, for such price as may be agreed on.

§ 18. This corporation shall not purchase lands, or commence the building
of said mill, until one fourth of the capital stock of five thousand dollars of
said com any shall have been paid in.

§ 19. he directors shall cause to be kept proper books of record and ac-
count,in which shall be regularlv entered all the transactions of the corpo-
ration; which bot ks shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of ‘the
stockholders. _

§ 20. The dividends of the profits arising from the business of said corpo-
ration shall be made atleast annually, and shall be paid at such time and place
as the directors shall appoint.

§ 21. The stock of this corporation shall ‘be deemed personal property. 30d
shall be assignable and transferable, upon the books ot the corporat'on, only
according to such rules and regulations as the directors shall establish.

§ 22. No stockholder, who shall be indebted to the incorporation, shall
be permitted to assign or transfer his stock, or receive a dividend, until such
debt shall be paid or secured to the satisfaction of the directors.

This act to take eflect from and after its passage.

Approved March 8, 1849.

V ,
4 .5

cennu.-trons. ~ ~ 209.

AN ACT to incorporate the association “Erholung” in the town of Her-
mann, Gasconade county.

I

§ 1. Style of the corporation; powers of. E 3. Duration of the corporation.
2. Corporation autnorised to make by-law. .

Wiuzarzas, An association has been formed in the towri of Hermann, the
county seat of Gasconade county, bearing the name of the “Erho-
lung,” having for its object the intellectua improvement of its mem-
bers in literature, science and arts, and to assist each other in misfor-
tunes- and whereas, for the promotion of the above object it is the
desigri of said association to collect a library and procure’other ef-
fects suitable to the wants of such an association; now therefore, in
order to encourage and facilitate the above declared object of the
said associatiqn, and to render it more permanently and extensively
useful,

Be itenacted by the General ./Issembly of the State oflllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Ferd. Kaempf, C. Mnller, Claus Mertens, Chas. D.‘ Eitzen,
Aug. N asse, Geo. Klinge, Jacob Schiefer, H. Burchardt, Louis Auster-
mehl, Albert Schenker, Ph. Schneider, Chr. Hotfmann, their associates
and successors be, and are hereby created, constituted and declared to
be a body corporate and politic, by the name and style of the “Erholnng,”
and by that name they may have perpetual succession, and shall be capa-
ble of suing and being sued, pleading and being impleaded, answering
and bein answered unto, defending and being defended, in all courts an
places whatsoever, that they and . their successors, may have a common
seal, and may alter, change and break the same at will, and that they
may be capable in law "of acquiring, holding and conveying so much
property, real, personal and mixed, as may be necessary and requisite for
the association, in furtherance of its objects, not exceeding ten thousand
dollars.

§ 2. The said corporation shall have power to make a constitution and
by-laws, provided that nothing therein contained shall be repugnant to
the constitution and laws of the State of Missouri.

3. The corporation hereby created, shall continue so lon as it shall
faithfully answer the ends of its creation; and the Genera Assemby,
whenever it shall be satisfied that it has failed in this respect, or has vio-
lated any of the provisions of this act, may alter or repeal the same.

This act to take effect and be..in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

l

AN ACT to incorporate the Trustees of the Ste.‘ Genevieve Academy.

§ 1. Establishment of an academy. 6. Trustees, qualifications of; manner of elec-
2. Style of the corporation- powers of. tion. .' " »
3. Trustees empowered to certain things. 7. Selections of trustees, .&c., to be made in-
, 4. Odicers of the cor rstion;how appointed. discriminate! . ‘wt’
5. Elections to be he d; when. 8. Corporation to be subject to this general law

15

6

210 oonroaarrons.
Be itenacted by the General Jssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfoiowa:

§ 1. That an academy be and the same is hereby established in the
City‘ of Ste. Genevieve, in the county of Ste. Genevieve, to- be called
the Ste. Genevieve Academy.

§ 2‘. That Eugtne Guibourd, Francis C. Rozier, Michael Roussin,
Augustus St. Gemme, Eittienne Goverau, Joseph Thomure, Theophilus
Dupour, Jules Valle, Ferdinand A. Roy, Joseph N. Amoureux and Cyp-
rian Menard, be and they are hereby appointed and constituted a body
politic and corporate by the name and style of “Trustees of the Ste.
Genevieve Academy,” and by that name shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may contract and be contracted with, and may
sue or be sued in any court of law or equity.

§ 3. The trustees of said academy shall have power to receive or re-
cover any real estate for the use of -said academy that may have been
purchased for or donated to the same, or which may by any ‘means of
right belong) to the same, and also to recover any money or other (proper-
ty that has een subscribed, or that may be subscribed, given or onated
for the use of said academy, and to receive by purchase, gift or dona-
tion, any real or personal estate, property, goods or chattels, and the
same to hold in perpetuity forever, to them and their successors in
ofiice, and the same to use or dispose of in such manner as will most ad-
vance and promote the interest of said academy, but not a less number
than a majority of all the trustees shall be sufiicient to authorize a sale
of any property belonging to said academy.

§ 4. The said trustees or their successors shall have power to meet at
any time and place in the city of .Ste. Genevieve, a majority of whom
shall have power to appoint a president, librarian, treasurer, and such
other otiicers and agents as may be necessary. The aforesaid trustees
and their successors or a majority of them, shall also have power from
time to time to make all such by-laws, rules and regulations, for the gov-
ernment of said academy, as they may deem necessary, not contrary to
the constitution or laws of the United States, or of the State of Mis-
souri.

§ 5. On the first Saturday in the month of October annually an elec-

,tion shall be held at the court house, in the city of Ste. Genevieve, by

the legal electors thereof, for seven trustees of said academy for the en-
suing year, but no person shall be entitled to vote at said election, who
may not have subscribed and paid at least two dollars towards the erec-
tion, repairs or support of said academy.

§ 6. N 0 person shall be eligible to the odice of trustee of said acade-
my, Who may not have subscribed and paid at least five dollars towards
the building, repairs or support of said academy, and who may not have
resided in the county of Ste. Genevieve for one year previous to the
election and who shall not be the head of a family, and in all cases,.the
seven persons receiving the highest number of votes, shall be the trus-
tees elected. When any vacancy shall happen from any cause whatever,
a ‘ majority of the trustees for the time being may fill such vacancy by
appointment, and the person or persons thus appointed, shall be possessed

of all the powgr, and perform all the duties required of the trustees
atorasaid.

O

 . 

§ 7. In the choice of trustees, professors, teachers and students, no
preference shall ever be ‘ iven nor discrimination made, on account of
religious opinions, nor sh the trustees, professors, or teachers make or
enact any by-laws, interfering or in any manner interfere with the rights
of conscience, or the freedom of religious worship of any student or
teacher, or other person connected with said institution. '

§ 8. The corporation hereby established, shall be subject to such gen-
eral regulations as may be provided by law for the government of acade-
mes.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act supplementary to the sever-
al acts to incorporate the City of St. Louis, ’ approved January 6th,

1847.

§ 1. Certain words in an act changed. ; 3. ‘Acts inconsistent with this act, repealed.
2. Length of time this act to continue in force. _

Be it enacted by the Genera‘! ./Yssembly of the State q/' Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the above recited act be and the same is hereby so amen d-.-«
ed as to set apart and appropriate one half, instead of one fourth of the
revenue of _said city, as provided in said act, and that whenever the
word one fourth or one fourth part may occur in said act, be and the
same is hereby changed, and the words one half be substituted therefor.

§ 2. That the act above referred to and amended as provided in the
hrst section of this act shall continue and remain in force for two years
from and after the date of its ap roval unless sooner repealed.

§ 3. This act to take e&'ect an be in force from and after its passage,
all acts or parts of acts repugnant to or inconsistent with the provisions

of this act be and ‘the same are hereby repealed.
Approved March 10th, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the Survey of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad.

§ 1. A ropriation of -money, in certain events. 4. Commissioners to be appointed; dubs of;

2. Au itpr of ublic accounts to draw his by whom appointed.
warrant, w en. ‘ 5. State entitled to shares, when.
I

3. Surveytwbe made; plat to be filed; where.
Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, asfolloros:

§ l. The sum of ten thousand dollars is herebv appropriated, to be
,expended in surveying and locating :1 route for a railroad from the town of

Lexington, in Lafayette county, tosome point on the Bliswlssippi Fiver; 11010‘?

219 coat-oiumoxs.

the mouth of A ple creek; but this appropriation shall not take e&'ect until
the Congress 0 ‘the United States shall have provided by law a grant of
two million acres, or as much as alternate sections of land tor six miles (I1
each side of said road to aid in the construction of such road.
- §2. So soon as the Missouri and Mississippi railroad company shall be
organized according to law, and the‘ Congress of the United States shall
have provided by law a grant of land to aid in the construction of said road,
it shall be the duty of the auditor of public accounts to draw his warrant on
the trea ury in favor of said railroad company for the amount appropriated
by the first section of this act. . '

§3. Said r'a lroad company shall cause a reconnoisance and survey of
the route for said railroad, to be made by some competent person, together
with estimates of the cost, the probable amount of business, and extent of
protits thereof; and a plat of the road, and plan of the work, and shall
cause a copy of the report of such survey, plat, plan, and estimates to be
filed in the otiice of the secretary of State.

§ 4. Said reconnoisance and survey of the route of said railroad shall be
made under the direction and control of a commissioner, who shall be
appointed by the Governor of this State so soon as he shall be informed by
said company that they are ready to commence said rcconnoisance and
surve .

§ 5).’ And the State of Missouri shall, at any time before the said railroad
is completed, upon the passage of an act by the General Assembly to that
effect, be entitled to receive from said railroad company certificates of stock
in said company to the amount of the appropriation made by this act.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, I849.

AN ACT to-incorporate “Prairie Lodge. No. 90, Free, Accepted,
Ancient Masons.”

Be it enacted by the ‘General./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Alvon Stephens, William A. Jack, John Cummins, Philip 1).
Brooks, Abraham Cassell, Hamilton Finney, George A. Wade, Jolm A.
Tllgglet Vharles Keller, John C. Morris. Charles Hamilton, Robert L. Y.
P6340“, John C. Agnew, Hugh Hamilton, Bassil W. Saunders, Hiram
Grahams Fountain Nailor, Joseph H. January, uire G. Allen, William
Dick-S0". Stephen Acres, J ohu Ament, William P. urney, Elias 0. Brooks.
Richard Berry Sr.. David Burris, William T. Burton, Alexander Majors,
Joseoh W. 'l‘arkinton. Nathaniel Willet, and their associates, members of
" Prairie Lodge’, No. 90, of Free, and Accepted, Ancient Masons,” of the
town of Harr‘sonville. Van Burcn county, State of Missouri, and their
regular successors (which successors shall be known as such by their names
"Wig recorded in the book of the secretary of said lodge as such) be and
‘hf’? are hereby created a body politic and corporate, by the name and style
03 “Prairie Lodge, No. 90, of Free and Accepted Ancient Masons,” and by,
that name are hereby invested with power and authority to acquire. lwld,

eonreurnous 21.3
possess, use, occupy, and enjoy real and personalestate to the amount of
five thousand dollars, and to sell and convey or otherwise dispose of the
same, under the by-laws, rules and regulations of the aforesaid lodge;
provided, such hy-laws,,rules, and regulations be not contrary to the
constitution oi this State. or of the United States; ahcl said corporation, by
its name aforesaid, shall be competent to contract and be contracted with,
to sue and be sued,plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered,
defend and be defended, in all courts and places whatsoever; and to have
and usu a common seal, and the same to alter at their pleasure; provided
further, that the powers hereby granted shall not be used for banking,
insuring property, or doing anything not expressly granted by the provisions
of this act.

This act to take eti'ect and be in force from and after its passage. '
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

-"/ J"‘.I‘ .v\./~...«;

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis and Birmingham Iron ‘Mining

Company. _
§ 1. Style of the cor oration, and powers. 4. Amount of capital stock.
‘ 2. Directors; num er of- how elected. 5. Operations of the corporation; limited.

i 3. Directors may make by-laws.

Wnnnnas, It has been represented to the Legislature, that a number of the
inhabitants of this State have associated themselves, under the name of
the “ St. Louis and Birmingham Iron Mining Company,” lor the purpose
of manufacturing iron, and such other metals as may he found on their
lands; and, as it is but right and proper that every such laudable

enterprize should meet with the hearty co-operation of the legislative
a uthori ties, therefore,

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

6 1. That Henry King. William C. Rogers. Claarles M. Valleau, John '1‘
Temple, Henry Holmes. William Wiswell, L. B. Hopkins, Trueman Phelps.
Charles Collins, and their associates, and successors in otlice, be and they
are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate, by the name and style
the St. Louis and Birmingham Iron Mining Company, and by that name to
have perpetual succession, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded.
answer and be answered unto, in all courts of law and equity in this State;
and may have a common seal, and all the power, privilege, and franchise
incident to a corporation generally, to do and etecute all acts and things.
which a corporation may or can lawfully do or execute.

§ 2. Saidcompany may organize at their earliest convenience after the
passage of this act, and proceed to elect, from among the stockholders, a
president and live directors, whose term of otiics shall not expire until their
successors shall have been elected and qualilir-d. _

§ 3. Said board of directors may make and establish such by-laws for the
good government of said company, and the general management of their busi-
ws, as will be most likely to advance the interest of say; company, and the

214 coasoas-rtous.

general prosperity of the surrounding country; provided, said by-laws are
not inconsistent with the laws and constitution of this State, or- of the United
States.

§ 4. Thecapital sqclt of said company shall consist of two hundred and
tifty thousand dollars, 0 be divided into shares of fifty dollars each.

§ 5. The operations of said company shall be confined to the objects and
purposes above specified.

'l‘l.is act to take elfect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

   

"\‘\I§/\/\/'\/\/9

AN ACT to incorporate the Trusgeelsl of the Franklin Medical and Literary
o ege.

§_1. Style of the corporation, and powers. 6. Secretary and treasurer, duty of.

2. Authorized to establish by-laws. 7. Funds to be applied; to what purposes.

3. Otlicers of the corporation; their duties. 8. Powers of the corporation limited to one
4. Trustees to have ower to expel and ap- county.

oint members 0 the faculty. 9. Trustees may establish a hospital.
5. e president; duties of. 10. Faculty may grant ‘free tickets; to whom.

- Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. John H. Boarman, John S. Watson. R. S. Blennerhasset, James A.
Rogers. Philander Salisbury, James H. Johnson. and David Tatum; their
associates and successors, are hereby created a body corporate and politic,
under’ the name and style of the Franklin Medical and Literary College,
and by that name shall remain in succession for fifty years, with full powers
to acquire, by purchase, devise, gift, or bequest, any property, real, personal,
and mixed. and to hold or convey the same under a common seal, which
they may alter or change at pleasure in any way consistent with the interest
of said corporation.

§'2. Said trustees, in their corporate capacity, may sue and be sued,
plead and he impleadod. in all the courts of this State, and have power to
make such by-laws and regulations as they may deem necessary for the good
government of themselves, or the otiicers and students of the college ;
provided, that such by-laws shall in no way conhict with the constitution or
laws of this State, and of the United States.

§ 3. A majority of the trustees shall form a quorum to do business, and
shall choose a president, secretary, and other otlicers, professors of the
sciences, and agents of the institution; to displace or remove to the other
departments any or all of them, for good and sullicient reasons; and shall,
with the advice and ecnsent of the president, prescribe the course of study
to be pursued in such department of the college, and to confer on those
students and others who may be deemed worthy of honor‘: and degrees such
as are usually conferred in kindred institutions of a literary character;
provided, the student of medicine shall have devoted three years to the
study of medicine and surgery, and other branches connected with the
science of physic, including two full lectures upon the usual subjects taught
in tespectable medical colleges or schools; provided, 8130, that such diploma,

can-otwrtone. 215

oertiticatemr evidence of the conferring such honor or degree shall designate
the name of the institution, and kind of degree or honor conterred, as to
distinctly show that such- diploma is or was issued by the Franklin Medical
college of St. Louis.

§ 4. The trustees, or a majority of them, shall have power for‘good cause
to expel any member of the faculty for improper conduct, and supplyall
the vacancies therein by appointment, as well as create additional trustees,
not to exceed in all thirteen.

§ 5. The president of the college shall be ex-otlicio president of the board
of trustees, and in his absence one of the trustees shall act pro tem.

§ 6. The trustees shall choose a secretary, who shall keep a record of all
the important transactions; and a treasurer, who, if required, shall enter
into a bond to the trustees for the faithful performance of his duty, with
such security as shall be approved by the trustees.

Q7. The trustees shall laithlully use the funds collected or donated,
according to the best of their judgment, in erecting suitable buildings,
purchasing books, mapacharts, philosophical and chemical apparatus, as
may be deemed necessary and advantageous to the institution, and in
supporting the professors and otlicers.

_.§_  This institution shall not be authorized to establish a medical college
or school in more than one county in the State.

§ 9. If deemed advisable, the trustees shall have power to establish a
hospital in connection with the medical college, which shall be under the
control of the medical faculty of said college; and the faculty may enact
such by-laws and regulations as may be deemed necessary for the well-being
of the same; provided. that medical students, attending lectures, shall he
permitted to visit the sick in their wards, and attend the clinical lectures of
the lprofessirs for a reasonable compensation; and the trustees are hereby
authorized to receive and expend all moneys or property donated by the
general government, by the btate, or by any society, or individuals, in
supporting the hospital and its oflicers.

§ It). The faculty of medicine and surgery in said college shall annually
present, if requested. free from charge or fee, their tickezs to one person
from each congressional district in this State; provided, such person be in
indigent circumstances, and is the son of a worthy member’ of either the
order of Free Masons, or Odd Fellows; and, also, that’ the recipient is in
good and respectable standing in society, and recommrttded by the Senior
Lodge of either order in said district.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

/'\/XI‘/\/\/\{\.f\/\/\J'

AN ACT to incorporate the St. George Market House Company.

§ l. Style of the corporation;duration: powers. Z 3. Coutetnplated objects of the corporation
2. Capital stock; shares, value of. i authorized.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stale of Missouri, asfollows:
§ 1. That Henry C. Lynch, John Schreiber, George W. Lynch, Fran-

\

916 I .eam-ommens.
cis Fischler, William R. Price, Isaac W. Taylor, and Edwin R. Mason,

and such other persons as shall become subscribers to the stock herein-
after mentioned, shall be, and they are hereby constituted a body olitic
and corpoyate, by the name and style of the St. George Market ouse
Company, from and after the assage of this act; and by that name they
and their successors shall and) may have succession for the term of nine-
ty-nine years; and shall be capable of suing and being sued, pleading
and being impleaded, answering and being answered to, in all courts
and places whatsoever; and they and their successors'may have a com-
mon seal. and shall in law be capable of purchasing and holding real es-
tate for the purposes and objects of said corporation.

§ 2. That the capital stock of said corporation shall be live thousand
dollars, with power in the company to increase said stock to lifteen
thousand dollars if they shall deem it necessary; that said capital stoclc

«shall be divided into shares of twenty dollars each, and that the above

named persons, or a majority of them, shall have power to open and keep
open books for subscription to said capital stock, until the whole amount
be subscribed. . A '

§3. That, said company are hereby empowered to erect a market
house fronting on Carondelet avenue, between Sidney and Barton streets,
in the City of St. Louis, on such ground as the said company may pur-
chase for that purpose; and that said company shall have the power to
make by-laws and such other regulations for managing the affairs of said
company, as shall be by them deemed just and necessary, not conflict-
ing, however, with the municipal regulations of the City of St. Louis
re ating to public markets. _

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Apprcved March 5, 1849.

V\§&/\%f\@fV 

I

AN ACT amendlatory of an act entitled “An act to incorporate the

Boatmen’s Saving Institution, in the county of St. Lcuis,” appro-
ved February 16th, 1847.

Be it enacted by the Gen eral vfssembly qf the State If Jllissouri, asfollown

§ 1. That hereafter it shall be lawful for the Boatmen’s Saving Insti-
tution to loan money upon personal security, in sums not to exceed live
hundred dollars, to any one person or persons, and for a time not to ex‘
ceed four months; provided, that all such sums loaned, shall be secured
by two good securities; and provided also, that no trustee, officer 0!‘
{agent of the institution, shall be directly or indirectly interested in such
oans.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

 81?

AN ACT to incorporate the Sectional Floating Dock Company.

5 1. Robe:-'t,Wash and others declared a body g  Three directors may manage, conditions.
politic; powers. 2 6. Powers andduties of directory.

2. Powers and duties of company. , 7. Majority of directors competent to do bu-
3. May hold real estate as security, &.c. w siness.

4. May dispose of interest, manner.  8. Stock to be considered personal property.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly ioftlae State of Missouri, follows:
§ 1. Robert Wash, William Thomas, John D. Coalter, and John D-

Daggett, who now are, and for many years have been, engaged in St.
Louis in the business of raising vessels free from the water, by means of the
sectional iloating dock, and making repairs on said vessels, shall be, and
they and their associates, successors, and assigns, are hereby declared
a body corporate and politic, by the name and style of “The Sectional
Floating Dock Company,” and by that name shall have perpetual suc-
cession, and shall be capable of contracting and bein contracted with,
of suing and being sued’, defending and being defen ed against, in all
courts and places, in all manner of actions and suits, and they may have
and use a common seal, and may change, alter or break the same at
pleasure. -

§ 2. That it shall be lawful for said company to continue the use of
their sectional floating docks, and all implements, tackle and machinery
belonging thereto, which they now have, and to purchase, build, or con-
struct other docks, or sections of decks, of any kind, and all imple-
ments, tackle, and machinery whatsoever,’ necessary for the urpose of
raising steamboats and other vessels free from the water, and or making
repairs thereon, with the right of using and disposin of the same at lea-
sure, and to purchase, hold and use as much groun upon the riverliank
as may be necessary for a permanent location of said dock, and for the
pur se of repairing steamboats and other vessels raised upon said
doom, and to employ such suitable person or persons as may be neces-
sary to superintend the management of said dock or docks, and the re-
pairing of steamboats and other vessels raised thereon, and for the con-
struction of other docks, for their own use and for the use of others;
and to make and rescribe such by-laws, rules and regulations, and to
do and perform a I such matters and things touching the business of
said company, as may be necessary to the proper and full performance
of its business. .

§ 3. It shall be lawful for said company to take and hold any real estate
as security, or in mortgage or pledge to secure the pavment of debts due in
good faith to said company, and a so to purchase real estate at any sales
made in virtue of any judgment at law. or decree in equity made in favor
of said company; to receive and take in satisfaction of any debt previously
due said company any real estate. and to hold such real estate so long_ only
as may be necessary to enable said company to make sale of the s~me for
money or other personal property.

’ § 4. It shall be lawful for said company to dispose of the whole or any
portion of their interest in the said sectional docks by dividing their interest
in the same, or any portion thereof, into shares of one hundred dollars
each, and the purchasers of any of said shares shall. be and become

I18 caucus-nuns.

wan

members of said company, and entitled to all the rights and privileges of said
company, subject to the regulations hereinafter prescribed, in addition to the
proceeding sections of this act. v

§ 5. After said disposal of stock and admission of other parties as members
of said company, the affairs of said company shall be managed by three
directors, who shall be stockholders of said company and residents of the
State; they shall,after the first year, be elected on the lirst Monday of June,
in each year, at such time and place in the city of St. Louis as the board
of directors, for the time being, shall appoint, and shall hold their oliices for
one year, and until their successors shall be appointed and no longer; ten-
days public notice of such election shall be given, and the election shall he
held under the inspection of three stockholders appointed by the board of

directors, and shall be by ballot, by a plurality of the votes of the stoclt- t

holders present, allowing one vote for each share, and stockholders not per-
sonally present may vote by proxy made in writing. In case any election of
directors should not be made on any day when, pursuant to this act, it ought
to have been made, the company shall not, for that cause, be deemed to be
dissolved; but it shall be lawful, on any other deiy, to hold and make an
election of directors in such manner as shall he regulated by the by-laws and
ordinances of the company. Atany annual meeting of the stockholders
they may, by a vote representing not less than three-fourths of the shares
then taken or subscribed, increase or diminish the number of directors, and
they may discontinue the same at pleasure; they may also provide for their
: ppointment or election as they think proper; but before any vote shall be
taken on any such propositions public notice thereof shall have been pre-
viously given in a manner to be prescribed by the by-laws.

§ (3. The directors regularly chosen by the stockholders of said company
shall. as soon as may be after every annual election, proceed to choose,
out of their own body, one person as president, who shall preside until the
next annual election; and in case of death or resignation of the presidentor
any director the vacancy may be filled by the board of directors; and in case
of the absence of the president the board may appoint a president. pro.
tempore, who shall have the powers, and perform the duties of the president.

§7. The major part of said directors shall constitute a board, and shall
be competent to the transaction of the business of the company; and they
shall have power (subject to the by-laws) to appoint. front their own body,
one or more persons to act or assist in the performance of the business oftbe
company, with such salary as they think proper. and also to appoint a secre-
tary, clerk, or such other servants as they may deem expedient; and they
may also declare and make dividends of the profits of the business of the
company, and make such by-laws, rules and regulations as shallseern proper,
touching the business and interests of said company.

§8. The stock of said company shall be considered personal property,
and shall be assignable in such manner as the directors shall, from time to
time, ordain and establish.

This act shall take eliect from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, i849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the  Railroad.

§ 1. Style ot'corporatton;caprtal $10,000,000; § 11. Where route crosses road, &.c.; duty of
‘ powers, &c. , company.
2. John O’Fallon and others first board of 12. Road; within what time to be commenced.
diiectors; to open books ; when and 13 Dividends; when declared, &.c. \x

where. 14. County courts may subscribe for stock.
3. Election for directors; when held. 15. Directors to make annual exhibits.
4. Annual election; when held; one of the 16. Plat to be tiled; when and where, the;
directors to be president. 17. Com any to kee record of all expenses;
5. Powers and duties of directors. in fty years tats may purchase; con-
6. Directors to cause payment on capital ditions.
stock; how. 18. Person ceasin to be a stockholder no
7. Powers of company. longer amem r.
8. Relinquishments; now taken. 19. For injuries done track; punishment.
9.  § owner refuses right of way; pro- 20. Operations of company ;to what confined
c tngs.

10. Appraisers; their duties.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qftlze State Q/' Missouri, asfollows’:

§ l. A company is hereby incorporated, called the Pacific railroad, the
capital stock ofwhich shall be ten millions of dollars, to bedivided into shares
of one hund red dollars each ; the holders of which, their successors and assign,
shall constitute a body corporate and politic, and by the name aforesaid
shall have continued succession, may sue and be sued. plead and be im-
pleaded, defend and he defended against, and may make and use a common
seal, and shall be able, in law and equity, to make contracts; may take,
hold, use, possess and enjoy the fee simple or other title in and to any real
estate, and may selland dispose of the same; may make by-laws, rules and
regulations proper for carrying into effect the provisions of this set. not
repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United States, or of this State,
and shall have the usual and necessary powers of companies for such
purposes. ~
§2. John O’Fallen, Louis V. Bogy, James H. Lucas, Edward Walsh,
George Collier, Thomas 8. Hudson, Daniel D. Page, Henry M. Shreve,
James E. Yateman, John B. Sarpy, Wayman Crow, Joshua B. Brant,
Thomas Allen, Robert Campbell, Pierre Chouteau, junior, Henry Shaw,
Bernard Pratte, Ernst Angelrodt, Adolphus Meyer, Lewis A. Benoist and
Adam L. Mills, or any nine of them, shall constitute the first board of direc-
tors under this act, and shall hold their otiices until their successors shall be
qualitied; they shall met-tat such time and place as shall be. designated by
any three of them, and organize as a board of directors, and when organized
they shall cause books to he opened for the subscription of the capital stock
of said company, at such times and places as they may designate, under the
supervision of such persons as they may appoint, and may continue them
open so long as they may deem pro er, and may reopen such books, when
necessary, until the whole stock shal be subscribed.
§ 3. So soon as two thousand shares shall be subscribed the directors shall
cause an election to be held for nine directors,:~.t such time and place as they
may appoint and give notice of in two or more public newspapers.
§4. An election for nine directors shall be held on the last Monday in
March, in each year, and if not held on that day, an election may be held
at any other time that the directors shall desi nate; the election shall be held
under the supervi.-"ion of one or more stockho ders, and the persons receiving

the highest number of votes shall be elected, and shall continue in otlice
till their successors be qualified. Every stockholder shall be entitled to one
vote for each share held by him, and he may vote by proxy; soon after their
election the ditectors shall meet and elect one of their number president, who
shall hol ‘l his otlice for the term for‘ which he was elected director, and until
his successor shall be qualified. ' -

§ 5. The directors shall appoint, agents, clerks, engineers, superinten-
dents, and other otlicers and servants for said company; shall keep a
journal of their proceedings; shall cause correct books and accounts to
be kept; they may determine by by-laws what number of directors shall
constitute a quorum; and may appoint committees, and fill all vacancies
in any otiice under said company; they shall fix the salaries of the presi-
dent, and the ollicers and agents; but no director shall receive any compen-
sation for his services as such. They may take security from their oili-
cers and agents, and may adopt such measures and do such acts as will
be best calculated to promote the prosperity and usefulness of said com-

any. ~ ,

P § 6. The directors shall _make and advertisia calls for the payment of
-the capital stock, at such times and in such manner as they may deem
pro er, and if any stockholder shall fail to pay any such requisition
wit in ten days after the time appointed, the said company may recover
the same with interest, and if not collected may declare the stock for-
feited and sell the same; and no delinquent stockholder shall vote in said
company.

§ 7. Said company shall have full power to survey, mark, locate, and
construct a railroad from the city of St. Louis to the city of Jefferson,
and thence to some point in the western line of Van Buren county in
this State, with a view that the same may be hereafter continued west-
wardly to the Pacific ocean; and for that purpose may hold a strip of land
not exceeding one hundred feet wide, and may also hold sufficient land
for the construction of depots, warehouses, and water stations; and may
select such route as may be deemed most advantageous, and may ex-
tend branch railroads to any point in any of the counties in which said
road may be located.

§ 8. Said com any may take voluntary relinquishments of the right of
way for said roa , and the necessary depots and water stations; and if
the land through which such road shall pass shall belon to minors, in
whole or in part, the guardian or curator of such minor s all have pow-
er to convey to said company so much of the land as may be necessary
for the purposes aforesaid, on fair and equitable terms; but every such
conveyance by a guardian shall be subject to the approval or rejection
of the probate or county court in which such guardianship is pending.

§ 9. f any owner of any tract of land through which said railroad
shall pass, shall refuse to relinquish the right of way for said road to
said company, or if the owners be infants or persons of unsound mind,
or non-residents of the State, the facts of the case shall be specifically
stated to the judge of the circuit court of the county in which such lands
are situated, and said judge shall appoint three disinterested citizens of
the county to view said lands, who shall take into consideration the value
of the land, and the advantages and disadvantages of the road to the

oouaumoou. 221: ‘

same, and shall report under oath what damages will be done to said
land or any improvement thereon, stating the amount of the damagds
assessed, and shall return a plat of the land thus condemned. Notice of
such application to judge shall be iven to the owner of such land five
days before the making of the application, if such owner reside in this
State, or to his guardian; and if such owner be a non-resident of this
State, he may be served with actual notice, or by an advertisement for
four weeks in some public newspaper.

§ 10. The persons appointed to view and value such land shall file their
report and plat in the otiice of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in
which the land or a part thereof is situated, and ifno valid objections be
made to said report, the court shall enterjudgment in favor of such own-
er against such company for the amount of damages assessed, and shall
make an order vesting in said company the fee sim le title of the land in
such plat and report described; objections to sue report must be filed
within ten days after the same shall be filed, which objections shall be
examined by said judge, in term time or vacation, and he may hear testi-
mony and by judgment confirm said report, or may set the same aside
and appoint three other viewers, who shall proceed in the same manner
and make their report, until a report shall be confirmed. In all such
cases the court shall adjudge the costs of the proceedings according to
equity, and the said court shall have ower to make such orders and
take such other steps as will promote tie ends of justice between the
owners of such land and said company.

§ 11. Said company may build said road along or across any State or
county road, or the streets or wharves of any town or city, and over
any stream or highway; but whenever said railroad shall cross any State
or county road, said company shall keep good and suflicient causeways
or other adequate facilities for crossing the same; and said railroad shall
not be so constructed as to prevent the public from using any road,
street, or lllgl1W£1_V along or across which it may pass; and when said
railroad shall be built across any navigable stream, said company shall
erect a bridge sufliciently high on which to cross, or shall construct a
draw bridge, so that in no case shall the free navigation of such stream
be obstructed. When any person shall own lands on both sides of said
road, said company shall, when required so to do, make and keep in
gooi repair one causeway or other adequate means of crossing the same.

§ 12. Said company shall commence the construction of said road
within seven years, and shall complete the same within ten years there-
after; and said company shall have general power to use, manage, control
and enjoy said railroad; shall determine what kind of carriages shall be used
thereon, and by whom and in what manner, and shall determine the
terms, conditions, and manner in which merchandize, property, and pas-
sengers shall be transported thereon; and shall have power to construct
and keep such turnouts, gates, bridges, culverts, toll-houses, depots,
warehouses, causeways an other buildings, machinery, and lixtures as
may be necessary; said company may receive such tolls and freights as
may be determined on by the directors, and shall keep posted up state-
ments of the rates of toll and freight to be charged.

§ 13. Dividends of the prolits of said company shall be made annually,

‘I29 OOEIOILEIOIII.

or oftenerif necessary; but the directors may reserve or set apart a
portion of the profits as a contingent fund to meet expenditures and losses.
§ 14. It sha l be lawful for the county court. of any county in which
any part of the route of said railroad may be, to subscribe to the stock
of said company; and it may invest its funds in the stock of said com-
pany, and issue the bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock
thus subscribed, and to take proper steps to protect the interests and
credit of the county; such county court may appoint an agent to repre-
sent the county, vote for it, and receive its dividends; any incorporated
city, town, or incorporated company, may subscribe to the stock to said
re’ road company, and appoint an agent to represent its interest, give its
vote, and receive its dividends, and may take proper steps to guard and
protect the interests of such city, town, or corporation.
§ 15. At every annual meeting of said company the directors shall
make to the stockholders an exhibit of the affairs and condition of the
I company. One seventh part in interest of all the stockholders may call a
meeting, by giving four weeks notice in two public newspapers.
§ 16. When said road shall be completed the company shall tile a plat
thereof in the oflice of the Secretary of State; and the legislature may
at any time require a statement from the company asfto the progress of
the work, the amount of business, and the receipts of the company; and
the books and accounts of said company may at any time be investigated
by a committee appointed by the General Assembly.
§ 17. Said company shall keep a fair record of the whole expense of
constructing said road; and at the end of lifty years the State shall be at
liberty to urchase said road by paying to said company the amount at
which it s all be valued, by persons to be mutually chosen by the State
and by said company; but two years notice shall be given to said com-
pany of the intention of the State to purchase the railroad.
§ 18. When any person shall cease to be a stockholder, he shall cease
to be a member of said company. -
§ 19. If any person shall wilfully injure, obstruct, or destroy said~rail-
road, or shall break, destroy, or deface any work, edifice, or otherriixture
or improvement belonging to said company, he shall be considered guil-
ty of a criminal offence, and shall be punished in such mannerashshall

be prescribed by law, and shall also be liable to said company for-all
damages by it sustained.

§ 20. The operations of said company shall be confined to the general
business of locating, constructing, managing, and using said railroad,

and the acts necessary or proper to carry the same into complete and
successful operation. ‘

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

Ox/V." ‘ /V’ .."./‘~-" M‘ /\f\/\./N/~.r'J‘./N./-/'

announce. . ~ 233
I

AN ACT to incorporate the St. Louis Educational Association.

§ 1. Association incorporated; style; powers. 6. Books shall be opened for subscription to

2. Corporation vested with certain powers. stock.

3. Object of corporation defined. 7. Trustees shall regulate the times and places

4. Powers in whom vested; trustees named. for holding their meetin s.

5. Trustees shall have power to appoint their 8. An act not applicable to e meaning and
omcers and servants. intent of this act.

Be itenacted by the General .dssembl;y Q/' the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. There shall be and hereby is constituted and established in the
city of St. Louis, a body politic and corporate with.perpetual 8110088‘.-
sion, by the name and sty e of the “St. LOUIS Educational Association,”
and by that name shall be com etent to contract and be contracted with,
to sue and be sued, plead and e impleaded, answer and be answered
Into, in all courts and places whatsoever, with full power and authority
to acquire, hold, possess, use and enjoy, and the same to sell, convey
and dispose of all such real estate, as is or may be necessary for the. use
of the corporation, and may have and use a common seal, may alter or
change the same at pleasure, and may also make, ordain, establish and
put into execution such by-laws, rules and regulations as shall be proper
and necessary for the ellicient government of the oliicers of the corpor-
ation and for the good government of the school or schools, to be estab-
lished by this corporation. ‘

§ 2. The said corporation shall have power to take and receive an’
lands and tenements, moneys, rents, goods, chattels and effects, which
may be given. granted and devised to said corporation; provided that no
estate, real or personal, given, granted or devised for a specific use or
purpose, or the increase thereof, shall ever be appropriated in whole or
in part to any other purpose than that specified y the donor.

§ 3. The object of said corporation is to establish at or near Saint
Louis a free public high school or schools, in such manner as shall most
effect-rally promote learning.

§ 4. The corporate powers shall be and are hereby vested in a board
of trustees, to consist of twelve, which shall never be more nor less,
which board shall have power to fill all vacancies in their body and shall
consast of Edward Bates, Henry S. Geyer, Thomas Allen, Oliver D.
Filley, Joseph A. Eddy, William G. Elliott, John H. Tice, Professor
Post, Patrick German, Elisha Hall, Calvin Case and James McDowell.

§ 5. The said board of trustees and their successors forever shall have
power and authority to appoint all such oflicers and servants as they
may judge convenient and useful and to displace the same, and to de-
clare the tenure, duties and emoluments of their respective odicers; to
remove a trustee for any cause which two-thirds of the trustees shall
deem suliieient, and to enforce their by-laws and ordinances by reason-
able penalties or in any other way they may deem expedient, not~in'con-_
sistent with the law of this State. .

§ -6. The said board shall have power to open books for the 8lll)8Cl'-lp-

_ tion of stocl: in shares of twenty-live dollars each, in such manner and

under the direction of such persons as the trustees shall deem proper;
provided, thatsno stockholder shall he called upon to pay his stock, wither

224 . cnnoussusrs.

in whole or in part, until th —amount of stock subscribed shall amount to
the sum of ten thousand do] are.

§ 7. The said trustees shall have power to regulate the times and
places for holding their first meeting and such other meetings as they
shall from time to time appoint, and shall give written notice thereof at
‘least five days previous to the time appointed.

§ 8. The sixth section of “ an act concerning incorporations,” ap-
proved March 9, 1845, which requires corporations to organize and com-
mence the transaction of its business within one year from the date of its
incor oration,‘ or its cor orate owers shall cease, shall not a l to
th, Pt P P PP Y

18 ac .

This act to take efect from its passage.

Approved February 17, 1849. '

 

_ ./v~/av

AN-ACT amendatory to an act entitled “an act to incorporate the Car-
ondelet and St. Louis railroad.” --

§ 1. Part of an act repealed.

2. Commissioners appointed.
3. Capital stock; how much; how paid.
4. President and directors shallbe elected;

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

when; by whom; how long they shall
serve.

5. Powers of cor oration; right of way for
road; when c arter shall terminate.

 

§ 1. That the first clause of the act approved February 6th, 1837, of‘
which this act is amendatory, is hereby re ealed.

§ 2. That George R. Taylor, Henry B. elt, Wilson Primm, Anthony
H. Menkins, Robert W. Hunt, Thomas S. Nelson, and William M. Mc-
Pherson are hereby appointed commissioners to open books for subscrip-
tion to the stock of the Carondelet -and St. Louis railroad com any, as
hereinafter provided; which books shall be opened at some suita le situ-
tion in the city of St. Louis, and remain open from ten o’clock, A. M.
until four o’cloclr, P. M. for the period of ten days, unless the whole
amount of stock should be. sooner subscribed.

? 3. The capital stock of said company shall be one hundred thousand
do lars, with liberty to increase the same to the sum of one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, in shares of one hundred dollars each, ten dollars
of which to be paid at the time of subscription, and the residue at such
periods as the President and Directors s all direct, first iving thirty
days ublic notice in one of the newspapers printed in St. Louis; provi-
ded, t at not more than ten dollars on each share, shall be called for in
any thirty days after the first instalment.is paid.

§ 4. After the stock as provided in the third section of this act is sub-
scribed, the subscribers shall assemble and elect a president and six di-
rectors, and the company shall be organized, and they are hereby crea-
ted a body corporate and politic. and shall be entitled to all the usual
privileges of corporations; provided, that the said president and direc-

tors shall hold their oflice for the period of two years, and until their-'

successors are duly elected; elections for the same shall be held on the

:uq,)hyUbfyms suneanonth every two years as sioresaid, for tbepu-at-.
ant and directors; each share of'said stock shall entitle the owner there-
of t3 one vote, which may be given inperson or by proxy, duly empow-
en . s .

§ 6. This corporation shall be entitled to the same powers and privi-- '

leges granted to the Southern railroad company (chartered at the same.
session of the General Assembly at which the act to which this actis amen-_
datory was chartered) as respects the right of way over lands, roads and
streets, and the taking materials for the erection of the road provided for
in this act; provided, the said railroad may be for a single or double.
track, either for horse or locomotive engines; and provided, also, that

this charter shall be for a period of forty years from and after the pas- '

sage of this act; and provided further, that the line of said railroad may-.
run through the coal region in the neighborhood of St. Louis and Caron-
delet, or in whatever other direction a majority of the president and die
rectors of the company shall direct. .

This act to be in efpct from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT’ to incorporate the Charleston and _Ohio City Plank Road

Company.
§ 1. Company, name, style, purpose. §10. Directors may petition county court for»
2. Capital stock, number ct shares. % a 'nt’t of appraisers to assess damages.
3. Books to be opened, when, where, by ) 11. J ge shall appoint a da for hearing.
whom. ; 12. Judge may appoint suita le‘ persons to as-
4. Duties of commissioners. ) sess dam .
5. Duties and powers of the president and di- 3 13. Appraisers s all make report when, how.
rectors. . z 14. How payment shall be made ordamages.
6. Each share entitled to one vote. 15. Toll-gates may be erected when, rates of

7. -President and directors may appoint other E toll.

oiiicers, servants, am. 16. Penalty for receiving more toll than fixed
8. Capital stock to be applied in constructing 5 b law.

road. ‘ 17. To Is not to be taken in certain cases. ’
9. Majority of thelcompsny may select route 2 18. Penalty for injuring or destroying said
for road torun. i read.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That a com any shall be formed under the name and style of the _ '

“Charleston and 0 io City Plank Road Company;” for the urpose of
constructing a plank road from Charleston to Ohio city, in. ississippi
county. ' . .

? 2."That the capital stock of said company shall_he thirty thousand

do lars, divided into six hundred shares of fifty dollars each; and if it "

shall-be ascertained that the amount of capital stock is not sufiicient to
accomplish the object of this act, then the president and directors may
enlarge it to such amount as they may deem necessary, and open sub-
scription therefor in such manner as they may think pro er. _‘

§ 3. That books for the subscription of the stock 0 said company

shall be opened under the directions of the following named persons,‘
16

5 J

56- venom-runs»

who are appointed commissioners for that purpose, to wit: -Hiram’ L.
Persons, Samuel R. .Allen, Charles Kissell, John Rodney, Charles T.
Overton, James_M. Overton, John R. Roberts, George Whitcomb, and

.P. J. McMahan; said commissioners may open said books at such times

and places as they may think proper, and continue them 0 n for the sub-
scription of stock, as long as they may think expedient; an each subscrip-
tion for stock in saidxcompany, shall enter into the following agreement
in said book: “We whose names are hereunto subscribed, romise to
pay the president and directors of the Charleston and Ohio City plank
road company, the sum of fifty dollars for every .share of stock in said
company set opposite to our names, in such manner and proportion, and
at such time, as we shall be required by the president and directors of
said company.” . » . .
~\§ 4. That so soon as five thousand dollars shall be subscribed, the said
commissioners, or any five of them, shall at such time and place as they
may ap oint, call a meeting of the stockholders, and hold an election for

a presi ent and five directors, who shall hold the ofiice for one year,
and until their successors are duly elected and qusgified. The president

and directors shall have power to'appoint a treasurer and such other’

ofiicers as they may deem expedient, to hold their office for one year,

. and until their successors are duly qualified; and it shall be the duty of

the stockholders, at the expiration of every year after the election of the
first president and directors, to elect their president and directors, and
the president and directors, or a majority of them, may fill any vacancy
that may occur in their board; and in case they fail to do so, the said
stockholders, or a majority of them, may fill such vacancy.

§ 6. That upon the election of the president and directors, they and
their successors shall be a body politic and corporate, in deed and in
law, by the name and style of “The Charleston and Ohio City Plank
Road Company;” and by said name said company shall have succession
for fifty years, and be entitled to all the privileges and franchises inci-
dent to a‘ corporation; and shall be capable of taking and holding their
ca ital stock and the increase thereof, and of purchasing, taking and
holding to them and their successors and assigns, and of selling, trans-
ferring and conveyin in fee simple, all such lands, tenements, heredita-
ments and estate, real, personal and mixed, as shall be necessary to them
in the prosecution of their work; and shall be competent to sue and be
sued, to plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered, defend and
be defended, in all courts of law and equity; and said company may

-have a common seal, which they rfiay renew, alter or change, as they

may choose; said company shall have power to make all needful rules,
regulations and by-laws, and shall have power to execute the same, and
to do every thinr: which a corporate body may do; said company shall
keep a record of their proceedings, which shall be evidence of the acts
of said corporation; and at each annual election of president and direc-
tors, the president shall lay before the stockholders an expose of the
situation of said company, andalso a record of their procee ings for the
preceding year. The company shall have power to fix the times and
places of their meetings and annual elections; and shall have power to
prescribe by by-laws, the manner by which shares of stock may e trans-
ferred or forfeited.

ooawamoas. W7

§ 6. That;-in all cases where it is required for the stoclrholderstovbte,
each stockholder shall have one vote for each share held by him, which
vote he may give in person or by proxy, authorized by a written instru-
ment; and executors, administrators, guardians and trustees, may repre-
sent the respective interest under their control.. " - ;
§ 7. The president and directors shall have power and authority to
agree with, and appoint all such surveyors, engineers, superintendents,
artisans and workmen, as tlley shall judge to be necessary to carry on
the work contemplated by this act, to fix their salaries and wages, and
to remove any of them at pleasure; and to draw orders on the treasurer
for all money necessary for the accomplishment of the objects of said
company, and to do any other act which a natural person would have a
right to do.
§ 8. That said company shall apply the‘ stock of said company to cori-
structing and keeping in repair a plank road from Charleston, in Mis-
sissippi county, to Ohio City, in said county; said road shall be made in
a strong, substantial manner, of sufficient width to allow wagons and
carriages to pass each other on said road with safety and convenience,
according to such plan as the president and directors of said company
may ad$t. ' - - - ‘
§ 9. hat it shall be the duty of said company, or a majority of them,
to fix the route over which the said road shall pass, between the places
designated in this act; and said ‘company are hereby authorized to enter
in and upon the land and inclosures, public roads and highways in, through
and over which said intended road may be thought proper to pass, and
to examine and survey the ground therefor; and in case the corporation
shall not be able to acquire the title to the lands over which the road
shall be laid, by purchase or otherwise, it shall be lawful for said com-
pany to appropriate so much of said lands as may be necessary, to its
own use, for the purposes contem lated by this charter, by complying
with the rovisions hereinafter made. '
§ 10. The directors, or a majority of them, shall present a petition to
the judge of the circuit court, or any judge of the county court, setting
forth by some proper description, the lands or other materials wanted for
the construction of said road, or other appendages thereto, and the
names of the owners thereof, if known, distinguishing with convenient
certainty, if -it can be done, the parcels claimed in severalty by the res-
pective owners, and praying for the appointment of appraisers to asses
the damages which the owners of such lands will severally sustain, by
reason of the appropriation thereof by the corporation to its own use. ‘
§ 11. That on the presentment of such petition, the said judge shall
appoint a day for the hearing of the parties interested, and shall direct
such notice as he shall deem reasonable, to be given, ot the time and
place of hearing; and in case it shall appear that the owners of said land
are unknown, feme covert, an infant, or insane, it shall be the duty of
the judge to appoint some discreet and responsible person to act in the
premises, in his, her or their behalf, to whom the corporation shall ‘bake
therefor a reasonable compensation, to be awarded by such judge.
§ 12. That at the time appointed for the hearing of such case, the
said judge shall appoint at least three, and not more than twelve house-
holders of said county, for the purpose of assessing such damages; the

-..

  as .eenx-animals. ‘

saidappraisers,‘ after bein duly‘ sworn to assess such damages, if any,
fairly and impartially, sha proceed by viewing such land, and by such
other evidence as they may require, or the parties offer, to assess the
damages each individual owner of said land will sustain, by the appro~
priation of his land for the use of said company.

§ 13. That the said appraisers shall make 3. report within ten days
after receiving their appointment, to the judge, or his successor in ofiice,
who appointed them, in which they shall set forth the several parcels of

land, the value of which they have assessed, the name of the owner ,

thereof, if known, and the damages such owner will sustain by reason
of said corporation appropriating the same to its use; and if said ap-
praisers cannot agree, said judge may direct proceedings de novo, in
conformity with the provisions of this act.

’ § 14. That upon the payment of the damages thus assessed, together
with the expenses of assessment, as the same shall be settled by the
judge, or on depositing the amount thereof for the use of such owners,
in such place as the judge may direct in writing, the corporation shall
immediately become entitled to said land, for the use aforesaid; and the
report of said appraisers, and the order of the judge, shall be recorded
in the recorder’s oflice of said county, and shall have the same efect
then as recorded deeds.

§ 15. That as soon as said company shall have completed four contin- .

nous miles of said road, according to the plan designed, in pursuance
of this act, they shall call on one of the judges of the county court
of said county to examine the work, and if said judge shall certify
that said road is made in conformity with the provisions of this act,

-and the plan of said company, the certificate may be recorded in

the clerk’s ofiice of the county court of said county; and he president
and directors may cause a toll gate to be erected across said road at the
end of every [number omitted] miles that may be completed, and may
collect the following rates of toll at the same, from the persons travelling
said road with horses, cattle, mules, hogs, sheep, wagons, and carriages,
to wit: For every horse, mule, ass, or other four-footed animal of larger
kind, five cents; for every head of neat cattle, one cent; for,each head
of hogs, sheep or goats, one-half cent; for every two-wheel pleasure
carriage, ten cents, exclusive of the beast by which it is drawn; for ev-
ery four-wheel pleasure carriage, fifteen cents, exclusive of the beast
by which it is drawn; for every loaded cart, ten cents; for every other
loaded wagon, or other four-wheeled carriage, exclusive of the beast by
which the same is drawn, twenty cents. The president and directors
shall cause printed lists of the rates of toll to be put up and kept up on
or near said gate, for the inspection of travellers.
§ 16. That if any toll-gatherer shall demand and receive any greater
rate of toll than is herein allowed, said company shall become liable to
pay the person from whom such excessive toll has been taken, five dol-
ars for each offence; and if any person shall fraudulently or forcibly, or
by any means evade, the payment of any toll which he may be liable to
pay for travelling on such road, such person shall forfeit and pay to said
company, for each offence, over and above the proper toll, the sum of
five dollars. All penalties mentioned in this section may be recovered

b€f0l'6J it justice of the -peace. -

I

oospomci-mus; #19

§ 17. That if at any time said road shall be out of repair for ten days‘,
it shall be lawful for any person to call on any justice of the peace or
justice of the county court, to examine such road; and if upon examina-
tion said justice shall be satisfied that said read is out of repair, and
shall certify that the same is out of repair, and has been for ten days,
immediately upon such certificate being presented to the county court
of said county, it shall be the duty of said court to order that no toll shall
be collected for the travel on said read, until the same is re aired; and if
said company proceed to collect toll after said order is ma e, and before
they re air said road, they shall ay the sum of ten dollars to the person
from W cm such toll is collecte , to be recovered before a justice of
the peace. - '

§ 18. That if any person or persons shall wilfully and maliciously in;
jure or destroy said read, or any part thereof, such person shall pay to
said company _double damages for such injury, and shall moreover be
liable to be lined in any sum not exceeding live hundred dollars, and to
be imprisoned for any term not exceeding three months.

§rl9. That at the end of fifty years this company shall be dissolved.

his act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

/\/\/\./\/\/\/N

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to reduce the-law incorporating
the city of St. Louis,” and the several acts amendatory thereof, and to
amend the same.

Be itenacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. All ordinances passed by the city council shall, within five days after
they ‘become laws. be published in the German language, in one of the
German newspapers published in the city of Saint Louis.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March l2, I849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Glasgow, Roanoke, Huntsville, Bloomington
and Kirksvllle Graded Road Company.

D
Q 1. Company incorporated; style and powers. 11. Company may receive lands; for what

2. Books to be opened; where, when, by urpose.
whom, 12. V hen road shall commence.

3. Duties of superintendents. 13. Toll gates erected; when.

4. Oliicers of company; tenure; how filled. 14. Rates of toll. '
5. Each share entitled to one vote. 15. When toll shall not be tal_<er_l.

5. Powers of president and managers. 16. Stock subscribed- how paid rn._ -

7. Directors may appoint other officers. 17. County courts of? any county in the‘ State
8. Payments; how made. may take stock. _ '
9. Road to be carefully surveyed. 18. State may become a subscriber for stock.

J0. Manner of construction; width, &.c.

 cosmsarrosm '
Be it enacted by the General Jssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, asfoilows:

§ 1. The stockholders of a company, to be raised and organized as here-
inafter prescribed, are hereby incorporated by the name of “The Glasgow,
Roanoke, Huntsville, Bloomington and Kirksville graded road company,”
with a capital stock of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, for the purpose
of making a graded road from the city of Glasgow, in Howard county, by
way of Roanoke and Huntsville, in Randolph county, through Bloomurgton,
in Macon county, to Kirksrille. in Adair county, and by that name may
have continual succession and a common seal; may hold property, sue and
be sued, implead and be impleaded, and in all other respects have the power
and privileges of a corporation. ‘
, § 2. Books for the subscription of stock, in shares of twenty five dollars
each, shall be opened on the first Monday of May next, at the city of tiles-
gow, under the superintendence of I". M. Billingsley, J. D. _Perry, B. W.
u6\$’i3 and Williarrt A. McClure, or any two of them; at the town of Roan-
oke, under the superintendence of Robert Cornelius, Joshua Terrell and G.
.\-lorehead, or any two of them; at the town of Huntsville, under the
supcrintendence of Henry Austin,D. C. Garth, C. Wisdom and Neal Murphy,
or any two of them; and at the town of Blr-omington, under the superin-
tendence of John Bauta, George M. Taylor, Lewis Gilstrap and S. S. Fox,
or any two of them; and at the town of Kirksville, under the superinten-
dence of James Nicnolas, Judge Ringo and Frederick Roland, or any two of
them, and shall continue open for ninety days; unless the whole amount of
stock shall not be subscribed said superintendents may cause the books to be
continued open, or reopened at such times and places as they may think
proper, until the whole amount of stock is subscribed.

§ 3. The superintendents, at each of the places named in the preceding
section, shall, from time to time, inform the superintendents at the other
places of the number of shares subscribed, and as soon as the whole stock
shall be ascertained to have been taken the books shall be closed, and so soon
as one-thira of the stock shall be taken, said superintendents shall give public
notice that a meeting of the stockholders will be l.eld at sometime and place,
to be by them named in such notice, tor the purpose of organizing the
company and electing officers.

§4. The officers ol the company shall consist of a president, treasurer,
and nine managers. who shall be elected by the stockholders at some regular
meeting of the company, and shall hold their oliice for two years, and until
their successors are duly chosen and qualified; and all vacnncies_shall be "
tilled by the board of directors, consisting of the president and the mana-
gers.

§5. Every share shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote, and any
stockholder may vote by proxy, by giving written authority for that purpose.

§(i. The president and managers shall have all power necessary for
transacting the business, and carrying into ellect the olvjects and design for
which the said company is incorporated, and to make such rules, by -laws iluli
orders as they may think necessary, not contrary to the laws or con~titution
of this_-"-tatc, or of the United States.

§ 7. The board ot directots may appoint such other officers and agents as

they may think pI’°Pt=I‘.and prescribe their duties, compensation and tenure
of office.

Q

§ 8. There-shall be paid to said';uperintendents tire doliars on- eaehshare
at the time of subscription, and the remainder of the stock shall" be paid at
such times as the same shall be called for by order of the board of directors,
and if any stockholder fail to pay any instalment, within twenty days after
publienotice, given in some newspaper, for the payment of the same, he
shall forfeit to the company all sums previously paid on his share.
§9. The board of directors shall have said road carefully surveyed and
laid out, and file, or caused to be filed, in the odiceof the clerk of the county
court of each county through which the road may run, a copy of the field
notes and plat of the survey of the road as finally determined on.
§ I0. Said road shall he kept open, at least sixty feet wide, twenty-four of
which hall be graded, with alsuliicient ditch on each side to carry the water
off, and said read. in no place, shall vary more than five degrees from a
horizontal line, all stumps or large stones, or any otherobstructions, to be
removed. .
§ 11. Said company may receive, by deed of purchase, gift or other eon-
veyance, any quantity of real estate, not more than one hundred feet wide.
for carrying into effect the objects of the company; but if they cannot
obtain said real estate on fair terms by purchase, then the said company may
mark out and construct said read, and hold the land, over which the same
runs, to the width of one hundred feet, and the owner of said land shall be
entitled to a writ of ad quad damnum, to assess the damages by him sus-
tained, in the same manner as is provided in the establishment of State or
county roads, and the damages and cost shall be paid by the company.
§ I2. Said company shall commence said read within four years from the
passage of this act. =
§ 13. Whenever five miles of said road shall be completed said company
may erect a toll gate upon the same. and take all necessary steps for collect-
ing tolls, and so in regard to every five miles of distance on said read, until
the whole of said road shall be completed.
§ 14. The rate of toll upon any five miles of said road shall not exceed the
following: F or each man and horse five cents; for each loose mule, jackass, or
other four.-footed animal of a larger kind, except cattle, two cents each ; for
every twenty head ofsheep, hogs, or other small stock. four cents; for every ten
head of cattle four cents; for each two wheel pleasure carriage, exclusive of
the beasts by which it is drawn, five cents; for every four wheel carriage,
exclusive as above, ten cents; for every cart, wagon, or other carriage of
burden, whose wheel shall not exceed fourinches in width, fifteen cents; for

game

. every such carriage of burden, whose wheels shall not exceed four inches in

width, ten cents. .

§ 15. Said company shall not be at liberty to take tell at any time when
said road shall not be kept in good repair.

§ 16. All stock SllbSCl‘lb8d shall he paid into the hands of the treasurer,
according to the provisions of this charter.

§ 17. The county court of any county in the State may subscribe for
stock in said company, and shall have power to apply the road and canal
funds of their respective counties to that purpose, and in case of such sub-
scription, said courts may appoint an agent to represent their counties

‘respectively, in the meeting of the company, in proportion to the amount

of stock subscribed.
§ 18. The State may, at any time, become a subscriber for stock in the
company, and in case of such subscription, the treasurer of the board shall

p E muroautotss;

pa into the State trcasurytb amount. proéts accruing to the State from
tols, and shall give bond for the faith ul discharge of his -duties, in that
respect, in‘ such manner as may be prescribed by law.
§ 19. So soon as one-third of the stock shall be subscribed, and the board
of directors elected, they may proceed to survey. locate and make said read.
§ 20. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act

are hereby repealed; and this act shall take effect from its passage.
' Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to charter a College in the State of Missouri.

C
'§ 1. Tyre Harris and others, a body politic, 7. Secretary, his duties.
style, duties. 8. Additional duties of trustees.
2. College where and how located, &c. 9. Board may appoint President, the.
3. Powers and duties of trustees. I0. Board may prescribe course of study, due.
4. First meeting of trustees, how and where 11. May admit beneficiaries.
held, duties. . 12. Powers of faculty

5. Powers of Board. l3. Property how applied.
ti. Treasurer, his duties.

_ Whereas, the United Baptists in Missouri and their friends are desirous
of entowing and building up a College in the State, and for that purpose
have under the direction of the General Association ol Baptists in Missou-
ri already secured pledges to the amountof about twenty thousand dollars,
{pr the endowment of the same in shares of forty-eight dollars, each paya-

le in instalments of six dollars per share annually, now therefore to enable
the parties above mentioned to carry out their contemplated purpose,

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stale of Missouri, as follows.»

§ 1., That Tyre C. Harris, Isaac Lionbergcr, Jordan O‘Brian, W. C.
Ligon, Robert S. Thomas, A. W. Doniphan, T. N. Thompson, W. D.
Hubble, Robert James, Samuel T. Glover, T. L. Anderson, R. F. Rich-
mond, S. D. South, T. E. Hatchet‘, John Ellis, William Carson, David Per-
kins, W. M. Jackson, Roland Hughes, William Jewell, W. M. McPherson,
R. McDonald, John Robinson, M. F. Price, E. M. Samuel, Craig,
shall be and they and their successors in office are hereby constituted a body
politic and corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal,
and in their corporate capacity may.sue and be sued plead and be impleaded,
defend and be defended in any court of law or equity in this State.

§ 2. Said College shall be located atsuch place within the State, as shall
be designated by a majority of the donors. for the endowment of the same,
one share (or forty-eight dollars) constituting a vole, and at the time of lo-
cating said college the persons who locate it shall determine the r ame by
which it shall he called and known, and they shall cause a certificate of the
name and place of location to be recordedin the reconit-rs ollice in the coun-
ty in which it may be located, and thereafter the name and location shall be
as permanently lixed and known to all intents and purposes as it" specilit:al-
ly mentioned in this act.

§ 3. After the college shall have been located and named as provided in

~ 'eouenneItst \ 23

the  section, the persons’ named in the: first section and thin‘
successors in otiice shall be known and styled by the name of the Tl‘tB°
tees of the College thus named, and shall’ have fullpewer in their corporate
capacity, to hold by gift, grant, demise. devise, or otherwise any lands tene-
ments hereditaments monies, rents, goods, or chattels of what kind soever
the same may be, which is or may hereafter be given,.granted devised demis-
ed to or purchased by them for and to the use of the aforesaid college, and
may sell and dispose of the same or any part thereof or lease, rent, or im-
prove in such manner as they shall think most conducive to the interest and
prosperity of said college. i
._§ 4. That the person first named herein as trustee, or in case of his neg-
lect, onrefusal to act, the next named shall immediately after the location
give notice of the timeand place for holding the first meeting of the trus-
tees and if a quorum shall not attend at the time and place mentioned a less.
number may adjourn from day to day and send for absent members, and on
the attendance of a quorum thereof thev shall appoint a President, Secreta-
ry and Treasurer of their own body and shall then and from time to time,
make and establish such by-laws as they may deem necessary not inconsis-
tent with the constitution or laws of the United States or of this State, and
shall moreover determine the number of regular meetings they will hold in
eachiyear and fix the time of the next meetin . T A ‘f
§ 5. The board of Trustees shall have full power to fill all vacancies
which may ocrur in their own body by death, resignation or refusal to act:
 may moreover reduce the number to not less than nine, and for the first
meeting seven shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and

‘ thereafter "the trustees shall fix in the by-laws the number necessary to consti-

 a quorum, and the trustees at their first meeting shall cause the names
ofthe trustees to be recorded in the ofiice of the recorder of the county in
vrhich _the college is located and also in like manner the names of all trus-
tees that may thereafter be appointed.

 6. Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office the

- Treasurer shall give-bond and suliicient security for the faithful discharge of

tile-dutiels of his oliice, the suliiciency of his securities to be approved by a
majority of the board of trustees and that no member of the board of trus-
migrant be received as such security. The treasurer. shall take charge of

 the college which may be placed in his hands by order of the

 
  
 

 "fund shall pay out the same only upon ' orders of the board and shall
‘ " ‘rrnsuch other services as may be prescribed by the board.
_g 7.. e The Secretary shall keep a fair record of all the proceedings of the
 ‘which he shall enter in a book to be provided for that purpose, (sub-.
ject to the examination and inspection of the donors to the institution) and
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board.
§ 8. It shall be the duty of the trustees as soon as the funds of the insti-
ttition_will justify it in theiro inion to cause to be erected suitable college
buildings and residences for t e President and professors, or to procure the
same by urchase or donation. .
§ 9. he board of trustees shall have power to appoint from time to
time aPresidcnt, Professors and all necessary oflicers to conduct and man-
age the iristiluption, and to remove them from otlice if necessary, and fix
their compensation and to increase or diminish the same as circumstances
may require.
’‘ -?§-I0. The board of trustees shall prescribe the course of study to be pur-

\

‘i
n‘ 1330113. 0
1 ,,
‘I

seed and also the terms’ of admission into‘ the institution and the prerequi-
site qualifications for admission and to make and enforce such other rules and
regulations, as may be deemed neécssary-for the good government and dis‘-
cipline of the same.

§ ll. The trustees shall have power to admit from time to time such ben-
eficiaries us the funds of the college may warrant allowing them to enjoy
in whole or in part the benefit of the institution without charge. ‘
- § 12. The faculty of the college shall have full power to confer such de-

grees as are usually conferred by colleges; and to grant diplomas attesting
the same.

§ 3. That the property real and personal authorized to be held by said i

corporation by virtue of this act, shall be held and applied in good faith to
the purposes of education according to the provisions of this act and for
no other or different purpose. This acito be in force from its passage.

Approved t“ebru'~.ry 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Mutual Fire and Marine Insurance compa-
ny of Lexington.

.§ 1. Company incorporated. 12. Funds maybe loaned.

2. Board of directors constituted. E 13. Restriction as to holding real estate, by
3. Capital nfty thousand dollars. company. -

4. May receive notes for premiums. 14. Notes, certificates, &c., to be signed.

5. Objects of insurance. 15. Annual statement required.

6. Election of directors.’ 16. Contingent fund; provisions in relation
7. Duties of president and directors. to. ' .
8. Powers of president. 1'7. When company may withhold payment
9. Company may be re-insured. from holders of policies.
10. Rules, regulations and by- laws. 18. Competency of members as witnesses.
ll. Surplus capital may be invested. 19. Limitation of act.

Be itenacted by the General uissembly of the State qf.llIissourz°, asfollows: O

? 1. That William H. Russell, Silas Silver, Edward Winsor, David
Gilespie, William B. Waddill, Simpson Beck, Hanson S. Chadwick,
John G. Bray, and Reuben Gentry, their associates and successors, are
hereby made a corporation by the name of “The Mutual Fire and Ma-
rine Insurance com any of Lexington,” for the urpose of making insu-
rances on dwelling houses, stores, and all other lrinds of buildings, ves-
sels in port, house ‘furniture, merchandize, and all other kind of proper-
ty, against loss and damage by fire; and also for making insurances on
vesse s, merchandize, freights, s ecie, bullion, commissions, profits, bank
notes, and billsof exchange, and other evidences of debt, bottomry and
respondentia, interests, and all other personal property or interests in or
touching pro erty at sea, land or water; and that the corporation hereby
created, shal by the same name have successors, and shall be able, to
sue and be sued, implead and be im leaded, in all courts of law and
equity in this State and elsewhere, an to make and have a common seal,
and the same to break, alter and renew at their pleasure.

§ 2. That the persons named in the foregoing section are hereby con-

stituted and.-appointed. aboardof .d.irector.a« of said company until the
first election of directors as hereinafter provided for shall take place,
and that it shall be the duty of said dirdztors, or of a majority of them, n
at their first meeting, to begin the organization of said company by the
appointment of a president and secretary, and that they shall have pow-
er to establish their salaries, fill vacancies in their own body, make by-,
laws, and possess all the other powers conferred upon the directors -by
this act. 0 ,
§ 3. It shall be the duty of said board to open books to receive-.app1i-9
cations of insurance as aforesaid, and as soon as the amount of a in-
surance on real estate and merchandize in stcire, approved by them,
8.11311 amelmt to fifty thousand dollars, the premiums .«on,them shall have
been actually paid or secured to be paid, the company shall be consider-
ed as or anized and go into operation. . .
§ 4. he said company, for the better security of its dealers, may re-
ceive notes for premiums, in advance, of persons intending to receive its
policies, and may negotiate such notes for the purpose of paying claims,
or otherwise, but the aggregate amount of said notes shall not exceed at
any one time twenty thousand dollars, and shall not be used by the com-.
pany until its other available funds are exhausted; and in lieu of all other
compensation or interest, the respective signers of said notes shall be
entitled to the same privileges, and to the same share or dividends of the
profits of the company, as if the amounts of said notes were for premi-,
ums paid to the company for risks insured by it; but, in proportion as its
earnings will justify it, the company shall have the right to decrease the
respective amount of said notes, and to cancel or return them to their
respective signers, after receivin from them the proportion which the
company may have earned for po icies issuedto. them respectively’; and
should any portion of said notes have been used for paying losses, efore
any_disposition shall be made of the funds of the company towards the re-
demption of dividend certificates, as hereinafter mentioned, the same
shall be made good as soon as the business and resources of the compa-
ny will permit, it being the meanin and intent of this act that should
the said sum of twenty thousand do ars, or any part thereof, be at any
time required to meet the demands against the company, such amount
shall be made good to the respective signers of said notes before estima-
ting or dividing any profits of the business of said company. _
. § 5. The said company shall have full power and authority to make
insurance on dwelling houses, stores, and all other kinds of buildings,
vessels in port, house furniture, merchandize, and other property, against
loss or damage [by] fire, and also against loss or damage by fire or wa-
ter, on vessels, merchandize, freight, specie, bullion, commissions, pre-
tits, bank notes and bills of exchange, and otherevidencesof debt, bot-
tomry, ad respondentia; interest on or touching property at sea, land or wa-
ter; and generally to transact business, enter into all contracts, and take
all security for and relative to the objects-aforesaid; and to cause. said
company to be re-insured, when deemed expedient, against any risk or
risks on which it may make insurance.
§ 6. That on the first Monday in July, A. D. 1850, and yearly after-
wards on the same day, nine out of twenty-live largest contributors to
the company, bypremiums on policies of insurance or by notes given-to

$3 oolroms-Ions.

the company in ’adv.ance of premiums, shall »'Be"e‘lected by ballot by the
policy holders, who by special notice shall‘ be‘-invited to attend, and shall
elipso facto directors, and shall lie declared to be the directors of the com-
pany for the ensuing year; and in the event of death, removal or resig-
nation of any one director, the vacancy shall be filled up by the board
out of the aforesaid list of the largest contributors to the company as
aforesaid. ‘
§ 7. It shall be the duty of the president and directors to superintend
the concerns of the company in al things not otherwise herein provided
for, and cause a pro erpiiice to be kept for the transaction of business.
The resident and directors shall hold regular meetings at least once a
mont , and at every such meeting shall examine the state of the com-
pany’s affairs, and act on all matters and _things which may come before
them; and they shall hold such other meetings as they may deem neces-
sary, or when thereunto notified by the president. -The president and
four directors, or in absence of the president, live directors shall con-

stitute a quorum. It shall be the duty of the president and directors to -

investigate the est mode of investin , from time to time, the funds and‘
surplus profits 0 the company, and t ey shall have power to direct the
manner of investing the same; they shall also, at the end of each year,
examine the statement of the affairs of the company, and shall compare
the same with the books, and shall fix the amounts for which “dividend
certihcates” shall be issued, as hereinafter rovided for. _

§ 8. The president shall attend daily at t e company’s oiiice, and re-
ceive applications for insurance, and shall whenever he may deem-it
necessary, examine, alone or jointly with the directors, the property of-
fered for insurance; he shall cause all the property belonging to the com-
pany to be safely kept, and shall receive all moneys paid into the office,
and shall deposit the same in bank as soon as received-, to the credit of
“The President and Directors of the Mutual Fire and Marine Insurance
Company” of Lexington, subject to be drawn by check or checks sign-
ed by him and countersigned by two of the directors; he shall sign all
the policies, and shall under the direction of the board invest all sums
which can be so invested, in such stocks and securities as the board may
order; and he shall exhibit to the board at each of its monthly meetings
a full statement of the affairs of the company, and cause the same to be
recorded, and said statement shall at all times, during office hours, re-
main subject to the inspection of all persons holding the policies of the
company.

§ 9. The president shall have power to make and execute contracts of
insurance in behalf of the company,._.and also to cause said company to
be re-insured when deemed expedient, against any risk it may have in-
sured; but the board may by a by-law restrict the authority of the presi-
dent in this respect; and a larger sum than ten thousand dollars shall not
be taken at any one risk.

§ 10. The president and directors shall have full power and authority,
by a vote of not less than a majority of the whole board, to establish by-
laws and such regulations as may be necessary to regulate the concerns
of the company; provided, they be not contrary to this act, to the laws
of this State, and to the laws and constitution of the United States.

§ 11... The-president and directors shall have full power and authority

‘ «Manama. - «I

to invest the capital and surplus funds of the company from time to time
in public funds, stocks and other securities, and generally to invest and
dispose of the capital, money and propérty of the company, as they shall
deem most advantageous. , .

§ 12. The said com any shall have authority to loan its funds or any
part thereof, to the ho ders of its policies, upon the security of mort-
gages on unencumbered real estate within the city of Lexington, insured
by them, but never in amount exceeding the sum insured thereon; the
saidriloans when made to be subject to reimbursement after a period of
four months-

, .13. The said com any shall be not com etent to purchase, take or
he any real estate ot er than such as shall be requisite for its immeu

‘diets accommodation in relatio tothe convenientrtransaction of its busi-

ness, and such as shall have b on bonalide mortgaged or conveyed to it
by way, of security or in satisfaction of debts contracted in the course
of i its dealings, or purchased at sales upon judgments, which shall have
been obtained for such debts. i . ~

\  14. All notes or obligations or dividend certificates shall be signed
by the president and countersigned by two of the directors, and no prom-
issory note or obligation, except contracts of insurance, shall be given
without the previous vote of the board of directors, and no sale or trans-
fer of stock or property shall be made,, nor any mortga e or bond dis.
charged, except in pursuance of a vote of the said boar .

~ '_§ .15, An annual statement of the companys business shall be made on
the first Monday in June, A. D., 1850, and each and every year thereaf-
ter on the same day, to ascertain the nett earned premiums asnear as
may be for the preceding year, and if it be ascertained that. after the pay»-
ment of all claims against the company, that any profits have been made
during, the above period, the directors or a majority of them, may declare
a dividend of said profits and may issue certihcates of a percentum on
the earned premiums paid or secured to be paid, and on the notes given
in advance of premiums, as provided for by the fourth section of the act
of incorporation; the dividend certificates to be issued in the name of
those’ entitled to receive them, which certificate shall be conclusive on
the parties thereto, and which certificate shall only be transferable on

thebooks of the company. No original certincate shall be issued for a '

less sum than five dollars, and no scrip shall be issued for the fractional
partof sums between fives of dollars, but all such fractional part of
some and sums less than five dollars, shall be placed in a contingent
account, and applied to the expenses, losses and other charges of the
company. = .
§ 16. When the accumulation of the nett profits of the company shall
exceed twenty thousand dollars, the one half of the excess shall be Op-
plied annually to the formation of .a contingent fund auxiliary to the
capital, to pay for losses, until said contin ent fund shall amount to fifty
thousand dollars, and the other half shall e applied from year to year,
towardsthe liquid ation- of dividend certiticates,in such manner as the board
shall deem most advisable. When this contingent fund shall have reached
the athu-<-al 3 sum of fifty thousand dollars, it then shall be rnergevd in the

capital -:5 the company, which will then be seventy thousand dollars, and-

it shall tlu;-H be lawful for the company to apply the whole of its. nett

3 -‘ 'conr‘o1#a'rroi~is. '
earnings, annually, toward the liquidation of its outstanding certificates;
when all these dividend certificates shall have been thus redeemed, the
‘surplus nett profits of the com°panyfsha|l then be divided pro-rata and
annually, amongst all the holders of its policies;'but in respect to the
liquidation of dividend" certificates, as aforesaid, no dividend certificate
of a subsequent year shall be redeemed, until those of a preceding year
have been provided for; and it shall be lawful for said company to with-
hold or postpone, at any time, the liquidation, in whole or in part of said

certificates, in the event of any loss happening, which, in the opinion of

the board would render it desirable, and should an ‘extension of the busi-
ness of the company as hereinafter provided for, make it proper in the
opinion of the" board for the greater security of its dealers, to increase
their capital two hundred thousand doll s, by a continued application of
its earnings in whole or in part to that‘o ject, it shall be lawful for them
to do so, and to issue, redeem or postpone the liquidation of dividend
certificates in accordance thereto, anything above herein mentioned to
the contrary notwithstanding. - '
' § 17. That in case any certiticate or policy holder shall be indebted to
the company for sums part due and unpaid, the company may at its top-
-tion, withhold the payment of the same, deduct such sums from the
amount thereof,-or reduce or cancel the_ same; and for any debt due by
any holder of certificates to said company, the company shallhave alien
on all the interest of said debtors in said company and its protits; b,ut
persons insuring in said company, or entitled to certificates, ‘shall not be
answerable by reason thereof, or of anything contained herein, except
for that payment of their premiums, or of notes given for or in advance
-of premiums.

§ 18. That in ‘suits by or against said company no member of the cor-
poration shall on that account (if he be not in his individual capacity a
party to such suit) be incompetent as a witness.

§ 19. This act shall endure twenty years from the date of its passage,
-and-thou-ld it’ not be renewed or extended at the expiration "of that time,
‘then-the accumulated ca ital of the‘ said company (after all its risks shall
-liaveirun out and expire , and all claims against the company shall have
‘been satisfied) shall be divided pro-rata amongst those persons who
have taken the policies of the company during the existence of this char-
Eter, and who being legally entitled thereto, shall then exhibit and sur-
render the same; the said policies alone to be considered proof of in-
terest. i . ' '

Approved March 5th, 1849.

 

O .
AN ACT to incorporate the Platte River Navigation Company.
1. Com ny inco orated. ' 9. Treasurer to give bond with securit '.
§ 2. Its giiiirposes. rp % 10. Books to be opened. 3
3. Construction of improvements; power , ll. Assessments madegiforfeiture for non-
therein. compliance.
- 4. Proceedings to obtain lands. 12. Time in which improvements must be
5. ggpitalstock, fifty thousand dollars. commenced.
6. cars of company. 13. Declared a public act.
7. Board; its powers. E 14. No power to cut a canal at certain points.
3. Deeds to be signed} ‘

ooasounsou. 3
Be it éitacted by the General Jssesnbly qf the State’ of M'rssatIri,' asfodows:

§ 1. That Elisha Green, Andrew Johnson, James Kuykendall, Hugh
gwinney, John Wilson, James Baldwin, of Platte county, and such other
persons as shall*be selected by them, shall be a body corporate and politic,
by the name of the Platte River Navigation Company; and by that name
shall have perpetual succession, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded,
answer and be answered, in all courts of law and equity in this State, or
elsewhere; to contract and be contracted with; to appoint such ofiicers and
agents as may be necessary to~carry on the business of the company; to
employ surveyors, engineers, mechanics, laborers, and others; to make, have,
and ‘use a common seal, and the same to break, alter, or amend, at pleasure;
had by the board of directors hereinafter mentioned, to make by-laws, not
inconsistent with the’ constitutidn and laws of this State, and of the United
States; and to do all other acts and things necessary and-proper to carry

"out and accomplish the design and object of said company.

§2. The object and design of thecompany hereby created is to enter
upon the Platte river in this State, and to improve the navigation thereof,
from its mouth to Platte City, and as much farther as said company may
deem expedient, for steamboats, vessels, rafts, and other crane; and for that
purpose, the hompany aforesaid is vested with full power and authority to
enter upon said river, and lands adjoining, by their otlicers, agents, or
others; and to improve the navigation of the said river, by constructing locks
and dams, or by clearing out and deepening, contracting, or straightening
the channel or other parts of the said river.

§3. The improvements made on said river may be so constructed and

devised as to create and prothice water power for mills and machinery of

every description. whatsoever; and the said company shall have power and
authority to sell. lease, or otherwise dispose of such water power.
§4. In any case, when said company shall need or require any lots or

lauds adjoining or near said river, upon which to erect or construct any ‘

building, fixture, locks, or dams. or ‘o secure the use and benefit of any
water power, created or produced by said improvements, and shall require
land near or adjoining the same, said company may file a petition in the
circuit court of the county in which said lands are situated, setting forth the
facts, on which, the clerk of said court shall issue a summons to the adverse
party, and such proceedings shall be had thereon to ascertain the amount of
damage, and the value of said land, as is provided by an act concerning

_mills and mill dams, approved March 3, 1845; and before said company

sh all proceed, they shall pay all damages so assessed; whereupon, said court
shall make a decree, vesting the right and title to said land. in said company,
as fully as it existed. in the person or persons to whom said damages shall
have been paid.

5. The capital stock of said company. shall be fifty thousand dollars, which
may be increased or diminished at any time, and to any extent that the
stockholders owning a majority of the shares of the stock of said company
shall deem roper; and said capital stock shall be divided into shares of one
hundred do lars each. ,

. § 6. The ofiicers of said company shall be a president, and six directors,
a clerk, and treasurer. who shall be elected by the stockholders; each

stockholder shall be allowed one vote for each share he may hold,. and it i

shall require a majority of all the votes, which the several shareholders are

ID. ' oeueurnoiis»

-hereby aut‘liorized' to give, to constitute an election. The said niiicers, '
when elected, shall hold their respective oliices for the term of one year, and
until their successors are elected ‘and qualified; before entering upon the
duties of their several oliices, they shall each take an oath, before some
judge or Justice of the peace, that they.wi|l faithfully discharge the duties of
their oliices; and thatthey are not nor will not be pecuniarly interested in
agiy contract for the improvement of said river, while they continue in
o co.

§ 7. The presidtnt and directors, or a majority of them. shall constitute a
«board for the transaction of.busi'.iess; which board shall have a superintending
government and control over the entire business and affairs of said company,
and over surveyois, engineers. and others who shall be en ployed in the
business of the company; and shall determine in'what manner contract!
shall be lot, and what security shall be requhed for the perlbrmanvcesthereof,
and what tolls, and in what manner they shall be levied and collected, and
shall make such by-laws as are provided forin the first section of this act.

§ 8. All contracts. deeds, conveyances, and other instruments of writing,
made by said company, shall be signed by the president, and attested by
the clerk, with the seal of the company thereto atlixed; otherwise, they shall
be void. It shall also be the duty of the clerk to keep a true and correct
account of the financial and other business transactions of said company,
and record all things necessary and proper to be recorded. ’

§9. The treasurer shall give bond to the company in a sum, and with
good and sutiicient security, to be approved by the board of directors, for
the faithful discharge and perlorrr-ance of his duty as treasurer; and furthei;
conditioned, that he will. keep true and correct accounts of all moneys,
property, or evidences of debt that shall come to his hands, and that he will
faithfully account for and pay over all money, and deliver all property or
evidences of debt, which shall come to his hands, to his scccessor in otlice,
or to the person or persons entitled thereto. '

§ 10. The persons whose names are mentioned in the first section of this
act, or a majority of them, are hereby authorized and empowered to cause
books for the subscription of stock to be opened, at. such times and places
as they may deem most conducive to the attainment of the stock required;
and so soon as ten thousand do\‘ars of the capital stock of said company
shall have been subscribed, the persons aforesaid, or a majority of them,
shall advertize a meeting of the shareholders, to be held in Platte. City,
giving at least liftien days notice previous to such meeting, at which said
shareholders shall proceed to elect the oliiters of said company, and to
transact such other business as the interest and object of snid company may
require. - -

§ ll. The president and directors, or a majority of them, may,.after they
shall have been elected and qualified, attcoftllug to the provisions of this act,
make such assessments on the shares subscribed, and require payments
thereof to be made at such periods as they may deem proper, together with
such conditions of forfeiture for non-compliance, not exceeding the amount
of the stock delinquent, as to them shall seem advisable, and prescribe the
manner in which said stock may be transferable.

§ 12. Unless said company shall, within one year from the passage ofthis
act, in good faith. commence the iiziproveinent of the ii:~.vig:»tiut. el said
l’i"B|‘.untl proceed to accomplish the object of this cha: tcr wi...j . H,» _)".‘:.l}‘s

-I

eozronafrrons. 141

from its passage, the corporate powers hereby granted shall cease and

determine.

§ 13. This act is declared to be a public’ act, and may lie read in any
court as evidence. without any further proof in pleading.

§ 14. This act shall not be construed to give power to said company to

cut a canal through what is called the narrows, between Platte and Missouri .

rivers. t
This act to take eiiiect from its passage.

, Approved February.27, 1849.

 

' AN ACT to promote the Growing of Wine in Gasconade County.

§ 1. Company incor orated. 6. Powers of board of managers.
2. Omcers thereo . 7. Meetings, when to be held.
3. Treasurer to give bond with security. 8. Company may receive donations.
4. Amount to be paid by members. 9. Withdrawal of members.

5. Company may sue and be sued.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State ofMz'ssourz', as follows:
‘ §l. Hans D. Widersprecher, Jacob Schaefer, Julius Leipnld, Joseph
Lissel, Edward Cramcr, Hermann Burkhard, Anthony Miller, Peter Miller,
Claus Martins, Franzi Baing, Charles D’. Eitzen, Christopher Moller, and
Mathias Keraurer, and their successors in office, shall be and they are
hereby created a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of the
“Gasconade Grape Growing Society.”
§2. The oliicers of this society shall be a president, secretary, and
treasurer, who shall hold their offices for twelve months, and until their
successors shall be duly elected and qualitied; they shall be elected by the
board of managers at their annual meetings. _
§ 3. The treasurer of said society shall enter into bond in such sum and
in-such security as the board of managers may require, conditioned for.the
faithful discharge ‘of the duties required of him by virtue of his ollicc, which
bond shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of said
county, and filed with the papers of the society by the recording secretary.
§4. At_.,'(_he hgst meeting of the society, and at each annual meeting
thereafter, theasobiety shall determine by vote what shall be the amount to
be paidfby c_ach"mcmber For the ensuing year.
§ 5. So soon as a certilicate, signed by the chairman and secretary of the
first meeting of the board of managers, certifying that the society‘ haw-
elected t.h¢ili1n'6§3;dent and other ofiicers, the same shall be recorded in the
odice olithe clerk ofthe circuit court ofsaid county; they and their successors
iall be. gbpdygpnlitic and corporate, by the name and style of the “ Gas-
COD-1dC_§|~’Q'PQ.*G1'0W,llig Society;” and by, and under that name and Style.
Shall be} fable, in-courts of law and equity, to sue and be sued. plendand
he imglegaed, answer and be answered unto, in all manner of suits. ilC_U0|{5.
and c_ap_.qe,s,.of j.*.1ha,tever nature or kind, relating to the business ot said
society.

§ 6.  botirdloflmanagers shall have power to make and alter their
7 .

242 ~ eonroaartoxs.

own bt-Jaws. A majority of whom shall form a quorum to do business, to
determine on the best method of cultivating the wine [vine], and to do allthat
may be necessary to encourage the raising of wine; they will confer
premiums, and the amount thereof; to fix the times and places for exhibiting
the wine that may be raised in Gasconade county; to apnoint inspectors,
and such other otlicers as they may find necessary to carry on their business;
to fill all vacancies in their own body which may happen between their
annual meetings; to provide for the admission of members; and to trake
such other by-laws and regulations as they may find necessary to carry into
effect the object of the association. _

§ 7. It shall be the duty of the said board of managers to have a meeting,
at such time and place as they shall agree upon; which meeting shall be
betweenthe first day of September and the first day of December in each year;
at which meeting, they shall make a repor setting forth their number of
members, the amount of money paid into t e treasury, and the manner‘ in
which the same has been expended, the condition of growing the gtape in’
their county, the improvement made within the last year in the kinds,
raising. and management of the wines, with the quantity, quality, and
probable value of the wine they raise. with such other information on the
subject of wine-raising as they may think useful to the public.

§ 8. The board of managersmay receive such donations as may be given
the society by individuals; but no funds of the society shall be used for any
other use than the promotion of the object for which such society was
formed. A

§ 9. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed so as to prevent any
member from withdrawing from said society, when he may wish so to do;
provided, he gives notice to the secretary of his intention to do so, and pays
his dues to the treasurer. l ‘

This act to take eliect and be in force from its passage. _

Approved March 6, 1819. J

\

JV‘;//\/vvxr/v‘\/wv /Kr/\A/vv\1»-v-vx/vv vvxxrvvxn.

AN ACT to incorporate the Union and Port Williams Mining and
Smelting Association.

§ 1. Company incorporated. 3 § 7. Stock assignable; vote of members, ate.
2. Board of directors constituted. 8. General powers of company.
3. Election of directors- 9. Dividends to be declared.

4. President elected.
5. Powers of board of directors.
6. Books to be kept.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

10. Elections may be held at any time.
E 11. When company shall go into operation.

§ 1. That for the purpose of encouraging mining and smelting of lead
and copper and other ores, in the counties of Franklin, J eti'erson,Wash-
ington, and Crawford, 9. e_on‘;pany is hereby created and incorporated to
be called “Union and Port illiams Mining and Smelting Association,”
with a capital stock of four hundred thousand dollars, divided into shares
of, twenty dollars each, and the holders of said stock, their associates
successors and assigns, shall be a body corporate, and by that name

couronarioizs. 243

shall-have ‘eontinuedsuccession, shall have power to sue and be sued,
plead and be impleaded, defend and be defended against; may have,use‘,
alter and renew a common seal; may make contracts and conveyances,
acquire, hold, use and enjoy real estate for the purposes of said compa-
ny and dispose of the same; and shall have power to make rules, regula-
tions and by-laws for the government of said company, not repugnant to
the laws and constitution of the United States or of this State.
.i.~:~.§ 2. That A. W. Jetfries, William North, C. S. Jeffries, John F. Mu-
sic, John R.’Brown, James N. Inge, A. E. Fry and George Hearst, or
any live of them, shall constitute the first Board of Directors of said
company; they shall hold their offices until their successors shall be elec-
ted and, qualified; they shall have power to cause books to be opened for
tlIa::I;,_uh9cri'ptibn-of‘the capital stock of ‘said company, at such times and
 and in; such manner as they may direct, andmay cause the same
who tinned, and reopened when they may deem proper, until the whole
c ital stock of said company shall be subscribed. ‘  ‘ ~ 
n éhéwhenever four thousand shares of said stock shall be subcribed,
G .-director-sshall cause a meeting of the stockholders to be held at
such time and place as they shall designate and advertise, and at such
meeting the stockholders shall elect five directors to superintend and
conduct the business of said company; they shall hold their offices until‘
their successors shall be elected and qualified, and five directors shall
be elected every year thereafter, at such time and place and in such
manner as shall be provided by the by-laws of the company.
§ 4. Soon after the election of said directors, they shall meet and cor-
gan1z° e as a board of directors, and shall elect one of their number presi-

ent, who shall hold his oflice for the term for which he was elected di-
rector and until his successor shall be elected and qualified, and shall do
such other business of the company as may be necessary.

§ 5. The board of directors shall have powerto control the funds and
pro rty, and conduct the business of said company; to appoint, control,
an remove its oflicers, agents and servants, to prescribe their duties
and fix their compensation; to make contracts for the company and to
adopt such measures as they may deem best calculated to promote its
prosperity and usefulness.

’§ 6. The board of directors shall keep fair and correct books and ac-
counts, and shall at every annual meeting make to said company a full
and fair exhibit of its business and accounts, and shall make ‘a report of
the amount of its business and receipts, when required, to the General
Assembly; ‘and the books of said company shall be always open to the
' _ i ‘on of a committee appointed by the General Assembly.

 ‘T. The stock of said company shall be assignable; every stockholder
shall have one vote for each share held by him, and may vote by proxy;
everyuperson shall cease to be a member of said company so soon as he
shall cease to be a stockholder, and no delinquent stockholder shall be
entitled to a vote in said company; the directors may call for the pay-
ment of the whole or any part of said stock at any time, by giving thirty
da s notice of such call in some newspaper published in this State, and
if any stockholder shall fail to pay the amount called for, for ten days
after the time when it ought to be paid, the directors may declare his
stock forfeited ‘and cause thesame to be sold. G ' '

244 eonrou-nous.

§.8. Said company shall have power and authority to carry on the
business of mining, smelting and manufacturing in the counties of Frank-
lin, Jefferson, Washington and Crawford, and for that purpose may ac-
quire, hold, use and transfer and enjoy real and personal estate in said
counties, and may erect buildings, machinery and other improvements
and use the same in its business, and may sink shafts, erect steam en-
gines, mills, furnaces, bloomeries, foundries and other establishments ne-
cessary or useful in mining, smelting and manufacturing ores, metals and
minerals; and may construct roads, causeways and rai roads in connec-
tion with their works, and may do such other lawful acts asmay be ne-
cespary and proper to carry on said business successfully and prosper-
ous .

§  Dividends of the profits of said company shall be declared annu-
ally, but the directors may reserve a portion of the proits as a contingent
fund to meet losses and expenditures, and the capital stock of said com-
pany shall never be impaired by such dividends.

§ 10. If any election of directors of said company shall not be held it
the appointed time, an election shall be held at some other time to be
designated by the directors. ‘~

§ 1.1. Said company shall go into operation within one year after the

‘passage of this act of incorporation, shall continue in full force for

twenty-tive years.
Approved March 12, 1849. -

 

AN ACT to incorporate the town of Parkville.

§ 1. Townincorporated. 7. Sidewalks to be paved and repaired.
2. Board of trustees; powers of. S 8. Failure to ay tax levied.
3. Oath to be taken- stated meetings, One. 9. Fines, for eitures, &c.;how recoverable.
4. Duty of board of trustees. - 10. Annual statement to be made. t
5. Election to be held. ' 11. Judges of first election; how appointed.
6. Assessor, treasurer, &c., to be appointed. 12. Reserved right to repeal, amend, ac.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State Q/' Missouri, asfallows:

I

§ l. The inhabitants of the district of country known byrthe name of
Parkville, lying within the following limits, to wit: all that portion of the
north-eastquarter of section 35,in township No. 51, north of range 34 west,
that lies on the north bank of the Missouri river, and bounded as follows :
commencing at the mouth of White Alloe branch, running a northerly
course up the west side of said branch to the north east corner of A. Hyro-
nimus’ brickyard tract, 95 feet north of township plat; thence runnipg due
west 95 feet north of Seventh street, past the west boundary of the aloresaid
quarter section to the Spring branch, west of said town plat; thence south
down the me:mderings of said branch to the Missouri river; thence down
said river to the place of beginning, shall be a body politic and corporate,
by the name and style of “The inhabitants of the town of Parkville,” and
by that name the inhabitants of said town, and their successors, shall be
known in law, have continual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be

neat-eau-tons. 845
‘snpleaded, defendend he defended in all courts of law and equity, and

in all matters may purchase, hold and receive property, real and personal,
within the limits of said town and the common thereunto attached, that shall
be necessasy for said town, in the exercise of its corporate powers, and may
lease, sell and dispose of the same for the benefit of said town; and may have
a common seal, and alter the same.

§ 2. The corporate powers oi said town shall bevested in a board of
trustees, to consist of seven members, to be chosen by the qualified voters
of said town, any five of whom shall be a quorum to do business; but a
stnallennumber may adjourn, from day to day, and shall have power to

cotnpelthe attendance of absent members. They shall judge of the qunli-’

ticatious and returns of their own members, determine contested elections,
make rules and by-laws for their. own proceedings, punish any member or
other, person for disorderly behavior in their presence, while sitting as a
board, and with the concurrence of five members may expel any member,
after he hasa due heating in defence, if he desire it; but they shall not
expel a lmemher the second time for the same cause; they shall keep a
journal of their proceedings, and, at the request of any member, shall enter
the yeas and nays on the journal, on any question, and their proceedings
ahallbe ublic. _
§ 3. i very trustee. before entering on the duties of his office, shall take
an oath or atlirmation to support the constitution of the United States, and
of this State, and faithfully to demean himself in otlice, a certilicate of which
oath shall be endorsed on his certiicate of election, and filed by the clerk of
the board. Every board of trustees shall assemble within five days after
their election, and choose one of their number chairman, and some other
person as clerk; the board shall, by ordinance, fix the time and place of
holding their stated meetings; but may be convened by the chairman at any
other time, and he shall inform them of their being convened. The style
of their ordinances shall be, “Be it ordained by the bcard of trustees of the
town of Parlrville.”
§4. It shall be the duty of said board of trustees to pass by-laws and
ordinances, to prevent and remove nuisances, to prohibit gambling and
‘ t ouses; they shall have power to license and regulate dram shops,
and also have power to license or prohibit theatrical or other amusements; to
prevent or restrain meetings of slaves; to regulate and establish markets; to
erect and repair bridges; to prevent the firing of firearms; to prevent the
furious and unnecessary running or galloping. riding or driving of any horse
ermule within said town, or such part thereof as they may think proper; tn
establish night watches and patrol; to prevent and suppress bawdy houses,
and other disorderly houses within the limits of said town or the commons
thereunto attached; to open, establish, widen, extend and repair streets,
avenues, lanes, alleys. public squares, drains and sewers, and to keep the
same clean and in order; to erectand mainta n hospitals; to prevent the in-
troduction of contagious diseases, and to secure the general health of the
town; to provide for the prevention and extinguishment of tires, to levy and
collect taxes upon real-and personal property in said town; but shall impose
no tax at a higher rate than one-hall’ of one per centum on the assessed value
of the property; to regulateiand grade, pave and improve the streets of said

-tdhrn; to erect, repair and regulate wharves, and the rates of wharfage; to

regulate the landing and stationing of steamboats, rafts and water crafts; to
provide lot‘ the inspection of timber, building materials and pt'0Vl.~l0l'lS to be

246 eoarotwrrotrs.

used or offered for sale in said town, or to be exported thereform ;'to borrow
money, if it be necessary for grading and paving the streets, erecting wharves,
supplying water, or making other public improvements in said town; to pass
such ordinances for the regulation and police of said town, and its commons,
as said trustees may think necessary, and not contrary tothe laws ofthe land;
and said board of trustees shall have power to pass all ordinances to carry
into effect the objects of this act, and the powers herein granted, as the
good ofthc inhabitants may require, and to impose fines and penalties for
the breach of their ordinances.

§5. An election shall be held in said town, on the first Monday in April
next, for trustees, and on the same day in every year thereafter; and the
trustees elected shall hold their ofiice for one year, and until their successors
be qualified. Elections held for trustees shall be conducted by the judges
appointed by the board of trustees, and shall, in all respects, be conducted
and the qualifications of electors and persons, to be determined by the general
law respecting towns, so far as applicable; and should any regular election
fail, any justice of the peace may appoint judges, issue any order for hold-
ing an election for trustees-at some specified time and place, to be conducted
as above provided. All vacancies in said board shall be filled by a special
election ordered by the chairman, as directed in the general law respecting
towns.

§ (5. Said board may appoint an assessor, collector, treasurer, clerk,
constable, inspectors, and such otherofiicers and agents as may be necessary;
and shall, by ordinance, prescribe their duties, compensation and tenure of
oflict-, and may require of any such officer suiicient bond and security, and
require them to take an oath for the faithful performance of their duties.

§ 7. Said trustees shall have power to have the footways and sidewalks of
the streets paved at the expense of the owners or occupants of the adjacent
lots, and if any such owner or occupant fail to pave the same, as directed
by ordinance, said trustees shall pave the same, and recover the full expense
thereof from such owner or occupant, by action of debt, before any court
of competent jurisdiction; and if any tenant be required to pave in front
of the property occupied by him, the expense thereof shall be a good oH'set
against so much of the rent due to the owner; but no tenant shall be required
to expend more than the rent for the time which he shall have occupied the
property. If any person who is a non-resident fail to pave in front of his
property in the same manner and time required by ordinance, or if.any
person who is a resident fail to pave as aforesaid,and the expense of paving
cannot otherwise be recovered from him, the said trustees may have such
lot or any part thereof sold to defray the expense of such improvement, in
such manner as said board may, by ordinance, provide.

§ 8. If any person fail to pay any tax levied on his real or personal
property the town collector may recover the same by action of debt before
any justice of the peace, in the name of the inhabitants of said town; and
may, in like manner, collect the amount of taxes due from any non-resident
from the tenant of the property of such non-resident; but no tenant shall
be compelled to pay more than the rent of such property, and the amount
thus paid by him shall be a good offset against the owner of the property;
and if such non-resident’s taxes be not otherwise paid the property may be
sold to pay the same, at public sale, in such manner as the board ‘of
trustees may, by ordinance, provide.

Q9. All tines, forfeitures, rents and debts accruing to the inhabitants of

O0BPO£A.'l'IONB. 247

said town may be recovered, by action of debt, before any justice of the
peace as other debts, subject to appeal; and persons living -in said town, not
otherwise disqualified or incompetent, shall be competent as witnesses and
jurors in a trial of such suits; but any defendant, on request, may have a jury
summoned, consisting of persons not living in said town, and ii warrant
may be granted to bring any person forthwith for trial before a justice of
the peace for a breach of any ordinance of said town, if it appear that
there would be danger of losing such claim, debt or fine, if such warrant
were not issued. It shall be the duty of the chairman to cause all ordinan-
ces passed by the board to be published in such manner as shall by ordinance
 directed.
_ § 10. The chairman of such board shall, on the first Monday in March,
of each year, make a full and true statement of all moneys received and
expended, on account of said town, during the preceding year, and shall,
within ten days, publish said statement in a newspaper, it’ there be any in
the town, or by manuscript in six public places therein, and if he fail to do
so he shall forfeit fifty dollars for the benefit of said town.

§ 11. Any justice of the peace in said town may appoint the judges to
elect the first trustees under this act. '

§ 12. This act may be altered, amended or repealed by the General As-
sembly “at any time hereafter, and shall take effect from and after its
passage. ‘ 9 l

Approved March 6, 1849. ,

‘/r.«'r-.A.~/v\/v,sn./v\.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the town of Carrollton, in Carroll county.

21. When mayor absent, sick, or otherwise,

justice of the peace may act in certain

cases.

22. Constable to be chosen; his powers.

23. Assessor.

. Vacancies in oflice.

General election; when to be held.

. Jud es of election.

Oat to be taken. -

. Competency as jurors and witnesses; pro
visions.

§ 1. Town of Cairolltoi: incorporated.
2. Corporate powers, in whom vested.
3. Mayor qualifications ot',and election.
4. Town ivided into wards; council elected.
5. Term of ofiice and qualification of council.
6. Town council; what to constitute.
7. Clerk to be appointed.
8. Time and place of holding meetings.
9. Laws; style of and publication.
10. What to constitute a quorum.
11. Power to levy and collect tax.

8f-‘3'&°=f&'.E3

12. General powers. . Redemption of real estate sold under or
13. Power to inflict fines. - dinance.
14. Working of streets. 30. Jurisdiction. _
15. Owners to repair side walks. 3!. Declared a public act.
)6. Liability of property for taxes. 32. Necessary powers granted. _

‘ I7. Treasurer, attorney and other ofiicers. 33. Acce tance by inhabitants; election to be
18. Mayor; power and duties ot. hel . _
19. Vacancy in office of mayor. 34. Fines and forfeitures, town property, &.c.
20. Mayor to have powers of justice of the 35. Exemption from working on certain roads.

-/‘/'\/‘-"-"\-' ~./‘~.»' \/"V/*./\/\;‘\./~ /‘-/'\-\./\/\., \/\/\/
to
<9

peace.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of ll/re State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. All that district of country within the following limits, to-wit’:-
The lines bounding the east half of the south-east quarter of section

1
0

Q48 .conro1u'r1oxs.

thirty-two, township fifty-three, and range twenty-three, west of the fifth
principal meridian, in the county of Carroll, and State of Missouri; and
including the whole of the said east half of the south-east quarter of
section thirty-two, shall be and is hereby incorporated, erected and es-
tablished as a town, by the name of the “Town of Carrollton;” and the
inhabitants thereof shall be and are hereby constituted abody politic and
corporate, by the name and style of the “Town of Carrollton;” and by
that name shall be known in law, have erpetual succession, sue and be
sued, implead and be impleaded, defend) and be defended, in all courts
of law and equity, having competent jurisdiction, and in all actions and
matters whatsoever; may grant, lease, purchase, receive and hold pro-
perty, real, personal and mixed, within said town, and no other, (abury-
lng ground excepted;) and may do all other acts as natural persons; may
have a common seal, and may break and alter the same at leasure.

§ 2. The corporate powers and duties of said town shal be vested in
a mayor and councilman, and such other oilicers as are hereinafter
named. .

§ 3. The mayor of the town shall be chosen by the qualified electors
of said town, and hold his office for the term of one year, and until his
successor is elected and qualified; and shall be, at the time of his elec-
tion, at least twenty-five years of age, and a citizen of the United
States, and shall have resided in the town for at least one year preceding
his election, and shall be a householder in said town. '

§ 4. The town shall be divided into four wards, in such manner that
the wards shall contain, as near as practicable, an equal number of qual-
ified voters, and each ward shall be entitled to elect one councilman.
The town council may by ordinance alter the wards from time to time,
and whenever they may deem it advisable they shall have power to
make two additional wards, each of which shall be entitled to elect a
councilman.

§ 5. The council shall hold their oflice for. the term of one year, and
until their successors are elected and qualified; and shall be, at the time
of their election, at least twenty-one years of age, citizens of the United
States, and shall have resided in the town one year preceding their elec-
tion, shall be householders and residents of the wards for which they are
elected.

§6. The mayor and councilmen shall constitute a town council, of
which the mayor shall be ea: ojicio president, but he shall have no vote
except in case of a tie. The councilman, at the first meeting after their
election, shall choose by ballot a president pro tempore, from their own
number, who shall hold his office until the next election of town ofiicers,
and who shall preside at the meetings of the town council in the absence
of the mayor. _ _

§ 7. The council shall appoint a clerk, who shall keep a faithful record
of their proceedings, and preserve in his oflice all records, public pa-
pers, and documents belonginggto the town, and perform such other
ties as the council by ordinance may prescribe.

§ 8. The council shall fix and regulate the time and place of holding
their stated meetings, and the mayor, or in his absence, the president
pro tempore may call a meeting at any time.

§ 9. The style of the law of said corporation shall be: “Be it ordain-

O

conronarronsz 249

ed by the council of the town of Carrollton;” and all ordinances passed
b said council shall be signed by the mayor, and countersigned by the
clerk, and published for the information of the inhabitants, in such a man-
ner as the council may direct, and from time to time shall be digested
and distributed in such manner as the councilmay prescribe. I

§ 10. A majority of the members of the council shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from day to day,
and may compel the attendance of absent members, in such manner and
under such penalties as the council by ordinance may prescribe; they
may determine the rules of their own proceedings, punish their own
member or other persons for disorderly conduct at their meetings; and
by concurrence of all other members, expel a member, but not a second
time for the same cause; at the desire of any member they shall cause
the ayes and noes to be entered on the 'ournal of their proceedings. _

§ 11. The council shall have power, y ordinance, to levy and collect‘
not exceeding fifty cents in any one year, on all white male inhabitants
of the town over the age of twenty-one years; to levy and collect taxes‘
on all real and personal property within the town, not exceeding one
half of one er cent u on the assessed value thereof; provided, that no
tax shall be levied on t e wearing apparel, or necessary tools or imple-.
ments of any person used in carrying on his trade, nor shall the same be
seized or sold for taxes

§ 12. The council shall have power, by ordinance, to revent and re-
move nuisances; to prevent, restrain, and suppress awdy houses,
gambling houses, and other disorderly houses, within the limits of said
town; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to tax, license, and regulate
dram shops and tippling houses, ten pin alleys, bagatelle tables, circuses,
shows, theatrical, and other amusements within the said town; to restrain
or prevent the meeting of slaves; to prevent the firing of tire arms, and
other explosive compounds; and to prohibit furious and other unneces-
sary riding of any horse or other animal, in said town, or such part
thereof as they may think proper; to establish night watches and patrols;
to prevent the introduction or spreading of disease; to prevent and ex-

tinguish lires; to organize and establish fire companies, the members of -

which, when duly organized, shall in time of peace be exempt from military
duty; to establish and regulate markets; to provide for the inspection of
wood, lumber, building materials, and rovisions to be used and o&'ered for
sale in said town, or to be exported therefrom; to 0 en and form public
squares, avenues, drains, and sewers, andto keep t e same clean and in
order; to open, clean, regulate, and graduate, pave, or improve the
streets and alleys of said town; to erect lamps in the streets and cause
the same to be lighted; to regulate the storage of gunpowder, tar, pitch,
rosin, hemp, cotton, and other combustible materials; to regulate or
to prohibit slaughter houses, and to prevent the burning of tobacco stems
within the limits of the town or any part thereof; to impose and appro-
priate lines, forfeitures, and penalties, for the breach of their ordinances;
and to pass such other ordinances for the regulation and police of said
town as they shall deem necessary, not repugnant or contradictory to the
laws of the land. . . _

§ 13. The council shall have power, by ordinance, to punish by line
not exceeding ninety dollars, or by imprisonment netexceeding ten days,

250 conronarrous.

or by both such fine and imprisonment, any person or persons who shall
wilfully disturb the peace of the town, by loud and offensive or inde-
cent conversation; or by threatening, quarreling, challenging, or fight-
ing; or any person who shall be found intoxicated in the streets; and
they may cause any person who shall commit any of the offences men-
tiohed in this section, after sun set, to be imprisoned until the next day,
and if the next day be Sunday, until the next Monday, when such per-_
son shall be brought to trial. a ‘ .
§ 14. The council shall have power to appoint an overseer of the
streets, and prescribe his duties; and to cause all able bodied male in-
habitants of said town, between the ages of sixteen and fifty years to
work on the streets any number of days, not exceeding four in each year.
§ 15. The council shall have power to cause the owners or occupiers
of real estate to pave and repair the sidewalks adjacent to the property
‘which they may own or occupy, and if any such owner or occupier fail
to pave or repair the same, as required by ordinance, the council may
-cause the same to be done, and may recover the full expense thereof
from such owner or occupier, by an action of debt in the name of the
corporation; and if any tenant be required to’ pave or repair the side-
walk adjacent to the property occupied b him, the expense thereof
‘shall be a good set o§' against so much of t e rent due the owner; but
no tenant shall be required to expend more than the rent for the term for
which be occupied the property. If any owner of real estate, not a resi-
dent of the said town, fail to pave or repair a sidewalk as aforesaid, the
council may cause such real estate, or so much thereof as may be ne-
cessary, to be sold to defray the expenses of such improvement.
§ 16. The council shall have power by ordinance, to regulate the col-
lection of taxes, and they may authorize the collector of said town to
seize and sell the property of the person liable for the tax, in the same
manner as property is or may be required to be seized and sold under
execution, issued on judgment at law, and no property shall be exempt
from seizure and sale for taxes due said town, except wearing apparel,
and the necessary tools and implements of any person used in carrying

. on his trade.

§ 17. The council shall have power to appoint a treasurer, an attor-
ney, and such other oilicers and agen‘s as may be necessary, and not
herein otherwise provided for; rescribe their duties and remove them
from ollice; and they may fix t e compensation of all the ollicers and
agents of said town except the fees of the mayor and constable, and they
may determine what ofiicers of said town shall give bond and security
for the faithful performance of their duties, and for what amount such
bonds shall be given; such oflicers shall become bound to the mayor of
the town, and their bonds shall be filed by the clerk of the town in his
oflice; and any person injured by any breach of condition in the bond of
any oilicer of said town, may bring suit in the name of the mayor, against
such oflicer and his securities in any court of competent jurisdiction and
recover damages.

§ 18. The mayor shall be a conservator of the eace within the limits
of said town, and it shall be his duty to see that a l the ordinances of the
town are rigidly enforced; he shall have power to remit fines and forfei-
tures and grant reprieves and pardons in any case arising under the

oormonarrous. 251 '

town ordinances, and ten days before the general election of town‘ oili-
cers he shall cause to be made out a correct statement of all monies re-
ceived and expended on account of said town, for the year preceding,
and he shall cause a copy of the same to be published in some newspa-
per in said town, if there be any, and if not, to be put u in four public
places in the town, and he shall cause public. notice to e given of the
time and place of holding each election for town otiicers, which notice
shall be given not less than ten nor more than twenty days previous to
the election. '

§ 19. Id case of vacancy in the otiice of mayor, or of inability on ac-
oonntuof absence, sickness or otherwise, to discharge the duties and
powers prescribed in the section immediately preceding, the same shall

devolve’ on the president pro tempore of the council, until such vacancy
be Elled or inability removed.

§ 20. The mayor shall have within the limits of the town all the pow-
er: and jurisdiction vested in justices of the peace in civil and criminal
cases, and shall perform and exercise all the powers .and duties enjoined
on jiastices of the peace in similar matters and in like manner, and he
shall be entitled to similar fees, and all his proceedings shall be under
Qe same government and control as the proceedings of justices of the
peace in like cases, and appeals to circuit court may be taken in like
manner as in justices courts. The mayor shall have jurisdiction in all
cases arising under this act and under all ordinances made in accord-
ance with this act; he may issue his warrant and cause to be apprehen-
ded and brought to summary trial, any personaccused of transgressing
any of the town ordinances; he shall grant the accused the right to ’be
tried by six competent jurors, who, if they find "him guilty, shall as-
sess his line according to the ordinances; and if any person lined as afore-
said, refuse to pay his fine, the mayor may sentence him to be imprison-
ed not exceeding ten ‘days; fines, penalties and forfeitures accruin to
said town may be recovered in the summary manner aforesaid, or t ey
may be recovered by an action of debt in the mayor’s court or any court
of competent jurisdiction. ‘

§ 21. In case of vacancy in the oHice of mayor, or inability on ac-
count of absence, sickness or otherwise, to discharge the duties and

were prescribed in the section immediately preceding, the same may
B: exercised by any justice of the peace in said town, or any justice of
the peace in the township in which said town is situated.

§ 22. A constable shall be chosen by the qualified electors of said
town, who shall be ex-oiiicio collector, and shall hold his oflice for the
term of one year and until his successor is elected and qualified, and
who shall be a resident of said town at the time of his election and du-
ring the term for which he holds his oiiice; and the said constable shall
possess the same power and erform the same duties, within the limits
of said town, as the constab es possess and perform in their res ective
townships; and he shall execute zind return all process which s all be
issued by the mayor of the town, he may serve criminal processes, war-
rants, subpcenas, anywhere within the limits of Carroll county, for offen-
ces committed within the limits ‘of the corporation, and shall perform
such other duties as the council may by ordinance prescribe, and he

I

25.2 oonronauoxs.

shall be entitled to the same fees as sherifs and constables of townships
have a right to demand for similar services.

§23. An assessor shall be chosen by the qualified electors of said-

town, who shall hold his office for the term of one year and until his suc-
cessor is elected and qualified, and whose duties and qualifications the
council, by ordinance, shall prescribe. »

. § 24. All vacancies in the oiice of mayor, councilmen, constable or
assessor, shall be filled by a special election, to be ordered by the may-
or; in his absence or in case of a vacancy in the ofiice of mayor,..by the
presidentrpro tempore, or by some one of the councilmen.

§ 25. he general election of town ofiicers shall be held on the first
Monday in April, for mayor, councilmen, constable and assessor, each
and every year; but in case of failure to elect any ofiicer on the day a -
pointed for the election, the council shall cause the election to be he d
on some other day.

§ 26. The council as, often as may be necessary shall appoint judges
of the election, and by ordinance prescribe their duties and the manner
of conducting the elections, and of making election returns, and of deci-
ding contested elections; and if on the day appointed for holding an
election any of the judges shall fail to attend, the electors present may
appoint a judge or judges to hold such election.

§ 27. The mayor, councilman, judges of elections, and all other offi-
cers of said town, before entering upon the duties of their respective
oflices, shall take an oath or ailirmation to support the constitution of
the United States and of this State, and to demean themselves faithfully
in office. ,

§ 28. Persons living in said town, if in other respects competent
and ualified, shall be competent jurors and witnesses in all cases in
whic said corporation is a party.

§29. If any real estate be sold by virtue of any ordinance of said
town, the owner thereof may redeem the same at any time within two
years from the day of sale, by payin the purchase money and all costs
and penalties incurred, together wit the interest thereon at the rate of
fifteen per cent. per annum until paid. ~

§ 30. If at any time an addition to said town shall be laid off, u on
the application of the owners thereof to that effect, the council s all
have power to receive the same, and to extend over it all the laws and
ordinances of the town, and such addition from the time it is received
shall become to all intents and purposes a part and parcel of said town.

§ 31. This act is declared to be a public act, and may be read in evi-
dence in all courts of law and equity in this State without further proof
and pleading. ' '

? 32. The trustees of the town of Carrollton are hereby vested with
ful power and authority to do and perform every thing necessary to ex-
ecute this act, and to carry it into operation.

§ 33. The provisions of this act shall take effect as soon as the same
shall be accepted by the inhabitants of the town of Carrollton, and not
before, in the following manner, that is to say, the trustees of said town
within twenty days after they receive a copy of this act shall appoint
judges and cause an election to be held, givingat least ten days ublic
notice of the time and place of such election, at which all qualiiie elec-

O

conronrrorrs. B58

tors of said town shall be entitled to vote; the judges of the election
shall appoint two clerks who shall record the names of all those who vote
and carry out in one column all those who vote in favor of accepting the
charter, and in another column all those who vote against it; and if a
majority of all the votes iven be in favor of receiving the charter, then
the board of trustees shalidivide the town into four wards, and give pub-
lic notice that an election will be held for the election of town ofiicers,

which shall not be less than ten nor more than forty days after the ac- .

ceptance of the town charter, but if the charter shall not be accepted as
aforesaid, the said trustees shall from time to time, whenever they may
be petitioned by ten householders of said town, to that effect, cause ano-
ther election to be held as aforesaid, and so on until the charter shall be
acce ted, .and if the lirst election be not held on the first Monday in
IE) ' , the oflicers chosen at such election shall hold their oflice only un-
t' the first Monday in April succeeding such election and until their suc-
cessors are elected and qualified.

§ 34. After this charter shall be accepted as aforesaid, all the proper-
ty,real and personal, belonging to the inhabitants of the town of Carroll-
ton, in their corporate capacity at the time ol such acceptance, shall
vest and the title shall be in this corporation; and all suits commenced
for and on behalf of the inhabitants of said town, shall be proceeded with
to final judgment and execution, as if this act had not been passed; and
all moneys recovered by suit, and all fines, forfeitures and penalties ac-
cruing to the inhabitants of said town shall be paid into the treasury for
the use of the town acting under this charter; and all ordinances then in
force shall remain in force as ordinances of said chartered town, until
altered, modified or repealed by the town council; and all actions or

rights of actions for the recovery of fines, forfeitures or penalties which

shall have accrued to the inhabitants of said town at the time of accep-
tance of this charter, shall be vested in the town of Carrollton; and all
such fines, forfeitures and penalties may be prosecuted for in the name
and to the use of said town.

§ 35. All citizens residing within the incorporated town shall be ex-
empt from working on any road or roads beyond the limits ofsaid incor-

_poration, and from the payment of any line or tax in relation to the same.

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Stella Iron Works and Mining Company.

§ 1. Company’ incorporated. l0. Books to be opened. _ I _

‘.3. May survey, ‘locate and construct certain 11. Payment of amount due on mbscriptions.

made. . 12. Liability of property and assets of comps.
3. Certain lands may be held by company. ny.
i Capital .-.~I’)Ck. One hundred thousand dollars. 1%. Banking privileges not to be exerciserl.
5. Way increase cupitat ‘stock. 14. Rules, regulationsand by-lawsmay be made.
6. Right of way: proceedings to obtain. 15. Limitation to this act.
7. Directors constituted. Hi. When actiorfeited: proceedings therein.
8. President to be elected. 17. Company may sell goods, wares and mer-
9, stock u-gngferable. _ chandize in certain cases.

254 eonmam-ions.

Be it enacted bythe General .4sse1nbly of the State of Missouri, as follows: .

§ ,1. That Julius L. Cabanne and such other persons as may hereafter
become associated with him in the manner hereinafter provided, shall be and
they are hereby incorporated and made a body corporate and pblitic by the
name and style of the “Stella Iron Works and Mining Company,” and by ~
that name shall have succession, shall be able to contract and be contracted

, with, to sue and be sued, plead and be im_pleaded in any court of law or

equity, to make and to use a common seal, and the same to alter and renew
at pleasure; and the said company shall have full power and authority to
open and work any mines, of iron or other ores and minerals that may exist
on any lands which the said company may. acquire in the county of Frank-
lin and adjacent counties in the manner hereafter provided, and on such ‘lands
to erect ironworks, furnaces, foundary, rolling mills and manufactories of
every kind and description necessary for the manufacture of iron, steel and
other metals, to prepare the same for market, and to make and manufacture,
rail-road iron, castings, nails, cutlery, machinery and other articles and im-
plements of which the minerals found on the company’s premises shall be a
component part.

§ 2. .That for the ready transportation of the produce of such mines
and manufactures, that said company shall have the power to survey, locate,
establish and construct roads or turnpikes, from the said works and premises‘
of the company, to such point on the Merrimac river and Missouri and Mis-
sissippi rivers, as shall be deemed necessary.

§ 3. That it shall be lawful for said company to own pieces or parcels
of lands on the Merrimac river and at such other places on the route of the
road to the river, and to erect warehouses, worksho s, rolling mills and oth-,
er buildings thereon, and to sell and lease lots to wor men and other persons.

§ 4. That thecapital stock of said com any shall consist of one hund-
red thousand dollars, shares of one hundre dollars each (with the privilege
of increasing the same one thousand shares, two thirds of the stockholders
consenting thereto) in addition to the lands and real estate, which said com-
pany may acquire, either by purchase for money or its own stock, and all
real estate purchased with the stock of the company shall be paid for in new
or additional stock of the company, shall be created and certificates issued
accordingly. ' -

§ 5. That in the event-said company shall construct such road and such
work, as is hereinbefore authorized to be constructed, and it shall be found
by Bald company that the capital of said company is insullicient to construct
such and such works and in the event of misfortune or embarrassment of
said company, then itshall be lawful for said company to receive new sub-
SCl‘lpl.lOl18 for the stock, to the amount of the cost of such road or work, or
such portion of the cost as they shall deem proper, and increase the capital
stock of the company according to such additional subscription or at their
option create a stock to be known as the “Stella Iron Company Stock,” which
shall be separate and in addition to the manufacturing stock of the company,
or to borrow such amount of money as they believe to be necessary for the
completion of such road or work, or for other purposes.

§ 6. That the company hereby incorporated shall have the right of way
over_any lands through which such road as may be constructed shall pass,
provided that said company shall pay all damages or injury which may be
done by the construction of such road, the damages or injury to be assessed

-—.

oonponsrroxs. 255

by a jury of competent ‘persons, to be summoned at the request of the par-
ty injured, by any justice of the peace of the township, he causing notice
to be served to the company at least ten days before the trial, and the jury
on finding their verdict, shall take into consideration the benefit derived by
the opposite party in the construction of the road by the company; either
pat-tJy,_may appeal to the higher courts from the verdict of the jury, and
‘H; T of the justice. as in ordinary appeals from justice’s courts.

 ‘;7_.‘ The management of the affairs of said company shall be vested in
Htl§"§fli'ectors' who shall be stockholders, any three of whom shall constitute
a'*t}u'61‘utiI‘ to do business: such directors shall hold their oliices forone year,
‘and. until their successors are elected and qualified.

 It}. The board of directors as soon as practicable after their election
gt , _ p i ied5to elect one of their number President of thecompany and the
pr. ' A at and directors shall elect and ap oin_t all such other officers and
pin-sfo_ns_,‘as they shall deem necessary for t e management and care of the
of the company. '

”§  The stock of said company shall be deemed personal property, trans-
ferahle on the books of said company in such manner as the board shall reg-

  

   

  

_r , ,-laws.

~ ,” ’That the said Julius L. Cabanne or his associates shall act as com-
,   ,_e_rs to procure subscribers for the stock of said company, and for that
-@’l,p6oe'.»shall open books at such places as he shalldeem proper, and as soon
ayoiyei hundred shares, or more, are subscribed. and twenty per cent. there-
on‘p‘a£i§l,i‘n,, he shall notify the stockholders of the fact, designating some con-
venient tim - and place to meet andhnld an election for directors.

 l  That after said company shall be duly organized, the remaining
3’ _ ‘fty per cent. due on the subscriptions to the capital stock, shall be paid
ituII,cl_t'_manner and at such time, as the board of directors shall require,
 ‘gingalways thirty days notice of the time and place‘ of payment, and
' " T anlt of payment, the President or Treasurer, by order of the board,

in.
 the shares of any stockholder making default, or a sufficient num-

 to discharge and pay the amount due, and the purchaser shall

 hold the said stock, with the same rights and privileges as if origin-.

 Hllbcribed for by him.
. s 12.? iThat from the time said company shall be organized and the certi-

;-stock issued, all the property, real and personal; moneys, credits

.a§§;&eu,of said company shall be liable for the debts of the same. and all
i-iéi!’_,e‘sta,t’c conveyed to said company in consideration of its stock. shall from

rthevdate of the execution of the conveyance be liable for the debts of the

¢l‘;§g,tly:’;exercise, any banking privilege whatsoever, shall not loan money or

‘receive the same on deposit, as a business, or issue any bill, note warrant or

‘  the paymentof money to be used as a circulating medium, except
, t T‘ . °t from their employees.
. § 14. That the President and Directors of said company may erect and
establish such by-laws, regulations and rules, for the government of them-
selves and all persons and. ofiicers, in the employ of said company, as shall
not be inconsistent with the provisions of this act, the constitution and laws
of the Unite} States and the State of Missouri.
 § 15. That this act and the powers and privileges herein granted. Shall
continue in force and effect without being _ altered, modified or repealed ‘or

  

The said company hereby incorporated shall not, directly orlinl-ll

256 OORPORATIONS.

in any wise aliected or impaired without the consent of said company, un-
til the first day of January A. D. nineteen hundred, when this charter shall
cease and determine. .

§ 16. That any willul violation of any of the provisions of this act shall
be deemed a cause of forfeiture, and the Attorney General of the State or
Circuit Attorney of the Circuit in which the company and affairs are carried
on, shall as soon as such facts shall come to his or their knowledge as in his
or their opinion amount to a cause of forfeiture, proceed against said com-
pany., in the proper courts of the State in the name ot the State of Missou-
ri, to procure by the judgment of such court a forfeiture of this charter and

-the privileges hereby granted.

§ 17. ' ‘hat for the convenience of the laborers and others, said compa-
ny may sell goods, wares and merchandise, at their place or places of busi- '

D388.
Approved March 12, I849.

 

\/\J\/\/

AN ACT to incorporate the Western Sun Mutual Insurance Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated. 9. Investment of premiums, dividends, &c.

2. Who appointed commissioners. 10. Annual statements to be made; certiticate
3. Objects of insurance. of profits to members. .
4. Company may be reinsured. ll. Accumulation of profits by company.

5. Board of trustees constituted. 12. Competenc of members as witnesses.

6. Books to be opened for applications for 13. Location 0 company.

insurance. 14. Provision for uarantee fund. _

7. Trustees classilied. 15. Rules, regula ions and by-laws may be
8. Who to be deemed members of board. made. '

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of lllis sou 2'2’, as fbllowa:

§ 1. That Willis L. Williams, B. H. Randolph, Charles Rogers, Hen-
ry Stagg, Henry«J. Danch, Nathan Ranney, Joseph F. Franklin, William
J. Finch and Geo. F. Cook of the city of St. Louis, and all other per-
sons who may hereafter associate with them in the manner herimafter
prescribed, shall be a corporation by the name of the Western Shn Mu-
tual Insurance Company, to be located in the city of St. Louis,'and' in
such name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded within any
court of law or equity in this State. -‘= ‘

§ 2. The persons named in the first section of this act are hereby ap-

pomted commissioners.

§ 3. In addition to the general powers and privileges of a corporation,
the corporation hereby created shall have power by instrument under
seal or otherwise; First, to make insurance on lives of slaves and to
make all and every insurance, appertaining to the duration of suc'h lives;
Second, to make insurance_ on dwelling houses, stores, manufactories and
all other kinds of property .of whatever kind or nature soever, against
loss or damage by fire, and to do and perform all necessary acts and
things connected with these objects or any of them; Third, to make, ma-
rine insurance upon vessels, hulls of steam boats, flat and keel h'oats,
freight lists, goods, wares and merchandize, specie, bullion, commission,
profits, bank notes and bills of exchange and other evidences ‘of debt,

I

. ‘coaronsrxons. . 257
bottomry and respondentia, interests and to make all and every insurance
appertaining to or connected with marine or inland transportation or
navigation risks, and to do and perform all necessary acts and things con-

'nected with these objects or any of them.

’ § 4. They may cause themselves to be re-insured against any risk or
risks which they may have made or shall assume to make in the progress
of their business. ' ,

‘ § 5. All the corporate powers of the said company shall be execute

by a board of trustees and such oflicers and agents as they may appoint.

The board of trustees shall consist of twenty-four persons, who shall

elect a president, A vice president and secretary, annually, and who shall

on their election he ex-oflicio ‘members of said board of trustees, and
shall hold their oliices, until others are elected in their stead. Said board
of trustees shall have power by a by-law, to declare what number less
than a majority of the whole shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business. -

§ 6. It shall be the duty of the commissioners appointed in section 2;!
of this act within two years from the passage of this act, to open books
to receive applications for insurance to be edected by‘said com any, and
as soon as applications amounting to five hundred thousand do lars shall
be received, said commissioners shall give notice to those persons who
have made such a plications of a meeting, for the election of twenty-
four trustees and t ree inspectors for the next election and every person
having made application for insurance, shall be entitled toa vote at said
election, and the ersons chosen at said election, shall be trustees of

said company for t e ensuing year. i 3
, § 7. The trustees shall at the first meeting divide themselves by lot
into four classes of six each, the term of the first class shall ‘ex ire at
the end of one year, the term of the second class shall expire at e end
of two years, and the term of the third class shall expire at the end of
three years, and the term of the fourth class shall expire at the end of
four years. _

§ 8. Every person having taken a policy during the preceding year,
directly in his own name or in the name of his tirm, and every person
holding in his own name or in the name of his firm, a certificate of the
company not discharged by the payment of losses, shall be deemed a
member of said company, and entitled to vote in person or by proxy, at
all annual elections for trustees. Every person who shall become a
member of this company b effecting insurance therein and shall pay the
rates~of premium that shal be fixed upon and determined by the,trus-
tees, their oilicers or agents shall be entitled to share pro-rata in the
profits of the business, and no premium so paid ‘or determinedlu on,
shall ever be withdrawn from said company until a nett profit of ee
hundred thousand dollars shall have been made after deducting all losses
and expenses incurred by the company, but shall be liable for all the
losses and expenses incurred by the company during the continuance of
its charter.

. § 9. It shall be liable [lawful] for said company to invest said premiums
in stock, bond and mortgages on real estate, notes of hand bills of exchange
and on bottom and respondentia, and to change and reinvest the same,
and it shall berllrwful for said company -from time to time to divide such

18

258 ooapoaarrons.
elf.

part of the accruing interest as they may deem equitable to and among
the holders of such certificates, as are hereinafter mentioned, or in case
of losses, to declare a propriate deduction of the amount of outstandin
certificates. Original)certif1cates may be called in by the company and
new ones issued in their stead less the proper reduction all the certifi-
cates or interest in the company shall be deemed personal property.

§ 10. The oflicers of said company at the expiration of one year from
the time the first policy shall have been issued and bear date, and with-
in one month thereafter, and during the first month of every subsequent
year, shall cause statement to be made and printed of the profits and
true state of the affairs of said company as near as may be for the pre-
ceding year, and so on for each successive year, which statements shall
be conclusive upon all persons etitled to receive certificates of profits,
as hereinafter provided for and.shall thereupon cause a balance to be
struck of the affairs of the company, each member shall be entitled to a
certificate of said profits in pro ortion to the amount of his premiums
paid, said certificate shall be he le for any future losses by said com a-
ny. No certificate shall be issued for the fractional parts of sums be-
tween even tens gf dollars, but all such fractional sums, and sums of less
than ten dollars are to be passed to "the contingent accounts of the com-
pany and applied to the expenses and other charges of the years to which
they ap ertaip.

§ 11. hen the accumulated nett profits of the company shall exceed
three hundred thousand dollars, the excess after paying interest upon the
script outstanding, may be applied from year to year thereafter towards
the redemption of each years certificates in whole or in part, but the
certificates of a subsequent ear shall not be redeemed until all those of
preceding years are provide for. ‘

§ 12. Suits at law may be prosecuted and maintained by any member of
the corporation, not being in his individual capacity a party to such suit,
shall be incompetent as a witness any statutes of this State to the con-
trary notwithstanding. _

§ 13. The business of the company shall be carried on at such place

’ , in the city of St. Louis or elsewhere by agency as the trustees shall di-

rect, and at such agencies as they may establish.

§ 14. The trustees shall have power to provide for an adequate guar-
antee fund.

§ 15. The president and trustees for the time being, shall have power
to ordain, establish and put in execution such rules, regulations, ordin-
ances and by-laws as they may deem essential for the well government
of the company, not contrary to the constitutions of the United States
or of the State of Missouri and generally to do and erform all acts,
matters and thin s which a corporation may or can do lhwfully.

Approved arch 10th, 1849.

OORPORATEONB. 259

‘AN ACT to incorporate the White River Navigation Company.

§ 1. Certain counties incorporated; style of 18. Dividends to be made semi-annually.
incorporation. 19. Ma borrow money.

' 2. Objects and designs of the association. 20. O cers and agents to give bonds.

3. Capital stock. . _ 21. No contract to be made beyond theavailao
4. Books of subscription; how, when, and ble means. .
where opened. 22. Act declared a ublic one.
5. Directors; how appointed. 23. Records to be ept b clerk.
6. Commissioners to meet. 24. All moneys to be pai to the treasurer.
7. Ofhcers; their ualilications, Ste. 25. Powers, in condemning lots or lands.
8. President; his uties. 26. Jury to assess damages.
9. Contracts; how attested. 27. Damages; to whom paid, &.c.
10. May invest funds, &.c. 28. Power to improve James’ Fork.
11. Other counties may become member. 29. State ma purchase improvements.
12. Tolls may be levied. 30. Penalty or injuries done.
13. Quorum; how constituted. 31. Notice of or anization to be given.
14. Treasurer to give bond. 32. Elections; w en held.
15. Who entitled to vote. 33. Directors; how and when appointed.
16. Meetings; bow held, and called. . 34. Certain act repealed.
17. May receive lands donated by the United 35. Power to act with certain counties in Ar-
’ States government. kansas.

Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State Q/‘Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That such counties and corporate bodies, whether in this State or
in any other State of the United States of America, as shall vest funds in
the company hereby established, and the following individuals, to wit:
William l.. Smyth, George W. Hampton, Littleberry Mason, Alfred S.
Harbin, B. B. Clements, Jacob Hickum, V‘ ade M. Pollard, A. McGlothlin,
John Logan, David 0., Geor e, and William G. Jones, of the county of
Barry, and Thomas B. N eaves, Gabriel L. Shackelford, Eli'ah Gray, Matthew
Payne, Joseph Weaver, John Bedford, J. F, Danforth. avid D. Berry, W.
B. Logan, Henry S. Shepherd, Clement Joggard, A. Maurice, Jr.,' Charles
S. Yancy, N. R. Smith, James H. McBride, Lambert P. Ayres, John W.
Hancock, Joseph T. Morton, Burton A. James, Marcus.Boyd, Alphcus Huff,
and John S. Phelps, of the county of Green, and John Williams, J. W.
Kellogg, Robert Taylor, Ragon Berry, Carr S.- McNott, John B. Kelly
Wright, Joseph Ranken, Mathew Lowder, Robert W. Crawford, John
Pharris, Samuel M. Pharris, Pleasant M. Wear, James Moorc,and Benjamin
F. Massey, of the county of Lawrence, and David Johnson, John W.
Danforfh, Austin Layton, .Harrison G. Snapp, James Oliver, Levi Carey,
William Cliesnntt, John C. Williams, Joseph Philbert, Benjamin Major, and
Theophilus Bass, of the county of Taney, and such other persons as may
hereafter become associated with them, in the manner hereinafter provided,
and their successors, shall be and are hereby incorporated and made a body
politic and corporate, by the name and style of the White River Navigation
Company, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, shall be able
to contract. and. be contracted with, to sue and be sued, to complain and
defend;-in"any court of law and equity; to make and use a common seal, and
alter the same at pleasure; to receive by gift, grant, or donation; and to hold;
purchase, convey, sell, or lease all species of property or hereditaments, as
the purpose of the company may require; to appoint such otiicers and agents,

to employvsurlveyors, engineers, mechanics, laborers, and others; and to do .

all other-things necessary or proper to carry out and accomplish the object
and designs of this company; and also to make by-laws not inconsistent

I

‘I

260 ooaroturrroxs.

with any existing law, for the control of its officers, and management of“ its
afihirs, propizrty, and business.

§'2. The object and design of the company created by this act,is to
mt -r upon White river in this State, and to improve the navigation thereof
from tl.e south boundary line ‘in this State, in the county of 'l‘aney, where‘
it "enters the State of Arkansas, up to the mouth of Roaring river. in the
county of Barry, for steamboats, vessels, rafts, and other crafts, and tor that
purpose. the company hereby treated is vested with full power and authority
to enter upon White river, and lands adjoining, by their oiiicers, agents, or
others. and to improve the navigation of said river, by constructing and erect-
ing locks or dams, or both locks and dams, or by clearing out and deepening,
contracting, straightening, or filling up the channel, or other parts of the river,
or by other means or ways proper to accomplish the object and design of this
company. The improvements made on such river may be so constructed and
devised as to make or create and produce water power for mills and
machinery, or manufactories, and the company shall have power to sell,
lease, or otherwise dispose of such water power; but such works shall not be
so constructed for the purpose of making or creating water power so as to
injure or impair the navigation of said river; and this company shall have
power and authority to permit any individual or individuals to construct
locks and dams in such river, for the use of the water. power thereby
produced, upon such terms and conditions as the company shall deem proper
to improve the navigation of said river.

§3. The capital steel: of this company shall be five hundred thousand
dollars, to be divided into shares of twenty dollars each; and the capital

‘stock may be increased to any amount by the company.

{} 4. Books for the purpose of procuring subscriptions to said stock shall
he opened in the city of Springfield, under the direction of D. D. Berry, A.
Maurice, Jr., and G. P. Shackelford, or any two of them; and in the town of
Mount Vernon, under the direction of John Williams, Robert W. Crawford,
and John B. I{elley~‘or any two‘of- them; and the town of Forsythc, under
the direction of John W. Danforth, A. S. Layton, and David Johnson, or
any two of them; and in the town of Cassville, in the county of Barry, under

- the direction_ of Littleberry Mason, George W. Hampton, and John 0.

Burton, or any two of them; and at such other places as they may deem
proper; and they are hereby appointed commissioners to receive subscrip-
tions to said stock, on such days and time as they shall appoint, after the
passage of this act. '

§ 5. Each county or corporate body having funds in this company shall
appoint three competent persons as directors to represent such county or
corporate body‘, and the several stockholders shall appoint one director for
every ten shares invested in the company, and the said directors shall hold
their ofiice for the term of one year, and shall not be entitled to any com-
pensation for their services, and they shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their ollice, severally take the oath as prescribed in the seventh

section of this act.
§ ti. So soon as the sum of ten thousand dollars shall be subscribed, the

commissioners named» in the seventh section of this act, or a majority of

them. having fixed the amount of the first installment, shall appoint a day
and place at which the stockholders shall meet, and pay the said installment
on their respective shares, and elect directors, giving at least ten days notice

CORPORATIONS. 261

by advertisement in some newspaper printed in the city of Springfield, of
the time and piacetof said election.

§ 7. The oliicers of this company shall be a president, treasurer, a clerk,
and two commissioners, who shall be [elected) by the directors, and shall
hold their terms of office for two years, and until their successors shall be
elected and qualified, unless sooner removed by the directors, who shall
have power therefor; and the directors, president. treasurer, clerk, and
commissioners shall, before they enter upon the dischagc of the duties of
their respective offices, each take an oath. before some judge or justice of
the peace, that he will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of his
otlice,':ind he is not and w'll not be interested, either directly or indirectly,
in any contract for the 'mprovements to be made on White river, while he
continues in oflice. T directors may allow the president, treasurer, and
clerk of the company a compensation for their services, out of the funds of
the company, which they may deem reasonable; the directors shall have a
supeiintending government and control over the whole business and affairs
of the company, and over the otlicers and commissioners; and shall determine
in what manner the improvements of the navigation of Vlfhite river shall be
made, when the work shall be commenced, what engineers, workmen.
laborers, and others shall be employed, in what manner the contracts for
the work shall he let, and what security shall be required for their perform-
ance; how the funds of the company shall he leaned or invested, and when
the same shall be made available; and what and how tolls shall be collected
and levied; and the directors shall make all by- laws for the government of
the business affairs, property. ofliccrs, and commissioners of the company.

68. It shall be the duty of the president and commissioners to execute
the orders and by-laws of the directors. and they shall have the immediate
management of the business, funds, and affairs made by the company.

(3 9. All contracts. deeds, conveyances, and other instruments of writing
made by this company, shall be signed by the president, and attested by
the clerk, with the seal of the company, or such contracts, deeds, convey-
ances, and other instruments shall not be binding on the company.

§ 10. The company may invest the funds thereof in the bonds of this or
any other Statc.or loan such lunds upon interest, or otherwise use the funds
to increase the same; but no loan shall be for a longer period than twc-lv’e
months, and upon good personal security of not less than two names besides

the principal, and the company may take additional security by mortgage
or deed of trust. -

§ IL The county court of any county in the State, upon its own motion
on application by petition of a majority of the taxable inhabitants in the

county to be ascertained from the tax list of the preceding year, shall invest

in this company the money by their county received from the sale of the
five hundred thousand acres of land donated to this State by the act of
Congress approved Sept. 4, 1841, or the road and canal fund, or other funds
which such county now has, or may hereafter have, or receive from the
State, or otherwise; and upon hp plication of the inhabitants, as aforesaid,
by petition to the county court, setting forth the number of shares to be
taken by such county, the county court of sucll county shall levy and collect
the amount thereof from the taxable inhabitants ofsuch county, to be assessed
and collected in the same manner as State revenue, to be invested in and
paid to this company hereby established; and,’ all money or property, so

262 , CORPORATIONS.

invested,shall be honestly and faithfully applied to carry out and accomplish
the object and design of the company, and for no other purpose.
§ 12. This company shall have power to levy and collect a toll for the
use of the improvements which shall be constructed under this act, from
steamboats, vessels, rafts. and other crafts, using or having the benefit of
the same; butnsuch toll shall pot be so levied as to collect a nett revenue,
a ter ayrn a expenses,and ee in theim rovements in re air, exceedin
fifteen? pergeent. Wr annum upcih gthe amgunt actually exfpended by thge
company in the improvements, and shall be levied, and the collection thereof
enforced according to the hy-laws of the company; but no toll or tax shall
be im; osed upon vessels, troops. munitions of war, belonging to the United
States. or upon the transportation of the United States mail, on said river.
§ 13. A number of directors, representing a m‘irity of shares paid into
such Eompanyi shall con.<t‘tute a quorum for the transaction of business,
and t e resi em and one commissioner shall constitute a uorum for the
transacttgn of business within their jurisdiction; and the qdireetors shall
catcilse to be kept a tyne and correct record of their proceedings and by-laws;
an the president 0 the company shall cause to be ke t a true and correct
journal of the proceedings of himself and eommissioneiis, separate from the
records of the directors; and the rec” rd and journal shall be open to public
inspection, and it shall require a vote of the majority of shares paid in,
i,§~"l.f.i”"i3i‘.“’...f"£“:‘.i‘.."J’li‘;‘”SI;‘ ::,::‘°:;  °'  ‘*":"";";.:° :trP::°’
- , . , rormaaemeno e at or
business of the company, and the ayes and noes sghall be entered upon the
record in a vote upon any question at the desire of any director, at a
meeting of the directors. and ayes and noes shall be entered upon the
journal of the commissioners in a vote upon any question, at the desire of
the president, or any one of the commissioners; but it shall require, at any
:,':.:::::%, ti 3:: .!::::;‘:$::,‘.. :‘;‘%..:";‘:.:::::;:'::;::, ‘::°  ‘°  “V
9 ~ 8 om ‘rl .
§ 14. The treasurer shall give bond to the compan‘; my a sum, and with
good and suliicient security, to [be] approved by the president and commis-
sioners. for the faithful discharge and performance of his duties as treasurer;
and further conditioned, that he will keep true and correct accounts of all
moneys, properly, or evidences of debt, that shall come to his hands, and
‘that he will faithfully account for and pay over all money, and deliver all
property, or evidences of debt, which shall come to his hands, to his
successor in oflice, or~the person entitled thereto.
§ 15. The directors of a county or body politic shall be entitled to give
one vote upon all questions, for every ten shares the county or corporation
he shall represent holds and has paid into the company.
§ 16. The directorsgand commissioners shall hold stated meetings for the
Eransgction of business, and the same shall be established by the by-laws;
ut t e president and one commissioner ma call a meetin of the directors
at any time when they shall deem it necessziry. g
§ 17. The company may receive, from ire government of the United
States, any lands which may be given, granted. or dnnated. for the purpose
of improving the navigation of White river; and’ may sell the same, or
otherwise dispose of such lands; but the proceeds thereof shall be without
gelnayffaithfully applied according to the condition of the gift, grant, or
o a ton. '

§ 18. Semi-annual dividends may be made of the profits and income from

eoaroaarrons. 263

the improvements and water power among the several counties, and other
shareholders in the company, in proportion to the shares held by each; but
no dividends shall be made so long as the company is in debt, over and

above the available funds and means to pay off and liquidate such indebted-
ness.

§ l9.'If two thirds of thecounties, stockholders in the association, shall,‘

by a vote of their directors, agree to borrow money to improve the
navigation of White river, the company hereby established may borrow
any sum of money, not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars. and upon
any time, not exceeding thirty-five years; and may pledge the income from

tolls, after reserving sutiicient to keep the improvements in repair, for the

,payment of the interest on such loan, together with the principal.

§ 20. The commissioners shall require bond, with good, [and] sutlicient

security, from all ollicfs orxagents of the company, and the bonds shall be
executed to the company with such conditions as the case shall require for the
faithful discharge of their duty.

§ 21. No contract for the construction of any work, or improvement

shall be made by the company, beyond the available means or funds

belongin to the company.

§ 22. his act is declared to be a public act, and may be read in evidence,
without any proof or pleadings. -

§ 23. The clerk of the company shall keep the record of the directors,

journal of the commissioners, and also a true and correct account of the

finances of the company, as well as of the property, and business of the
company.
§ 21. All funds appropriated by the State, directly for the improvement of
the navigation of White river, and the distributive share coming to a county,
of any funds arising under an act of the General Assembly of this State, enti-
tled " an act for the distribution of the proceeds of the sales of the five hundred
thousand acres of land, donated to this State by the Congress of the Unite.
States,” approved March 27, 1&5, and all funds known as the road and
canal fund, which shall be directed by the order of any county court, to be
invested in this company, and which is or shall be in the State treasury,
shall be paid directly to the treasurer of this company as herein directed,
upon the presentation to the auditor of public accounts, the order of the
county court of the county entitled thereto, signed by the president of such
court, and attested by the clerk thereof, with his seal of otiice thereto atiixed,
and the auditor shall draw his warrant therefor. .
§25. In any case, when the company shall need or require any lots or
land, adjoining or near ,White river, upon which to erect or construct any
building, fixture, looks, or dams, or to secure to the company the use and
benefit of any water power, created or produced by any improvement or
work, and shall require land near adjoining the same, and_the person or
persons owning such lots or lands, will not donate such lots or lands to the
company, or when such owners demand unreasonable prices therefor, and
no contract can be made between such owner and the company, or when
the owner is unknown, or al£ent, or disabled to contract or sell such lots or
land. ll. shall be lawful for the company to give notice thereof to the judge
of the circuit court in the county in which such lands or lots are situated,
stating in such notice the bounds and limits, as well as the quantity of lands
or lots needed or required by the company, and where located, and it shall
be the duty of the judge thereupon to appoint three disinterested, discreet

264 _ conronsrrosts.
I
persons as a jury, to examine and view the lots or land required by the
company, as stated in the notice, and the jury so appointed shall fix a time
when they will view and assess the damages and value of such lots or lands,
of whirh notice shall be given by the jury to the company, and the owners
of such lots or lands, if he reside in the county, and it be known to the jury,
or such notice m1y be given to the tenant residing on such lands, butjf‘ the
owner be unknown to the jury,_or he shall reside out of the county, and
there be no tenant residing on such lands, notice of the time of the meeting
of the jury may be given by at least three advertisements, which shall be
put in three dilierent public places, in the county in which such lots or lands
are situated, which notice shall be given at least twenty days before the
meeting of the jury, the notice of the appointment of the jury by the judge
may be served by any person who is a lawful witness, or any constable,-
and the notice to the company, and the owner of @ lands, of the time of
the meeting, may be given by a constable, or any person who is a lawful
witness; and the service or putting up said notice shall be verified by the
aflidavit ofthe person who shall serve or put up the same. or by the certifi-
cate and return of the constable; if the owner of such lots or lands is a
married woman, the notice may be served on her husband, or if a minor, or
person of unsound mind, then upon the lawful guardian or curator; or if
there be no guardian or curator, then the circuit judge may appoint one to
defend for such minor or person of unsound mind.
§26. The °ury, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall
each take an subscribe an oath, before some judge or jus!ice of the peace,
taithfull y and impartially to discharge the duties of their appointment, and
honestly assess the damages and value of the lots or land, and also estimate
the value or enhancement by the improvement to the lots or lands adjoining
thereto, held by the owner, and then thereby ascertain the damages, if any,
to the owner of the lots or land required by the company; which oath shall
qe attached to the order of the appointment by the judge. It shall be the
uty of the jury to go upon the lots or I‘-ands and examine the same, and
adjudge and report the damages, if any, as required by their oath, and the
amount thereof; which report shall be signed by the jury, and returned to
the ofiice of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which such lots
or lands are situate, and said clerk shall file the same, and enter judgment
on the records of the court. in accordance with the report of said jury; and
the finding of the jury shall be final and conclusive, unless one or both
parties are dissatisfied with the decision of the jury, and shall have within
tive days after the filing of the report, tiled in the office of such clerk their
objection to such decision and report; said objection shall be examined by
the judge ofthe circuit court as soon thereafter as may be, and if the same
be snflicient and just, he shall order a review by another jury in the same
manner as herein provided, but no more than one review shall be granted
the same party; and in all cases of objections being filed, the clerk shall not
enter a judgment thereon until the same is approved of or set aside by the
judge of said court.
§ 27. All dan ages assessed by the jury, in the manner before stated, may
be paid to the owner or owners, or persons appearing on behalf of said
owner or owners of such lots or lands; and in case the owner is unknown,
or there be no person or agent authorized to receive the same, the company
may pay the amount into the county treasury in which such lands are
situate, and whenever the company shall file in the otiice of the said clerk

coaroasrroxs. 965

the receipt of the owner, person, or agent, authorized to receive the stimc
or the receipt ofthe county treasurer for the amount assessed by the jury ,

. the fee simple title, and interest in so much of said lots or lands as the

company required shall be vested in said company as fully and completely
as if proper deeds ol conveyance had been made therefor; provided, that in
all cases where said company shall have tendered, before the appointment
of the jury, to the owner or owners of any such lands or late, a sum equal
to the amount assessed by the jury, and the same shall have been refused, the
ownerxor owners shall pay all costs attending the assessment thereof.

§ 28. The company hereby established, whenever they.deem it to
their interest, may improve the navigation of James Fork, from its junc-
tion with White river up to the mouth of the Finley river, and the pro-
 of this act are hereby extended over said stream.

a § 29.: The State ma@t any time purchase from this company the im-
provements made underthis act, or may repeal this act at any time; but
mcase of such purchase or repeal the State shall first pay, before such
purchase or repeal shall take effect, to the company the whole amount of
eapit.Il.eipended in such improvements, and interest on the amount so as to
nettthe company eight per centum from the time of such expenditure, and ,
if the State shall purchase such improvements or repeal this act ‘the
State shall not levy any toll or tax for the use of such improvements in
navigating the river to exceed eight per centum, after deducting the ex-
penses of keeping such improvements in good repair, upon the amount '
of capital invested by the counties, corporations, or individuals in such
improvements; nor shall the General Assembly alter or chart e this act
without the consent of the company; and the State shal not levy
any tax on the funds of the company; and the works and improvements
on such rivers shall be free from taxation under any State law; anl if
this act shall be repealed, as aforesaid, the right of individuals arising‘
under this act to the water power, mills, manufactories, and other ma-
chinery, shall remain inviolable, and they are hereby granted to them,
their heirs, and assigns. a

§ 30. Every person who shall wilfully and maliciously injure or ob-
struct the navigation of said river, or: any part thereof, or shall cut down,
injure, break, or destroy any bridge, lock, dam, or any other work or
e itice, or any machinery belonging to or connected with the improve-
ments on said river, constructed by the company, or shall wilfully injure
any embankment, or make or cause to be made any aperture in any
lock, dam, or embankment constructed by the company, with the intent
to injure or destroy the same, shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemean-
or, and shall be punished in the county jail not exceeding one year, or
by line not exceeding five hundred dollars, or both such tine and impri-
sonment. _ '

§ 31. As soon as the company shall be organized by the appointment
of a president, treasurer, clerk, and two commissioners, and they shall
be qualified to enter upon tl. discharge of the duties of their respective
otlices; the president shall give notice thereof, and thereupon the treasu-
rers of the several counties which may vest funds in this company, and
the persons appointed to open books and receive and collect subscrip-
tions, shall pay and deliver over to the treasurer of the company all the
money and funds invested bythis act in this company, or which may

266 CORPORATIONS.

hereafter be invested in the same, and shall take the receipt of the tree-
surer of this company therefor, and the treasurer of r the company shall
give such county or persons credit therefor; and the president of the
company shall give each county or erson a certificate of the number of
shares paid in, which certificate shall be attested by the clerk, with the
seal of the company. .
7 §32. The first election for resident, treasurer, clerk, and commis-
sioners, shall be on the first onday in June, A. D. 1849, or so soon
thereafter as a majority of the directors shall meet, and on that day every
two years thereafter.
§ 33. The directors of the company shall be a pointed by the county
court and stockholders on the first Monday of ay annually, and if not
appointed at that time, at the first term of the c t thereafter, and shall
hold their office for one year, or until their succ, sors are appointed and
qualified; but at any time after a county shall have invested funds in the
company, the county court of such county may appoint directors for
such county, who shall hold their oliice until the first Monday in May
next thereafter, and until his successor is elected and qualified; indi-
vidual stockholders who may subscribe at any time after the first selec-
tion of directors, may appoint directors at any time in proportion to the
pimpunt of shares subscribed, who shall hold their oiiice as above speci-
e .
§ 34. The first article of an act concerning corporations, approved
'Ma11'ch 19th, 1845, so far as the same affects this company, is hereby re-
pea ed.
§ 35. The company hereby established is authorized and required to
co-operate with such counties in the State of Arkansas as may invest
their funds in the improvement of the navigation of White river, and
.the proper authority of said State of Arkansas, in all matters relating
to the improvement of the navigation of said river.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. ‘

 

/'\/\/'\¢’\.f*~a"~./\/~./\./‘v‘\/\/‘

AN ACT to incorporate the City of St. Charles.
ARTICLE I.

or nouunaancs AND GENERAL pownns. .
Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. All that district of country, in the county of St. Charles, within
the following limits, to wit: Beginning at. point in the middle of the
main channel‘of the Missouri river, opposite to where Barbour street,
in the town of St. Chalres, would intersect the same; thence westward-
ly with Barbour street until it intersects a continuation of Sixth street;
thence northwardly with said Sixth street until it intersects a continu-
ation of the cross-street which passes by the north end. of the Protestant

CORPORATIONS. 267

burying ground, thence westwardly with said cross street until it inter-
sects a line dividing the lands of Samuel B. Smith, Arnold Krekel, and
Ludwell E. Powell, on the east, from those of the estate of George W.
Redman, dec’d, on the west; thence northwardly with said line until it
intersects a line dividing thelands of Ludwell E. Powellson the south, with
said line until intersects a line dividin the lands of Ludwell E. Powell on
the south from the lands of Gamb e, on the north; thence eastwardly
with said line until it intersects Sixth street; thence northwardly with said
Sixth street, and a continuation thereof, until it intersects a continua-
tion of Tecumseh street, of said town; thence eastwardly along Tecum-
seh street, to the middle of the main channel of the Missouri river op-
posite said Tecumseh street; thence u the middle of the main channel
thereof to the place of beginning, she be and is hereby incorporated,
erected and established as a City, by the name and style of “The City
of St. Charles,” and the inhabitants thereof shall be and are hereby
constituted a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of “The
City of St. Charles,” and by that name shall be known in law and equi-

 

ty, have perpetual succession, sue and be sued, implead and be implead- ’

ed, defend and be defended, in all courts of law and equity having com-
petent jurisdiction, andin all actions and matters whatsoever; may grant,
ease, purchase, receive and hold property, real, personal and mixed,
within said city, and the commons thereunto attached and belonging, as
shall be necessary for said city, in the exercise of her cor orate powers,
and may lease, sell and dispose of the same for the bene t of said city;
may have a common seal, and may alter the same at pleasure.

ARTICLE 11. ~

or run our COUNCIL. Q

§ 1. The corporate powers and duties of said city shall be vested in a
mayor and councilmen, and such other oilicers as are hereinafter named.

§ 2. The board of councilmen shall consist of six members, for the
election of whom, the city shall be divided into convenient wards, which
may be altered from time to time as the convenience of the inhabitants
may require; and said councilmen shall be apportioned among the sev-
eral wards in proportion to the number of free white male inhabitants
thereof.

§ 3. No person shall be eligible to be a member of the city council,
until he shall have resided twelve months within the limits of the cargo-
ration, and paid a town or city tax, and shall be at the time of his elec-
tion not less than twenty-one years of age, and a citizen of the United
States; and all other city ofiicers shall possess the same qualifications
that are required to he possessed by members of the city council.

4. Whenever there shall be a tie in the election of councilmen, the
ju ges of the election shall certify the same to the mayor, who shall de-
termine the same by lot, in such manner as shall be provided by ordi-
nance. ,

§ 5. If any councilman shall, after his election, remove from the ward
from which he was elected in said city, his oflice shall thereby be va-

‘ cated. _ ‘

2'68 coaronanons.

§ 6. The board of councilmen shall judge of the qualifications, elec-
tions and returns of the members thereof, a majority of whom shall con-
stitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day, and compel the attendance of absent members, in such man-
ner, and under su.ch penalties, as the board may provide; the said board
may determine the rules of their proceedings, punish their members for
disorderly conduct, and by the concurrence of two—thirds of the whole
number elected, may expel a member; and shall, on motion of any mem-
ber, cause the ayes and noes to be entered on their journal.

§ 7. All vacancies that shall occur in the board of councilmen, shall
be filled by elections by the people, in such manner as shall be provided
by ordinance, and no councilman shall be appointed to any otiice under
the authority of the city, during the time he shall,be a member of the
board of councilmen.

§ 8. The mayor, councilmen, and all other oiiicers of the city, shall
before entering upon the duties of their several ofiices, respectively
make an oath or affirmation to support the constitution of the United

- States and of the State of Missouri, and faithfplly to demean themselves_

in office.

ARTICLE III.

or run cmsr I-zxpncurrvr-: OFFICER.

§ 1. The chief executive ofiicer of the city shall be a mayor, who shall
be elected by the qualified voters of the city, and shall hold his oflice
for one year, and until his successor shall be elected and qualified.

§ 2. If any mayor, during the time for which he shall have been elect-
<& shall remove from the city, his office shall be vacated, and all vacan-

s in said oliice shall be filled by election by the people.

§ 3. When two or more persons shall have an equal number of votes
for mayor, the judges of the election shall certify the same to the city
council, who shall proceed to determine the same by lot, in such manner
as shall be provided by ordinance; and whenever an election of mayor
shall be contested, the city council shall determine the same in such
manner as shall be prescribed by ordinance. -

§ 4. The mayor shall be ex-ofiicio president of the board of council-
men, and with the advice and consent of the said board, shall appoint
all officers of the city, not otherwise provided for, but shall have no vote
in said board except in case of tie. _

§ 5. The mayor shall take care that the laws of the State, and ordi-
nances of the city, are duly enforced within the city; he shall have pow-
er, with the consent of the city council, to remove from oflice any
person holding ofiice created as aforesaid; he may remit fines and for-
feitures; grant reprieves and pardons in any case arising under the or-
dinances of the city; he shall be a conservator of the peace within the
limits of the city; he shall have power to fill all vacancies that may hap-
pen in any other otlice than that of councilman; which said appoint-
ments, so made, shall continue until the end of the next regular meeting
of the city council thereafter; he shall, from time to time, give to the
city council information relative to the state and condition of the city,

conronarrons. 269

and shall recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall A

deem ex edient; he may, on extraordinary occasions, convene the city
council, y proclamation, stating to them when assembled, the object for
which they are convened; and shall receive such compensation for his
services as shall beprovidedaby ordinance, not to exceed the sum of
fifty dollars for the &rst two years after the first election under this act,
over and above the fees which shall accrue to him in the exercise of the

duties and powers granted to him by this act.

§ 6. The mayor shall be ex-oflicio a justice of the peace within and for
the city, and have the same 'urisdiction in all cases in the city as justi-
 ihe peace shall, by t e laws of the State for the time, have in
their véespetctive townshi s; he shall have the same power, and proceed
illltllejlsame/v manner, and)be governed in all things by the same rules of
proceeding which may be in force for the. time, regulating justices’
eourts;'shall grant appeals'to the circuit court of St. Charles county,‘
and be in all things sub'ect to the same superintending control of that
court, that justices of the peace by the laws of the State may for the
time be; he shall be authorized to administer oaths, take depositions and
aclmowled ments of deeds, mortgage, and all other instruments of
writing, an acting the title of lands, and certify the same under the seal
of the cit ,, which shall be received as good and valid throughout the
Stateibf issouri; he shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all proceed-
in C under the ordinances of ythecity, and concurrent jurisdiction in all
ot er cases in which he is by this act authorized to act as a judicial ofli-'
cer; and in proceedings under the ordinances of the city, he shall re-
ceive for his services such fees as shall be allowed by ordinance, and in
other cases his fees shall be the same as those to which justices of the
peace ‘are entitled by the laws of the State of Missouri.

§ 7. In case the mayor shall at any time be guilty of a palpable omis-,.
sicn of duty, or shall wilfully and corruptly be guilty of oppression,
Inalconduct or partiality in the discharge of the duties of his office, he
shall  liable to be indicted in the circuit court of St. Charles county,
and on conviction he shall be lined not more than two hundred dollars,
and the court shall have ower, on the recommendation of the jury, to
add to the judgment of t e court, that he be removed fromoflice.

i § 8. The mayor shall have power to issue all necessary writs to bring

parties before him forthwith, and to try, hear, determine and punish of-
fences against any ordinances of the city in a summary manner, and ac-

cording to’ the provisions of any ordinance, a breach whereof is charged; .

grovided, however, that an appeal may be taken in all cases over five
ollars to the circuit court of St. Charles county, upon the condition of
the laws of the State.

ARTICLE IV.

or 131.1-:cr1oNs_.

§ 1. A general election for mayor and councilman for said city, shall
be held on the first Monday in May, in the year eighteen hundred and
forty nine, and on the first Monday in April in ‘each and every year

.jl

270 conronanoxs.

thereafter; and the trustees of the town of St. Charles, at the time of
the passage of this act, shall rov_ide for and order the first election un-
der it; and on the second onday in May thereafter, the mayor and
councilmen shall hold their first meetin , and shall forever thereafter
hold their stated meetings on the first ondays of May, August, No-
vember and February, in each\and every year; provided, however, that
the mayor and councilmen may change the time of their stated meet-
ings, so that there never shall be more than four stated meetings in one
year.

§ 2. All free white male inhabitants over the age of twenty-one years,
who are entitled to vote for State oflicers, who shall have resided within
the city for six months next recedin such election, and who shall have
paid a town or city tax, shall) be entit ed to vote for city oflicers, and all

elections for city officers shall be by ballot.
§ 3. Elections for city oflicers shall be conducted in such manner as

shall be provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE V.

LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.

§ 1. The mayor and councilmen shall have power by ordinance, to
levy and collect taxes upon real and personal estate within the city,
not exceeding one- half of one per cent. upon the assessed value thereof,
except as hereinafter excepted. ,

§ 2. To make regulations to prevent the introduction of contagious
diseases; to make quarantine laws for that purpose, and enforce them
within the limits of the city, to make regulations to secure the general
_health of the inhabitants, and preyent and remove nuisances. _

§3. To establish night watches and patrols; to erect 1amps'in.the
streets and light the same. ,.

I § 4. To improve the navigation of the Missouri river within the city
imits. -

§ 5. To erect, regulate and repair the stationing, anchorage and macr-
ing of vessels.

6. To provide for licensing, taxing and regulating auctions, retailers,
or inaries, taverns, billiard tables, hackney carriages, wagons, .ca1jts,
drays, hawkers and pedlers, theatrical and other amusements. _

§ 7. To restrain and prohibit tippling houses, gaming houses, bawdy
houses, and all other disorderly houses. .

§ 8. To establish and repair bridges.

9. To establish and repair markets, and regulate the same.

2 10. To open, alter, abolish, widen, extend, establish, grade, pave or
otherwise improve and keep in repair, streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
drains and sewers.

§ 11. To provide for the safekeeping of standard weights, and meas-
ures to be used in said city.

3 12. To regulate the cleaning of chimneys, and fix the price thereof.

13. To provide for the inspection of lumber, and other building ma-
terials to be used in the city.

§ 14. To regulate the size of bricks to be used in the city.

cORPORA_T10Ns. ' 2%
15. To re ulate and order are et walls and artition fences.
3 _ _ P P P,

. 16. To provide for the inspection and weighing of hay and stone
coal, the measuring of charcoal, firewood, and a
in the city. .

§ 17. 1T0 regulatei the inspection of butter and lard, and the weight
and qua ity of brea .

§ 18. To regulate the storage of gunpowder, tar, pitch, rosin, hemp,
cotton, and all other combustible materials.

§ 19. To erect }}l.lI1}l‘p8 apidbhydrants in the streets, and elsewhere, for
the convenience o t e in a itants.

§ 20. 1Tpl prgvide for the prevention and extinguishment of tires, and
to estab is a re company.

21. To prevent and restrain the meetin of slaves.

. 22. T9 prevent the furious and unnoc sary.ru.nning, galloping, ri-
ding or driving of any horse or mule within the limits of said ‘city. .

§ 23. to pass such ordinances for the regulation and police of said
city, and the commons thereunto attached and belonging, as the said
mayor and councilmen_ shall deem necessary to carry into effect the ob-
ject of this act, and the powers hereby granted, as the good of the in-
habitants may reqigirel; provfidled, éhat no ordinance shall be inconsistent
nor repugnant tot e aws_o t is tate.

3 24. To impose fines, penalties, and forfeitures for the Ireach of any
or inance, and provide for the collection thereof; provided, that no tax
shall be levied on the implements of any person used in carrying on his
trade or business, nor shall the same be subject to distress or sale for
taxes while the owner thereof shall be engaged in carrying on such
trade or business. .

§ 25. To apptropriate money, and provide for the payment of the debt"
and expenses 0 t e city.

. § 26. To divide the city into wards, and alter the boundaries thereof,
as they may deem necessary in conformity with section 2, article 2.

§ 27. To provide for the erection of all needful buildings for the use
of the city.

§ 28. Tolprovide foir enclosing, improving, and regulating all public

ounds be origin to t ie city. '
gr 29. To provide for the enumeration of the inhabitants of the city.

30. To in the com ensation of city ofiicers, and regulate the fees
of jurors, ‘witnesses an others, for services rendered under this act or
any ordinance.

other fuel to be used

ARTICLE VI.

PROCEEDINGS IN SPECIAL CASES.

§ 1.. U on the application of the holders of two-thirds of the front‘ of
the lots a ong any street or part of a street, it shall be lawful"for the
mayor and cpuncilmen to levy and collect a special tax on the" "holders
thereef, according to the assessed value of their respective fi-‘fonts for
the. urpose of grading and paving such street or part of street, which
shal be faithfully applied to such urpose and to no other; and upon
limilar application to levy a tax for e purpose of lighting the streets or

2'1? coapoaarrous.

erecting lamps therein, which tax when collected shall be applied to the
object aforesaid. '
§ 2. The mayor and councilmen shall have power to regulate, pave

’ and improve the streets, and to extend, open, or widen streets, avenues,

lanes, or alleys, upon making the personsinjured thereby adequate com-
pensation therefor, to ascertain the amount of which the mayor shall
in all cases cause a jury to be summoned and sworn to assess the dama-
ges, which jury shall consist of six householders; and it may be good
cause of peremptory challenge to a juror that he is a citizen of the city
or owns taxable property therein; and for the purpose of procuring an
impartial jury in such case, the mayor of the city ma in the first in-
stance issue his precept for a jury to the constable of t. Charles town-
shi ; and upon all 108888 forgthe assessment of damages as provided for
in t is act the mayor of the city shall preside.

§ 3. When any assessment of damages shall have been made, as in this
act provided, for opening, widening, extending, or altering any street,
avenue, lane, or alley in said city, and either the mayor, councilmen,
and citizens of the city, or other -person or persons feel aggrieved there-
by, such party so aggrieved may take an appeal from such assessment to
the circuit court of bt. Charles county, which said appeal shall be grant-
ed by the ma or in the same manner and upon the same terms as appeals
shall for the me time be allowed from justices of the peace to the cir-
cuit court by the laws of this State.

§ 4. When any such appeal shall be taken to the circuit court, the
same shall be tried as other issues in said court, and in case damages be
assessed to any person by a jury or court, the same shall be paid out of
the city treasury before the property of such person shall be taken for
public use. ' -

ARTICLE VII.

OF COMMONS AND SCHOOL LOTS.

§ 1. All powers heretofore ranted to the trustees of the "town of St.
Charles, over and relating to t e commons thereto attached and belong-
ing, are hereby vested and continued in the mayor and councilman of
the city of St. Charles, created by this act; and the said mayor and
councilmen shall have power to manage, lease, and sell any or all of said
commons, in fee simple, on such terms and conditions as they may pro.
vide by ordinance, and may invest or use the proceeds thereof for the
benefit of said city.

§ 2. The said mayor and councilman shall have power to sell, in fee
Sim le, lease, or otherwie regulate and dispose of all lots of grounds,
an all money or property to which the inhabitants may be entitled, for
the benefit of chools, and may take all necessary steps to maintain suits
to recover the same, or to effect compromises with conflicting claimants,
and to appropriate such money or property in such manner as they may
consider most advantageous for the support of schools.

eonronarrons. 2“?!

ARTICLE VIII."

MISCELLANEOUI PROVISIONI.

§ 1. The councilmen shall choose, by ballot, from their body a presi-
dent pro tempore, who in the absence of the mayor, or in case of a va-
cancy in his oliice from any cause whatever, shall exercise the powers
and perform the duties of mayor, until said oliice shall be filled as before

rovided.
P §2. Every ordinance which shall have been passed by the city coun-
cil shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the mayor for his ap-
proval; if he approve he shall sign it, if not he shall return the same
with his objections, and the city council shall reconsider the same; and
ifafter such reconsideration two-thirds of the whole number of council-
men elected shall pass the ordinance, notwithstanding his objections, it
shall become a law; in all such cases of reconsideration the ayes and
noes shall be entered on the journal; if any ordinance shall not be re-
turned to the city council or the city register, within three days af-
ter it shall have been delivered to the mayor, it shall become a law in
the same manner as if he had approved it.

§ 3. The style of all the ordinances of said city shall be: “Be it or-
dained by the city of St. Charles;” and all ordinances shall within one
month after they are passed be published in said city. '

§ 4. There shall be appointed a city register who shall be clerk forthe
city council, and who shall hold his oliice for one year and until his suc-
cessor shall be appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed; before
he enters upon the duties of his ofiice he shall give bond to the mayor
and councilmen of the city of St. Charles, with sufiicient security, to be
approved by the mayor, for the faithful discharge of the duties of his of-
5ce. The city council shall cause a faithful record to be kept by the
city register, which shall at all convenient times be open for the inspec-
tion of all ersons; and said register shall safely keep and preserve in
his oflice al records, public papers, and documents of the city, and shall
perform all such duties as shall be enjoined on him by ordinance.

§ 5. There shall be appointed a city marshal, who shall be ex odicio
city collector, who shall hold his oflice for the term of one year, and un-
til his successor shall be duly appointed and qualified, unless sooner re-
moved; and the said marshal shall, before enterin‘ on the duties of his
otlice, give bond to the mayor and councilmen oft e city of St. Charles,
with suflicient security, to be approved by the mayor, for the faithful
performance of his duties; and he shall possess the same powers and per-

. form the_ same duties within the limits of said city as the constables of

the townships poss__ess, and perform in their respective townships,
and he shall execute and return all ‘process which shall be is-

sued by the mayor of the city; he may serve criminal processes,~_

warrants and subpcenas, issued by the mayor, in any part of St.
Charles county, for offences committed within the limits of the city; and
shall perform all such otter duties as the city council may by ordinance
prescribe; and he shall be entitled to the same fees for the service and
return of all process in St. Charles township, as are allowed to the
constables of this State for similar services; and when required to_ go
19

9711 .O0BPORA'1‘ION8.

beyond the limits of said township he shall be entitled to the same fees
as sheriffs of this State for similar services.
§ 6. There shall be appointed an assessor for said city, who shall give
bond and security, to be approved by the mayor, for the faithful dis-
charge of his duties; whose duties shall be prescribed by ordinance.
. § 7. There shall be appointed a treasurer for said city, who shall hold
his oflice for one year, unless sooner removed, who, before he enters up-
on the duties of the otiice, shall give bond and security, to be approved
by the mayor, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
ofiice, which duties shall be prescribed by ordinance.
§ 8. The mayor and councilmen shall have exclusive power to license
and regulate ferries in said city, to fix the rate offerriage,take sufficient
bond and security from ferrymen, and all taxes raised. from. ferry licen-
ses, shall be paid to said citycouncil for the use of the city; and said city
council shall provide safe landings for said ferries; but said mayor and
councilmen shall not grant the exclusive privilege of keeping a ferry in
said city to any person or persons for a longer term than one year.
§9. All citizens within the corporate limits of the city shall‘ be exempt
from working on any pub'ic roads or highways beyond the limits of the city,
nor shall they be compelled to pay any tax for keeping the same in repair.
§ 10. The mayor and councilmen shall have power to levy and collect a
poll tax, not exceeding one dollar {qr every year, upon all free white male
persons within said city. over the age of sixteen and under fifty-five years,
who shall have resided within the city six months, which tax shall be appro-
priated to improving the streets within the limits of the city.
§ 11. The members of the fire company formed under this act shall be
exempt from serving on juries.
§ 12. All property, real and personal, heretofore belonging to the inhabi-
tants of the town of St. Charles, or the trustees thereof. in their corporate
capacity, shall be, and is hereby declared to be vested in the corporation
hereby created; and all suits commenced for and on behalf of the trustees
shall be prosecuted to final judgment and execution as if this act had not
been passed, and all moneys arising therefrom. and all fines, penalties and
forfeitures accruing to said iI'U.~iCCS shall be paid to the city council for the
use of the city created by this act. All ordinances now in force, and which
may be in force when this act takes effect, shall remain in force, as ordinan-
ces of the city, until altered, modified or repealed by the city ordinances to
be passed under this act. All actions, fines, penalties and forfeiturcs which
shall have accrued or may accrue to the town of St. Charles, shall be, and
are hereby declated vested in [said corporation], and suit may be prosecuted
therefor in the name of the corporation created by this act.
§ 13. The mayor and councilmen shall have power io pass ordinances,
imposing fines, penalties and forfeitures on the owners and masters of slaves
suffered to go at large, upon the liireing of their own time, or to act or deal
as free persons, and to pass ordinances to tax, restrain, regulate and prescribe
. the terms upon which frce negroes and mulattoes shall be permitted to reside
within the city.
§ I4. The mayor and councilmen shall have power to sell real estate for
special tax, and provide for the redemption thereof. by ordinance, in such
manner as shall not be inconsistent with the laws of this State, as they shall
find necessary, and may. in the same manner, give power to their collector to
levy and-sell any personal property, none of which shall be exempt, for said

conronarrrons. 2'15

special tax, or in any manner to provide for enforcing the collection of all
taxes not inconsistent with the laws of this State.
§ I5. At the end of every corporate year the may or and councilmen shall
cause to be made in a plain hand writing a full and complete statement of all
moneys received and expanded during tne preceding year, showing on what
account received and expended, a copy of which statement shall be pub-
lished in said city, in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
§ 16. The mayor and councilmen shall not expend more.than one thou-
s' nd dollars annually for the payment of the salaries of city ollicers; no
money shall be paid out of the treasury unless in pursuance of appropriations
made by ordinance; nor shall the mayor and councilmen have power to con-
tract nr in any manner create a debt or liability of said corporation exceed-
ing the sum of one hundred dollars over and above the amount in the treasury
of said city, not otherwise appropriated.
§ 17. Whenever the city of St. Charles shall erect and organize a
workhouse in said city, any person who shall fail or neglect to pay any
fine-or costs imposed on him by any ordinance of the city for any mis-
demeanor or breach of any ordinance shall, instead of being committed
to the jail of the county, be committed to the workhouse until such fine
or costs be fully paid; provided, however, that no such imprisonment
shall exceed ninety days. Every person so committed to the workhouse
shall be required to work for the city at such labor as his health and
strength will permit, not exceedin ten hours in each day; and for such
work and labor the person so emplzoyed shall be allowed,t-xclusive of his
board, the sum of fifty cents per day, which amount shall go to the pay-
ment of such fine or costs.
§ 18. The mayor shall decide and be governed by the laws of this
State in all matters not provided for by ordinances or the provisions of
this act. . ,
§ 19. This act is hereby declared to be a public act, and may be
read in evidence, in all courts of law and equity in this State, without
root
P § 20. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this act,
and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.
§ 21. The mayor and councilmen shall have power to provide for the
appointment of all officers, servants and agents of the city, not other-
wise provided for.
§ 22. The General Assembly may at any time alter, amend or repeal
this charter, or‘ any part thereof.
§ 23. The mayor and council shall have no power to open new
streets in the new limits without the consent of the owners.
§ S4. No election of trustees for the town of St. Charles shall be held
on the first Monday of April next; but if this act of incorporation shall
not be accepted and adopted by the people at the election hereinafter
provided for, then an election for seven trustees for said town shall be
eld on the first Monday in May next, who shall hold their offices until
their successors ‘shall be elected on the first Monday in April, in the
year 1850, and qualilied.
§ 25. On the first Monday in April next an election shall be held in
the town of St. Charles, at which a poll shall be opened to test the will
of the people interested, as to whether this act of incorporation shall be

276 coaromvrrons.

adopted or rejected; and at such election all the qualified-voters residing
within limits incorporated as a city by this act, shall be entitled to vote;
the board of trustees shall give due notice of the time, place and object
of said election, and the same shall be conducted and returned as elec-
tions are usually conducted and returned in said town. At such elec-
tion the poll-books shall contain two columns, one of which shall be
headed, “For the City Corporation;” and the other shall be headed,
“vfgainst the City Corporation,” and votes shall be counted by the
board of trustees of said town; and if it shall appear that a majority of
the qualified voters have voted “For the City Corporation,” then this
act of incorporation shall 0 into full force and effect, and shall be the
law governing the city of gt. Charles, hereby incorporated 3 and the acts
incorporating the town of St. Charles, so far as they are repugnant to,
or inconsistent with this act, shall terminate and cease to be in force,
and the city of St. Charles, hereby incorporated, shall succeed to all its
rights and powers.
§ 26. But if a majority of the qualiiied voters at said election shall
vote “Against the City Corporation,” then this act shall not go into
further effect; but its force and operation shall then cease and terminate,
and the acts incorporating the town of St. Charles, now in force, shall
continue in full force, and the limits,-rights and powers of said town shall
not be impaired by this act.
§ 27. Ifa majority of the qualified voters at such election shall be
cast “For the City Corporation,” then it shall be the duty of the trustees
of said town to cause an election to be advertised and held for mayor and
councilmen of the city of St. Charles, on the first Monday in May next,
and the mayor and councilmen elected shall enter upon their duties, and
hold the first meeting on the second Monday in May next.
§ 28. The trustees of the town of St. Charles, in office at the time of
the passage of this act, shall continue in office until the first Monday in
May next, and until they shall be superceded, or their successors shall
be elected under the provisions of this act.
- Except so far as otherwise provided, in this act, this act shall take
efect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

'\/\/\A/\/x.F\_

 

J\I~./\IsI~-

AN ACT to incorporate the Rural Cemetery Association of St. Louis.

1. Company incorporated. ' §8. Po ialty for injur to or tres asses on -
6 2. Power to urchase and hold certain land tery. Y P “me

and lay t e same off for aburying ground. 9. Punishment for robbing grave or vault, or

3. Otlicers of the compan . removing body for dissection.
4. Organization of the hoard of trustees; l0. Cemetery exempt from taxation.
capital stock of company. ll. Where the grounds of the cemetery crossed
5. Sale of lots in cemetery; when to be made. by public roads.
6. Authentication of deeds for sale of lots. 12. Declared a public act; act January 9, 1841,
7. Company empowered to take and hold in repealed.
trust any grant, devise, «Inc.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That John F. Darby, Henry Kayser, Wayman Crow, James E.
Yeatman, James Harrison, Charles S. Rannells, Gerard B. Allen, Phi-

ooarosarions. 277

lander Salisbury, William Bennett, Augustus Brewster and William M.
McPherson, and their associates and successors, be and they are hereby
created a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of the Rural
Cemetery Association, and by that name shall have perpetual succession
and shall be competent by the name and style aforesaid, to contract and
be contracted with, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend
and be defended, in all courts and'places and in all matters whatsoever;
and shall in like manner have authority to have and use a common seal,
and may alter or change the same at pleasure; and may also make, or-
dain and establish such by-laws, rules and regulations, as may be deem-
ed necessary for the good government of said corporation, and the eHi-
cient management of‘ its affairs; provided, the same shall not be contrary
to any provisions of this charter, nor to the constitution and laws of this
State or of the United States.
§ 2. Said corporation shall have power to purchase and hold a tract of
land not exceeding two hundred acres, to be located not less than two
miles, nor more than five miles distant from the present corporate limits
of the city of St. Louis; to be appropriated and used for a cemetery or
burying ground; and for that purpose, may lay off the same into lots and
subdivisions suitable for graves, vaults and monuments, and may em-
bellish thessame with trees, shrubbery and flowers; and lay out roads and
walks, and when thus laid off and dedicated shall be forever held by said
corporation, for the purposes aforesaid and none other; said corporation
may sell and convey any of the lots or subdivisions in said cemetery for
the purpose aforesaid, subject to such conditions .as may be prescribed
by its by-laws; and every right sold and conveyed shall be held and used
by the proprietors thereof for the purposes aforesaid, shall be indivisa-
ble and shall not be subject to attachment or sale under execution, or to
be conveyed by the owner out of his family, after any interments have
been made in such lot, nor by order of any court.
§ 3. The otlicers of aid corporation shall consist of not less than
seven, nor more than eleven trustees, (the number to be regulated by‘
the by-laws) a secretary and treasurer and such other oliicers and agents
as they may choose to elect. The trustees shall be elected annually,
and shall hold their o$ce for one year, and until their successors are
duly elected. They shall chose one of their number as president, who
shall also be president of the corporation, they shall also choose a sec-
retary and treasurer, either from their own body or at large, whose du-
ties shall be defined by the by-laws of the corporation; a majority of the
trustees shall constitute a quorum for business, and they shall till all va-
clancies that may occur in their body, during the time for which they are
e ecte .
§ 4. 'l‘he persons herein named shall constitute the first board of trustees,
and shall hold their oliices, until an election of their successors takes
place, as hereinafter provided, and any three of said persons may call a
meetin of said board, by giving at least five days notice in writing, or
throng}? a daily paper published in St. Louis; and if a quorum appear at
the time and place appointed, they shall organize by the election of oili-
cers, and proceed to business. Said board shall determine upon the
amount of capital stock of said corporation (which shall not exceed fifty
thousand dollars.) The mode and manner in which the same shall be

4

278 CORPORATIONS.

subscribed, paid in, transferred and held, and the by-laws making these
provisions shall be forever binding on the corporation. The board shall
also fix upon the time for the first meeting of the stockholders for the
election of ollicers, the manner of voting, and the number of votes to
which each stockholder shall be entitled, at which annual meetings the
reports of the secretary and treasurer shall be, presented.

§ 5. No sale of lots in said cemetery shall be made, until at least fifty
acres shall be laid off in suitable lots and a plat of the same filed in the
recorder’s oflice of St. Louis county and at least thirty-three per cent. of
the nett proceeds of all sales shall be expended in improving and embel-
lishing the grounds, building suitable fences or walls around the same and
erecting necessary buildings on the premises.

§ 6. All deeds for the conveyance of lots in said. cemetery shall be
signed by the president of said corporation, and attested by the secreta-
ry with the seal of the corporation attached and the further certificate
of the secretary, “that the president executed the same for the purpose
therein mentioned” with the corporate seal attached, shall be deemed a
sullicient authentication of such deeds in all courts" and places whatso-
ever.

§ 7. It shall be lawful for said corporation, to take and hold any grant
or bequest of money or property in trust and to apply the same or the
income thereof, under the direction of the board of trustees, for the im-

.provement of said cemetery or any portion thereof, or in the erection or

preservation of any tomb or monument according _to the terms of any
such grant or bequest; and any court having equity jurisdiction for the
county of St. Louis, shall have power to compel the performance of any
such trust upon the application of any lot owner in said cemetery.

§ 8. Any person who shall wilfully destroy, injure or remove any tomb
or monument, or any grave stone placed in said cemetery, or shall wil-
fully remove, destroy, cut, break or injure any fence around on any rail-
ing, fence, tree, shrub or plant, within the limits of said cemetery, or
shall shoot off or discharge any gun or other lire arms within the said
limits, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon convic-
tion thereof before any justice of the peace, or court having jurisdiction
of such cases within the county of St. Louis, be fined not less than five
dollars, nor more than fifty dollars according to the nature and aggrava-
tion of the offence; and such offender shall also be liable to an action of
trespass, to be brought before anyjustice or court of competentjuris-
diction, in the name of said corporation to recover all damages sustain-
ed by his or her unlawful act or acts; and such money when recovered
and collected shall be applied by the board of directors, to the rapera-
tion or restoration of the property destroyed or injured; and in such
suits members of the corporation shall be competent witnesses.

.  9. Any person who shall wilfully open any vault or grave within the
limits of said cemetery for the purpose of robbing such grave or vault of
any of the clothes or materials placed therein with the corpse, or who
shall remove any body from said cemetery for the purpose of dissection,
or who shall knowingly receive any such body after its removal, togeth-
er with all aiders and abettors shall be deemed guilty of felony, and upon
conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary for the
term of two years.

conponarrons. ' 279

§ 10. Said cemetery is hereby declared exempt from all taxes and as-
sessments so long as the same shall remain dedicated to the purposes of
a cemetery.
§ 11. In case the land selected for such cemetery shall be on or con-
tiguous to any of the principal roads leading out from the city of Saint
Louis, and beyond the portion now McAdamized, said corporation may
tender to the county court of St. Louis county any sum of money not
less than two thousand dollars, nor more than three thousand dollars to
be appropriated to the extension of the McAdamizing upon such princi-
pal road, and upon such tender being made, it shall be the duty of said
court to appropriate a like sum and the sums so tendered and appropri-
ated, shall without delay be expended by the said court in the grading
and McA«lamizing of such road, in continuation of the work already
completed and in consideration of such sum being contributed towards
such road by said corporation, all carriages and persons going to
- and returning from burials in said cemetery shall be exempt from paying
toll for travelling upon such road between said cemetery and the city of
St. Louis. _
§ 12. This act is hereby declared a public act and ball take effect and
be in force from and after its passage, and the act entitled “An act to in-
corporate the Rural Cemetery Association,” approved twenty-eighth of
January eighteen hundred and forty-one, not having been used, be and
the same is hereby repealed.

Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Missouri and White River Railroad Co.

§ 1. Companyincorporated; capital stock three § 15. Rate of toll prescribed.

millions of dollars. 16. Warehouse at Independence.
2. Board of directors how chosen. 17. Semi-annual dividends to be made; restric.
3. Vote of stockholder. tions thereto. .
4. Otiicers to tie chosen. 18. Exhibit of aliairs of company to be made;
5. Power of directors to appoint omcers; provision for called meetings.
journal to be kept, &.c. 19. When certain sharessubscribed;]:rovisions.
6. Survey of route. 20. Scire facias on violation of charter.
7. Right to enter certain lands. 2]. Proceedings on second violation.
8. Lands how obtained; notice, viewers to be 22. Forfeiture of charter, where road is nudes-
appointed. ed to go to decay, or be impassable.

9. Viewers to take oath, form, and duties. 23. Penalty for injurv or obstruction to road.
10. Damages to be assessed; report thereof. 24. Books, examinable by any shareholder.

ll. Damages how paid. 25. Land receivable in payment of stock.

12. Tender by company ofamountofdamages. 26. County courts in certain cases may sub-

13. Power and duties of company in construct- scribe.
ing road. 27. Subscription may be payahlein labor

14. May build turnouts, branch roads, regulate» 28. On failure of stockholder to pay, proceed-
kind of carriages, cars, &c. ings thereon.

Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§1. That Lewis Jones, Samuel H. Woodson and John Parker, of
Jackson county; Thomas B. Arnet, Hu h G. Glenn and James Hamil-
ton, of Van Buren county; Brinkly ornsby, Coleman F. Chamblin,

280 H oonronxrrous.

and Moses Mullins, of Johnson county; James H. Requa, of Bates coun-
ty; Isaac S. Swift, Benjamin F. Wallace, and James Smith, of Henry
county; Waldo P. Johnson, Hugh Barnett, and William C. Douglass, of
St. Clair county; Thomas Caldwell and James Snoden, of Dade county;
Robert E. Acock, E. M. Campbell, and Morris R. Mitchell of Polk coun-
ty; Nicholas McMinn, of Cedar county; D. D. Berry, G. P. Shackleford,
and N. R. Smith, of Green county; John W. Danforth, David Johnson,
and Harrison G. Snop, of Taney county; Samuel Pharris and J. B. Kel-
ly, of Lawrence county; Littleberry Mason, of Barry county; ard all
such persons as shall hereafter become stockholders of the said compa-
ny, shall-be and are hereby created a body cor orate and olitic, in fact
and in name, by the name and style of the Blissouri an White river
railroad company; the capital whereof shall be three millions of dollars,
or so much as may be necessary to execute the objects of the company
as hereinafter specilied, to be divided into shares of one hundred dollars.
The holders thereof, their successors or assigns, shall constitute the ho-
dy politic and corporate as aforesaid, and by that name shall have per-
petual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend
and be defended, in any and all courts of justice, and shall be able in
law and equity, to make and enforce all kinds of contracts, ma make,
use, alter and renew at pleasure a common seal; may take, ho d, use,
possess and enjoy, the fee simple, or any other title or estate, in real
estate, lands, tenements and hereditaments, and the same to sell and dis-
pose of at pleasure; may make such by-laws, rules and regulations as may
be necessary and proper for carrying into effect the provisions and mean-
ing of this act, not repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United
States or of this State. _ '

 2. That the aforesaid persons, or a majority of them, shall constitute
the first board of directors under this act, and shall hold their ollice un-
til their successors are duly elected and qualified; and they and their
successors are hereby authorized to fill any vacancies which may occur
in said board, before the regular day of election by the stockholders,
which shall take place on the iirst Monday in May of each year, at the
town of Osceola, in St. Clair county; when they shall elect out of their
number nine ersons, who shall be directors until the next regular elec-
tion, and unti their successors are elected and qualified. The board of
directors hereby appointed, or a majority of them, shall meet at Osceola
on the first Monday in May, 1849, and when organized, may open books
for the subscription to the capital stock, at such times and places as
they may deem proper, until the whole amount shall have been taken up.

§ 3. Every stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share by
him held, and those not present shall be entitled to vote by proxy, said
proxy showing authority in writing, duly executed by the stockholder
Erliqm he represents; but no director shall act as proxy for any stock-

o er.

§ 4. The directors shall meet at Osceola in a reasonable time after
election, and choose out of their number a president, treasurer and sec-
retary, whqshall hold their ofiices during the time they were elected
directors.

§5- The directors, shall have power, from time to time, to appoint
agents, clerks, engineers, superintendents and all such other oflieers and

ooaronrrmrs. 281

rsons necessary to carry into efect the objects of this act; they shall
eep a journal of their proceedings, in which shall be entered all by-_
laws, rules and regulations made by the board, and all other acts; and
any one member may require the ayes and noes to be entered thereon,
upon any vote given by the board; which journal shall be signed by the
president and attested by the secretary; and said board of directors shall
by by-laws, prescribe the powers and duties of every ofiicer or person
elected or appointed by virtue of this act.
§ 6. The directors, by their agents or engineers, shall have full power
and authority, from time to time, to examine, survey, mark and locate a
route for a rail road for a single or double track, the same not to be
-more than one hundred and fifty feet wide, commencing in the town of
Independence, in Jackson county, and running from thence to White
..river, at the most convenient point on said river, at or near the town of
Forsythe, in Taney county, where a good terminus for the road can be
obtained. .
§ 7. For the purpose of making said examination, location and con-
struction of said road, it shall be lawful for said company, by their
agents, oliicers or other persons employed, to enter upon the lands along
or contiguous to said road; and all grants and donations of any land or V
materials made to said company, or any contract for the same to the
company, shall be binding upon the person or persons making the same,
to the full intent and meaning of said contract.
§ 8. In all cases, where any erson through whose land said road may
run, shall refuse to relin uish t e quantity aforesaid, or where no con-
tract can be made with t e owner thereof, either on account of absence,
or being an infant, or of unsound mind, or a married woman, or from
any other cause whatever, it shall be lawful for the company to give no-
tice thereof to the judge of the circuit court of the county within which
the lands lie, and it shall be the duty oi the said judge thereupon to appoint
three disinterested and discreet men, citizens of the county, to examine
and view said lands, upon a day to be by them designated; at least live
days notice of the time of making said view shall be given to the owner
of said land, if a resident of the county, if not, then said notice to be
given to the ‘tenant, and if there be no tenant, notice shall be given by
an advertisement in some newspaper printed nearest the county where
said lands lie; if the lands belong to a married woman, infants, or per-
sons of unsound mind, notice shall be served on the husband of such
married woman, or the guardian of such infants or persons of unsound
mind; and where there is no guardian, the judge shall appoint some
suitable person on their behalf. '
§9. The viewers thus appointed, before entering upon their duties,
shall severally take and subscribe an oath, faithfully and impartially to
discharge the duties of their appointment, and honestly to assess the
damages, if any, which the construction of the road will do the lands of
‘ such owners, taking always into the estimate the advantages, as well as
the disadvantages, the road‘ may be to the land.
§ 10. The viewers shall go upon and examine the land, and report
what damages, if any, will be done thereto, or any buildings or appurte-
nences thereon; which report shall be accompanied with a plat of the
land viewed, and returned into'the oiiice of the clerk of the circuit court

10

282 oonronariousi

of the county in which the lands lie, who shall file the same, and enter
judgment thereon in the records of the court, for the amount thereof,
which shall be final and conclusive between the parties, unless they shall
file in writing, with the clerk, within five days after the return of said
report, their objections to the same, and when objections are thus filed, it
shall be the duty of the judge to examine the same as soon thereafter as may
be, and may hear testimony thereon; and if the judge shall find the objec-
tions sufiicient and legal, he shall order "a review by three other review-
ers, who shall proceed in the same manner as hereinbefore provided; but
not more than one review shall be granted to the same person; and if the
judge shall lind said objections not to be suilicient or just, he shall cause
judgment to be entered according to said report; and if no objections be
tiled to said report as aforesaid, the court of the next succeeding term
shall cause the same to be confirmed, and judgment thereon; provided,
the clerk shall not enter judgment until live days after filing the report
have elapsed. The company, by their agents, engineers, superintend-
ents and laborers, may enter upon all such lands, and proceed to con-
struct said railroad through the same, and the pendency of any pro-
ceedings whatever, to ascertain the damages, shall not hinder or delay

‘ 0 the progress of the work, the intention and meaning of this act being,

that all injury which may be done to any land by opening and construct-
ing said railroad through the same, over and above the advantages of
the road to the proprietor of said land, shall be fully compensated when
the dama es are ascertained.

§ 11. '1 he damages assessed as aforesaid shall he paid to the owner of the
land or his legal representatives or agent ; but if the owner is absent, and
haying no agent entitled to l'6Ct-l\/8 said damages, the same shall he paid
into the county treasury, subject to the order of the owner; whenever the
company shall file in the oflice of the clerk of the county court the receipt
of the person entitled to said damages for the amount thus assesssed, or in
case of a deposit. as hereinhelbre prescribed, in the county treasury, then
the receipt or certificate of said treasurer of said deposite for the damages
aforesaid; then the right, title and interest of said land mentioned in the
report shall pass, and be vested in said company, in fee simple. as fully and
completely as if deeds of conveyance had been executed therefor; provided,
that if the party In whom the damages were awarded shnll refuse to accept
the same; in ‘lint event the company shall succeed to all the rights guarantied
to them in cases where the damages have been paid or deposited as aforesaid.
and the person entitled to said damages may, at any time thereafter, after
demand made and relused by the company to pay the same, enforce the pay-
ment of said damages and costs, ifany, by execution from the court to which
the report was made.

§ 12. If before anv proceeding, as ltereinbefore provided, be had for the
purpose of ascertaining the damages on [said] land, the company shall have
tendered to the owner of said land a sum equal or greater than the damages

assessed, and the same sha“ be ,-c{.,3cd, the party so refusing shall pay all °

costs attemling the a.~sc:-'stnent ul snclt damages; in all other cases the cots
shall he paid by the company.

§ iii. The company shall have pm\'m' and authority to build said mad
"'l0|lL' or ttcwss any State or county road. and the streets of any town. cor-
l’U- 7-'4, Hr etir rwise,antlo\'t-1' any stream u1‘l1igi‘.\~.‘:t_v : but before such right

CORPORATIONS. 283

shall vest in the company they shall apply to the county court for such right
to use said roads or cross the same. and it the court is satisfied that to great

‘ injury will'be done to the public, they may, by an order of said court, give

the right to do so; provided, that said company shall keep good and suliicient
causevvays for crossing the same; and whenever said road shall run along the
streets of a town, the same sh't'l not obstruct any street to the hindrance of
the public from using the same; and, provided also, that said company shall
construct and keep in good repair a good and sufficient draw-bridge, at the
point at which said road shall cross the Osage river. so as to admit of the
passage, without hindrance or delay, to all steamboats and other vessels
navigating the stream.

§ 1 1. It shall be lawful for said company to prescribe the kind ofcarriage
that may he used, and by whom, and whether propelled by steam or other.
wise. for the transportation nf passengers and freight ofany description, and
may build such turn-outs, branch roads, warehouses, and all other structures,
as may te considered necessary to the interests of the company. All cars,
carriages, &.c., to be used on the road. shall be alone subject to the company,
through its proper oliicets, and no person shall put any carriage or other
vehicle on said road without permission of the company.

§ 15. The company may charge and receive such toll for freight for the
transportation of persons, commodities or carriages on said road, or any
part thereof, as shall be to the interest of the same, not to exceed ten cents
per mile for passengers, and twenty-five cents per mile per ten for freight,
and shall keep posted up at the depots a list of the rates of toll and freight.
If the company shall, at any time, refuse or fail, without good cuuse, to
transport. within a reasonable time. any freight delivered at the proper place.
and in proper order, the toll or freight thereon having been paid, they shall
be liable to the party injured in double the amountol such toll,together with
private damages, for the detention, to be recovered in any court of compe-
tent jurisdiction.

§ 16. The company shall have the power and authority to erect, at the town
of independence, :1 large‘ and commodious warehouse, which shall be used
for the purpose of storing Santa Fe, and other goods which may be trans-
ported on the railroad; said house shall be so constructed as to facilitate the
loading of wagons, for the purpose of encouraging the trade, and for such
facilities the company is hereby authorized to charge warehouse rents, at a
rate not exceeding one dollar and twenty cents per ton, and single packages
of light articies not exceeding thirty-five cents per package. ,

§ 17. Semi-annual dividends of so much of the profits as the directors may
deem expedient shall be made, on such days as the directors may determine,
and be paid to the stockholders as soon thereafter as can, with convenie tCt’._
be d. ne; but no dividend shall be made to a greater amount than the nett
profits, after deducting all expenses; and the directors may reserve such
portion of the profits, as a contingent fund to meet subsequent expenditures,
as they may deem proper.

§ 18. At every annual election the directors shall lay before the stockhold-
ers present an exhibit of the affairs and condition of the company; any
number of stockholders owning onesfourth of the stock subscribed may call a
meeting of the stockholders by giving at least four weeks notice in some
newspaper published ne.-.r said road, specifying the object of the call: and if
the majmity of the stock is represented they shall be competent to trans:;ct
any business ’.t‘tl(‘.ltlt‘.g the concerns of the company. i

284 " conrorurrtoxs.

§ 19. Whenever the amount of two thousand five hundred shares shall
h lVC been subscribed all the powers, privileges, rights, immunities and bene-
fits conferred or intended to be conferred in this charter shall be vested in the
holders of said shares; and whenever any other portion of said capital stock
is subscribed for, the same shall be vested in all subsequent subscribers; and
every person who shall cease to be a share holder shall cease to be a member
of said company, and any share holder may sell and transfer his share to any
other per-on.
§ 20. When five or more stockholders shall make complaint, under
oath, to the judge of the circuit court of any county through which said road
b may run that any of the provisions of this charter have been violated by
said company, the said court may issue a writ, in the nature of a scire
facias, against the president of said company, directed to the sheriff of
the county in which said president resides, which shall be served atleast
sixty days before the return of said writ, and at the return term a
jury may be empanneled to inquire into the complaint, and assess the
damages, if any, attending said violation of the charter; and the said
court shall render judgment for the damages so assessed.
§ 21. Upon a second violation of this charter, ascertained in the man-
ner provided for in the last section, the court may render judgment for
double the amount of damages so assessed by the jury; and upon a third
violation, the court shall render jud ment for double the amount of
damages so assessed by the jury; and i the court be satisfied that said
third violation was willful, the court may appoint trustees to take charge
of the affairs of the company, and the charter privileges shall from that
time cease until the meeting of the next General Assembly thereafter.
§ 22.. If said railroad, after its completion, shall he suffered to go into
decay, or be impassable for the space of two years,unless when the same
is being repaired, this charter shall be forfeited.
§ 23. If any person shall wilfully injure, obstruct or destroy said rail-
road, or hinder the passage of cars along the same, or shall break, dis-
troy or deface any work, edifice or other fixture or improvement belong-
ing to said company-, he shall be considered guilty of a criminal offence,
and shall be punished in such manner as shall be prescribed by law; and
shall also be liable to private persons, as well as to this company, for
double damages sustained by such willful obstruction as aforesaid.
§ 24. Any shareholder may, at any time, have the privilege of exam-
ining the books of the company to ascertain the condition thereof.
§ 25. The directors are hereby authorized to receive, in payment of
stock, lands or any other discription of real estate at its realvalue, at the
time of subscription. and when so received and valued shall not be sold
or disposed of until after the completion of the railroad, unless in the
opinion of the directors the interest of the company may require it.
§ 26. It shall be lawful for the county court of any county through
' which said road may run, or any county interested in said road, to sub-
scribe to the stock of said company, and may invest all or any of its
funds in the stock of said company; and may issue the bonds of such
county to raise funds to pay for stock so subscribed; and said county
court may appoint some suitable person to represent the interest of said
County in said company, and the person so appointed shall have the same

privileges as any other stockholder. Any incorporated city, town, or

'O0I!0RA'1‘ION8. 285

incorporated company, may subscribe to the stock, and be represented
by its agents in said company in the same manner as provided for with
regard to counties; and all investments in stock in said road, or any
building or improvement belonging to said company, shall be exempt
from taxation for the term of five years after the organization of said
company.

§ 27. The directors may, if in their own opinion it will advance the
interest of said company, receive subscriptions for stock-, payable in
labor to be performed on said railroad, under the superintendence of the
directors or officers of said company, taking bond with approved secu-
rity for the faithful performance of the work when and at the point on
said road where said directors shall direct.

§ 28. The directors may, by a call published at least three weeks in
some newspaper near said road, require the ayment of stock to
be made in such instalments, and in such time and) manner as shall be
required by said directors, the last insertion in said paper to be at least
two weeks previous to the time requiring payment; and if any stock-
holder shall fail to pay said call within ten days after the time so appoint-
ed, the company may recover the same by action at law, with interest
from and after the time of such delinquency, and if not collected,
may declare the stock of such delinquent to be forfeited; and if
not redeemed in’ three months the stock so forfeited shall be sold by the
directors; and no delinquent stockholder shall be entitled to any of the
privileges of a stockholder in said company.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849. {

1

I/'\/\/\./\x\/‘J \/\/\/\I‘\/

   

\

AN ACT to incorporate the Alexandria and St. Francisville Rail Rcad
Company.

§ 1. Company inco orated. S 4. Powers, privileges, rights and immunities

‘.2. Capital stock 0 the company. « of com any.
3. Booksto be opened for subscription of 5. May esta lishaplankroad instead of arail

stock. ) road.
(1 6. Restriction as to purchase of real estate.

Be ilenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§1. That James Cowgill, Henry Snively, E. F. Greenleaf, Simeon
Conway, R. L. Roberson, William McKee, J. R. Campbell and Thomas
E. Redding of Clark county, and all such persons as may hereafter be-
come stockholders in the said company, shall be, and they are hereby
created a body corporate and politic in fact and in law, by the name and
style of “The Alexandria and St. Francisville Rail Road Company,”
and by that name and style, the stockholders shall be in perpetual suc-
cession, and be able to sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, in
all the courts of record in said State; and to purchase, receive, have,
hold and enjoy, to them and their successors, lands, tenements and here-
ditaments, oods, chattels and all estates, real, personal and mixed,
of what kin or quality soever; and the same from time to time, to sell,

286 oonronnrons.

mortgage, grant, alien and convey and to make dividend of such portion
of the profits as they may deem roper, and also to make-and have a
common seal, and the same to a ter or chan e at pleasure;and also to
ordain, establish and put in execution such by-laws, ordinances and
regulations as shall appear necessary and convenient for the government
of said corporation, not being contrary or repugnant to the constitution
and laws of the United States, or to the constitution of the State of Mis-
souri; and generally to do all and singular the matters and things which to
them it shall lawfully appertain to do, for the well being of the said cor-
poration, and the due management and orderin of the affairs of the same;
provided, always, that it shall not be lawful for t e said corporation to deal,
use or employ any part of the stock, funds or money, in buying or selling
wares or merchandize in the way of traiiic, or in banking or brokering
operations.

? 2. That the capital stock of said corporation shall be fifty thousand
do lars divided in shares of one hundred dollars each, and it shall be
lawful for said corporation, when, and so soon as in the opinion of the
individuals named in the foregoing section, a sudicient amount of stock
shall have been taken for that purpose to commence and carry on their
said proper business and rail road operations under the privileges and
conditions herein granted.

§ 3. That the said company are hereby authorised and empowered to
cause books for the subscription of stock, to be opened at such time and
places as they may deem most conducive to the attainment of the end
required. .

§ 4. The said company shall have power to view, lay out and construct
a rail road from Alexandria in Clark county to St. Francisville in the
county aforesaid, and shall in all things be subjected to the same restric-
tions, and entitled to all the ri hts, privileges and immunities which were
granted to the Louisiana and olumbia rail road company, passed at the
session of the General Assembly in 1836 and 1837, and approved Janu-
ary the 27th, 1837; so far as the same are applicable to the company
hereby created, as fully and completely as if the same were herein re-
enacted.

§ 5. The said company may if they deem it proper, establish a plank
road in place of a rail road, and in that case they are authorised to re-
duce the capital stock.

§ 6. N othin in this act nor in that to which it refers, shall be so con-
strued as to al ow said company to hold or purchase any more real estate
than may be necessary and proper, for the use of the road and the business
transacted thereon.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10th, 1849.

I

f/€ ‘g\;@‘é\J'§\J \.a\/\/"\t ‘_r\z\.z\/V

ealrorwrrerrs. ' 28?

AN AC1‘ to incorporate the Firemen’s Insurance Company of Saint
C

Louis.

§ 1. Company incorporated; capital stock. 10. Fire com anies of St. Louis may subscribe
2. Books of subscription to be opened. for stoclt.
3. Name and powers of corporation. ll. Authentication of policies of insurance, are.
4. Objects on which company may make in- 12. Manner of making payment for stock sub-

surance. scribed.
5. Board of directors; mode of election. 13. Members of, and fire companies, only al-
6. President to be chosen. _ lowed to take stock.
7. Stock ass’ able. 14. Meetings of board of directors convened;
8. Powers 0 board of directors. when.
9. Authority to take real estate as security; on
mortgage, &.c:

I

Be it eziacied by the Genefaluissembly Q/' the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. An insurance company to be called “The Firemen’s Insurance
Company,” shall be established in the city of St. Louis, with a capital
of fifty thousand dollars, which may be increased at the will of the stock-
holders, aowning majority of the stock, from time to time to any amount
not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars, divided into shares of
fifty dollars each, to be subscribed and paid for by individuals, compa-
nies or corporations, in the manner hereinafter specified.

§ 2. Patrick German, Samuel Hawlren, Charles C. Whittelsey, James
H. Alexander, Hiram Shaw, Daniel H. Donovan, Simeon Stephens, T.
B. Targee, Alfred Tilden, C. W. Lightner, D. Q. Childs sand W. Risley,
or any three of them be, and they hereby are constituted commissioners, to
open books of subscription in said city for the capital stock of said company
on the second Monday of March next, or on any day the said commis-
sioners, or any three of them may a point, and keepthem open every day
from ten o’clock, A. M., to two o’c ock, P. M., for the space of ten days
or until all the stock be subscribed for, whenthey shall be closed; and
within a reasonable time thereafter, the subscribers shall meet to elect
directors, the commissioners first giving ten days notice in some news-
paper published in the city ot St. Louis, of the time and place of said
meetin .

§ 3. $I’he subscribers for the stock of said company, their associates,

successors and assigns, shall be, and they hereby are created a body cor- '

porate and politic, by the name and style of “The Firemen’s Insurance
Company,” and by that name they and their successors shall have per-
petual succession, and shall and hereby are made capable in law, of buying,
receiving and possessing property of every kind, and the same to sell or
otherwise dispose of; of contracting and being contracted with, of suing
and being sued, of impleading and being impleaded, of answering and
being answered unto, of defending and being defended against in all
courts and places whatsoever, in all manner of actions, suits, complaints
and cases; and they and their successors may have a common seal, and the
same may change and alter at pleasure, and shall have all the powers
necessary and useful for an insurance company, and which may be use-
ful and necessary to carry into complete effect the purposes of this act.

§ 4. The corporation hereby created shall have full power and authori-
ty to make all kinds of insurance against loss on shi s, steamboats and
other vessels, their cargoes, goods, wares, merchandise, produce, gold

988 CORPOBATIOJIG.

and silver, bullion and coin, freights, wages and property of every kind
in the course of transportation by land or water;‘ to make insurance

‘against loss or damage by fire, on land or water; on every description of

property or merchandize, to make all kinds of insurance upon lives, and
to make such other insurance as they may deem expedient, to lend money
on bottomry and respondentia to insure or guarantee the payment
of promissory notes, bonds, bills of exchange and other monied obliga-
tions at the time they may become due, to fig: the premiums of insurance
and in the event of the company paying said notes, bonds, bills of exchange
or other monied obligation, in virtue of their guarantee thereof,‘ the said
company shall from and after the payment of said obligations, be subro-
gated to all the rights to which the person or persons to whom such pay-
ment shall be made had in and to the same, and shall have all such rights
bf action and remedies in law or equity, for the recovery of the same,
that such person or persons had, and generally to do and perform all
necessary matters and things relating or in connection with said objects
or either of them. The said company may also cause themselves to be
insured against all maratime and other risks, and upon the interest they
may have in any vessel or vessels, goods, wares, merchandize, in virtue
of any loans they may have made on bottomry or respondentia, or in vir-
tue of any guarantee of any promissory notes, bonds, bills, of exchange,
or other monied obligations against all losses they may incur, by reason
of any insurance made by said company, on any life or lives or against
losses by fire, the perils of the sea, or in land navigation and transpor-
tation. '-

§ 5. The stock and affairs of said company shall be mana ed and con-
trolled by a board of nine directors, who shall be stockho ders of said
com any, and residents of the State. They shall, after the first year,
be e ected on the second Monday of April in each and every year, at
the oflice of the company in the city of St. Louis, within such hours as
the directors for the time being shall appoint; and shall hold their oili-
ces for one year and until their successors be elected; ten days ublic
notice of such election shall be given, and it shall be held under t e di-
rection of three stockholders, appointed by the directors, and -shall be
made by ballot, by a plurality of the stockholders voting, allowing one
vote for every share; and stockholders not present may vote by
proxy, made in writing and directed to the person representin them at
each election. In case it should at any time. happen that an election of
directors should not be made on any day when pursuant to this act it
ought to have been made, the said corporation shall not for that reason
be dissolved; but it shall be lawful, on any other day, to hold and make
an election of directors in such manner as shall be regulated by the by-
laws of the company.

§ 6. The directors regularly chosen by the stockholders of said company
shall, as soon as may be after every annual election, proceed to choose out of
their body one person to be president, who shall preside and hold his oiiice
for the same period for which the directors are elected, and it shall require
a majority of all the directors elected for such choice; and in case of
vacancy by death, resignation, or otherwise, of the president, a direc-
tor, or other officer of said company, such vacancy shall be filled by the
board of directors; and in the case of the absence of the president, the
board of dire-.cto.rs shall have power to appoint a president pro tempore;

eoueaarsoars. 289

who shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of the president
regularly chosen. '

§ 7. The stock of such company shall be considered as personal pro-
perty, and shall be assignable and transferable according to such rules,
regulations, and restrictions, as the board of directors shall from time to
time make and establish, subject however to the general laws of this
State, as they now exist_or may be changed hereafter.

§ 8. The major part of the directors of said company shall constitute
a board, and shall be competent to the transaction of the business of the
corporation, and they shall have power to appoint a secretary, and such
other servants, agents, and assistants, as they may deem expedient, and
also from their own body may appoint one or more persons, to assist in
the performance of the business of the company, with such salaries and
allowances as they may deem proper; to insure against all risks author-
ized by this act; to receive for the amount of premiums and guarantees,
such notes, endorsed and payable in such manner and at such times as
they may deem proper, in conformity to such re ulations and by-laws as
shall be made on the subject; to declare and maie dividends of so much
of the profits arising from the business of the company as shall appear to
the board of directors advisable; but the money received and the notes
taken for premiums and guarantees on risks, which shall not have expi-

red at the time of making such dividends, shall not be considered as-

forming a part of the profits of said company; and no dividends shall be
paid to the stockholders until all the capital stock is paid in; to settle, adjust
and pay all losses for which the company may become liable, accordin to
such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the by-laws; t ey
may, however, confide to the president and secretary. or any two Of $110
directors, the power of issuing risks, fixing and receiving premiums and
guarantees, adjusting and paying losses to such amount as they may
deem prudent; to make and prescribe such rules, regulations and by-laws
as to them shall seem proper, touching the business of the company, and
have the power generally to.do and perform all acts necessary and con-
venient for the government of the affairs of said company, and to carry
into effect the powers and purposes of this act.
§ 9. It shall be lawful for said company to purchase and hold such real
estate as may be convenient for the transaction of its business, and also
‘to take and hold any real estate as a security, or in mortgage, or in
pledge, to secure the payments of debts due said company, either for
shares of stock or otherwise; .and also to purchase and hold real estate,
at any sales made in virtue of any judgment at law or decree in equity
in favor of said company; to receive and take in satisfaction of any
debts previously contracted in the course of its dealings any real estate,
and to hold such real estate so long as may be necessary to enable the com-
pany to make sale of the same on such terms as may be for the interest
of the company; it shall be lawful for said company to purchase and hold
any stock or funded debt of the United States, or of any of the States,
or of this State, or created in virtue of any laws of this State, for the
purpose of investing therein any part of the stock funds or money of said
company; and also to sell and transfer the same, and to invest the pro-
ceeds in other stock or funded debt, when and as often as may be deem-
ed expedient; said company shall also have power to lend out such of its

290 conroaarrom.

unemployed funds on such‘ terms and security as the board of directors
shall prescribe, so that such loans can be made available, in the ordina-
ry business, providing nothing herein contained shall be construed as
granting banking privileges.

§ 10. It shall be lawful for each of the incorporated fire companies of
the city of St. Louis, and for the Firemen’s Fund Association to sub-
scribe for and own stock in the company hereby created, and the votes
upon such stock shall be cast by such person as may be appointed by
said companies. .

§ 11. All- policies of insurance and instruments of guarantee made by
said company, and all promissory notes, bonds, bills of exchange, and
other monied obligations that may be insured or guaranteed by said com-
pany, shall be subscribed by the president or president pro tempore.

(? 12. The payment of the stock subscribed shall be made and comple-
te by the subscribers respectively in the manner following, to—wit: At
the time of subscribing there shall be paid ten dollars on each share; af-
ter the election of directors, and before the company shall go into oper-
ation, there shall be paid the further sum of live dollars on each share,
and the balance shall be subject to the call of the board of directors;
and said company shall not be authorized to make any contract, policy
of insurance, or guarantee, until the whole amount of the capital stock
subscribed shall be actually paid or satisfactorily secured, to e paid on
demand by approved notes, hypothecated stocks, or mortgage on real
estate.

§ 13. No person shall be allowed to subscribe and take stock in the
company hereby created, except members of some one of the incorpor-
ated iire companies of the city of St. Louis, and whenever any stock-
holder shall cease to belong to some one of said companies he shall be
compelled to sell his stock to some member of the fire department who,
by this act, is authorized to hold stock in the company hereby created,
and no person shall be allowed to subscribe for more than ten shares,
and no incorporated fire company for more than twenty shares.

§ 14. The board of directors of said company shall convene accord-

ing to their by-laws, or whenever required by the president, or any two
of the directors.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

" -*.f\r\h

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Columbia and Missouri River Turnpike
Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated; capital stock fifty ) 9. County court of Boone county may sub-
thousand dollars. P scribe.

2. Routes to be surveyed, under direction of
certain ersons.

3. Books to opened.

4. Notice of meeting of stockholders.

5. Officers of company; their term of otlice.
6. Powers of company.

7. Additional otlicers may be appointed.
8. Stock, when to be paid.

10. Trustees of town of Columbia may sub-
séribe.
ll. Trustees of Rocheport may subscribe.
12. Provisions in relation to vote.of said
county and town.
13. For survey of route; said county and
town may subscribe.
14. Field notes; copy to be filed.

/\¢\/\/\./€‘~./K/'5/¥/'\4

eoneomrtons. 291

15. Width and character of road. 19. Oath of oliice.
16. Company may receive certain real estate. 20. Power to hold land for materials for con-
i7. When toll gates to be erected. struction.
18. Jciirntal of expenses, receipts, &c. to be 2!. Restriction as to power to take toll.
9]’

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The stockholders of a companv, to be raised and organized as
hereinafter prescribed, are hereby incorporated, by the name and style of
the “Columbia and Missouri River Turnpike Company,” with a capital stock
of fifty thousand dollars, and such additional sums as may be necessary to
make and construct a turnpike road from the town of Columbia, in Boone
county, to some point on the Missouri river, in said county; and by that
name shall have continual succession, and a common seal, may hold property,
sue and be sued, and exercise the usual rights of bodies politic and corporate,
created for such purposes.

2. That under the direction of William Jewell, Warren Woodson Robert
S. Barr, Henry Keen, James L. Mathews, Geo. Knot, Alexander H. Rob-
inson, and John Parker, such routes as may be contemplated for said road,
shall be carefully’ surveyed, after which they shall be authorized to locate
the same on the most practicable route, considering the distance, cost of
construction, probable amount of stock to be taken on the different routes,
and travel on the same.

§ 3. That on the first Monday in June next, or at such time and places
as the persons named in the foregoing section shall direct; books for the
subscription of stock, in shares of fifty dollars, and under the direction of
such persons as they shall name, shall be openegt, and continue open for
fifty days; an! if the full amount of said stock be not subscribed, the persons
aforesaid may cause said hooks to be continued open, or reopened at such
times and places as they may think proper, until the whole is taken.

§ 4. The persons aforesaid shall, so soon as five thousand dollars of stock
is taken by individuals, give public notice that a meeting of the stockholders
will be held at a time and place to be by them named in such notice, for
the purpose of organizing the company, and electing its oflicers; each
shareholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share which he may have
in said company, and no vote shall be given by proxy.

§5. The ofiicers of said company shall be a president, secretary, trea-
surer, and five directors, who shall be elected by the stockholders, at a regular
meeting, and who shall hold their ofiices for one year, and until their
successors are elected and qualified; and all vacancies shall be filled by the
directors.

§ 6. The president and directors of said company shall have the necessary
powers of transacting the business, and carrying into execution the objects
and designs of the company, and to make such rules, by-laws, and orders as
they may think necessary for the government of the corporation, and which
may not be contrary to any general law.

§7. The president and directors of said company may appoint such
other ofiicc-rs and agents as may be necessary, and prescribe their duties,
compensation, and tenures of oflice.

§ 8. The stock shall be paid at such times as the president and directors
shall order: and if any stockholder shall failto pay any installment according

0 their order, for more than ten days af;er public notice, given in son.e

292 - CORPORATIONS.

newspaper, for the payment of the same, he shall forfeit to the company all
right to said shares, and all sums previously paid on said shares.

§ 9. The county court of Boone county is hereby authorized, whenever
the judges thereof shall deem it expedient to do so, to subscribe stock on the
part of said county, to the amount of the three per cent. fund, and also the
dis'ributive share of said county in the proceeds of the five hundred thousand
acres of land granted to this State by the act of Congress. approved Septem-
ber '4th, 1841. which may remain unexpended, and which may hereafter be
paid over to said county; provided, that the nett dividends, which may from
time to time be declared by said company. in proportion to the amount of
stock subscribett by said county court, shall be forever and faithfully under
the direction of said court appropriated to the building of bridges and
opening and reopening of roads in other parts of said county.

§ 10. The trustees ofthe inhabitants of the town ofColumbia, whenever
they may deem it advantageous to the inhabitants of said town so to do,
are hereby authorized to subscribe stock in said company on the part of the
inhabitants of said town, not exceeding the sum of ten thousand dollars;
and, in order to raise the money for this purpose, they are authorized to
borrow the same, issue bonds, and malre all necessary assessments and
regulations for the repayment of the principal and interest on the same, by
installments or otherwtse.

{} ll. The trustees of the inhabitants of the town of Rocheport are in
like manner, on the part of the inhabitants of said town. authorizeti tn
subsetibe stock in said company, not exceeding the sum of ten thousand
dollars; and for this purpose, they are authorized to borrow money, issue
bonds, and enact such ordinances as may be necessary to secure the repay-
ment of principal and interest on the same, by installments or otherwise.

§ 12. In all cases of elections for oflicers, or whenever the stockholders
may be entitled to vote, the county court of said county shall cast the vote
of said county, and the trustees of the towns of Columbia and ltocheport
shall east the vote of their respective corporations in such manner as they
may prescribe.

§ 13. For the purpose ofhaving such routes surveyed, as may be necessary
to obtain proper information, the county court of Boone county is hereby
authorized to appropriate a reasonable sum out of the funds above designated,
and the trustees of the towns of Columbia and Rocheport are in like manner
authorized to subscribe, on the part of their respective towns, such sums of
money as they may deem necessary for this object.

§ I4. A copy of the field notes, made out in the survey of any contem-
plated route of said read, under this act, shall be filed in the recorder’s ofiiee
of Boone county.

§ 15. Said road shall be kept open at least fifty feet wide, eighteen feet
whereof shall be a McAdamized road; provided, that said company, under
this act of incorporation, shall have full power and authority to con.~‘trucl:
an . other description of road which they may deem more advantageous to the
members thereof, and to the county.

§ 16. The president and directors may receive, by deed or purchase, gift.
or other conveyance, any quantity of real estate, not more than one hundred
leet wide, for carrying into effect the object of the company; but if they
cannot obtain such conveyance. then the said company may mark out and
construct said read, and the owner or owners of such land shall be entitled
to a writ of “ad quod damnum" to assess the damages by him or them

. consonsuosrsa’ 293

l

sustained, in the same manner as is provided in the case of the establishment
of county roads. ‘

§ 17. Whenever one half of said road shall be completed, the company
may erect a toll-gate on the same; and when the entire road is finished, the
company may erect not more than three toll gates, and the county court of
Boone county shall have power to fix the rates ot toll.

§ 18. The said company shall cause to be made and kept a journal of
their proceedings, a just and accurate account of the expenses and pay-
ments made on account of said road; the receipts of the tolls accruing
therefrom, and generally such statements as shall be necessary to perpetuate
evidence of the manner of conducting said read, and to afford to all’inte-
rested correct information of the business relating to said company; and
copies of the receipts and expenditures once every year exhibited, shall [be]
tiled with the county court of the county of Boone.

§ 19. Every otliccr of said company shall take an oath for the faithful
pcrformatice of the duties of his otiice, and the treasurer shall give such
bond and security as the president and directors shall direct.

' § 20. Said company shall have power tn purchase and hold any land for
the purpose of supplying materials for the construction and repairs of said
road. -

§ 21. Said company shall not be at liberty, at any time, to take tell when
said road shall not be kept in proper repair.

This act to take effect and be in fozcc from and after its passage. _
Approved February 27, 1849.

-- ,’._/\£\P./\,r\/\-".I\/ /‘ .0‘/\/\¢

AN AC1‘ to incorporate the New Madrid and Stoddard Plank Road
Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated. : § 10. Commissioners toimake report to county
2. Capital stock, thirty thousand dollars. \ court; jury appointed to assess damages.

3. Books to be opened. g 11. Time in which portion of road is to he

4. Directors seven, to be chosen. constructed.

5, Election of directors. \ 12. Board Of directors; p0W8l‘8 Of.

6. Construction of road, its route, width &.c.‘ 13. May hold real estate.

7. Commissioners to locate road. - 14. Rates of toll.

8. Commissioners may take grant of right of 15 Penalty for injury to toll-gates, property,
way, &c., of company.

9. Where damages on right of way may be as-
sessed. )

Be itenacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. All persons who shall become stockholders, pursuant to the act
of incorporation hereby created, shall he and they are hereby constitu-
ted a body politic and corporate, by the name of the New Madrid and
Stoddard plank road company, for the term and time of thirty years after
the passage. of this act.

?2. The capital stock of such corporation shall be thirty thousand
do lars, which shall be divided into shares of twenty dollars each, and
the same shall be deemed personal property, and be assignable as the
by-laws of the said corporation shall direct.

294 ooarorwrrons.

§ 3. Godfrey Lessieur, John Woodward, Hezekiah D. Maulsby, of
the county of New Madrid, Solomon G. Kitchen, Pierce Jones,'~and
William Wells, of the county of Stoddard, John Daugherty, Edward
Spencer, and William H. Horner, of the county of Dunklin, or a major-
ity of them, shall be commissioners to open books and receive subscrip-
tions for said capital stock; two dollars shall be paid on each share of
the said stock at the time of the ‘subscription therefor.

§ 4. The concerns and business of the said corporation shall be man-
aged by seven directors, to be chosen from among the stockholders
thereof; each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for every share
of stock owned by such stockholder, which vote may be given in per-
son or by proxy, duly appointed in writing.

§5. Whenever live thousand dollars shall have been subscribed to
such capital stock, it shall become the duty of the commissioners named
in the third section of this act, or a majority of them, by notice of at

. least twenty days advertisements in writing, posted up in three public

places in the county of Stoddard, and three public places in the county
of Dunklin, and by advertisements in a newspaper printed nearest the
location of the said road, once a week for three weeks, to call a meeting
of the stockholders at the town of New Madrid, for the purpose of
choosing seven directors of said corporation; and the persons chosen at
such meeting, shall hold their oflice for one year, or until their succes-
sors shall be duly elected and qualified. In every succeeding year, se-
ven directors shall be elected by the stockholders of the said corporation,
on the first Monday in October.
§ 6. The corporation hereby created, is authorized to construct a
plank road, to commence at a point to be designated by commissioners
ereinafter appointed to locate said road, and from thence in such direc-
tion as the said commissioners shall deem most expedient, across Little
St. Francois river swamp, in the direction of the chalk bluff, on St.
Francois river, not exceeding ten miles from the place of beginning;
the track of the said road shall be constructed of timber and plank, and
the surface thereof shall form a smooth carriage way; the said road shall
be at least fourteen feet wide; but the particular manner of building
such road, in other respects, shall be directed by the directors of such
corporation.
§ 7. William Johnson, Solomon G. Kitchen, and John Buryhill, or any
two of them, are hereby appointed commissioners to locate the said
road; said commissioners, before entering on the duties assigned
them, shall each take an oath before some 'udge or justice of the
peace, faithfully and diligently to perform, wit out favor or partiality
the duties prescribed, and shall be paid for their services by the
said corporation, such sum as a majority of its directors shall deem
just.
§ 8. The said commissioners are authorized by this actto take agrant
of the right of way from every owner through whose land the route of
such roa may be located; such grants shall be attested by two disinter-
ested witnesses, and shall vest in the corporation a right of way over
the land on which the said road shall be located, and twenty feet on each
side of the said plank road; all such grants shall be taken in the name
and on behalf of the said corporatinzl, for the 1-.st~ of the said road. '

coaroaarxons. 295

 9. If any person over whose land the said road shall be located, re-
fuse to grant the right of way through the same, the commissioners shall
assess the damages which will be sustained by those persons, by reason
of the said road passing over their land, taking into consideration the
advantages as well as the disadvantages of the road to such persons.

§ 10. The commissioners shall report to the county courts of the sev-
eral counties in which said road may be, the quantity and situation of
the land over which the right of way is granted, and the amount of dam-
ages, if any assessed; any person owning lands through which the route
0 such road is located, who shall consider themselves aggrieved by the
assessment of the commissioners, may by themselves or agents, at the
next countyrcourt after and to which the reports of the commissioners
may be made, may file their objections to such assessment, and the coun-
tyicourt shall thereupon order the sheriff of the county to summon a jury
of six ‘disinterested householders of the county, who being first duly
sworn, shall proceed to examine the ground, and reassess such damages,
and shall make report of their proceedings at the next term of such
county court, or as soon thereafter as practicable; and if the amount as-
sessed by such jury shall be the same, or less than that assessed by the
commissioners, the person so objecting shall be adjudged to pay the
costs; but if the amount of such assessment be more, the said corpora-
tion shall pay the same, together with costs.

§ 11. The corporation shall within five years from the passage of this
act, construct at least eight miles of the said road on the route located
by the commissioners appointed to locate the same, and shall afterwards
during the existence of the said corporation, keep and maintain said
road in good condition; and if said eight miles of the said road shall not
be constructed in the said five years, said corporation shall be deemed
to be dissolved, and its corporate rights shall wholly cease.

§ 12. The immediate government and direction of the affairs of the
corporation shall be vested in the board of directors, or a majority of
them, and they shall have full power to make and prescribe such by-
laws, rules and regulations as they shall deem needful and proper, touch-
ing the disposition and management of the stock, property, estate and
efects of the cor oration, not contrary to this charter, or the laws of
this State or the llnited States, the duties and conduct of their oflicers
or servants, and all other matters whatsoever, which may appertain to
the concerns of said corporation or company.

§ 13. The said company or corporation are hereby authorized and
empowered to purchase, receive and hold such real estate as may be
necessary and convenient in accomplishin the objects and intentions of
this act; and may also receive, hold and tesre such voluntary grants._ and
donations of real estate and other property as shall be made to the said
corporation. T

§ 14. Whenever eight miles of the said road shall be completed it shall
be lawful for said corporation to erect a toll gate thereon, and appoint a
toll collector for the same; and the said corporation and toll collector, at
the said toll gate, may demand and receive the following tolls, viz: For
every wagon or carriage, with four animals attached thereto, fifty cents;
for every wagon or other vehicle, sled, sleigh or carriage of any descrip-
tion, drawn by two animals, thirty-five cents; for excry vehicle, sled,

296 conporwrroxs.

sleigh or carriage of any description, drawn by one animal, twenty-five
cents; for every horse or mule,-and rider, ten cents; for every led horse
or mule, five cents; for every head of neat cattle, three cents; for every
head of swine or sheep, one and a half cents; for each person on foot,
five cents. The toll collectors at said gate when erecteu on said road
in pursuance of this act, may detain and prevent from assing such gate
any carriage or animal subject to toll, until the toll t ereof is paid.

§ 15. Any person who shall wilfully break or throw down any gate on
such road which may have been erected in pursuance of the provision
of this act, or forcibly or fraudulently pass any such ate without having
paid the legal toll, or to avoid the payment of the Tegal toll, shall for
every such offence forfeit a sum not exceeding ten dollars to, and for the
use of the said company, to be sued for before a justice of the peace, in
an action of debt; and any person who shall drag along or across said
road any log, wood or timber, so that the same may come in contact with
said road, (when made of timber or plank,) or shall otherwise wilfully,
in any manner, injure the said road, shall be subject to pay all damages
occasioned thereby, to be sued for and collected as aforesaid for the use
of the said company.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849. ' -

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Union Copper Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated. t; sioners.

2. To have seal; purchase and hold property. - 9. President to be elected.

3. May erect roads, machinery, &c.  10. By-laws and ordinances to be adopted.
-1. Capital stock one hundred thousand do1- 5. 11. Stock transferable.

_ lars. ‘~ 12. Books of accounts to be ke t.

0. Books to be opened. _* J3. Compan not to engage in anking.

6. Ifoard of directors to be chosen. 3 14. Dividen 9 to be declared annually.

7. Llectmns by ballot. ;‘ 15. Personal liability of stockholders.

8. First election under direction of commis- .j‘
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State Qf Missouri, as follows;

§ 1. F. W. Kirkpatrick, Charles Bracken and Alton Long,‘ and snch
others as may be associated with them in the manner hereinafter provi-
ded, and their successors, shall be, and they are hereby mcor oratedand
made a body politic and corporate, by the name and sty e of “The
Union copper company,” and by and under such corporation, name and
capacity may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in any courts of
law and equity in this State. '

§ 2. The said corporation may have a common seal, and may change
and alter the same at pleasure; and shall have power to explore and p_ur~
chase any estate, real and personal, necessary for the use of said com-
pany or corporation.

§ 3. Said corporation may erect and build all roads, dams and necessary

céaroau-tons. 297:‘

machinery for mining, smelting, manufacturing ores, metals and minerals,
and dig canals, and carrying on the operations of said mining company.
 4. The capital stock of said corporation shall be one hundred thou-
sand dollars, and shall be divided into shares of one hundred dollars
each; but it shall be lawful for said corporation to commence their
operations when, and as soon as ten thousand dollars shall be subscribed
for, and with that capital to commence, conduct and operate and carry on
the same_until they shall find it expedient to enlarge their stock, which they
are authorized to do from time to time to the amount first above mentioned.
§ 5. Books for the purpose of procuring subscription to said stock
shall be opened at St. Louis, under the direction of the said F. W. Kirk-
patrick and Charles Bracken, and at such other places as they may deem
proper; and the said F. W. Kirkpatrick and Charles Bracken and Alton
ong are hereby appointed commissioners to receive the subscriptions to
said stoek- on such days and times as they may appoint after the passage
(if this act.
§ 6. The stock, property, estate and concerns of said corporation
shall be managed by five directors, to be annually chosen by the stock-
holders on the first Monday in July, in each year; said directors shall
hold their ofiiees for the term of one year, and until their successors are
appointed, of whom three shall be a quorum for the transaction of busi-
ness; provided, however, that no failure to elect oilicers shall dissolve
the corporation; but the acting directors shall continue in ofiice until the
next annual election. .
§ 7. All elections shall be by ballot, each share shall be entitled to one
vote, and votes may be given by proxy.
§ 8. The first election of directors shall be held under the direction
of the said commissioners, and all subsequent ones under the direction
of the directors.
§ 9. The directors chosen under this act shall immediately elect one
of their body president, and if any vacancy occur, either of president or
any of the directors, the remaining directors shall appoint from among
the stockholders suitable persons to {ill such vacancy for the remainder
of the term for which such directors were elected.
§ 10. The board of directors, or a quorum thereof, shall have power
to form such by-laws and ordinances as shall, from time to time, seem to
them to be needful and proper for the management and control of said
corporation in disposing of the stock, property, estate and effects of said

corporation, and to do allother thin s necessary to the promotion of the *

objects of said corporation as shall be consistent with the laws of the
United States, and of the State of Missouri.

§ 11. The stock of said corporation shall he assignable and transferable, ac-
cording to such rules and regulations as the board of directors may make and
establish, and shall be considered personal property; provided that no trans-
fer of stock shall be valid or effectual until registered in a book kept {or that
purpose by the president. _

§ l'2. The directors shall at all times keep, or cause to be kept, at some
proper place, books of accounts, in which shall be entered all the transac-

’ tions of the company. '

§ 13. The corporation. hereby created,_shall not engage in the business of

banking, or issue any kind of paper to pass as a circulating medium.
31

I

298 coaroaazrxons.
, \

§ 14. The directors of said corporation shall annually declare a dividend
to all stockholders in said corporation, and at such other times as they may
deem advisable; and at each annual election they shall lay before the stock-
holders their books, shewing a full and fair exposition of all the transactions
of the previous year.

§ l5. Each stockholder of said company shall be personally liable for all
the debts and liabilities of the company, to the amount of stock owned b
him and paid in; and any stockholder failing to pay in the dividend or insta -
ments required to be paid in by order of the directors at any time, for the
term of thirty days, shall forfeit the amount paid.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

,Appro\’ed March 10, 1849.

   

AN ACT to incorporate the City of Ste. Genevieve.

. Boundary; powers of corporation. 21. Who entitled to vote.

. Mayor and Aldermen to be chosen. 22. Constable;how appointed; his duties.

. Board of aldermen of whom to consist. 23. City assessor; how appointed; his duties.
Aldermen how chosen. 24. Penalty for refusin to work streets.
President and other oflicers; how appointed. 25. Power to regulate erries.

Stated meetings. 26. Treasurer to be appointed; his duties.

The mayor; how elected. 27. Further duties ol' mayor and board of al-
Qualitications of mayor. dermen.

Duties of mayor. 28. In relation to salaries.

Vacancy of office of mayor; bow tilled. 29. Fire com anies.

Powers of mayor and board of alderm.-n. 30, 31, 32, 3 , Further duties and powers of
Further powers. ‘ the mayor.

. Empowered to levy a tax. 34. Seal of corporation to be received as proof.
Further powers of mayor and board of al- 35. Powers in relation to sale of real estate for

dermen. taxes.
Bills and ordinances to be approved by 36. Three of the board of aldermen to concur
mayor. in the passage of ordinances.

16. Style of corporation. 7. In relation to fines and penalties.

17. Register; how appointed; his duties. 8. Act declare a public one.

18. Oath prescribed. 9. Fines and enalties.

19. General election; when held. 40. Money to e paid out of treasury; when
20. Justices of the peace to hold tirst election. 41. P0“ er reserved to repeal.

s-A ya...-—sa-as-4 '0'
S" ‘.“°°!°2".°'.°?".“.°’.°‘:"“*°"‘
‘l'\%.//\f
DJCDOJ

’\I‘/6‘/\A

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly Q/‘the State qf Illissouri, as follows:

§ 1. All that district of country in the county of Ste. Genevieve, ly-
ing within the following limits, to wit.: beginning at the mouth of Val-
le’s Spring Creel: or otherwise known as “Ruisseau Creux,” thence
followin up said creek by its meanders, until it intersects the north-
eastern goundary line of a concession of land granted to Francis Valle,
now known as the “Spring tract,” and now or ate owned ‘by J. B.‘ Val-
le, thence north-west running along said line to the north-eastern corner
of said tract; thence in a west by south direction to the south-eastern
corner of a tract of land confirmed to Francis Janis, sen.; thence along
the eastern line of said Janis’ tract to the north-eastern corner thereof;
thence in a direction west by south along the line separatingthe said
Janis’ tract, with a lot confirmed to the heirs of one LOUIS Cotteaux to the
southwest corner of said Louis Cotteaux’s lot; thence along the western
boundary line of said Cotteaux lot to the “South Gabouri Creek;” thence

CORPORATIONS.‘ 299

following said creek by its meanders in a westward direction to a oint’

south of the eastern boundary line of a tract of land confirmed to ital
Beauvais, senior’s, legal representatives, and now or late owned by An-
tonio Thomure or heirs; thence north to and running along the eastern
boundary line of said tract and continuing alon the eastern line of two
other adjoining tracts, one confirmed to Joseph alumendiers legal rep-
resentatives, and now, or late owned by Felix Valle, and the other one
confirmed to Auguste Obuchon’s legal representatives, now or late own-
ed by Elog Lecompte, to the north-eastern corner of the tract last named;
thence running in a direct line, a little west of north to the “North Ga-
bouri Creek” crossing-said creek and striking the south east corner of

a tract of land confirmed to P. Detchemendy and now or late owned by,

Francis Janis, jr.; thence north eastwardly, runnin along the eastern
(or south-eastern) boundary line of said tract to tg
thereof; thence north to the north-west corner of a lot confirmed to one
Recollet Merceir, being a lot in concession of land to several inhabitants
formerly known under the name of “Point a Picket,” and now or late
owned by Francis B. Valle; thence alon the north-western side of said
lot, in a north-eastern direction to the glississippi river; thence east to
the middle of the main channel of said river; thence down said main
,channel to a oint due east from the place of beginning and thence due
west to the p ace of beginning, shall be and is hereby erected into a city,
by the name of the city of Ste. Genevieve; and the inhabitants thereof
shall be and they are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate by
the name and style of the “Mayor and Aldermen and citizens of the city
of Ste. Genevieve and by that name they and their successors shall be
known in law, have erpetual succession, sue and be sued, implead and
be _impleaded, defend and be defended in all courts of law and equity,
and in all actions and matters whatsoever; may grant, purchase, receive
and hold property, real and personal within said city , and no other (burial
grounds excepted) and may lease, sell and dispose of the same for the
enetit of the city, and may do all other acts as natural persons, may
have a common seal, and break and alter the same at pleasure.
§ 2. The corporate powers and duties of said city shall be vested in
a mayor and board of aldermen, who shall be chosen and appointed as
hereinafter directed. ‘
§ 3. The board of aldermen shall consist of five members, for the elec-
tion of whom the city shall be divided into convenient wards, which may
be altered from time to time and new wards created, as the convenience
of the inhabitants may require, and the said aldermen shall be appointed
among the several wards in which they reside, in pro ortion to the num-
ber of free white male inhabitants thereof, each war having at least one
member in the board.
§ 4. Said aldermen shall be chosen by-the qualified electors of said

, city and shall hold their ofiice for the term of one year, shall be at least

twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States and inhabi-
tants of said city for one year next preceding their election, and shall
possess a free hold estate in said city and whenever there shall be a tie
in the election of aldermen, it shall be determined by the judges of the
election of the ward in which it shall happen by lot, and all vacancies

e north-east corner_

I

300 conponarrous.

shall be filled by election as aforesaid, in such manner as shall be provi-
ded by ordinance.

§ 5. The board of aldermen shall appoint their president and all other
officers of the board; shall judge of the qualifications, elections and re-
turns of their own members, a majority of all the members shall consti-
tute a quorum ‘o do business, but a less number may adjourn from day
to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such man-
ner, and under such penalties as the board may prescribe; they may de-
termine the rules of proceedings—punish their own members for disor-
derly conduct, and by the concurrence of four of the alderman, expel
a member, but not a second time for the same cause. They shall at the
desire of any member, cause the yeas and nays to be entered on the
journal.

§ 6. The stated meetings of the board of aldermen shall be on the first
Mondays of March, June, September and December in every year; but
they may be convened at other times, on extraordinary occasions by the
mayor; provided, that the mayor and board -of aldermen may, by ordin-
ances, attend the times of holding stated meetings.

§ 7. The mayor shall be elected by the qualified electors of the city;
shall hold his office for the term of one year, and until a successor is
duly elected and qualified; when two or more persons shall have an equal
number of votes for mayor, or any election for mayor shall be contested,
it shall be determined by the board of aldermen.

§ 8. The mayor of the city shall be at least twenty-five years of a ;
shall have resided within the city for at least two years preceding his
election; shall be a citizen of the United States, and shall posses a free-
hold estate in said city. _

§ 9. The mayor of the city shall nominate, and by and with the advice
and concurrence of the board of aldermen, appoint all oflicers within
the city, which are not provided for by law or any ordinance, to be oth-
erwise appointed; he shall take care and he is especially required and it
is enjoined on him, that the laws of the State, and the ordinances of the
corporation are duly and rigidly enforced in every respect, and particu-
larly within the city; he shall have power with the consent of the board
of aldermen; to remove from oflice any person holding oflice created by
ordinance; he may remit fines and forfeitures and grant reprieves and
pardons in any case arising under the ordinances of the corporation; he
shall be a conservator of the peace within the limits of the city; he shall
have power to fill all vacancies which may happen in any ollice other
than that of aldermen, until the end of the session of the board of al-
dermen which shall next happen after the vacancy shall occur; he shall
from time to time give the board of aldermen information relative to the
state and condition of the city, and shall recommend to their considera-
tion such measures as he shall deem expedient. When he shall convene
the board at any time other than at the stated meetings it shall be done
by proclamation, and when so assembled, he shall state to them the ob-
ject for which they convened. He shall receive such compensation for
his services, as may be provided by ordinance.

§ 10. When any vacancy shallhappen in the ofiice of mayor, by death,
resignafion, removal or absence from the city, removal from ollice, re-
tusal to qualify or otherwise, the president of the board of aldermen, for

coaroaa-rroxs. 301

the time being, shall exercise the otiice of mayor until such vacancy
shall be filled and during the time he shall so fill such otiice, shall re-
ceive the same compensation as the mayor would have been entitled to,
and in case of vacancy as aforesaid, other than temporary absence, the
person exercising the office of mayor, shall cause a new election to be
eld, giving ten days notice thereof by proclamation.

 11. The mayor and board of aldermen shall have power by ordin-
ance, to levy and collect taxes upon real and personal property within
the city limits, not exceeding one third of one per centum upon the assessed
value thereof, except as hereinafter excepted, to make regulations to pre-

‘vent the introduction of contigeous diseases; to make quarantine laws, for

that purpose, and enforce the same within the corporation limits of the
city; to make regulations to secure the general health of the inhabitants;
to prevent and remove nuisances, to establish night watches and patrols,

‘erect lamps in the streets and light the same; to improve the. navigation

of the Mississippi within the city limits; to erect, repair and re ulate the
stationing, anchorage and mooring of vessels, to provide for ‘licensing,
taxing and regulating auctions, retailers, ordinaries, taverns, billiard
tables, hackney carriages, wagons, carts, drays, hawkers and pedlers,
theatrical and other amusements; to restrain and prohibit tippling houses,
gaming houses, bawdy houses and other disorderly houses. to establish
and repair bridges, to establish and regulate markets, to open and keep
in repair streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, drains and sewers, and keep the
same cleared; to provide for the safe keeping of standard weights and
measures to be used in said city; to regulate the cleaning of chimneys
and fixin the price therefor, to provide for the inspection of lumber and
other bui ding materials to be sold and used within the city; to regulate

a the size of brick to be made, and used within the city, to regulate and

order parapet wall, and partition fences; to regulate the inspection of
butter, lard, wood and the weight and quality of bread, the storage of
gunpowder, tar, pitch, rosin, hemp, cotton and other combustible mate-
rials, to erect pumps in the streets for the convenience of the inhabi-
tants; to regulate the police of the city, to regulate the election of city
oflicers and fix their compensation and from time to time, to pass all
such ordinances to carry into effect the object of this act and the powers
hereby granted, as the good of the inhabitants may require, and to im-
pose fines, penalties and forfeitures for the breach of any ordinance and

‘ provide for the collection thereof. They shall have power to punish by

fine and imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding ten days or both,
any person or persons who shall wilfully disturb the peace of the city by
loud and unusual noise, loud and offensive orindecent conversation or by
threatening, guarreling, challenging or fighting. Provided that no tax
shall be levie on the wearing apparel or necessary tools or implements of

any person used in carrying on his trade, nor shall the same be subject
to distress or sale for taxes. '

§ 12. Upon the application of the holders of one half of the front of
the lots on any street or part of a street it shall be lawful for the mayor
and aldermen, to levy and collect a special tax from the holders of lots
on $1ch street or part of a street, according to the assessed value of their
res ective fronts, exclusive of improvemen‘s, for the purpose of grading
an paving or grading only such street or part of a street; and upon a

I l

302 eonronurons.

similar application to levy a tax in the same manner for the purpose of

_lighting the street and erecting lam posts in the same.

§ 13. The mayor and board of a dermen shall have power by ordin-
ance to have the footwaysand side-walks of the streets in the city paved,
and the same kept in repair, at the expense of the owners or occupiers
of lots fronting said street, and for the paving of the said foot-ways and
side-walks, they shall order the owners or occupiers of ‘the lots fronting
the streets so to be paved, to pave the said foot-ways and side-walks,
and to keep the same in repair, according to their respective fronts; and
if any‘ such owner or occupier fail to pave the same, as required by or-
dinance, the mayor and board of aldermen shall cause the same to be
done, and may recover the full expense thereof together with costs of
suit from such owner or occupier by action of debt, in the name of the

corporation, before any court of competent jurisdiction and if any ten-

ant be re uired to ave in front of the property occupied by him, the
expense t ereof shal be a good set-off against so much of the rent
due the owner; but no tenant shall be required to expend more than the
rent for the term for which he occupied the property. ,
§ 14. That the mayor and aldermen shall have power to regulate, pave.

and improve the streets, avenues, lanes, and alleys within the limits of the

city, and to extend, open, [and] widen streets, avenues, lanes, and alleys,

making the person or persons injured thereby adequate, compensation for all

damages done, to be ascertained in the manner following: the mayor shall.
in all such cases, cause to be summoned twelve good and lawful men.
’l'reeho|ders,inhabitants of said city, not interested, who, being first duly

sworn for that purpose, shall fairly and impartially inquire into, and take

into consideration. as well the benefit as the injury and inconvenience which

may accrue, and estimate and assess the damage which would be sustained
by reason of the opening and extension or widening any street, avenue.
lane or alley. and shall, moreover, estimate the amount which other persons
will he benetittcd thereby, and shall assess the amount to be contributed by

the person benelitted, towards the compensation of those injured thereby;
all of which shall be returned to the mayor. under their hands and seals;
and the person or persons who shall be benefitted, and so assessed, shall pay
the amount in such manner as shall be provided for by ordinance; and the

residue, if any, shall be paid into the city treasury. ’

§ I5. That every ordinance or hill which shal|~havc been passed by the

board of alderman shall, if the same be approved by the mayor, be by him

signed, and if not approved, he shall return it, with his objections. to the

board,and they shall reconsider the same; and if, after such reconsideration.

four of the board of aldermen concur in passing the same, it shall become a

law; and ifanv bill shall not be returned by the mayor to the board Within

ithreo days after it shall have been delivered to him, it shall become a law in

the same manner as ifhe had approved it.

§ I6. The style of the laws of the said corporation shall be. “ Be it ordained
by the mayor and aldermen of the city ofst. Genevieve,” and all ordinances
shall, within one month after they are passed, he published in some newspaper
priuterl in said city. unless otherwise ordered by the board of aldermen.

§ 17. The mayor shall nominate, and, by and with the advice and consent
"I ‘he l‘°""l ‘tr t1ld6"m'~’-ll. appoint a register of the city. who shall hold his
otlitz" tor the term of one year, unless sooner removed; who, before he
enters upon the duties of his ollice, shall take and subscribe the oath herein-

0

.coIr,oaa'rrous. ' 303

after prescribed; and shall, moreover, give bond with sndiciert security,
to‘ be approved by the ‘mayor, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of his onice; and it shall" be his duty to keep a register of all the otlicial
acts of the mayor, and when necessary, shall attest them; he shall perform
the duties of clerk to the board of aldermen, when in session; he shall keep
a book or books, wherein shall be entered all the proceedings of the board.
which book shall, at all proper times, be open to the inspection of the
inhabitants of the city; and he shall keep and preserve in his office all
-records, public papers, and documents, belonging to the city; and shall
‘performssuch other duties as shall be enjoined on him by ordinance.

"§ 18. The mayor, and each of the aldermen, and ever other officer of
$0 corporation shall, before entering on the discharge o the duties of his
oEee, take an oath or atiirmation, before some judge or justice of ~ the peace,
to support the constitution of the United States, and of this State, and
faithfully to demean himself in otiice. ‘

§ 19. A general election for corporation ofiicers shall be held on the first
'&onday in the month of May, in each and every year, in the several wards
of thoacity, in such a manner as the mayor and aldermen may by ordinance
provt e.
§'20. The first election for mayor and aldermen, and other otiicers of the
‘corporation shall be held and conducted by the acting justices of the peace of
Ste. Genevieve township, who reside within the limits ofthe corporation, at the
court house; which election shall be conducted according to the existing laws
of the State regulating electigns; and the said justices shall make out and
‘deliver to each person elected a certiticate of his election; and the persons
so elected shall take and subscribe the oath of oliice, before some judge or
justice of the peace, which shall be endorsed on each certificate by such
judge or justice; and at such first election,all persons qualified to vote at the
general election for State and county otiicers, and residing within the limits
of the corporation, shall vote, or who may own any real estate within the
limits of said corporation. -
» § 21. All free, white, male citizens of the United States. who shall have
attained to the age of twenty-one yearsgwho shall have paid a city tax, and
who shall have resided in the city twelve months next preceding the election,
-and all tree, white, male persons, residents of this State, and of twenty-one
gears of age, who shall own or possess any real estate within the limits of the
city, and who shall have paid a city tax therefor, shall be entitled to vote at all
elections for city otiicers; and at all said elections, the vote shall be viva voce,

. until the board of aldermen shall by ordinance otherwise direct.

§ 2:3. It shall be the duty of the mayor, by and with the consent of the
board of aldermen, to a point a city constable, "tho shall, in connection
with the oiiice of constab e, act as ex-othcio collector of revenue within and
-for the city; and who shall, before entering in to the duties of his othces. take
the oath of otlice prescribed by this act, and enter into two bonds to said
corporation, one for each of the two oflices, to be approved by the mayor,
conditioned for the taithful discharge of the duties of each of the two otiices,
which bonds shall be recorded and filed in the register’s otiice of the city;
and the same constable shall possess the same powers, and perform the same
duties, within the limits of the city, as the constables of the different town-
ships in the county of Ste. Genevieve perform, in their respective townships:
and shall execute and return all process which shall be issued by the mayor,
and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by ordinance, and shall

304 ‘' coapoasawns.

_ be entitled to the same compensation as sheriff and constable, in like cases,
until otherwise provided for by ordinance; and if any constable so appointed
and qualified as aforesaid shall fail to pay over any money, by him collected,
for the use of said corporation, or for the use of any other person, when the
same ought to be paid, and within ten days after the same shall have been
demanded by the person or persons entitled to the same; he and his
securities shall be deemed to have notice of the facts, and the mayor shall,
upon application of the person entitled. after being satisfied of the demand
made, render judgment against any such constable in default and his securi-
ties for the amount that shall be proved to have been collected, and not
paid over, according to law, with interest at the rate of twenty per cent.
per annurr.

§23. The -mayor, by and with the consent of the board of aldermen,
shall appoint a city assessor, who shall take the usual oath of office, and
enter into bond with the said corporation, with sufiieient security, to be
approved by the mayor, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties
of his office as assessor within the city, which bond shall be deposited and
recorded in the register’s ofiice; and the duties and powers of said city
assessor shall be prescribed by ordinance. t

§ 24. If any owner or occupier of the lots, u on which any special tax is
lai . or other tax, shall fail to pay the same, or in lieu of such tax, fail or refuse
to do the work upon any street or alley, that he may by the board of aldermen
be required to do, then it shall be competent for the board of alderman to
recover the full amount of said special or ogher tax, or liability whatever,
from said owner or occupier, by action of debt before any court of competent
jurisdiction, applying said special tax to the object for which it was levied;
and if any tenant shall do the work as required of him by the board of
aldermen, or pay the special or other tax, the amount so paid, or the Work
so done, shall be a good offset against so much of the rent as is due the
owner; provided, that no such tenant shall be required to expend more than
is due, or to become due, to the owner of such lot or lots at the time of
a:E8SSm8Dt, or notice of the work, in lieu of the tax assessed. If any person,
resident or nonresident, refuse to do such work within the time required or
pay such tax or taxes to the corporation, and the amount thereof cannot
otherwise be made, the said board of aldermen may by ordinance order that
the real estate or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the debt
with costs be sold in such manner as the board of aldermen may direct, and
within two years from the day of sale, if the original owners shall have

failed to refund to the purchaser the purchase money, together with interest ,

at the rate of ten per centum per annum, and costs of such sale and transfer,
then the mayor is authorized and required to execute to the purchaser a
quit claim deed for the land purchased.

§ ‘25. The mayor and board of alderman shall have power, by ordinance,
to license and regulate ferries within the limits of the city.

§ 26. It shall be the duty of the mayor, by and with the concurrence of
the board of aldermen, to appoint a city treasuier, who shall hold his ofiice
for two years, if not sooner removed, or a vacancy occur, and in that case,
it shall be tilled as aforesaid, and who. before he enters upon the duties of
his ofiice, shall take and subscribe the usual oath, and give bond and security,
to be approved by the mayor, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of his ofliee, in such penalty as by ordinance may he provided.

§ 27. It shall be the duty of the mayor and board of aldermen, and they

conpomrrrons. -305

are required, to cause to be made out, annually,ia round, plain handwriting,
a full and complete statement of all moneys received and expended during
the preceding year by the corporation. and on what account received and
expended; a copy whereof shall be published in some newspaper, if any,
printed in the city, or as otherwise proxiclcd for by ordinance.

§ '28. It shall not be lawful for the mayor and board of alderman to cause
to be expended more than the sum of two hundred dollars for the payment
of the salaries of the mayor and other oiiicers of the corporation during any
one year; and the mayor shall not receive for his services a greater sum
than one hundred dollars per annum.

§ '29. The inayor and board of aldermcn shall have power to organize

and establish fire compariics in the city; and the members of any such tire
company, regularly organized, .-‘hall, in time of peace, be cxeiiipt from
performing military duty; and the mayor and board of aldermen may permit
the organization of independent lire companies, subject to such by-laws as
may be adopted by such companies; and the members oi‘ such independent
fire companies, duly organized, shall be exempt from military (luty in time
of peace, ayd exempt from serving on juries.

§ 30. The mayor, and all justices of the peace within the limits of the
city, shall have jurisdiction in all cases arising under this act. and under the
ordinances of the city, subject to an appeal in all C£tS('S when the debt or
penalty sued for exceeds the sum of hve dollars, to the circuit court of Ste.
Genevieve county, and such appeals shall be graiitcd and taken in the
manner as is now prescribed by law in cases arising before justices of the
peace.

§3l. The mayor shall have within the limits of the city all powers and
jurisdiction now tested in justices of the peace in mattc1's oi‘ civil aml
criminal cases and jurisdiction, and shall perform and exercise all powers
and duties enjoined on justices of the peace in similar ‘matters, and in like
manner, and all his proceedings may and shall be under the same govern-
ment and control as justices of the peace, in like cases, by appeal to the
circuit court, or otherwise according to law.

632. The mayor and aldermen are hereby authorized and shall have
power to make all such rules, regulations, by-laws, and ordinances, for the
purpose of maintaining the peace, good government, and order in the city;
and also to enforce the obedience of them by inflicting tines, penalties, and
forfeitures, and punishment in the county jail of Ste. Genevieve county.
Said fines, penalties, and forfeitures shall not exceed five hundred dollars,
recoverable with costs, nor imprisonment exceeding ten days, for any
Violation of any rules, regulations, by- laws, or ordinances, made or ordained
by virtue of this act, for any one offence.

§ 33. The mayor of the city may have jurisdiction in all matters in law
arising under this act.

§ 34. Ell rules, regulations, by-laws, and ordinances of the city may be
proven by the seal of the corporation, and the same shall, when attested by
the seal of the corporation, be received in evidence, in all courts and places.

without further proof.
§35, The mayor and board of aldcrmen shall have power, by ordinance,

to direct the manner in which any property, real or personal, shall be sold

for taxes levied by said mayor and aldermen.
§ 36. No ordinance Shall be passed unless three of the board of aldermcn

concur therein.

906 conponutons.

37. All lines, penalties, and forfeitures imposed by any rules, regulations.
by-laws, or ordinances of the city, may be collected by ac'ion of debt,
before the mayor of the city, or before any justice of the peace within the
limits of the city, for any sum within the jurisdiction of such justice of the

eace. _
P § 28. This act is declared to be a public act, and maybe read in evidence
in all courts of law and equity in this State, without further proof or
pleading.

§ 39. All fines, penalties, and forfeitures arising from the breach of the
peace, atfrays, assaults, and batteries, and the breach of any ordinance,
except cases of felony, within the limits ol said city, shall be paid into the
cit y treasury, to be appropriated to the improvement of streets, lanes,
alleys, avenue-', and such other objects as by ordinance may be provided.

{} 40. N 0 money shall be paid out of the city treasury,unless in pursuance
of appropriations made by ordinance. ,

§4l_. The General Assembly hereby reserves the right at any time to
amend, alter, or repeal this charter.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 14, 1849.

 

AN ACT to extend the corporate limits of the town of Weston.

Be it enacted by the General edssembly qfthe State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The incorporated limits of the town of Weston is hereby extend-
ed and made to embrace the west half of the south-east quarter of sec-
tion eleven, of township fifty-three, of range thirty-six.

§ 2. The inhabitants residing upon the tract of land described in the
first section of this act, are hereby made subject to the laws governing

‘the town incorporation of Weston, in Platte county, in every respect.

This act to take effect fromgits passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

   

0

AN ACT to incorporate the J efferson City lire company.

§ 1. Company incorporated. < 5. Preservation and use of said en 'ne.
2. Engine, with apparatus, to be purchased. 6. Appropriation fourteen hundre dollars.
3. Powers of com any to levy and collect 7. Manner in which said sum is to be
contributions rom members. drawn.
8.

4. Aluthority to make constitution and by- é Pledge of company, what deemed to be.
aws.

Be it enacted by the General edssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§1. Enos B. Cordell, R. w. Wells, 0. L. Meredith, w. e. Youn ,
C. W. Stuart, W. E. Dunscomb, Erich Plump, T. M. Winston, M. .

conronarxons. . $7

Parsons, G. T. White, John Bauer, D. J. Lisle, G. C. Medley, and

George W. Miller, and their associates and successors, shall be and
they are hereby ordained, constituted and appointed, and declared to be
a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of “ The J efferson
City fire company,” and by that name and style they may have continued
suéiéession, and shall be capable of suing and being sued, and defending
andbeing defended, in all courts and places whatsoever, as fully as natu-
ral persons; they mayvhave a common seal; may purchase, hold, and
édhifwijiroperty, real, personal and mixed, for the use of said corpora-
-tio, T. if fyidied, that said company shall not hold any property whatever
ex; ° _l such as may be necessary for their use.

§;?I;, ltjeshall be the duty of said com any as soon as may be after the
_ , pi "i liof .‘ this act, to purchase a suitallle engine and apparatus for their
 ay shall take good care of and preserve the same from injury and
damage as far as practicable; shall keep the same in some convenient
part of the said city; shall keep themselves in readiness to render their
aid in the preservation of the public buildin s in said city from fire, and
to do and perform such services in relation t ereto as may be necessary
and pro er.

Ea aid company shall have power and authority to levy and
co ct contributions from the members thereof, to meet the ordinary ex-
penses of said company, and may impose fines on their members for any
dereliction of their duty, and ma enforce the collection of the same in
such manner as may be provided or in the by-laws of said corporation.

 4. Said company shall have power and authority to make a consti-
tuition and by-laws for the government thereof, not repugnant to the laws
 the land; and may alter and amend the same at pleasure.

  
   

 

 5., It shall be the duty of said company to keep said engine in good.

A’  ,* and shall use the same sufficiently often to see that the same is in

, 7 hr condition for use.
“I. The sum of fourteen hundred. dollars is hereby appropriated out
‘dny money in the treaury not otherwise appropriated, for the use
of said company, with which they shall purchase an en inc and appara-
tus for their use; no part thereof shall be used or applied to any other
purpose than that specified in this section.
§ 7. Whenever said company shall be fully organized, they shall ap-
point some suitable person as agent, and the auditor of public accounts
shall draw his warrant on the State treasury for the amount hereby ap-
propriated; and the same shall be appropriated under the direction of
said com any in the urchase of an engine and apparatus as aforesaid.
§ 8. , henever sai company shall receive the sum of money hereby
appropriated, it shall be deemed and taken as a pledge, on their part,
that the same shall be faithfully appropriated, and that they will carry
out the objects and designs of this corporation in good faith.
"This act to be in force from its passage.

 Approved March 12, 1849.

Q-0 sl \J\-av ‘.4’./\/\/*1‘-r"b"\

308 conronxrroxs.

AN ACT to incorporate the Scott and Cape Girardean turnpike road

company.
ii: ’<‘:'§{.‘2f.?lai-€3.‘2'.‘?‘1ii’£:.S‘§‘.i‘a”.l‘§l?.f§."  ii.’ 3‘.*'..’..‘.’.§.‘§.’.’.§’..'{',i‘.“§.T,’i;..: allowed.

 gggdifigtifnodlg gdcrhpany; election of oiii-  16. Eiiieecrit?”ecordmon of order md appraise-
_ cers. ? 17. No other road to be constructed within
2: gihtdleod ligiilyecorporate. < 18. Chvdiitynbldiirts of Scott and Cape Girar-
7. Cgbtliofcate to be given; shares transfer. ~', 19. Pfdzgedliliigsslblfcdhlxpletioa of road; rate
8. Called meetings; books to be kept. S of tolls. 7
93 ‘*9 °‘““”°"‘ °-' ‘“"’°’°T°’ ‘‘°' 2 iii ‘xi?‘£°"’J3f °'?§i$3.Z§§3l'&. n. .1 rates.

 Bbltiilel-',e »ir('i’drt’i£i,yalii’cit<?ll1Id]I'ea[i:tter of road.   Puniglimentgaand liability for ipiguri to road.

J u:

12. Proceedings to obtain land, &c. .j

When and how to be a tree pu
13. Appraisers appointed to assess damages. I 24

ighway.
Inconsistent acts repealed.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State Qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That company shall be formed under the name and style of
“ The Scott and Cape Girardeau turnpike road company,” for the pur-
pose of forming and maintaining an artificial road on the McAdams lan,
across the big swamp, on the main road leading from Benton, in cott
county, to Jackson, in Cape Girardeau county.

§ 2. That the aforesaid company Ore hereby authorized to raise by
subscription the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, if that amount shall be
necessary for the purposes contemplated by this act, to be divided into
ix hundred shares of twenty-five dollars each. ‘I.

§ 3. That the books for the subscription of stock in said company shall
be opened on the first Monday in May next, in the town of Benton and
Commerce, in Scott county, under the direction of Felix G. Allen, John
Harbinson, William Hamilton, Edward B. Kelsoe, Thomas M. Shaw,
J o_hn Mares, John C. Myers, Alexander Waugh, Pascall Ancell, Isaac
Hinkle, and Edward Buckner, or any one or more of them; and at the
town of Jackson, at the time aforesaid, under the direction of Albert H.
Brevard, William C. Ranney, Nathaniel W. Watkins, William W. Hor-
rell, Charles Willing, and Alvan Cook, or any one or more of them; and
at the town of Cape Girardeau, in the county of Cape Girardeau, at the
time aforesaid, under the direction of Simeon En lish, Hiram L. Sloan,
Isaac S. Williams, John Crose, and Samuel A. giill, or any [one] or
more of them; and at the town of New Madrid, in New Madrid coun-
ty, at the time aforesaid, under the direction of H. P. Mulsby, Robert
Hatcher, Richard Phillips, Shapley R. Phillips, Mark Stallcup, and Dr.
Martin, or any one or more of them; said commissioners shall procure
books, one of which shall be used at each of said places, and the sub-
scribers to the stock of said company shall enter into the following obli-
gation in one of said books, to-wit: We, whose names are hereunto sub-
scribed, do promise to pay the Scott and Cape Girardeau turnpike road
company, for each and every share of stock in said company set opposite to
our names, in such manner and proportions and at such times as shall be re-
quired by the president and directors of said company; said books shall be
kept open a reasonable time for receiving said subs criptions,and if any thing

I
l

qo.ssop,A:uona.. 309 A

shall occur by which said books are not opened at the time aforesaid,
said books for the purpose aforesaid may be opened at said places, or any
one or more of them, at such other time or times as said commissioners
or any of them may choose. __

§4. Whenever one hundred shares of said stock are subscribed, it
shall be the duty of the commissioners above named,‘ or any five of them,
who may have received the amount aforesaid, to call a meeting of all
the subscribers of said stock, at some place near where said turnpike is
intended to be made; they shall give notice of the time and place ofsaid
meeting, by advertisement in some newspaper published convenient to
the proposed improvement, at least twenty days before said meetin ; said
meeting shall be for the purpose of organizing said company by t e ac-

ceptance of this charter, and the election of president and four direc- .

tors, at which election at least five of said commissioners shall be pre-
sent, one of Whom shall be president, who shall proceed to take the vote
by ballot of said stockholders, who shall have the rightto vote in person
or by proxy, authorized by power of attorney; each stockholder to have
one vote for each share of stock he may own for apresident and four di-
rectors, who shall hold their offices for one year and until their succes-
sors are duly qualified.

§ 5. The president and directors shall take an oath before some officer
competent to administer an oath, that they will faithfully discharge the
duties of president and directors, as the case may be, without favor or
affection, according to the best of their judgments; that upon the quali-
fication of the president and directors they shall appoint a treasurer and
such other officers as they shall think necessary, who shall hold their of-
fice one year and until their successors are duly qualified; the treasurer
of said company, before he enters upon the duties of said oliice, shall
enter into bond, made payable to the president and directors of said
company, in such sum as said company may determine; conditioned that
he will Well and truly discharge the duties of treasurer of said company,
and that he will well and truly perform the duties required ofhim by the
by-laws of said company.

§ 6. That upon the election and qualification of the president and di-
rectors aforesaid, they shall be a body corporate and politic in deed and
in law, by the name, style, and title of “ The Scott and Cape Girardeau
turnpike road company,” and by that name said company shall have per-
petual succession, and shall be capable of taking and holding their capi-
tal stock, and the increase thereof; and may acquire, hold, and transfer
any real or personal estate which may be necessary for them to hold or
transfer, in the management of the said company’s affairs; said company
may have a common seal which they may alter or change when they
choose; they shall have full power to make contracts and be contracted
with; and by the name aforesaid they may sue and be sued, and defend
and be defended, in all courts; and may make and enforce such by-laws,
rules and regulations as they may deem expedient, so the same be not
rsepugnant to the constitution or laws of this State, or of the United

tates.

§ 7. That the president and directors aforesaid shall deliver a certifi-
cate signed by the president, and sealed with the seal of said cor ora-
tion, to each shareholder, for each share by him subscribed and old;

310 coaroaarroxs.

I

which shares may be transferable on the books of the cor oration, but
no share shall be transferred until all the instalments on suc share shall
be paid; the ori inal certificate of all shares transferred, shall be sur-
rendered to sai company, and a new certificate shall be issued to the
purchaser, who shall be a member of said corporation, entitled to all

- the rights and privileges thatthe original owner was entitled to.

§ 8. The president may call meetings of the directors at such times
and places as he may think proper; two directors and the president may
transact business; they shall keep a record of all their proceedings, to
be entered in a book to be kept for that purpose; the proceedings of
each meeting shall be signed by the president; in case of death or ab-
sence of the president, the directors may appoint a president pro tem-
pore, and they may adjourn from time to time, as they may think proper.

§ 8. The president and directors shall have power and authority to
agree with, and appoint all such surveyors, engineers, artists, superin-
tendents and oliicers, that they may judge necessary to carry on the
contemplated work; and to fix their salaries and wa es, and to prescribe
the time, manner and proportions in which the stoc holders shall make
payment on their respective shares, to carry on said work; to draw
orders on the treasurer for all moneys necessary to defray the expenses
incurred in any manner by said corporation.

§ 10. If any stockholder shall fail to pay any installment on any share
he has subscribed to said com any, for thirty days after: he has notice that
such instalment is due and called for by said company, such stockholder
shall pay interest on such arrearages withheld, at the rate of one per
cent. per month; the manner of giving the notice herein mentioned, to
be prescribed by the rules of said company; and if he fail to pay the
amount of installments due, and the penalty aforesaid, for three months,
the president of said com any may sell said share publicly for ready
money, to the highest bid er, having previously given ten days notice in
writing, of the time and place of said sale, and no stockholder shall be
allowed a vote in said company, as long as he fails to pay all arrearages
due from him on any share of stock he may hold.

§ 11. Said road shall be made from the high-land in Cape Girardeau
county to the high-land in Scott county, and shall be constructed by
throwing up a levee above ordinary high water, across said'Big swamp;
said levee to be at least thirty feet wide on the top, and to have a ditch
cut on each side of said road; and said ditches to be connected by stone
culverts, in such manner as to drain the water from said levee; and after
said levee and culverts are made, a pavement of stone shall be made on
said levee from one end thereof to the other; said pavement shall be at
least sixteen feet wide, and constructed as near the centre of said levee
as may be, and shall be made of stone set edgewise, and curbed with
stone at each side, not more than four inches thick; said pavement shall
be at least eight inches thick, and shall be covered six inches thick with
stone or gravel, which will pass through a circle two inches and a half
in diameter. 4

? 12. That in case the said company shall not be able to acquire the
tit e to any land, timber, gravel or stone, they may wish ‘to use in the
construction of said road, by purchase or otherwise, the president and
directors may present their petition to the judge of the circuit court, or

ooaroaarronsr 311

any -juitice of the charity court of Scott or Cape Girardeau county, in
which they shall set forth by some proper description, the land and other
materials desired for the purpose aforesaid, and the names of the owners‘

thereof, if known, distinguishing with convenient certainty, if it can be-

done, the parcels of land or other thing claimed in severalty by the res-

pective owners, and prayin for the appointment of appraisers thereof

to assess the-dama es which the owners of such land, timber, rock or

gavel will sever y sustain, by reason of the corporation appropriating
e game to its own use.

.-§1§3r_:-'l‘hat upon the presentment of said petition, said judge or jus-
appoint not less than four, nor more than twelve householders,
of; ‘,0 said counties, for the urpose of assessing said damages;

_;  , Jeppraisers, after bein dolly sworn to assess such damages, if
 and impartially, sh 1 proceed by viewing such land, timber
or other thing sought to be ap raised, to assess the damage such indi-
vidnal owner will sustain by the said corporation taking and using the
same for its own use.

 That it shall be the duty of said appraisers, within ten days af-

terithey have received their said appointment, to report to said judge or-

justice, as the case may be; in whic
etahparcels of land or other thing by them assessed, the owners name,
if Known, and the damages such owner will sustain by the said cor ora-
' ‘_  " and using for their own benetit, such land or other t ing;
  A appraisers cannot agree, said judge or justice may appoint
other appraisers, who shall proceed de novo, to assess said damages in
’g§2owmity to the provisions of this act; and it shall be the duty 0 such
judge or justice, to tile the report of said a praisers in the recorder’s
office of either of said counties; and it shall he the duty of such record-
eneheerecord said report when filed; and if said company shall pay the
owner of such land or other thing the amount the said appraisers have

 

report they shall set forth the sev- '

ah§QIsqd,or shall deliver ready to be paid to such owner such amount,‘

at such place as said judge or justice may direct, then such land or
other thin shall vest in said company.

 15. hat the time and place of making said assessment, shall be
named in the order of the judge or justice appointing said ap raisers;
and if any of the owners of such land or other thing shall be a eme co-
vert, infant, insane or otherwise incapable of attending to their interest,
it shall be the duty of such judge or justice to appoint some proper per-

son to attend to the interest of such person; and if said corporation, or’

any owner of land or other thing sought to be assessed, shall feel ag-
grieved by the assessment of said ap raisers, such corporation or per-
sons shall be entitled to an appeal to t e circuit court, if they make ap-
plication to such judge or justice withiniten days after said assessment,

and said appeal may be prosecuted and defended in the same manner of

appeals from justices’ courts.

 16. That the order of said jud e or. 'ustice, and the report of said

appraisers, when recorded, shall §

dogrlay - ' ' i
§ 17. That no person or persons shall construct any road or way with-

in two miles of either side of said road, for the purpose of diverting

travellers from passing on said McAdamized road; and if any person

ave t e same effect as a recorded

312 GORBOBAQIGIIB-~

shall construct any such road, such person shall be liable to pay said
company any or all damages said company may thereby sustain, and may

be perpetually enjoined by the circuit court from keeping such road or _

roads open for the purpose of being travelled.

§ 18. The county court of Scott county, and the county court of Cape
Girardeau county, on behalf of their respective counties, may ta e
stock in said company, and may be entitled to vote in electing the presi-
dent and directors of said company, by their respective a ents.

§ 19. As soon as said company shall com lete said roe according to"
the rovisions of this act, the president an directors of said company_
shal call on three justices of the peace of the county of Cape Girar-, .

dean or Scott county, who are not stockholders in said company, nor in-

terested therein, to examine said road, and if said justices shall certify '

that said road is made in conformity with the provisions of this act, said

company shall cause said certificate to be recorded in either of the coun-
ties of Scott or Cape Girardeau, and may then erect and keep on said- _
road a toll-gate, at which they may receive the following rates of toll for

travelling on said road: For each man and horse, ten cents; for each
loose horse, four cents; for each four-horse wagon and team, thirty
cents; for each two-horse wagon and team, twenty cents; for each cart

_ and horse, fifteen cents; for each gig and horse, twenty cents; for each

two-horse pleasure carriage, forty cents; for each head of neat cattle,
two cents; for each hog or other animal, one cent; and other things in
like proportion. The president and directors of said company shall
cause printed lists of the rates of toll to be aflixed and kept up on or
near said ate.

§ 20. T at if any person or persons liable to pay toll for travelling on 5;

said road, shall with intent to defraud, the company aforesaid, pass through
any private way, or along or over any lands near to or adjoining said
road, or with intent as aforesaid, shall take off, or cause to be taken 03',
any horse or cattle, or other thin , on which toll should be paid, or with
intent to lessen or evade such to 1, by force or any other devise, such
person so offending, shall for every such offence, forfeit and pay over
and above such tol , to be recovered before any justice of the peace,
any sum not less than one dollar, nor more than live dollars.

§ 21. If any toll-gatherer shall demand br receive any greater amount
of toll than is allowed by this act, such person shall pay to the party in-

jured the sum of five dollars, to he recovered by action of debt before
any justice of the peace.

§ 22. If any person shall willfully and mischievously injure or obstruct
said road, or any gate or house attached to said road, such person shall
pay to said company double damages for such injury, to be recovered by
action of debt in any court having jurisdiction, and shall moreover be
liable to line not exceeding five hundred dollars, and to imprisonment
not exceeding three months.

§ 23. If at any time the State or said Scott county or Ca e Girar-
de_au county, shall desire to make said road a free public highway, the
said State, or said counties, may do so by paying said company the capi-
tal stock vested in making said road, to"gether~ with interest on the same

from the time of making said investment, at the rate of ten per cent. per
annum.

aauoaa1sesI,s._ 31123. '

§»24. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the=proviai.cns of this

‘act, are hereby repealed.
Approved February. 17, 1849.

/' . ‘-4*./‘/‘-"‘..“‘./\,\./\.‘,’\/‘.-‘ / ./ /-.r~ .

AN !(CT to incorporate the Charleston Division of the Sons of Temperance.

Q 1. Commissioners to open works. 6. Oath of odice. _
2. Meeting to elect president and directors. 7. Power to convey real estate. -
3. Company incorporated; its powers. 8. May erect house employ workmen, te.
\ 4. Otiicers to be appointed. 9. Vacancies; how tilled.
5. Record to be kept; may be evidence. 10. Repealable at any time.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qfthe State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ I. That Noah Handy. Philip J. Mt-.Mahon, James Lee, William Geode.
_Joseph Dyson and John Martin, of Mississippi county; Missouri, be, and
they are hereby appointed commissioners for the purpose of opening books
and receiving subscriptions to build and furnish a hall for the use and benefit of
the Charleston Division of Sons of Temperance, in Mississippi county, Mis-'
souri; said commissioners. or any two or more of them, may open books to
receive subscriptions, for ,the purpose aforesaid, at such times and places as
ihey may think proper, and in such manner as theymay ch..ose.
§ 2. That when said commisssioners have the sum of two hundred and
. fifty dollars subscribed, for the purpose aforesaid, any three or more of them
may meet at such time and place, in said town of Charleston, as thcv may
choose, and proceed to elect a president and three direcbrs, who shall hold-
their oflices for one year, andluntil their successors are duly elected and,
qualified.
§3. That when said president and directors are elected and qualified,
they shall he, and they are hereby created a body corporate, by the name
and style of “The Charleston Division of the Sons of Temperance,” and by
that name shall have perpetual succession, and may acquire and hold any
amount of money. choses in action, real and personal estate not exceeding
the sum of three thousand dollars. In the name and style aforesaid, said
president andtdirectors may contract and be contracted with. may sueand
be sued. may plead and be impleaded unto, may defend and be defended, in
all courts ot law and equity; they may have a seal which they may alter or
change at an time; they shall have power to make all by-laws, rules and
regulations they may deem proper for the management of the affairs of said
corporation; provided, the same are not inconsistent with the constitution
or laws of the United States, or of this State.
§4. That said president and directors shall have power to appoint all
such oliicers as they may see proper, and may remove the same, or any of
them, at pleasure; and may fix the salaries of any such oliicer appointed,
from time to time, as they may see proper.
§ 5. That said president and directors shall keep a record of all their pro-
cecdingsanid by-laws, or have the same kept under their direction, in such
manner as they may prescribe, which record shall be evidence in all courts
of the acts and by-laws of said corporation.
22

J

314 coat-oamms.

§ 6. That the president and directors shall take an oath respectively, before
some person authorized to administer an oath, that he will faithfully perform
his duty as president or director. as the case may be, according to the best

- of his ability ; and every clerk they may appoint shall take an oath that he
. will correctly record the by-laws and proceedings of said corporation.

§7. That said corporation shall have power to convey any real estate

’ belonging to it by a deed in writing, signed and acknowledged by the

president, and sealed with the seal of said corporation.

§ 8. That said president and directors shall, as soon after the passage of
this act as they may deem expedient. proceed to erect a house in the town
of Charleston, in the county of Mississippi, on such land as said corporation
may acquire by purchase or otherwise; and they shall have power to em loy
such workmen and artisans to erect and finish such house as they may t ink
proper, and when said house is finished it shall be held, used and enjoyed
forever by the Charleston Division of the Sons of Temperance, in said
county, in such manner as they may think proper.

§ 9. That said division of the Sons of Temperance may fill all vacancies
that may occur in the oflice of president, or any director, and shall, at the
end of every year,after the expiration of the term of oliices of the president,
and directors lirstiappointed under the provisions of this act, proceed at such
time and place, and in such manner as may be prescribed by the by-laws ofsaid
corporation, to appoint a president and three directors to manage the aliairs
of said corporation.

§ 10. That this act may be repealed at a' y time.

'l‘hat this act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

‘s

   

AN ACT incorporating the Glasgow Female Academy and Odd Fel-
lows’ Hall.

3. Ca ital stock three thousand dollars. 7. General powers of trustees.

3. 0 cars three trustees; their powers. , 8. Restriction as to value of property to be
4. Election for trustees;vote of stockholders. ‘ held.

5. Certain persons declared stockholders.

§ 1. Name of academy incorporated.  6. Vacancies; how to be tilled.
>

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. There shall be, and hereby is ordained, constituted and established
in the city of Glasgow, county of Howard, 9. body politic and corporate,
with perpetual succession, by the name and style of “The stockholders of
the Glasgow female academy and Odd Fellows’ hall,” and by that name shall
be competent to contract and be contracted with, to sue and be sued, plead
and be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, in all courts and places
whatsoever, with full power and authority to acquire, hold, use, possess,
occupy and enjoy. and the same to sell, convey and dispose of all such real
estate as is or may be necessary for the use of the corporation ; and may
have and use a common seal, and the same may-alter, change or break at
pleasure; and may also make, ordain, establish and put_ in execution such by-

\ s

oonponarroxs. 315

laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall be proper and necessary for
the prudent and ellicient management of the affairs of the corporation, and
for the good government of the academy established, and for the protection
of the property of the corporation; provided, always, that no by-laws, or-

dinances, rules or regulations of said corporation shall be contrarv to or-

isnconsistent with the laws or constitution of this State, or of the'United
‘tales. 4

§ 2. Theicapital stock in said institution shall be not less than three thou-
sand dollars. which may be increased, from time to time, in such manner as
the trustees of said corporation may prescribe, to any amount not exceeding
ten thousand dollars, divided into shares of five dollars each, to be paid
for and subscribed by individuals, companies or corporations as herein
directed. ‘

§ 3. The oliicers of the corporation shall be three trustees, who shall have
power to appoint a clerk and such other otlicers as shall be provided for by
its by-laws. The said trustees shall hold their otlices for one year, and until
their successors are chosen and qualified.

§4. The annual meeting of the stockholders shall_be held on the first
Monday in May, of each year, when they shall meet at such places as the
trustees shall direct, and elect the trustees for the year; and William F.
Dunnica, Henry W. Smith and Walter B. Foster are hereby appointed
trustees for said corporation until .he first annual meeting, to be held on the
first Monday in May, A. D. 1849. Notice of every election of trustees,
and of all other general meetings of the stockholders shall be published in
one or more newspapers at least ten days previous thereto; and at every
such meeting or election each share shall entitle the holder to one vote.
Absent stockholders may vote by proxy. such proxy being made in writing
to a stockholder present at such meeting. In case it shall happen that an
election of trustees shall not be made on the day it ought to have been made,
pursuant to this act, the said corporation shall not for that cause be dissolved;
but it shall be lawful on any other day to hold an election for trustees, in such
manner as the by-laws and ordinances oi the corporation may direct.

S 5. All persons who have subscribed and paid any amount exceeding five
dollars for the erection of the Female seminary and Odd Fellows’ hall, in
the city of Glasgow, shall be stockholders in this corporation to the amount
so subscribed and paid; and the trustees, or any two ol thun, may take and
receive subscriptions for stock in such manner as the by-laws of said corpo-
ration may direct, and may enforce the payment of subscriptions already
made to said academy, or that may hereafter be made as above, by suit in
the namevof thecorporatinn, in any court of competent jurisdiction.

§ 6. The trustees shall have power to fill all vacancies that may occur in
their body; and any person appointed to till any vacancy shall hold his
otlice until ‘the next meeting of‘ the members of the corporation, and until a
successor isrduly elected and qualified.

§7. Theetrustees shall have power to contract for the rent of property
belonging to the corporation, and for the employment of competent teach-
ers; and shall have the care and general management and control of the
academy, and the property of the corporation, and shall keep a fair record
of their proceedings, and full and true accounts of all receipts and expendi-
tures, which records and accounts shall be open to the inspection of the
membcrsof the corporation at all tettsonable hours, and shall be be exhibited,
if raluired, at‘ the meeting of the members. '

Q

316. '_00lIJ?0B_A‘ltI0.iI.

§8. The cor; oration shall not own and hold at any one time property
exceeeing the value of ten thousand dollars.
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, I849.

   

AN ACT to incorporate the Independence and Missouri river rail road
company.

12. Tender of amount of damages by company.
13. Road may be built along or across State

and county roads.
Carriages, cars, &c., regulated by company.
Rates of toll.

§ 1. Company incorporated; capital fifty thou- S
sand dollars. 3

2. Who to constitute first board of directors. -

F‘

3. Vote of stockholder. l 1
4. Officers to be chosen. 15.
5. Engineers, &.c.,to be appointed; journal to l 16. Warehouse at Independence.
be kept. z 17. Dividends, how and when declared.
6. Location and route of railroad. , 8. Exhibit, affairs of company.
7. Right to enter upon lands along said road.  9. When and for what periods exempt from

8. Refusal to relinquish lands; proceedings. \ taxation.

9. Oath of viewers. : 20. Scire facias to forfeit charter.
10. Powers and duties of viewersgassessment 21. When charter to be forfeited.

of damages. 22. Injuries to road; penalty for.
11. Damages assessed; provisions in relation 23. Stockholder may examine books, éc.
to. ‘ 24. Property liable for debts of company.

I
1

"WHEREAS, it has been re resented to the General Assembly that Lewis

Jones, Samuel H. oodson, John Parker, George W. Buchanan,
Samuel D. Lucas, Wm. B. Hay, John McMurry, and others, of
Jackson county, have associated themselves into a company for the
purpose of constructing a rail road, hereinafter designated; and
whereas, it has been further represented that the said company have
already expended a large amount of money in commencing and have
nearly completed said rail road, and that the interests of the citi-
zens of the county as well as the objects of the company would be
advanced by creating a body corporate; therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly Q/‘the State of Mi.9souri, asfollozvse

§ 1. That Lewis Jones, Samuel H. \Voodson, John Parker, George W.
Buchanan, Samuel D. Lucas, Wm. B. Hay, and John McMurry, of
Jackson county, and all such persons as now are or shall hereafter be-
come stockholders of the said company, shall be and are hereby created
a body corporate and politic, in fact and in name, by the name and style
of the “Independence and Missouri river rail road coinpany,” the capi-
tal stock whereof shall be fifty thousand dollars, or so much as may be
necessary to execute the objects of the company as hereinafter specilied,
to be divided into shares of one hundred dollars, the holders thereof,
their successors or assigns, shall constitute the body corporate and poli-
tic as aforesaid, and by that name shall have erpetual succession, may
sac and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend and be defended, in
any and all courts of justice whatever; may make, use, alter or renew
at pleasure a common seal; shall‘ be able in law and equity to make and

oonronxrrons. 317

6i$I"i!e“alI‘ kihds of contracts; may take, hold, use, possess, and enjoy ‘-

the fee simple or any other title or estate in real estate, lands, tenements,
and hereditaments, and the same to sell and dispose of at pleasure; -may
make such by-laws, rules and regulations as may be necessary for carrying
into effect the provisions and meaning of this act, not repugnant to the
constitution or aws of the United States or of this State.

T § 2. That the aforesaid seven persons or a majority of them shall con-
stitute the iirst board of directors under this act, and shall hold their of-
__£ce until their successors are duly elected and qualified; and they and
their successors are hereby authorized to fill any vacancies which may
occur in said board before the regular day of election by the stockhold-
ers; which shall take place on the first Monday in April in each year; the
 of directors may open books for the subscription to the capital
stock, at such times and place as they may deem proper, until the whole
amount shall be taken up.

f  3. Every stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share by
Igim held, and those not present shall be entitled to vote by proxy, in
writing, duly executed to the person wishing to vote; but no director
‘shall act as proxy for any stockholder. ,

§ 4. The directors shall meet in a reasonable time after their election
and choose out of their number a president, atreasurer, and a secretary,
who shall hold their oiiices during the time for which they were elected
directors.
§ 6. The directors shall have power from time to time to appoint aoents,
clerks, engineers, superintendents, and all such other persons and oili-
cers necessary to carry into effect the objects of this act; they shall keep
a journal of their proceedin s, in which shall be entered all by-laws,
rules, and regulations made by the board, and all other acts; and any
one member may require the ayes and nays to be entered thereon, upon
any vote dgiven by the board, which journal shall be signed by the presi-
dent, an attested by the secretary. T
§ 6. The directors, by their agents or engineers, shall have full power and
authority from time to time to examine, survey, mark, and locate a route for
a railroad, for a single and double track, the same not to be more than one
hundred feet wide, commencing in the town of Independence, in Jack-
son county, and from thence to the Missouri river at Robert Rickman’s
landing, in said county, with full power in all cases to diverge from a
direct line, or to extent [extend] the same to any point below said Rick-
man’s landing, where a good steamboat landing may be obtained, when-
ever in their opinion the interest of the company may require it.
' § 7. For the purpose of making said examination, location, and con-
Itruction of said road, it shall be lawful for said company,‘>y their
agents, officers, or other persons employed, to enter u on the lands along
a [and] contiguous to said road; and all grants an donations of any
lands or materials made to said company, or any contract made for the
same to the company, shall be binding upon the person or persons ma-
king the same, to the full intent and meaning of said contract. '
§ 8. In all cases where any person, through whose lands said road may
run, sh'all refuse to relinquish the quantity aforesaid, or where no con-
tract can be made with the owner thereof, either on account of absence
or being an infant, or of unsound mind, or a married woman, or from any

8l8 ooaiaoiwrioxs.

other cause whatever, it shall be lawful for the company to give notice’
thereof to the county court of the county within which the lands lie, and
it shall be the duty of said court thereupon to appoint three disinterest-
ed and discreet men, citizens of the county. to examine and view said
lands, upon a day to be by them designated; at least five days’ notice
of the time of making said view shall be given to the owner of said land,
if a resident of the county, if not aresident then said notice to be given
to the tenant, and if there be no tenant notice shall be given by an ad-
vertisement in some newspaper printed nearest to the county where said
lands lie; if the lands belong to a married woman, infant, or persons of
unsound mind, notice shall be served upon the husband of such married
woman, or the guardian of such infants or persons of unsound mind, and
where there is no guardian of such persons, the county court shall appoint
some suitable person in their behalf. .

§ 9. The viewers thus appointed, before entering upon their duties,
shall severally take and subscribe an oath, faithfully and impartially to
discharge the duties of their appointment, and particularly to honestly’
assess the damages, if any there are, which the construction of the road
will do the lands of such owners, taking always into the estimate the
advantages as well as the disadvantages the road may be to the same.

§ 10. The viewers shall go upon and examine the land, and report
what damages, if any, will be done thereto, or any buildings or appur-
tenances thereon, which report shall be accompanied with a plat of the
land viewed, and returned into the office of the clerk of the county court,

who shall file the same; which, when tiled, shall operate as a judgment ‘

for the amount thereof, which shall be final and conclusive between the
parties, unless they shall file in writing with [the] clerk, within three
days after the return of said report, their objections to the same; and
when objections are thus filed, it shall be the duty of the court to exam-
ine the same as soon thereafter as may be, and may hear testimony there-
on; and if the court shall find the objections sufficient and legal, they
shall order a review by three other reviewers, who shall proceed in the
same manner as herein before provided, but not more than one review
shall be granted to the same person; and if the court shall find said oh-
jections not to be sutlicient and just, they shall cause judgment to be en-

tered according to said report; and if no ogections be filed to said report“

as aforesaid, the court at the next succee ing term shall cause the same
to be confirmed, and judgment entered thereon; provided, the clerk shall
not enter judgment until the three days after filing the report has elapsed;
the company y their agents, engineers, superintendents, and laborers
may enter upon all such lands, and proceed to constrect said rail road
through-the same, and the pendency of any proceedings whatever to as-
certain the damages, shall not hinder or delay the progress of the work;
the intention and meaning of this act being that all injury which may be
done to any land by opening and constructing said road through the same,
over and above the advantages of the same to the proprietor, shall be
fully compensated for in damages when ascertained.

§ 11. The damages assessed as aforesaid shall be paid to the owner of
the land, or his legal representatives or agents; but it the owneris ‘absent,
and having no legal representative or agent entitled to receive said dam-
ages, the same shall be paid into the county treasury, subject to the or-

oaarauauvs. 4 319%"

ilowbf the owner; whenever the company shall hle in the omce of the
clerk of the county court the receipt of the person entitled to said dam-
ages, for the amount thus assessed, or in case of a deposite, as herein
before prescribed, in the county treasury, then the receipt or certificate
of said treasurer of the said deposite for the damages aforesaid, then the
right, title, and interest ‘of said land, mentioned in the report, shall pass
and be vested in said company, in fee simple, as fully and completely as
if deeds of conveyance had been executed therefor; provided, that if
the party to whom the damages were awarded shall refuse to acce t or
receive the same, in that event the company shall succeed to a l the
riglttsvagnaranteed to them in case where the damages have been paid or
 as aforesaid; and the person entitled to said damages may at
anytime thereafter, after demand made and refused by the companyto
pay the same, enforce the payment of said damages and costs, if any,
bysctecution from the -court to which the report was made.
 12. If before any proceed_ings, as herein before provided, he had for
mfnrpose of ascertaining the damages on land, the company shallphave
end to the owners of said land a sum e ual or greater than the dam-
aplr-assessed, and the same shall be refused, the party. so refusing shall
pay all costs attending the assessment of such damages, in all other cases
the costs shall be paid by the company.
§ 13. The company shall have power and authority to build said road
ioagor across any State or county road, and the streets of any town,
corporate or otherwise; but before such right shall vest in the company,
they shall apply to the county court for such right, and if the court is
s;Itis_Sed»th~at no great injury will be done to the public, they may b
airs:-der of said court give the ri ht to the company to do so; provide ,
that said com any shall keep good and suflicient causeways for crossing

the same, an shall construct the road along such streets of a town as .

IOGM obstruct the same.

€§ 14. It shall be lawful for said company to prescribe the kind of carriages
thd may be used, and by whom, and whether propelled by steam or other-
wlis,-‘fdri the transportation of assengers and freight of any description,
and may build such [turnouts, branch roads, warehouses, and all other
structures as may be necessary to the interests of the company; all cars,
carriages, and other vehicles to be used on the road, shall be alone subject

to the company, through its proper officers, and no person shall put any

carriage or other vehicle on said read without permission of the com-

 The company may charge and receive such tolls for freight, and
for the transportation of persons, commodities or carriages on said road,
or any part thereof, as shall be to the interests of the same, not to ex-
ceed ten cents per mile for passengers, and twenty-tive cents per ton
per mile for freight; and shall keep posted up at the depot, a list of th-e
rates of toll and freight; if the company shall at any time refuse or fail
to transport within a reasonable time, any freight delivered at the pro-
per place, the toll or freight thereon having been paid, they shall be lia-
ble to the party injured in double the amount of such toll, together with
private damages for the detention, to be recovered in any court of com-
petent jurisdiction.

§ 16. The company shall have the power and authority to erect at the

town of Independence a warehouse, which shall be used Eorthe pur-
pose of storing Santa Fe and other goods, which may be transported on
the railroad, which shall be so «constructed as to facilitate the loading of
wagons, for the purpose of encouraging the trade; and for such facilities
they ‘are hereby out orized to charge warehouse rent at a rate not ex-
ceeding one hundred cents per ton, and twenty-hve cents per package
for all light articles.

§ 17. Semi-annual dividends of so much of the profits as the directors
may deem expedient, shall be made on such days as they may determine,
and be paid to the stockholders as soon thereafter as can with conve-
nience be done; but no dividend shall be made to a greater amount than
the nett profits, after deducting all expenses; and the directors may re-
serve such portions of the profits as a contingent fund to meet subse-
quent expenditures, as they may deem proper.

? 18. At every annual election, the directors shall lay before the stock-
ho ders present an exhibit of the affairs and condition of the company;
any number of the stockholders ownin one-fourth of the stock subscri-
bed, may call a meeting of the stoclgnolders, by giving at least two
weeks’ notice in some newspaper published near Independence, speci-
fying the object of the call; and if a majority of the stock is represent-
ed, they they shall be competent to transact any business touching the
concerns of the -company. ‘

§ 19. Whereas, [whenever] the amount of three hundred shares has been
subscribed, all the powers, privileges, rights, immunities and benelits con-
ferred or intended to be conferred in this charter, shall be vested in the
stockholders of said shares; and whenever any other ortion of said capital
stock is subscribed for, the same shall be vested in al subsequent subscri-
bers, and every person who shall cease to be a stockholder, shall cease to
be a member of said company; the stock and property of said compa-
ny shall be exempt from all State and county taxes for the term of three
years. .

' § 20. Any person may at any ‘time when he believes this charter has
been violated, make complaint under oath to the circuit court of Jack-
son county, and thereupon the court [may] issue a scire facias, speci-
fying in particular the violation complained of; and if upon a trial there-
of by a jury or otherwise, said charter shall have been found to have
been violated, the courtmay appoint trustees to take charge of the af-
fairs of the company, and the charter privileges shall from that time
cease. «

§ 21. If the said road, after its completion, shall be suffered to go into
decay, or be impassable for the space of two years, unless when the
same is being repaired, this charter shall be taken and forfeited.

§ 22. If any person shall willfully injure or obstruct said road, or any
part thereof, or shall break, destroy or deface, any work, edifice, device
tollhouse, warehouse, or other thing belonging to said company, such
person, so offending, upon conviction, shall be adjudged guilty of a mis-
demeanor, and may be punished by fine not less than fifty dollars, or b
imprisonment in the county jail not less than three months, or by bot
such fine and imprisonment; and if life be lost by such willful obstruc-
tion or hindrance, then such offending person shall be ‘deemed guilty of
murder, and be punished accordingly; such offending person shall also be

321

liable to pay the company, or any other person, double damages for all
injuries sustained by reason thereof.

§ '23. Any stockholder may at any time have access to the books of
said company for the purpose of ascertaining the mana ement and con-
dition of the aliairs of the company, and any stoclcho der may at any
time sell and transfer such stock, or any portion thereof, to any
person, who shall have all the rights and privileges thereby, as the per-
son from whom he purchased the same.

§ 24. The property of said company shall at all times be liable for the
debts due by the same, and may be sold under execution in all respects
as provided by law.

This act shall take eH'ect and he in force from and after its passage-, or

as soon thereafter as it shall be assented to by a majority in interest of
the stockholders constituting said company.

Approved Febluary 22, 1849.

_ ooaeoaammms;

   

AN ACT to incorporate Sarcoxie Academy.

§ 1. Sarcoxie Academy established.

§ 10. Female department authorized.
2. Trustees constituted.

1]. Restriction as to religious denominations.

3. Chairman of board to be chosen. 12. In case of sale of institution, provisions.
4. Provision in case of vacancy. 13. Investment township school fund; poll to
5. Stated meetings of trustees. be opened. . ‘
6. Called me.-tings; quorum. 14. Majority in favor of investment, proceed-
- 7. Powers of board. in .
8. Power to sue. 15. Sucgselection may be held on any day. .
9. Control over real estate. , 16. Open tor scholars of township, orphans, sac.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Jllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That an academy is hereby established in the town of Sarcoxie,
in the county of Jasper, which shall be known and designated by the
name of Sarcoxie Academy.

§2. That Flemin B. McCurdy, Samuel D. Saunders, Benjamin F.
Massey, James H. cPhatridge, Benjamin A. Woods, James M. Wilson,
Andrew Wilson, Thomas Wright, and Alexander M. Dawson, and their
successors, be and they are hereby constituted a body politic and cor-
porate, to be known by the name of the trustees of Sarcdxie Academy,
and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and a common seal.

§ 3. The board of trustees shall choose one from among their number
to act as chairman of said board, whose duty it shall be to preside over
the deliberations of the board when in session, to keep order, &c.; yet
if the chairman, after being chosen, shall fail to attend any of the meet-
ings of the board, a quorum thereof shall have authority to appoint a
chairman pro tem, during the absence of the proper chairman.

§ 4. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the board of trustees or their
successors in ofiice, by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the
same shall be filled by the remaining trustees.

§ 5. There shall be two stated meetings of the trustees annually, at

other

the academy, on the days closing the winter and summer sessions of the’
academy; the term of the commencing and endinggof which sessions
shall be regulated by said board in such manner as they may deem pro-‘
per for the best interest of the institution.

§ 6. The chairman of the board of trustees shall have power to call a
special meeting of the board, when any two of the trustees shall deem
it expedient, and any four of said trustees at any regular adjourned or
gpecial meeting, shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of transacting

usiness.

 7. The board of trustees shall have power to receive subscriptions,
gifts, grants, donations and beqpests, in any money or property, for the
benefit of the academy; to ma e laws, by-laws and regulations for the
government of the academy, to elect a principal for the male and female
departments, and other teachers, agree with them for their salaries, and
remove them, when in their judgment the interest of the company re-
quires it; to devise means to carry into effect the will of the board, to‘
appoint a secretary, treasurer and other necessary otiicers, to take care
of the estate and manage the concerns of the academy. '

§ 8. The trustees shall have power to demand, sue for and recover any
money or property already subscribed, or that may hereafter be sub-
scribed for the use and benefit of the academy and to prosecute and de-
fend in their corporate name all suits relating to, or in any way adecting
the interests of the academy.

§ 9. The trustees shall have a general superintending control over all
real estate that has been or may hereafter be iven, granted, donated,
bequeathed or subscribed to the academy, to sel and dispose of the same
in any way that may appear to them to be most conducive to the best

. inteses of the academy.

§ 10. It shall be the duty of the board of trustees to establish a female
department in said academy, as soon as the interests of the institution
may require the same, and to make such regulations for the government
thereof as they may deem proper. _
§ 11. No influence in favor of the principles of any religious denomin-
ation shall he exerted in said academy, but proper regulations shall be
made for the moral discipline of the pupils. o ,
§ 12. If the institution or the property thereunto belonging should
ever be sold or otherwise disposed of, the proceeds of the sale shall be
divided among the different subscribers that are now or hereafter me
be interested in proportion to the amount donated or subscribed by each
for the erection of the same; and provided the township school fund shall
be vested in this academy by the vote of the township, the proportiona-
b}l]e amount thereof in the event aforesaid shall be refunded to said town-
s 1p.
§ 13. That on the first Monday in April next a poll shall be opened in
each of the following school districts in said county of Jasper, in the
Sarcoxie school district, at the echool house in said district under the
superintendence of Samuel D. Sanders, Andrew Wilson and Fleming B.
McCurdy, in Centre Creek school district, at the school house thereof,
under the superintendence of James H. McPhatridge, James M. Wilson
nd Alexander M. Dawson and the superintendents shall prepare poll
ooks, and there shall be two columns in the poll books, one for vesting:

~ . eonrourzons. 598‘

the school funds of congressional township No. twenty-seven of range
No. twenty-nine in said county of Jasper in said academy and one
against it; and the qualified voters of the school district hall at the time
and place aforesaid and between the hours of nine o’cloel: in the fore-
noon and four o’clock in the afternoon of that day, vote for or against
vesting the townshi school fund in Sarcoxie academy; and the said
superintendents sha 1 within three days thereafter certify the returns of \
said vote to the clerk of the county court of the county of Jasper.

§ 14. If there shall be a ma'ority of the voters in either of said school
districts or in both in favor o vesting the township school funds in the
academy, the clerk of the county court of Jasper county is hereby au-
thorized and required to pay the township school fund of township No.
twenty-seven, ran e No. twenty-nine, and the fund apportioned to or
belonging to said istrict or districts, over to the order of -the trustees
of Sarcoxie academy, so soon as the same is paid over to the county
court of Newton county to the county of Jasper, and he shall so pay
over the school moneys, which may hereafter accrue to said district or
districts, whenever apportionment thereof shall be made, under the gen-
eral laws on the subject of common schools. '

§ 15. If such election is not held on the day specified in the 13th sec-
tion, the superintendants may hold it on any other day, by first giving
ten days notice thereof in each of the school districts aforesaid by four
advertisements set up at public places in each district.

§ 16. The said academy shall be open for all the scholars of township

. No. twenty-seven, range No. twenty-nine in said county of Jasper, and

orphans and children of indigent persons who are unable to pay shall
receive their tuition gratis; provided, said township by a‘ majority of the
qualified voters in the same, shall vest the township school fund in said
academy. -
This act to take effect from its passage. I
Approved February 27, 1849.

a%f\f\/\t'\r

 

r\r\

 

P\’\/Y

§

AN ACT to incorporate the Lacledc Fire Company.

§I. Com an incor rated. 5. Certain re 1- of com an exam tfrom
2. Powgr td makelzbnstitution and b -laws.i taxati}dn.pe W P J! P
3. To hold books, maps, 822.; also a und for 6. Elections, contributions, fines; provisions
relief. in relation to.
4. Number of members. 7. Engine and apparatus to be kept ready for
use, One. '

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ l. T. A. Buckland, John J. Boswell, Charles Bobb. William H. Carroll-,
James Caldwell, Augusti Guelbreth. John Knapp. J. B. McKown. James T.
Mclilton, Michael Powers. Jacob Schroer, Thomas B. Targee, Peter.Win-
rlerly. and their associates and successors. are hereby created a body politic '
and cmporate. by the name and style cf “The Laclede fire company,” and
by that name may have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead
and be implcadcd, answer and be answered unto, defend and be defended,

A

824 oonroaarious.

in all courts and places, may have a common seal, and alter, change and
renew the same, may acquire, hold, use, convey and dispose of such real and
personal property as may be necessary and convenient for the association.
and may do all acts and things necessary to carry into effect the purposes of
the association.

§ ‘2. Said corporation shall have power to make a constitution, rules,
by-laws and regulations for its government, anc may alter and amend the
same; but the same shall not be repugnant to the constitution oi-laws of the
United States, or of this State.

§ 3. Said company shall have power to acquire or purchase, use and enjoy
books, maps, charts, philosophical and chemical apparatus. mineralogical and
other specimens calculated to improve the minds, and add to the usefulness
and happiness of its members. It shall also have power to create and hold
a fund, the proceeds of which shall be applied to the relief of members in-
jured or disabled in the discharge of their duties as firemen, and to the edu-
cation of the children of indigent and diseased members who have been

active firemen.

§ 4. Said company shall consist of not more than one hundred and fifty
active members, and as many honorary members, n- t exceeding fifty, as it
may by its by-laws declare, under regulations and restrictions to be prescribed;
and all active members shall be exempted from militia duty in time of peace,
and from service on juries during their continuance as members of said
company. Any member who shall have faithfully donediity as an active
member for seven years, shall receive a certificate of such fact under the
eat of said company; and thereafter shall not be compelled to do militia
service in time of peace, and shall be exempt from jury service. The secre-
tary shallkeepa true record of all such certificates, and a certified topy
thereof shall be evidence in all courts.

§ 5. The apparatus, funds. library and other property of said company,
shall be exempt from taxation, and its funds may he leaned out at legal interest.

§ 6. Said company shall have power to regulate elections and judge of
the returns of its own members, levy contributions on the members and im-
pose fines, and enforce the payment thereof. '

§ 7. Said company shall procure and keep in good order and repair, in a
convenient place, and ready for use upon a sudden warning, at least one
good fire engine, set of hose, carriages and other necessary apparatus, and
with the same to do and perform all duties usual in fire companies.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

v-_/\.; \J\/\.;\J\./\.4\./\.a'\J\.«\/\.a\I‘—r\¢’

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Lake Bridge Company.

§ I’.’Name of com an and u oses.
2. Capital stock? fob; thourslaiili dollars.
3. Books to be opened.
4. President and directors to be elected.
5. Made a body corporate; power thereof.
5. To select a place for bridge; call on stock-
holders; forfeiture of stock; &c.
7. Proceedin s to obtain land and materials.

3. On coin etion of bridge; rate of tolls
prescri ed.

9. Penalty for excess of tolls.
10. Liability and punishment for injury to
bridge.
g 11. Penalty on persons building other bridges

 

within two miles.

12. Commissioners to be appointed to exam-
ine bridge when out of repair; penalty
for collecting toll.

13. Company dissolved after twenty-five years.

cannons-rams. 355

Be itenacted by the General .&ssembly of the State Q/'ll,:lz°ssourz',asfollows:
'§ 1. That a company shall be formed under the name and style of the
“Lake Bridge Company,” for the purpose of constructing a bridge across
the big lake lying between Charleston and the Mississippi river, in Mississippi
county, commonly called Ben Gray Lake. If said company shall deem
such a course most advantageous, instead of building a bridge, said company
may build a levee or embankment, so high as to form a good read across
said big lake; and when such levee and embankment shall be completed,
and a good travelling road formed thereon, said company shall be allowed
‘tor receive tolls thereon, in the same manner as if a bridge had been built
across said lake.

§2. That the aforesaid company areilhereby authorized to raise by
subscription the capital stock of four thousand dollars, to be divided into
two hundred shares of twenty dollars each. '

§ 3. That the books, for the purpose of receiving subscriptions of stock
in said company, shall be opened at Charleston, in Mississippi county, under
the direction of Joseph Dyson, Harrison S. Thompson, John Sheppard,
Arthur R. Newman, James Braswell, Joshua Moore, John R. Roberts,
George Whitcomb, Noah Handy, William Kennedy, and James Smith, at
such time as they or any one or more of them may choose; the said persons
are hereby appointed commissioners for the purposes herein mentioned.
The said commissioners shall procure a book, and the subscribers to the

stock of said company shall enter into the following agreement in said book,

to wit: we, whose names are hereunto subscribed. do promise to pay the
president and directors of the Lake Bridge Company the sum of twenty
dollars for each and every share of stock in said company, set opposite our
names,iu such manner and proportions and at such times as shall be required
by the presidentand directors of said company.

§4. That whenever lifty shares of the capital stock aforesaid shall be
subscribed, it shall be the duty of the commissioners above named, or any
five of them. to call a meeting of all the subscribers of said stock at Charles-
ton, in said county, at some time which they shall designate by written
advertisements, to be put up at three or more of th" most public places in
said county, at least litteen days before the time of said meeting for the
purpose of accepting this charter, and organizing said company, by electing
a president and four directors; at which election at least five of said com-
missioners shall be present, one of whom shall act as president for the time
being who shall proceed to take the votes of said stockholders by ballot,
who shall have the right to vote, in person or by proxy, (whose appointment
shall be evidenced by some written instrument) for a president and {our
directors, who shall hold their oflicos respectively for one year, and until
their successors are duly qualified. In all elections for president or directors,
or other questions to be decided by said company, each stockholder shall
be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by him or her. In
case of the death or resignation of the president or any director, the balance
of the board may fill such vacancy by the appointment of some stockholder
to serve during the unexpired time of such vacant otlicc; and every year,
after the election of president and directors as aforesaid, said stockholders

shall proceed to elect a president and directors as aforesaid; and in all .

meetings of stockholders, any executor, administrator, guardian,or trustee

886 eononstmsrs. -

may represent and vote on account of the respective shares of stock held
by the deceased person, ward, or beneficiary. l

§ 5. That when said stockholders shall elect a president anddirectors as
aforesaid, said stockholders, president, and directors shall be, and they are
hereby created, a body corporate and politic, by the name and style of the
Lake Bridge company, to continue for twenty-five yténrs from the passage
of this act; and by the title and name aforesaid,said company may contract
and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be implt-aded, defend
and be defended, answer and be answered, in all courts of law and equity;
and shall have authority to make have, and use a common seal, and to alter
and change the same at pleasure; also may purchase, receive, rent, hold, and
enjoy lands, tenements, goods, chattels, money, and effects of any kind
whatever, not exceeding the value of ten thousanddollars; and also to
ordain and put in execution all by-laws they may think necessary in
managing and governing the interest and concerns of said company. so
that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, or the
gonstitution or laws of this State, or the constitution or laws of the United

tates.

§ 6. That after said company is organized as aforesaid, the president and
directors of said company shall select the most practicable place on said
lake, between Charleston and the Mississippi river, at which to erect such
kind of bridge as they may deem expedient to be made. Said pres’dent and
directors shall direct the affairs of said company, and shall have power to
prescribe, by resolution, when said stock is to be paid, how much of oath
share is to be paid at one time; and they shall have power and authority to

‘forteit to the company such stock as may not be paid agreeably to such

requisitions; and it shall be their duty to provide such by-laws as may be
necessary for the transfer of stock, from time to time; provided, that no
person who is indebted to the company shall have power to transfer his
stock theren until such indebtedness is discharged. They shall have power
to employ a clerk or clerks, and such other oflicers and /agents as may be
deliemhedhhyltlgem to’ be proper‘: They sfhalldlteep :1 repaid of their proceedings,
1! ic s a c evi ence 0 t e acts 0 sat corpora ion.

{} 7. That said company shall have the right to enter upon any land, and
take therefrom such timber [growintr] as may be necessary to usein the
construction ofsaid bridge; and shallchave power to appropriate to the use
of saifd cohmpan y as mfu<l:)h lliiind as ilnay bi; D€C8S.i‘-itfy to [erect a toll-grate on,
and ort e purpose 0 ui ing a iouse or a to -gate teeper to rest e in.
not exceeding one acre; said company shall, however. pay to the owner of
such land or timber a reasonable compensation therefor, before they shall
have a right to appropriate the same to their use; and if the said company
and the owner of such land or timber cannot agvee as to the price ot the
same, such owner or said corr.-pany may‘, by petition, setting forth the facts
of the case, to the circuit or county court of said county, or the clerk
thereof, in vacation, and asking that the damages which might be sustained
by the taking of such land or timber from the owner thereof be assessed,
whereupon, it shall be the duty of such court, or clerk thereof, in vacation,
to issue a process directed to_ the sheriff, or any constable of said" county,
ttzommanding hip: to surfiimtpi a juryfof tsitvelve hguseholders ofjsailcil county
0 appeara a mic an pace men none in sai process; an w en SUCI
number of jurors are summoned, and appear at such time and place, such

jury shall take an oath, before said sheriff or constable, that they, will. to

.osubua-mus. 897

the best of their ability, inquire into and assess the damages the owner of
such land or timber mentioned in said petition would sustain by reason of
said company using the same; and after said Jury agree, they shall return
their verdict to said sheriff or such constable as such process may have been
directed to, and such otiicers shall return the whole proceedings of the case
to the clerk aforesaid, who shall tile the same in the office of which he is
clerk; and if said company shall pay or tender to pay the owner of such
land or timber the amount so assessed, said company shall have the right to
use said land or timber or both for the purpose aforesaid, and the right to the
same shall absolutely rest in them; provided, said owner or his agent may

have had ten days previous notice of the time and place of assessing said i

damages.

§8. That after said company shall complete said bridge in such manner
and in such place as they shall direct, it shall be the duty of the county
court of said county to cause a road to be opened and lccpt in repair
from Charleston to said bridge, and from said bridge to some convenient
place on the Mississippi river; and said company shall be entitled, and
shall haveethe right, to _collect the following rates of toll for travelling
across said lake on said bridge: for every man and horse, ten cents; for
each loose horse, five cents; for each four horse wagon and team, thirty
cents; for each two horse wagon and team, fifteen cents; for each head
of neat cattle, three cents; for each head of sheep or hogs. one cent; for
each pleasure carriage, fifteen cents; and said company may take from
any citizen of said county any gross sum which said’ person may agree
'to pay said company for the travel of such person and his family on said
bridge, for any length of time they may agree upon. ‘ '

§ 9. That if said company shall demand and receive any greater toll than
is allowed by this charter, the collector of such toll shall be liable to pay to

the person thus injured the sum of five dollars, to be recovered before any
justice of. the peace of said county; and if any person, by force or fraud,

'shall evade the payment of any toll he may be liable to pay to travel on said

bridge. such person shall pay to said company, over and above such toll, the
sum of five dollars, likewise to be recovered before any justice of the peace.

§ 10. That if any person shall wilfuily and mischievously destroy said
bridge,‘ or any property thereunto attached or belonging, such person shall
pay the said company double damages for such injury, to be recovered in any
court having jurisdiction, and shall, moreover, be liable to be lined in any
sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and to be imprisoned in the county
jail for any term not exceeding six months.

§ 11. Thatif any person or persons shall make a bridge over said lake
within. t.\7o;miles of either side of said lake, for the purpose of injuring said
company by diminishing the amount of their tolls, or otherwise, said com-
pany mzrv recover of such person or persons, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, double the amount of dainagesthey may have thereby. aus-
taiued. '

§ 12. That the county court of said county shall, from time to time, ap-
point a commissioner to examine whether said bridge is kept in repair; and ifat
any time said company shall collect or cause to be collected any toll for tra-
velling on said bridge, after the same has been declared by said court to be
out of repair, said company shall be liable to pay to the person from whom
such toll is taken the sum of live dollars for each offence, and shall not be

328 . cunronartorzsa

allowed under the penalty aforesaid to take any toll'fo ‘ travelling over said
bridge. until the same is repaired and made safe for travellers to pass over.

§ 13. That at the expiration of twenty-five yeais after the passage of this
act, said company shall be dissolved, and shall have no power or control of
said bridge; andthe same shall then become a free public highway.

This act to take ellect from its passage.
Approved February 17, I849.

 

«M l\/\a \v\.l\I\l\)\J\/‘

AN AC 1‘ to incorporate the Saint Louis and Illinois Wire Suspension

Bridge Company.

§ 1. Company incorporated. 3 6. Material and mode of building bridge.

2. Books to be opened; by whom. ( 7. Commencement and completion.

3. President and directors; power and authnri-g 8. Ca ital stock.

ty of. 1 9. Pu lic act.
4. Bridge where terminated. ( 10. $2500 to be expended in two years.
5. Tolls aéay be collected when bridge co1n- E
_ p ete .

Be it enacted by. the Generalufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollaws: _

§‘1. John O’Fallon, James C. Lucas, Zadock Casey, Vital Jarrot,
Charles Ellet, jr., Charles Lewis, Charles M. Valleau, Henry Holmes,
Henry Harber, Richard F. Barritt and Charles Collins; U. F. Linder,

Horace S. Cooley, M. McConnell and L. Pickering, their associates

«and successors in office, are hereby constituted a body corporate and

politic by the name and style of the St. Louis and Illinois Wire Suspen-
sion Bridge Company, and by that name shall have perpetual succession

and all the powers, privilege and franchise incident to a corporation and.

generally to do and execute in and about the erection of said bridge, all

acts, matters and things, which a corporation or body politic may or can

lawfully do and execute.

§ 2. Immediately after the passage of this act, a majority of the above
named persons, after having first given thirty days notice in some news-
paper printed in the city of St. ouis of the time and lace at which
books shall be opened for subscription to the capital stoci of said brid e
at St. Louis, Belleville and such other places as they may deem ex e i-
ent and as soon as $500,000 of the stock shall have been subscribe , the

-stockholders may proceed to elect by ballot from among‘ their number a

president, treasurer and nine directors, five of whom s all constitute a

quorum to do business.

' § 3. Said president and directors shall have power to manage all the
‘business of said company, may make such by-laws as they may deem ex-
pedient and for the best interest of the company; may determine how
and upon what terms the stock may be taken and secured and to do all
things necessary to advance the interests of said compan and the speedy
accomplishment of the work in contemplation; rovide , all their acts

gretconsistent with the laws and constitution o the State and United
to es.

coaroaarrons. ' 329

§ 4. And it may be lawful for said company to terminate said bridge
on the Missouri shore o posite the termination of said bridge in the
State of Illinois, as providled in the charter for said bridge by the State
of Illinois, passed at the recent session of the General Assembly, and
said company shall have power to have, hold, purchase, acquire and own
sufhcient land from low water mark of the Mississippi river on the Mis-

_ souri side thereof and as far back from said low water mark as may be

necessary for the termination of said bridge, and for all fixtures, toll
houses and other necessary buildings.

§ 5. When a good and complete bridge is erected over the Mississip-
pi river from St. Louis to the Illinois shore, the property of said bridge,
and the appurtenances thereunto belonging, shall be vested in said com-
pany, their successors and assigns forever; and the said company may
demand and receive tolls not to exceed one-half of the present rate of
ferriage now received at the Wiggins ferry company at St. Louis.

§ 6. The bridge to be built by said company shall be of the best ma-
terial used for such purposes, and regularly well attended and conduct-
ed for the safe passage of all persons and property, the rates of toll be-
in paid, the bridge to be kept sufficiently lighted at all times, and of
fu l sufficient width for a double track and two ‘footpaths not less than
three feet wide each; that the floor of the bridge shall not be less than
eighty-five feet above low water mark at that point over the navigable
part of the river for steamboats, and when erected, not to obstruct or
impede the free navigation of the Mississippi river for any ship, steam
boat or other water craft; and if any obstruction is caused by the erec-
tion of said bridge to any ship, steamboat or other water craft, the said
company shall forfeit their charter, and pay all damages that may be sus-

’ tained by any person or persons by reason of said obstruction.

§7. The company shall commence the work of construction of said
bridge within two years from the passage of this act, and shall complete
the same within ten years.

? 8. The capital stock of said company shall consist of one million of
do lars, to be divided into ten thousand shares, of one hundred dollars
each.

§ 9. _This act shall be considered a public act in all courts of law and
equity in this State, and shall be in force from and after its passage.

§ 10. The said bridge company shall cause the expenditure of twenty-
Eve thousand dollars in the erection of said bridge to be made in work
thereon, within two years from this time, or shall, on failure thus to do,
forfeit their said charter.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the City of Independence.

5 1 - Boundaries of corporate limits; powers. 5. Powers of board to appoint omcers; other
2. Mayor and councilrnen. owers.
3. Councilmen elected by wards. 6. eetings of board, when held.
4. Councilmen, how elected- tie, how deter- 7. Mayor, how elected; term of o$ce.
m1ned;vacancy, how tilled. 8. Mayor; qualifications.

6

339. » Coemnsrrows-.

§ 9. Mayor, powers and duties of. 21. Real estate sold for taxes;when redeemed.
10. Mayor; vacancy in ofiice, how filled. 22. Expenditures, statement of, to be pub-
ll. Mayor and councilmen,general powers of. lished.
12. Further powers. 23. Compensation of ofiicers.
13. Bills, how approved by mayor. 24. Fire company; how organized; privileges.
14. Style of laws; to be published. 25. Jurisdiction of mayor; fees.
15. Register, a pointment of; duties. 26. County court to appoint judges of election;
I6. Oath to be aken by officers. notices.
17. General election; when held. 27. Inhabitants exempt from road working.
18. Voter, who qualified as. 28. This charter to be submitted to the people.
19. Assessor; when elected; his duties. 29. If not accepted within two years, null
20- Constable; when elected; his duties. and void. .

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows: _

§ 1. All that district of country contained within one mile square, of which
the court house of Jackson county is the centre, the sides of said square
being respectively parallel to the corresponding sides of said court house,
shall be and is hereby erected in a city by the name of the city of Indepen-
dence; and the inhabitants thereof are [to] be and are hereby constituted =1
body corporate and politic, by the name and style ofthe mayor, councilmen,
and citizens of the city of Independence; and by that name, they and their
successors shall be known in law, have perpetual succession. sue and be sued,
implead and be impleaded,defend and be defended,in all courts oflaw and
equity. and in all actions and matters whatsoever; may grant, purchase,
receive, and hold property, real and personal, within said city, and no other
(burial ground excepted); and may have, sell, and dispose of the same for
the bent-tit of said city, and may do all other acts as natural persons; may
have a common seal, and may change and alter the same at pleasure.

§2. The corporate powers and duties of said city shall be vested in a
mayor and councilmen, who shall be chosen and appointed as hereinafter
directed. a .

girl, "The board of councilmen shall consist of nine members, for the
election of whom, the city shall be divided into convenient wards by the
board of councilmen. which may be altered from time to time, and new
wards created, as the convenience of the inhabitants may require; and
counrilmen shall be appointed and apportioned among the several wards,
in proportion to the number of qualified voters in each.

§4. The councilmen shall be chosen by the qualified electors of their
t‘espt:t:tiVe wards, for the term of one year; shall be at least twenty-one
years of age, citizens of the United States, and inhabitants of said city for
two years next preceding their election; and whenever [there] shall be a
tie in the election of said council'nen, it shall be determined by the judges
of the election in the ward in which it shall happen by lot, and all vacancies
shall be tilled by election as aforesaid, in such manner as shall be provided
by ordinance. _ ‘

§ 5. The board of councilman shall appoint their president, and all other
ofiicers of their board; shall judge of the qualifications, elections, and returns
of their own members; a majority of the whole number shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day,
and may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and
under such penalties as the board may provide; they may determine the
rules and regulations oi'tl‘.c-ir proceedings. punish their members for disorderly
conduct, and by a concurrence of two-thirds of their whole number, expel
a member, but not a second time for the same cause; and they shall, at any

cotitionarrosis. ‘ 331

time rpon the request of any number, cause the yeas and nays to le called
and entered on theirjournal.
§ 6. The stated meeting of the board of councilmen shall be on the first
Wednesday of March, June, September, and December, in each year, at
which time they may adjourn from day to day; but they may be convened
at any other time, at the discretion of the mayor; provided, however, that
the mayor and board of councilmen' may, by ordinance, alter the time of
holding their stated meetings.
§ 7. The mayor shall be elected by the qualified electors of the city,shall
hold his office for the term of one year, and until his successor is daly elected
and qualified; and when two or more persons shall have an equal number of
votes tor mayor, or when any election for mayor shall be contested, it shaii
be determined by the board of councilmcn.
§ S. The mayor shall heat least twenty-five years of age, a citizen of the
United 'S'.ates_. shall have resided in the city at least two years next preceding
his election, and be otherwise qualified as in case ofcouncilmen.
§ 9. The mavor and counciltnen shall have power to fill all offices within
the city, which are not ordered by law or ordinance to be otherwise appointed
or elected. The mayor shall talre care that the laws of the State and the
ordinances of corporation are duly enforced, respected, and observed, within
the limits of said city. He shall have power, with the consent of the board
of councilmen, to remove from oflicc any person holding ollice created by
ordinance; to remit lines and forfeitutes; to grant reprieves and pardons in
any case arising under the ordinances of the corporation. He shall be a
conservator of the peace within the city; shall have power to ii l all vacancies
which may happen in any office (other than that of Councilmen), until the
end of the session of the board ofcouncilmen. which shall occur next after
said vacancy; shall from time to time give to said board of Councilmen
information relative to the situation of affairs of the city, and shall recom-
mean to their consideration such measures as he shall deem expedient for
the welfare of said city; may on extraordinary occasions convene the board
of councilman, by proclamation, stating to them, when assembled, the object
for which they were convened; and shall receive such compensation for his
services, as mayor, as may he provided by ordinance.
§ 10. When any vacancy shall hanpen in the office of mayor, by death,
raignation, absence from the city, removal from office, refusal to quality, or
otherwise, the president of the board of councilmen, for the time being,
shall exercise the oliice of mayor, until such vacancy shall be filled; and during
that time he shall receive the same compensation as the mayor would have
keen entitled to, and in case of vacancy as aforesaid, other than a temporary
absence from the city, the -person exercising the ofiice of mayor shall cause
a new election to be had, giving ten days notice‘ thereof, by proclamation.
- § .1. The mayor and board ofcouncilmen shall have power, by ordinance,
to levy and collect taxes upon real and personal property within the city.
not exceeding one half of one per centum upon the assessed vhlue thereof,
except as hereinafter excepted; to prevent and remove nuisances; to establish
night watches and patrols; erect lamps in the streets, and light the same;
to provide for licensing, taxing. and regulating wagons, carts, drays, pawn-
brokers, venders of lottery tirkets, retailers, ordinaries,-and taverns. hackncy
carriages, money changers and pedlars. theatricals and other shows and amuse-
ments; to restrain and prohibit houses, gaming and gaming houses.
billiard tables, and ten pin alleys; to prevent riots and disturbances to tha

332 Conronanous.

citizens; to prevent or restrain the meeting of slaves; to prevent the firing
of firearms; to prevent the furious and unnecessary running, galloping. or
driving of any horse or mule in the said city; to prevent and suppress bawdy
houses, or other disorderly houses within the limits of said city; and impose
penalties therefor; to establish and repair bridges; to establish and regulate
markets; to open, alter, close, and keep in repair streets, alleys, avenues.
lanes, drains, and sewers, and keep the same cleaned and open; to provide
the city with water; to provide for regulating and safe keeping standard
weights and measures to be used in the city; to regulate the cleaning of
chimneys, and fix the fees therefor; to provide for the prevention and
extinguishment of tire; to regulate the size of brick t" be made and used in
the city; to provide for the inspection of lumber and other building materials
to be used therein; to regulate and order the building of parapet walls and
partition fences; to regulate the inspection of butter, lard, wood, coal, and
the weight and quality of bread; the storage of gun powder, tar, pitch, rosin,
hemp, cotton, and other combustible material; to erect pumps in the streets
or other places, for the convenience of the inhabitants; to regulate the police
of the city, to regulate the election of city oflicers, and fix their compensation;
and from time to time pass such ordinances to carry into ellect the objects
of this act, and the powers hereby granted, as the welfare of the inhabitants
may require; and to impose and appropriate fines, penalties, and forfeitures,
for the breach of any ordinance, and provide for the execution and collection
therqof; provided, that no tax shall be laid on the wearing apparel, neces-
sary tools or implements of any person, used in carrying on his trade. nor
shall the same be subject to sale or distress for taxation.

§ 12. The mayor and councilmen shall have power to regulate, pavc
and improve the streets, avenues. lanes, alleys and side-walks witing said
city, and to extend open and widen any street, avenue, alley or lane, at
their discretion at any place within said city, and to create or open any
new street, avenue, alley or lane, at their discretion at any place in said
city, making however to the person or persons whose property may be
injured thereby, adequate com ensation therefor, to ascertain the amount

of which, the mayor shall in al such cases, cause to be summoned twelve’

good and lawful men who shall be inhabitants of the county in which
said city shall be situated, but who shall not reside within the limits of said
city, and who are not not directly interested, who, (being by him first
duly sworn for that purpose,) shall inquire into and take into considera-
tion, as well the benefit as the injury which may accrue, and estimate and
assess the damages which would be sustained by reason of the opening,
extension, widening or altering any street, avenue, alley or lane and
shall moreover estimate the amottnt which other persons will be beneti~
ted thereby particularly designating such persons and the respective
amounts in which they will each be benetitted (all of whom shall con-
tribute their proportionate amounts for the urpose of compensating the
person or persons injured thereby) all of which shall be returned to the
mayor under their hands and seals, within live days from the time they
shall have been sworn as aforesaid; and the person or persons who shall
be returned so benetitted and so assessed shall pay such amount and the
collection of the same shall be enforced in such manner as shall be pro-
vided by ordinance and the residue, if any, shall be paid out of the city

treasury; provided however, that any person interested, shall have the

conrona-rrons. 333

right’ to "appear before the jury aforesaid, by himself or agent
and he and his witnesses shall be heard before the verdict is
rendered; and any person considering himself aggrieved by said
verdict, may at any time within ten days after the same is return-
ed to the mayor as aforesaid, apply to him for an appeal to the circuit
court of the county in which said city may be situated, which shall be
granted by the mayor upon such conditions and in like manner, as near
as may be, as is now provided by laav in case of appeals from justices of
the peace; and the mayor shall thereupon make out a full and perfect
transcript of all the proceedings and apers, and file, the same in the of-
nce of the clerk of said ccurt within five days after such appeal is grant-
ed; and the first term of said court thereafter, if it be ten days from the
filing of said papers, until the first day of said term, if not, then the first
term thereafter, said cause shall be tried anew as other appeals; the fact
of any juror residing within said city shall be good cause for challenge
by any party interested in said cause.

§ 13. Any bill which shall have been passed by the board of council-
men shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the mayor for his
approval; if he app-roves it, he shall si n it, if not he shall return it to
the board with his objections, who shal reconsider the same; and if after
such reconsideration a majority of the whole number shall pass the bill,
it shall become a law; and in all such cases the yeas and nays shall be
entered on the journals; if any bill shall be returned to the board
within three days after it has been delivered to the mayor for his appro-
val, the same shall become a law as fully as if he had signed it.

§ 14. The style of the laws of the corporation shall be: “Be it ordain-
ed by the mayor and councilmen of the city of Independence;” and all
ordinances shall within one month after they are passed be published in
some newspaper published in said city, or by twelve written or printed
Eanidbills osted in as many public places in said city.

§ 15. n he mayor and board of councilmen shall appoint a city regis-
ter, who shall hold his oflice for one year, and until his successor is ap-
pointed and qualified, unless sooner removed, who before he enters upon
the duties of his oliice shall take and subscribe to the oath hereinafter
prescribed, and shall moreover give bond, with sullicient security to be
be approved by the mayor, conditioned for the faithful dischar e of the
duties of his ollice; he shall perform all the duties of clerk of t e board
of councilmen; shall keep a book or books wherein shall be entered all

the proceedings of the board, and all the records of the corporation;

which book shall at all proper times be open for the inspection of the
citizens; and he shall _have and preserve in office all records, public a-
pers, and documents belonging to the city, and shall perform such ot er
duties as may be enjoined upon him by ordinance.
§ 16. The mayor and each of the councilmen, and every other ollicer
of the corporation, shall before entering upon the duties of their respec-
tive oliice, take an oath or aflirmation before some judge or justice of the
peace to support the constitution of the United States, and the constitu-
tion of this State, and faithfully demean himself in oliice. u
 17. A general election for corporation ofiicers shall be held on the
first Monday of June in each year, and every year in the several wards

334 _CORPORATION8.

7

of the city, in such manner as the mayor and councilmen shall by ordi-
nance provide.

§ 18. All free white male inhabitants, of the age of twenty-one years
and upwards, who shall have resided within the State fontwelve months,
and in the city for three months next preceding any election,shall be en-
titled to vote at such election for city officers; and at all elections the
vote shall be given viva voce. _ -

§ 19. At each general election for the ofiicers of the city, there Shall
be elected an assessor, who shall at the time of his election possess the
same qualifications as are required of councilmen, and the duties of as-
sessor shall be prescribed by ordinance. . _

§ 20. At each general election of the officers of the city there shall be
elected a city constable, who at the time of his election shall possess the
same qualifications as are required of councilmen, who shall before en-
tering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, take the oath pre-
scribed in this act, and enter into bond to the corporation, _with two 01’
more suflicient securities, to be approved by the mayor, conditioned fortllz
faithful ‘discharge of the duties of his oiiice, which bond shall be_dep0S1l3
in the office of the city register, and by him recorded; and_ said consta-
blq shall possess the same powers and perform the same duties of constv
ble in his township, within the limits of said city, and shall execute
and return all process which may be issued by the mayor or £111);
justice of the peace in the city, which may be delivered to him, andcsliiix
perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance, 311_ 1 3
shall be entitled to the same fees as constables of townships are entit e
to for similar services.

§ 21. When any real estate shall be advertised for sale, or shall have
been sold for taxes by the authority of the corporation, the Ownefg”
owners thereof may within two years thereafter, redeem the same 3
paying the purchaser the amount of the purchase money, and all taxe:
subsequently paid, and all costs due thereon, together with fifteen P3
cent. per annum on the same. ,1 en,

§ 22. It shall be the duty of the mayor and the board of coun_0l mum
and they are hereby required to cause to be published annually» m Egms
newspaper printed in said city, or by twelve written or printed han t ta‘
posted up in as many public places in the city, afull and completeds amg
merit of all the moneys received and expended by the corporationdfraid
the preceding year,'and on what account received and experfde 9 5d at
publication to be made within one month of each annual election: 3“
least two weeks before said election shall take place. of§_

§ 23. The mayor, constable, city register, assessor, and all others for
cers, except councilmen, shall receive such compensation 01' fee
their services as shall be provided by the board of councilmelh r my

§ 24. The mayor and board of councilmen shall have power t0t‘}’wgre0f
ize and establish fire companies in said city, and the memb81'3
shall be exempt from militia duty in time of peace. _ . 11 cases

§ 25. The mayor shall have exclusive original jurisdiction 0_f 3 695 of
arising under this act of incorporation, and under all the qrdlllan
the city; and he shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with cac . ,1
every justice of the peace within the city; Over all cases wliatcV3"vve
or criminal, under the laws of the State of Missouri, subject l1°We

conronarrons. ‘335

an appealor certiorari, in all such cases to the circuit court of the coun-
ty in which .said city may be situated, and such appeals and certioraris
shall begranted and taken in -the same manner as appeals and certiora-
ris are taken from justices of the peace‘ and the said mayor shall have the
same powers and exercise the same jui-isdiction as justices of the peace,
and in the sam: manner within~the limits of said city, and shall receive
the same fees t erefor as are allowed by law to justices of the peace for
similar services; and he shall hold his courts as often or oftener, for civil
business, as justicesof the peace are required to do, and be subject to
the same laws and regulations in his proceedings.
§ 26. The first election for mayor and councilmen, and other officers
of the city shall be held and conducted by judges to be appointed by
the county,court of Jackson county, gas soon as may be after this char-
ter shall have been received by the in abitants of said city, as hereinaf-
ter provided;) and said court is hereby authorized and required to ap-
poiéit thetsame}: vlvihlp sllilallldrepide vgitlliin the limit; abov<tani]e1H;i(pne.d; vzlhigh
sai e ec ion s a e e a suc p aces as sai cour s a esigna e y
order, and shall be conducted as near as may be according to the exist-
ing laws of this State regulating elections; notice of the time and places
of holding said election shall be given by said judges at least two weeks
before the same takes place,by advertisement in some newspaper printed is
said city 4 or by twelve hand-bills posted up in as may public places in sai
city; and the said judges shall niake ‘out and deliver to each pgerson elec-
ted a certificate thereof, and the person so elected shall ta e and sub-
scribe the oath of ofiice as herein before prescribed, before some judge
or justice of the peace; and at such election all persons qualified to vote
at a general election for State and county otiicers residing in the fore-
going limits, shall be entitled to vote for all oflicer,s to be elected.
I. §.t27. Fall f(1l°ee.prhite male pertsons whlo shag llilatve residetdfyvithin tlge
um s o sai 3 c1 y one year nex prece mg s a eexemp om wor -
ing on public roads and highways without th,e city, so long as he shall re-
side in said city. p
§ 28. The foregoing provisions of this act shall take effect and be in
force as soon as they shall blp accepted by a majonti of tlhe voters xlrvlittlr
in said limits in manner fo owing that is to say: u e ection sha e
held on the fnist 1VIonday in April, i849, by three judges who shall be ap-
pointed by the county court of Jackson county, and said court is hereby
rplgl\iired_,dat legit two_dwp.ek.stbefo}1;_e ltlhatutiimle, to ap}'iI]0lllitbl.llfi‘. Em? whg
s resi e w: in sai 1m: 3' w 1c 88.1 e ec ion s a e re a -suc
place, within said limits, as said court shall designate by order; notice of
the time and place of said election to be iven by said judges at least ten
days prior, by advertisement in some nevgvspaper printed in said city, or
byhsi: h.a‘pd1-bias plllffllp inhis mallly‘ public placephwithin aid cittyy; a:
w rc sai e ec ona reew 1 ema epersons over eageo wen -on
years, residing within said limits, shall be entitled to vote for or against
this charter" and said election shall be conducted as near as may be ac-
cording to the laws now in force, in this State, regulating elections; and
if a majority of all the votes given at said election shallbe for this char-
tegi, then lthlel iaicj‘]jtl1(;lgesi] sh}alall‘d¢;.lternt1ige on what] day the electtjlon for pity
0 cars s a e e w m s 1a no e more an two rnon s nor es,
than two weeks aftiar the acceptance of this charter; and said judge,

336 CORPORATIONS.

_shall give notice of the time and place of holding the sarne,.as herein
before provided; and hold and conduct the same according to the pro-
visions of this act; but if this charter shall not be accepted as aforesaid,
the said county court of Jackson county shall, from time to time, when-
ever they shall be petitioned to that effect by fifty householders, residing
within said limits, appoint judges and cause an election to be held as
aforesaid, for or against this charter, until the same be accepted, giving
notice of and conducting the same as herein before provided; and when the
charter shall be accepted, as aforesaid, the judges of the election shall
proceed as herein before provided, in case of acceptance; and the city
ofiicers who shall be elected at the first election, shall continue in omce
until the iirst Monday in June then next following, and till their succes-
sors are duly elected and qualified; and after the first general election
for city otiicers, all subsequent elections therefor shall be held and cui-
ducted by judges appointed by the mayor and board of councilmen then
in otiice; and it is hereby made their duty to appoint such judges and
make such provisions for holding such elections, as may be necessary,
from year to year, at their last stated meeting prior to the time of such
regular election. ,

§ 29. If this charter shall not be accepted in the manner herein pro-
vided, within the space of two years from the time of holding the first
election for its reception or rejection, it shall be null and void; provided,
however, that the General Assembly may at any time repeal, alter or

amend, or modify at leasure.
Approved Marc 8, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Boonslick Turnpike Road Company.
§ 1. Company incorporated. § 15. Toll not to be collected, when.

2. Books to be opened, when, where, and by 16. Persons going to church exem t.
Wh<_>ln- 17. Public highway may be used y company.
3. Meeting of stockholders, when and where 18. Work commenced and completed,when and
held. how much.
4. Officers of company, how appointed. 19. Real estate may be held.
5. Share, each gives a vote. 20. Debt, what amount in be contracted.
6. ‘Powers of otiicers. 21. Oath to be taken by 0 cars.
7. Otlicers, how appointed. 22. Evadin of ayment of toll, penalty.
8. Stock how paid; penalty for neglect. 23. Rates 0 to Ito be put up.
9. Road to be surveyed, plats to be filed. 24. Injury to board of rates, penalty.
l0. Road, how o ened and kept in repair. 25. Toll, when not to be taken.
11. May receive and for right of way. 26. County courts may take stock.
12. Materials for construction of road, when 27. Plank or McAdamized road may be built.
and how obtained. 28. Citizens may organize, when.
13. Tollgate may be erected, when. 29. Stock, how may be paid. ‘
14. Rate of toll. 30. Act, how long to continue in force.

Be it enacted by the Gen eral ufssembly of the State of .Mz'ssour2', as follows:

§ 1. The stockholders of a company to be formed and organized as
hereafter prescribed, are hereby incorporated, by the name and style of
“The Boonslick Turnpike Road Company,” with a capital stock of
twenty thousand dollars, with the rivilege of increasing the same to
any amount not exceeding one huniiied thousand dollars, for the purpose
of making a turnpike road from the city of Glasgow, on the Missouri

.eonron'r1ous. , 337

river, by the why of the towns of Fayette, Rocheport, Columbia, Ful-
ton, Danville and -Warrenton, from thence to the city of St. Charles;
and by that name may have continued succession, and a common seal;
may hold property, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded; and in all
other respects have the powers and privileges necessary to carry into
efect the objects of this corporation, and for ‘that purpose shall have
the powers and priv'ileges of a corporation. «
§ 2. Books for subscription of stock, in shares of twenty dollars each,
shall be opened on the first Monday of May next, or as soon thereafter
as convenient, at the city of Glasgow, under the superintendence of
John D. Perry, Edwin Billingsley, Henry Lewis and John H. Estill, or
any two of them; at the town of Fa ette, under the superintendence of
W. F. Birch, William C. Boon, L. rigler and Benjamin Watts, or any
two of them; at the town of Columbia. under the superintendence of
William Jewell; Moss Prewitt, N. W. Wilson, Thomas Selby, and W.
Woodson, or any two of them; in the town of Fulton, under the super-
intendence of James S. Henderson, George Bartley, A. A. Riley, D.
M. Tucker, and James K. Sheley, or any two of them; in the town of
Danville, Robert C. Fulkerson, Peter Davault, John Baker, Charles B.
Harper, and John C. Whiteside, or any two of them; in the town of War-
renton, Warren B. Stewart, John A. Pulliam, John Preston, Robert J.
Huston, and James W. McFadden, or any two of them; in the city of‘
St. Charles, William J. McElhiney, Thomas W. Cunningham, Nelson C.
Orear, Wilson W. Overall, or any two of them; and shall continue
open for any number of . days which the said superintendents may direct,
or until the whole amount of stock may be subscribed; said superintend-
ents may open or re-open books at such times and places as they may
think proper.
§ 3. The superintendents aforesaid, so soon as shall-be subscribed any
amount sufiicient to make and complete ten miles of turnpike road, lead-
ing to or from any city or town, shall give public notice that a meeting
of the stockholders at some convenient time and place, to be by them
named in such notice, for the purpose of organizing the company and
electing its oflicers.
§4. The oflicers of said company shall be a president, ‘secretary,
treasurer, and four directors, who shall be elected by the stockholders
at some regular meeting of the company, and shall hold their ofiices for
one year, and until their successors be elected and qualified; and all
vacancies shall be filled by the directors.
5. Every share shall entitle the holder to one vote, and any stock-
ho der may vote by proxy, by giving written authority for that purpose.
§ 6. Said president and directors shall have the necessary powers to
enable them to carry into execution the object and design of the compa-
ny, and may make such rules, by-laws and orders, as they may think
necessary for the well government of the oflicers and persons employed
by said corporation, not contravening any general law.
§ 7. The resident, with the consent of the directors first obtained, may
appoint such oflicers and agents as may be necessary, and prescribe
their duties and compensation.
8. The stock subscribed shall be paid for, at such times as the pre-
si eat and directors shall order; and if any stockholder shall fail to pay

838 . _ conponarrions.

any instalment according to their direction or order, after thirty days
notice given in some newspaper, published in the county, «or by six
handbills posted up in the-most public places in the county, stating the
time and place at which such payment shall he made, shall forfeit and
pay to said company five per cent. on ‘the amount of such instalments;
and.provided the same remains unpaid for the spacerof six months after
the time when the same was required to be paid, it'shall be at the option
of the directors to declare the stock of such delinquent -forfeited -to the
company, together with whatever may have been paid thereon, or to
collect the same together with the penalty which may have -accrued
thereon, by suit; the original subscription ‘,bOOlK8 to be evidence of the

‘indebtedness of those subscribing stock; provided always, ‘that this act

shall not be so construed as to effect the estate of any deceased stock-
holder, until said estate can be legally settled; and no delinquent stock-
holder shall have aright to vote at any meeting of said company.
§ 9. Said president and directors shall have said road carefully sur-
veyed and laid out; and tile in the oflice of the clerk of thecounty court
of each county through which the road may run, a copy of the field notes
and plat of the-survey -ofithe road as finally determined on.
§ 10. Said road shall be opened and kept free from trees, brush, and
other obstructions, at least sixty feet wide, and at least eighteen feet
shall be made an artilicial road, composed of stone, gravel, sand or dirt,
or other convenient materials well compacted together, in such manner
as to secure a firm-, even and substantial road, rising in the middlewith a
gradual arch, leaving on each side a ditch of suflicient capacity to carry
off the water; all stumps and other. obstructions shall be completely re-
moved from the artificial portion of the road; ‘and in no case shall the
ascent in said turnpike road be greater than five degrees. ‘
§ 11. Said company may receive by deed of purchase, ift, or other
conveyance, any quantity of real estate, not more than oneiundred feet
wide, for carrying into effect the objects of the company; but if they
cannot obtain raid real estate on fair terms, by purchase, then the said
company may mark out and construct said road,‘ and hold the land on
which the same runs, to the width of one hundred feet, but not less than
sixty feet; and the -owner of said land shall be entitled to a writ of ad
quad damnum to assess the damages by him sustained, in the same man-
ner as is provided in the establishment of State roads, and the damages
shall be paid by the company. S - ‘
§ 12. That said turnpike company shall ‘haverthe right to take from the
ground occupied by said road, after the same shall have been laid out and
surveyed, any stone, gravel, sand or timber necessary for constructing a
firm» even. secure and substantial road; ‘and if such materials for construct-
ing said read cannot be found on the ground occupied by the same, it shall
be lawful for saidcmupany to enter upon any unimproved land adjoining to.
or in the vicinity of said road, to procure such necessary mztterials; and if
any dil'fei'enre shnll arise between said company and the owner or occupant
of. any such lands as to the amount of damages done in procuring such
materials, or the value of such materials, .the same shall be determined by
three disintnrestud frecholders: one to be chosen by the owner or occupant

°r “"0” land; the other by the president or agent of said company, who
shall choose the third person.

 . 339

t5 t3. Wheneier five miles shall be completed to or from any city, town or

village, said company may erect a toll gate upon thesame, and take all neces-

sary steps for collecting tolls; and so on in regard to every five miles of road

which shall be completed, adjoining and contiguous to any five miles of road
completed as aforesaid.

§ 14. The rate of toll upon any five miles of said road shall not exceed
the following rates: for each. man and horse, mule or jackass, five cents;
for each loose horse, mule, jackass or cattle, one centeach; for every twenty
head of hogs or sheep, live cents; for every sulkey, buggy, or other pleasure
carriage drawn by one horse. ten cents; for every pleasure carriage or vehi-
cle drawn by two horses, fifteen cents; for every cart, wagon or carriage of
burden. live cents. and two and one-half cents for every horse or beast
which may be used to haul said cart, wagon or carriage of burden; for every
stage drawn by two horses, ten cents; for every stage drawn by four horses,
fifteen cents. . \

§ 15. This act shall not be so construed as to allow the said turnpike
company to collect any toll from any persons while going to or from his,
her, or their plantation; provided, that not more than one mile of said road
shall be usedvvithout paying toll.

§ 16. That all persons traveling to and from public worship, on the Sab-
bath, may pass said turnpike road free from toll.

§ 17. It shall be lawful for said turnpike company to use any part of the
public highway for the construction of a turnpike road, free from charge;
provided, that the said company shall not obstruct any public highway
in making said turnpike road; and provided, no toll shall be collected on
any public highway until the said turnpike company shall have completed a
good artificial road, according to the provisions of the tenth section of this
act. '

§ 18. Said company shall commence and complete at least ten miles of
said turnpike road within four years from the passage of this act, otherwise
this act shall be null and void.

§ 19. Said company may receive by deed of purchase, gift or otherwise,
any quantity of real estate, notexeeeding one acre, upon which to erect each
toll gate required by said company; 5

§20. Said president and directors shall contract no debt beyond the
amount paid in and bona _/ide secured to be paid in. Its books, upon the
application of any creditor of said company, shall be open for his inspection
at all reasonable times.

621. Every officer of said company shall take an oath for the faithful
performance of the duties of his oliice; and the treasurer shall give bond in
such sum, and with such security, as the board of directors shall think
suliicient. _ ,

§ 22. That if any person or persons using said turnpike road, shall with
intent to defraud said company, orto evade the paymentof toll,pass through
any private gate, or pass along any other ground near any turnpike gate which
shall be erected in pursuance of this act, or shall, practice any fraudulent
means with intent to evade or lessen the payment of such toll, shall for
every such offence forfeit and pay to the president and directors of said
company the sum of five dollars, to be recovered with costs of suit before
any justice of the peace in the county in which such offence may have been
committed ; providrd, nothing in this act shall be so construed as to prevent
persons useing any such road, between the gates, for common purposes.

340 ‘ ~COBPOBA‘I'ION8.

525. The president and directors of said company shall cause to be put
up at every toll gate a. board with the rates of toll plainly painted thereon,
and no toll shall be collected unless such rates are kept up. It shall also be
the duty of the said company to put up at every cross toad diverging from
the road of said turnpike company a guide board, upon which shall be painted
the name and distance of the nearest town.

§ 24. That any person wilfully'destroytng any guide-board or painted list
of rates of toll shall upon conviction thereof before a justice of the peace
be fined, not exceeding ten dollars with costs of suit, for the use of said
company.

§ 25. Said company shall not be at liberty to take toll at any time when
said road shall not he kept in good repair.

§26. The county courts of the counties through which said road shall
pass may subscribe for stock in said company. and shall have power to apply
the road and canal fund; also. their distributive share of the proceeds of the
five hundred thousand acre grant of land donated to this State by an act of
(Congress; approved September the fourth, one thousand eight hundred and

orty-one.

§ 27. It shall be lawful for the stockholders of said turnpike company to
build a plank or McAdamized road, instead ofa turnpike road, if they should
deem that their interest would be promoted thereby; and it shall be lawful
for said company to charge fifty per centum additional toll over every live
miles of plank or McAdamized road constructed by said company.

§ '28. It shall be lawful for the citizens of any of the counties named in
this act to organize themselves into a company under the provisions of this
act for the construction of a turnpike road within their respective counties;
and they shall be entitled to the same privileges, and subject to the san c
restrictions, as are provided in this act.

§29. Any person subscribing stock in the foregoing turnpike company’
may discharge their subscription to stock in said company in work on said
read, under such rules and regulations as the president and directors may
prescribe.

§ 30. This act of incorporation shall remain in force until the Legislature
in their wisdom may think proper to repeal the same.

This act to take elfect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849. e 17'

 

‘.f\/\l'\.

 

/\/‘I25/N l‘lJ\2I\f\&

‘AN ACT to incorporate the Hannibal, Paris and Huntsville graded

road company.

§ 1. Company may construct road. 3 15. County courts may invest certain funds In
2. Capital stock. 3 stock.
3. Books to be opened. _ ‘ \ 16. Public highways may be used by complnf
4. Meeting of stockholders; when. free of charge.
5. Otlicers of company. 17. Evasion of toll; penalty. _
6. Powers of officers. 18. Plank or McAdamized road may be but“;
7. Otlieers shall be stockholders; oath. < toll to be charged. _ _
8. Stock, how paid; penalty for failure to pay. ) 19. Ten miles of road to be completed in the
9. Survey of road, when to be made. t, years; penalty for failure.
10. Road, how opened and kept in repair. K ‘20. Counties may purchase, when: .
11. Land may be held by company; how. 3 21. Debt, not to exceed amount paid in. _
I2. Timber may be taken ;when. ‘p 22. Tolls not collected unless road kept tn re-

\

13. Oflicers may be impeached.

, pair.
14- T011 gate, when erected; toll. )

conronn-rows. 341
Be it enacted by the General afssembly q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The said company may construct a substantial graded road or
turnpike, commencing at Hannibal in Marion county, to Paris in Mon-
roe county, thence to Huntsville in Randolph county, Missouri, and fog
that purpose the stockholders, their successors and assignees. shall -be,
and they are hereby incorporated, by the name and style of the Hanni-
bal, Paris and Huntsville graded road company, and by that name may
have continual succession, and a common seal, may hold property, sue
and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and in all other respects have
the power and privilege necessary to carry into effect the objects of this
corporation, and for that purpose shall possess all the powers and privi-
leges of a corporation.

32. The company is hereby established with a capital of five thousand
do ars, which may be increased at the will of the stockholders of said
company, to any amount not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars:
to be divided into shares of fifty dollars each, to be subscribed and paid
by individuals, companies or corporations in the manner hereinafter spe-
cilied, and the amount so subscr1bed,«may (at the discretion of the stock-
holders) be paid and discharged by labor in the construction of said road.

§ 3. Books for the subscription of stock in shares of fifty dollars each,
shall be opened on the first Monday in June next, or as soon thereafter
as may be convenient, at the town of Hannibal, under the superinten-
dence of Thomas S. Miller, Wm. A. Moliitt, James Lasley and Zach
Draper, or any two of them; in the town of Paris, under the superinten-
dence of James C. Fox, Samuel Culwright, Robert Guyun, Richard D.
Austin and Thomas Crutcher, or any three of them; and in the town of

Huntsville, under the superintendence of Thomas P.-Coates, John Mc-‘

Cammel, James Dameral and Col. Horner, or any two of them, and shall
continue opened any number of days which the said superintendents may
direct, an at such places as they may think proper, not herein men-
tioned.
§ 4. The superintendents aforesaid, so soon as the sum of ten thousand
dollars shall be subscribed, are hereby authorized and required to give
public notice, that a meeting of the stockholders will be held at some
convenient time and place, to be by them named in such notice, for the
purpose of or auizing the company and electing its otlicers.
§ 5. The o cers of sail company shall be apresident, secretary, trea-
surer, and five directors, to be elected by the stockholders at some reg-
ular meeting of the compan , and shall hold their otiice until their suc-
cessors are elected and qua?’
any cause, in the board otiicers, can be tilled at any regular meeting of
the directors, but such election shall only be for the residue of the term;
every share shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote, and any stock-
holder may vote by proxy, by givin written authority for the purpose.
6. Said resident, treasurer ang
w’ enable em to carry into execution the object and design of the
company, and may make such by-laws, rules and regulations as they
may deem necessary for the government of the oflicers and all persons
employed by .the company, not in contravention to the provisions of this
act or any general law.

ilied; all vacancies that may happen from"

directors shall have such powers as l

342. cemvonanrcws:

§ 7. All the otlicers, president, secretary, treasurer and directors; shall
be stockholders in the company; they shall each take an oath that they
will faithfully perform their respective duties; and -the treasurer, before_
entering.upon the duties of his ofiice, shall execute his -bond to the com-

any, in a sum not less than live nor more than twenty-five thousand

dollars, with. good and sutiicient security, that he will faithfully account
for and properly apply all money received by him, and in no case shall
the treasurer pay any demand against the company until it shall first be
audited by the directors, any three of whom shall constitute a quorum to
do business. ~

§ 8. The stock subscribed shall be paid to the treasurer in such pro-
portions and at such times as the president and directors may order, and
if any stockholder shall fail to paythe amount re uired by their order,
after thirty days notice in some newspaper in this btate, designating the
time and place at which such payment shall be made, shall forfeit and
pay to said company five per cent. on the amount called for, and provided
the same remains unpaid for the space of twelve months after the time
it was required to be paid, the directors at their option may declare the
stock of such delinquent forfeited to the company; provided, always, that
nothing in this section shall be so construed as to operate against the
heirs of deceased stockholders. - “e ‘

§ 9. Whenever a majority of the stockholders shall direct, the presi-
dent and directors shall cause the road to be surveyed and laid out, and
file in the oflice of the clerk of each of the counties through which the
road runs, a copy of the field-notes and a -plat of the’ survey of’ the road,’
as finally determined on.-' - ‘

§ 10. Said road shall be opened and kept open free from all obstruc-_
tions, sixty feetwide and at least twenty feet of which shall be made an‘
artificial road, composed of gravel, sand, or compact earth, so as to form
an even, firm and substantia dirt road, rising in the middle with a gra-
dual arch, leaving on each side a ditch of sullicient capacity. to carry ofl’
the water; no obstruction shall be permitted‘ to remain in the artificial
part of the road, and in no case shall the ascent in said road be greater
than seven degrees.

§-ll. Said company may receive by deed of purchase, gift, or other
conveyance, any quantity of land not exceeding one hundred feet in
width, on which to locate the road, and at such points on said road as
tollegates may be needed, may receive as abovq provided, any quantity
of land not exceeding one acre at any one place. Now if the company
cannot obtain such real estate on fair terms by purchase, then the said
company may mark out and construct said road, and hold the land on
which the same runs to the width of one hundred feet, but not less than
sixtyfeet, and the owner of said land shall be entitled to a writ ofad quad
damnum, to assess the damage by him sustained, and such damage shall
be paid by the company.

§ 12. Provided suflicient material cannot be obtained for constructinor
bridges, and for other purposes, from the land on which the road shall
be located, then it shall be lawful for the company to enter upon any
unimproved lands adjoining to, or in the vicinity of said road, to procure
such necessary materials, and if any difference. shall arise between said
company and the owner thereof, as to the damages done in procuring

 ;- 343’

such materials, or the value of such materials, the same shall be deter-
mined by three disinterested freeholders, one to be chosen by the agent
of the company, another by the owner of such land, who shall choose
the third person, and proceed to assess the damages which shall be paid
by the-company to all such persons so damaged.

§ 13. Nothing in the powers enumerated and given to the ofiicers of
of the company, shall be so construed as to prevent the stockholders
from impeaching them for any misdemeanor in office and by a vote of,
two-thirds of the stockholders, any officer may be tl1I‘I1ed0llli‘ of his
oliice and any riuinber of the stockholders representing ‘a majority of
the shares paid into the company, shall constitute a quorum for the trans-
action of all ordinary business. ' l

§ 14. Whenever said company shall have completed fivemiles of said
road, then they may erect a toll gate, and for every additional five miles
erect another toll gate, and talic the necessary steps to collect toll; the
rates of toll shall be fixed by the board of officers of said company, but
shall never exceed the followincr rates: for each man and horse or mule
five cents, for each head of llOT:ES, mules, jackass or cattle one and a
half cents, for each cart and. oxen or one horse vehicle of any descrip-
tion ten cents, for each carriage, stage or wagon with two horses twelve
and a half cents, for each wagon, stage or carriage with fourihorses,
mules or oxen fifteen cents, for each wagon with six horses twenty cents,
and for each sheep, hog or other animal a half cent per head; provided,
that all traveling lootmcn shall be allowed to pass tree of charge; and
provided further, that all persons traveling to and fi'om church on the
Sabbath day, shall be allowed to pass free of charge.‘

§ 15. The county court of any county tlirougli which ‘the.road passes,
may and are hereby authorised to. ini-‘est in the stock 01 said company,
the road and canal fund belonging to said counties, also to invest the
“proceeds of the sales of the five liundrcd tl'ioi.isaiid acres of land,” do-
nated to this State by an act of Congress, approved the 4th of Septem-
ber, 1841, and it shall be lawful for those counties tlirou,gh which said
road runs to siibsciibe for an additional ainoimt"of stock in said company
not exceeding live thousand dollars by any one county.

§ 16. It shall be lawful for said graded road company to use any part
of the public liighways for the construction of said read free from charge;

provided, that said conip-any shall not obstruct any public highway ln_

making such road; and _provided, no toll shall be collected, until said
company shall lint-e completed a good artificial road according to the
provisions of tliis act. .

§ 17. That any person or persons using said road shall with intent to
defraud said company, or to evade the payment of toll, by passing around
the toll ates on said road, shall be deemed guilty of fraud and for every
such b ence shall forfeit and pay to said company the sum of five dol-
lars, tobe recovered with costs of suit before any justice of the peace
in the county in which the offence may liave hcmi criniinitted.

§ 18. It shall be lawful for the stockholders of said graded‘ or turnpike

:

road company, to build a plank or l\"Ic_-Xdamizi-:,l mad, iiistead of a com- .

inon graded road, if they should at any time (‘(')I‘l("lt‘..(lt*. their interest
woul

be promoted thereby, and it shall also be laivfiil for said company _

344 coanourtoau.

to charge dfty per cent. additional toll for evgry five miles of _plahk' or
McAdamized road, constructed by said company. _
§ 19. Said company shall complete at least ten miles of said graded

road within five years from the passage of this act, otherwise it shall be '

null and void.

§, 20. Ten years from and after the completion of said road, the coun-
ties through which said road runs may at any time purchase from the
company, the road and all improvements therewith connected by paying
to said company the whole amount of capital expended in the construc-
tion of said road and all improvements thereon, and interest on the
amount so as to nett the company or stockholders six per cent. per an-
num, from the time of such expenditure; provided, that the counties will
never thereafter charge any higher rate of toll than will be required to
keep up all necessary repairs, but this section shall not be so construed
as to include any dividend that may be declared by the board of direc-
tors. ’

§ 21. The president and directors shall never contract any debt to a
greater amount than the amount of money subscribed and paid over to
t e treasurer without the consent of a majority of all the stockholders.

§ 22. It shall not be lawful for the company to collect any tolls with-
out the -road is kept in good repair, but this section shall not apply to
that part of said road which may be out of repair. .

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

   

AN ACT to incorporate Machpelah Cemetery.

§ 1. Machpelah cemetery incorporated. 7. Seal or scrawl may be used.

2. Corporate powers, in whom vested. 8. Execution and taxation; lots, &.c., exempt
3. If minor a proprietor who shpll act. from.

4. Meetings; where held. 9. Land to be used as a cemetery forever.

5 Trustee may be appointed; his powers and 10. Le islature may alter or repeal.

duties. 11. W en act takes effect.
6. Powers and duties of proprietors. 3

Be itenacted by the General .r9ssembly of the State Q/' Missouri, as follows:
I

§ 1. That all that lot, piece or trace of land situate in the county of
Lafayette, near the city of Lexing‘on, and contained within the follow-
ing boundary to wit: Beginning at a corner of a tract of land, late [ly]
known as James Aull’s land, on the Independence road; thence west with
said James Aull’s line seventy-one poles and twenty links to a stake on
said line, now established as a corner between lot No. 1, (one,) and this
lot, which is described on the survey of the Lexington land company
as lot No. 2, ‘(two,); thence south thirty-two poles and six links to a
stake; thence east sixty-two poles and nineteen links to a stake on the
said Independence road; thence north sixteen deg., east thirty-three
poles and twenty links to the beginning, containing thirteen acres and
fifty-five hundredths of an acre, being apart of the south-west quarter of

iv

.§. oonronarroxs. 3¢l5

' ‘ . , b . . .
notion  (34) ‘in township No. fifty-one‘ (51) of ‘raiige Np.

_ twenty-seven, 27,) shall be, and is hereby created into a corporation

'gby the name 0 “Mach elah cemetery;’’ and the proprietors thereof,

' namely: Robert Aull, illiam H. Russell, *Silas Silver and William T.-

Wood, shall be, and are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate,
by the name and-style of “The proprietors of Machpelah cemetery;”
and by that name they and.their successors shall be known in law, have
’ T “ l succession, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, defend
 efended in all courts of law and equity, and in actions and matters
‘ 'atsoever, necessary or proper to the full use and enjoyment, posses-
sion and control of said lot, piece or tract of land as a cemetery or
burying ground; may sell, grant, purchase and receive, and hold pro-
. , real and personal, within the boundary of said Machpelah cemeé
‘and may give, lease, sell and dispose of the same; and may do all
other acts as natural persons; and may have a common seal. ‘
_ 3;; The corporate powers and duties of said Machpelah cemetery
' , ,. {l)_§_gV,ésted in the said proprietors thereof, and their successors, by-
’ " ‘, ‘arid purchase. ‘
13.‘, That in case any proprietor or proprietors shall at any time be a

 
  

 the remaining proprietors shall have full power to act;
and {majority shall constitute a quorum to do business. ’

 ,4. The proprietors may convene at any and all times for the trans-
action of business. '”
A . _:5.. The roprietors may appoint a trustee, whose duty it shall be,
on who shal have power to make, sign and execute all deeds for lots
sold, 'ven, or granted by the corporation, and to sign and seal on the
behal of the corporation all other contracts or papers under the direc-
tion of the proprietors. ‘ _

§Bj.- The proprietors shall have power to make all such rules and
mglations for the care and preservation of the cemetery grounds, and
to u’ppose_‘such conditions and limitations, and confer such privileges on
tllilownership of burial lots as they may think proper, not contrary to
this oharterfor the laws of the land.

 7. The trustees, in making deeds for burial lots, may use a scrawl,
his private seal as trustee, or the corporation seal, at his option.

§ 8. That all lots laid off for burying purposes, and all walks, avenues,-
eircles, structures and other improvements constructed for use or orna-
ment, or in memory of th% dead, within the limits of the cemetery ground,
shall be forever free from taxation,» and from all liability to be seized
or taken for debt.

";§ 9. That the lot, piece or tract of land aforesaid shall forever be used
w a cemetery, and for no other purpose.
-_  10. That the Legislature may repeal this charter at any time the
interest of the State shall re uire it.
*_"_§ 11. That this act shall tdlre effect and be in force from and after its
[W888 B. ‘I’ p Q
._ :1, fppjroved March 12, 1849. -

" . ‘.r\ ‘fu&’V‘v~m 

‘ e

346 CORPORATIONS. .3‘ .

AN ACT to incorporate the German School of tleftnanh, Gasconade Coch-
ty, Missouri.

§ 1. School established-name. f 8. Treasurer, his duties. _

2. Trustees incorporated.  9. Interest of tonation, how appropriated.

3. .Ttust.ccs-—elt:ctionol',whcn and whete held. ‘, 10. Trustees, who eligible as, and entitled to

4. Chairman, how chosen, his duties—-—journa.ls  vote for. L
to be kept. ‘ ll. Meeting of trustees, how called.

5. Trustees may receive certain property, how , 1?. Exhibits, how and by whom published.
used and disposed of. 3 13. Pay of trustees.

6. Trustees. power and duty of— 7 14. School to be a. German School for ever and

' 7. Both to be taken oy whom. 2 , forever.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the State of .Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. A school for males and females is hereby established in the town
of Herman which shall be known by the name of “The German School of
Hermann.’
§ 2. Fred’:-. Hundhausen, Julius Leupold, Joseph Lessel, August Nasse,
‘and H. lturkhardt are hereby appointed trustees of said school and they
and their successors in ofiice are hereby created and constituted a body pol-
itic and corporate to be known by the name and style of “The‘Trustees of
the German School of Hermann,” and by that name shall have perpetual
succession in oflice, shall have a common seal, may change. alter, and break
the same at pleasure, may sue and be sued. plead and be impleaded, answer
and be answered unto in all the courts of this State or of‘ the United States.
‘ § 3. On the first Monday of April'next there shall be held an electionin
the town of Hermann. for the election of five trustees to manage the affairs
of said school, they shall hold their otiice for one year. and until their suc-
cessors are elected and qualified, on the same day every year an election for
trustees shall be‘ held. 5
§ 4. At the first meeting of the board, which shall be held one week
after the election, the members shall elect a chairman, who shall preside in
all their meetings during the term for which he is elected trustee but in case.
of his absence a chairman pro tempore shall be appointed. The board shall
hold theirstated meetings, but may be convened by the chairman or any
quorum whenever occasion may require it. They shall keep a journalof
their proceedings and all their meetings shall be public.
. § 5. The trustees shall have power to receive by gift or otherwise and
ltotd to them and their successors forever any lands, tenements, moneys,
goods or chattels of what kind soever, which may! be purchased, devised or
given to them for said school, and to lease, rent, put out on interest, or oth-
erwise dispose of the same in such manner as shall seem most conducive to
thetadvantage of the school, but shallnever have power to sell, mortgage or
in anyway encumber with debt any real estate belonging to said school.
§ 6. The board of trustees shall have power and it shall be their duty
to superintend said school, to appoint one -or more teachers, treasurer and
such other otiicers and servants as may be necessary, to remove the same for
good cause-,.to stipulate their salary, to direct and tr-etermine what branches
of education shall be taught in said school and to make such by.laWs, rules
and regulations as they shall dcem necessary‘ for the management of said
school, but not contrary to the laws of this State; and they shall never per-
mtt any protessional religious doctrines to be taught in said school
§ 7. The trustees and the treasurer shall before entering upon their res-

i‘ ‘CORPORATIONS. 847
pective duties take an oath or aflirmation well and truly to discharge the
duties assirrned to them as trustees or treasurer.

§ 8. '1 he treasurer shall receive all monies, &c., accruing to said school
and pay or deliver the same to the order of-the board of trustees. Before
he shall enter upon the discharge of his duty, he shall give bond and secu-
rity iu such sum as the board of trustees shall direct, payable to them and
their successors, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties, un-
der such rules and regulations as the board may adopt, and itshall be lawful
for said board to obtain judgment for the amount thereof or for any special
delinquencies, incurred by him under the same "on motion” in any court ot'
record in this State against the treasurer and his secureties, his or their ex-
ecutors or administrators, upon giving ten days notice of suchmotion.

§ 9. The interest ofa capital stock of five thousand dollars (Dolls. 5000)
donated by the inhabitants of Hermann to said school, shall annually be
appropriated to the paymentof a teacher or teachers and other necessary
expenditures in the management of said school; but the princi al shall for-
ever be. and remain inviulate. Should said interest prove insu£cient to de-
fray the necessary expenses of said school, then the trustees shall be em-
powered to make up the deliciency by issuing rate bills as allowed to com-
mon schools in this State.

{} 10. Every free white householder of the town of Hermann, who has
been a resident of said town for at least twelve'months preceding an elec-
tion, shall be eligible an ‘l entitled to vote for trustees of this school; and all
elections for trustees of this school, shall be held and conducted in the same
manner as elections tor trustees of the town of Hermann, at least as near
as practicable. Should any regular election fail the chairman of the board
of trustees or any quorum thereof (3) shall appoint judges and issue or-

'ders to hold an election without delay. Vacancies in said board shall be til-
led by special elections ordered as above. ‘ ‘

§ 11. The board of trustees shall call at least one meeting a year of all
inhabitants of the town of Hermann, lay before them the situation of the
school; and there shall be at least one public examination every year.

§ I2. The chairman of the trustees shall on the first Monday of March
of every year publish hand bills, or in a Hermann paper, an exhibit of the
atlairs and condition of said school, stating the number of teachers employ-
ed, the number of scholars that have been attending the school during the
preceding year, males and females, what branches of education have been
taught, what languages, &c., what moneys received and expended.

§ 13. The trustees shall receive no pay for any ordinary services render-
ed.

14. This school shall he and forever remain a German school in which
all branches of science and education shall be taught in German language.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March H). 1849.

vx/\/‘x/'./v ./\/-’ —x.rv./ .:‘\/\/'«.’~/ 1.14 ./‘J /'r‘J\r'~/.f\/V M»./-‘\-

AV ACT for the survey of the Missouri and White River Railroad.

§ 1. Appropriation for survey;whon it shall be g 3. Company to cause surve to be made,
‘ made, ' when; plat to be filed, w ere.

*2. Auditor to draw his warrant, when. i 4. State may become stockholder, when &. how

348 ooaronurons. .

Be itenagted by the General vfssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollowa:

§ 1. The sum of five thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of any’

money in the treasury, to be expended in surveyin.g and locating a route
for a railroad from the town of Forsyth in Taney county, to Independence
in Jackson county: but this appropriation shall not take effect until the
Congress of the United States shall have provided by law, a gt ant of one
million of acres of land or as much as alternate sections for six miles on
each side of said road, to aid in its construction.

§ 2. So soon as the Missouri and White river railroad company shall be
organized according to law, and Congress shall have provided a donation
ofiand to aid in constructing said road, it shall be the duty of the auditor
of public accounts to draw his warrant on the treasury in favor of said ra l-
road company, for the amount appropriated by the first section of this act.

()3. Said railroad company shall cause a recognizance [reconnoisance]
and survey of the route for said railroad to be made by some competent per-
son, together with the estimates of the costs, the probable amouutof business
and extent of profits thereof, and a plat of the road and plan of the work;
and shall cause a copy of the report ofsuch survey, plat, plan and estimates
to be filed in the oflice of the Secretary of State.

§ 4. The State of Missouri shall at any time, before the said railroad is
completed, upon the passage of an act by the General Assembly to that ef-
fect, be entitled to receive from the said company certificates of stock in said
company to the amount of the appropriation made by and under this act.

This actshall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend, and to reduce into one, the several acts incorpora-
ting the town of Louisiana, and to organize the same into a City, of
boundaries and general powers.

ARTICLE I.
§ 1. Boundary limits defined. and water works.
8. Coporate powers; may hold real estate be- 3. City to be divided into wards; council may
yond the corporate imits for cemetery increase number of wards.
ARTICLE II.
§ 1. Corporate powers vested in a city council; orderly conduct, may expel, how and
how and when elected. when.
2. Qualification of city councilmen. 9. Shall keep a journal and enter yeas and
3. Removal of councilman from ward vacates nays, when.
his otlice. 10. Councilmen ineligible to city offices, ex-
4. President pro tem, how elected; shall dis- ception. _
charge the duties of mayor, when. 11. Vacancies in councilmen.
 Council may appoint clerks, otlicers and 12. Oath to be taken. _ _
agents. 13. Tie in election of counctlmen, how decided.
6. Councilmen, election of, how determined. 14. Meetings of the council, when.
7- Quorum, what. to do business. 15. Yeas and nays to be entered on the jour-
8. Council may adopt rules, punish for dis- nal when.

16. Tax bills and appropriations, how passed

CORPORATIONS. 349 ‘

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. Apptgglrriations, how regulated. 6. Ordinances, when and how published.

2. Gene powers of the councilmen in re- i 7. Ordinances, how they may be proven-
lation to the police of the city. when received in evidence. 4‘

3. Money, how drawn from the treasury. 2 8. President ro tem how appointed; his pow-

4. Ordinances and resolutions, how signed ers and uties. This sec. is the same as
and attested. é sec. IV. of art. 2.

5. Ordinances, style of.

ARTICLE IV.

§ 1. Mayor, how elected. 10. Council may provide for election of.
2. Mayor, qualifications of. 11. Clerk, duties of.
3. Mayor, tie in election of, how decided. 12. Treasurer, duties of.
4. Mayor, vacancy in otlice of, how tilled. 13. Constable, duties of.
5. Mayor, for what causes and how removed 14. Engineer, duties of.

from otiice. 15. Oliicers, shall reside within city limits-
6. Mayor, general powers and duties of. mayor’s otlice vacated by failure to.
7- Special meetings, how called. 16. Recorder, his powers, duties and compen-
8. Special session, object of to be stated to sation.
council. 17. Council may give recorder salary.
9. City oflicers, what and their duties—how 18. Justice of the peace may act in his absence.
appointed. _ ' t
ARTICLE V.
§ 1. Vote to be by ballot. 4. Electors, qualifications of.
2. Elections, how conducted. 5. Polls, how long kept open.
3. Not to be held in a grog shop. 6. Special election, how regulated.

ARTICLE VI.

§ 1. Of grading and paving. 7. Same continued.

2. Private property, when and how taken. g 8. Special tax for paving, when and how le-
3. Of opening and widening streets and alleys.) vied.

4. Same continued. ) 9. Of the sale of property for taxes, and its
5. Same continued. 2 redemption.

6. Same continued. 3 10. Land not laid oil‘ into lots, how assessed.

ARTICLE VII.

§ 1. Amount of expenditures to be published. ceeds of labor, how applied.
2. Certain ordinances continued in force. 12. May be committed to county jail of Pike,
3. Of suits, actions and proceedin . until workhouse erected.

4. Ol' actions, tines, forfeitures an penalties. 13. Roads; inhabitants exempt from working.
5. Of property belonging to the town of La. 14. Stocks, when and how taken; vote to be

6. This charter not to invalidate proceedings taken, when.
of former trustees. 15. Fiscal year.
7. Power to repeal. 16. Di st of Ordinances.
8. This act a public act. 17. De inquent oliicers, how compelled to ac-
‘ 9. Duty of chairman of board of trustees in count.
relation to this charter. 18. Banking powers shall not be exercised by
10. Workhouse may be erected; regulations. corporation or odicers.
ll. Convicts to workhouse, how to labor; pro-i
ARTICLE I.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qftlze State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. All that section of country contained within the following limits,
to-wit: Beginning at a point in the middle of the main channel of the
Mississippi river, due east from the southern boundary _of the town, as
designated by the recorded plat of the town in Pike county; thence due

350 conponlvrious.

west to the commencement of the southern line of the town, on the west
bank of the Mississippi river; thence due west with said town line to the
southwest corner of said town, as designated by the recorded plat there-
pf, thence northerly with the line of said town to the northwest corner
thereof; thence easterly in a direct line with the northern boundary of
said town, and on a direct line with blocks seventy--eight and fifty-nine,
to the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi river; thence south-
wardly with the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi river, ' to
the place of beginning; is hereby erected into a city by the name of the
“City of Louisiana.” .

§ 2. The inhabitants of said city, heretofore constituted a body politic
and corporate, by the name and style of the inhabitants of the
town of Louisiana, are hereby continued as such body politic and
corporate by the name and style of the city of Louisiana, and by
the same name or such other name as the legislature shall by law enact,
they and their successors forever shall have perpetual succession; shall
sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, defend and be defended, in
all courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever; may contract
and be contracted with, may purchase, receive, and hold property, real
and personal, within said city; and may sell, lease, or dispose of the same
for the benefit of the city; and may purchase, receive and hold property,real
and personal,beyond the limits of the city, to be used for the burial of the
dead of the city, or for the erection of water works to supply the city with
water, or for the establishment of ahospital for the reception of persons in-
fected with contagious and other diseases, or for the erection of a poor
house and farm, or work house, or house of correction; and may sell,
lease, or dispose of such property for the benefit of the city; and may
do all other acts as natural persons; they may have and use one common
seal, and may break, alter, change, and make a new seal at pleasure.

§ 3. The city of Louisiana hereby created, as soon as may be, and pre-
vious to the next general election, shall be divided into three wards by
the present trustees of the town, so as to include as near as may be the
same number of free white male inhabitants in each ward; and the city
council shall have power to alter or change the boundaries of said wards
from time to time as they may see fit, or to increase the number of said
wards, having regard to the number of free white male inhabitants as
aforesaid, so that each ward shall as aforesaid have as near as may be an
equal number of such inhabitants.

ACTICLE II.

OF THE COUNCIL AND OTHER. OFFICERS, AND THEIR. POWERS AND DUTIES.

§ 1. The corporate powers and duties of the inhabitants hereby in-
corporated under the name and style of the city of Louisiana, shall be
vested in and exercised by a “city council,” to consist of two members
from each ward, to be chosen by the qualified voters of the several wards
on the second Monday of April annually.

 2. No person shall be a member of the city council unless he be a
citieen of the State of Missouri, and shall have resided within the city
limits one year next preceding his election, and a bona fide resident of
the ward for which he is elected.

conroruurrous. 661

§ 3. If any councilman shall, after his election, remove from the ward
from which he was chosen, his office shall be thereby vacated.

§ 4. The council, in the absence of the mayor, shall elect one of their
number to be a president pro tem. of the council; and the president thus
elected shall, during the absence from the city of the mayor, or of a va-I
cancy in the oflice, or of inability of the mayor to serve, perform all the
duties, and receive the same compensation as the mayorlor the time he
may perform such duties.

§ 5. The council may appoint a clerk, and such other officers, agents,
and servants as they shall deem necessary in the transaction of their ba-
amesa.

§ 6. The council shall be the jud e of the election returns and qualifica-
tions of its own members, and sha 1 determine contested elections.

§ 7. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum to do busi-
ness, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and may com-
pel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such
penalties as the council may prescribe.

§ 8. The council may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish
its members for disorderly conduct, and with the concurrence of two-
thirds of all the members elected expel a member, but not the second
time for the same offence.

§ 9. The council shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and the yeas
and nays of the members on any question shall, at the desire of any mem-
ber present he entered on the journal. « ,

§ 10. No member of the council‘ shall during‘ the time for which he was
elected, be appointed to any oflice under the city, unless a petition‘ to
that efect be signed by a majority of all the qualified voters of the city.

§ 11. All vacancies that shall occur in the council in such manner as
shall be rovided for by ordinance.

§ 12. ach member of the councilshall, before entering upon the du-
ties of his office, take an oath that he will support the constitution of
the United States and of this State, and that he will faithfully demean
himself in-office.

§ 13. Whenever there shall be a tie in the election of members of the
council, the judges of election shall certify the same to the mayor or per-
son exercising the duties of mayor, who shall immediately thereupon
issue his proclamation stating such facts and ordering a new election.

§ 14. There shall be stated meetings of ‘the council once a month, at
such time and place as the council by ordinance shall designate, and
may be convened by the mayor at any time.

§ 15. When the passage of all bills appropriating money, of bills im-
posing taxes, increasing, lessening,'or abolishing licenses, and of bills for
,borrowing money, the yeas and nays shall be entered on the journals.

§ 16. A majority of all the members of the council elected, shall be
necessary to pass a tax bill, bills appropriating for any purpose the sum
of one hundred dollars or upwards, and bills in anywise increasing or di-
minishing the city revenue.

368 oonnonxrrom.
ARTICLE III.

or LEGISLATIVE rowan.
 1. The appropriations of the council for the payment of interest,

tfor improvements and for town expenses during any one fiscal year, shall

not exceed thegamount of the income of the precedin hscal year, but
it shall be lawfiil for said council to apply any surp us moneys in the
treasury to the extinguishment of the city debt, or the creation of a
sinking fund for the payment of said debt.

 2. The city council shall have power within the city by ordinance,
First, to levy and collect taxes, not exceeding one half of one per cen-
tum, upon all property made taxable by law for State purposes,
and provide for the collection of the same by the sale of rea and
personal estate in such manner as the council by ordinance may provide;
Second, ‘to borrow money on the credit of the city; Third, to appropriate
money and to provide for the payment of the debts and expenses of the
city; Fourth, to make regulations to prevent the introduction of contagi-
ous diseases into the city to make quarantine laws for that purpose; and
enforce the same within five miles of the city; Fzfth, to establish has i-
tals and to make regulations for the government thereof; Sixth, to me e
regulations to secure the general health of the inhabitants and to pre-
vent and remove nuisances; Seventh, to provide the city with water and
to erect hydrants, fire’ plugs and pumps on the streets within or be-
yond the boundaries of the city for the convenience of the inhabi-
tants of the city and environs; Eighth, to open, alter, abolish, widen,
extend, establish grade, pave or otherwise improve, clean and heel;
in repair streets, avenues, lanes and alleys, but the council sha
not establish or open a street, lane, avenue or alley through grounds
which have not been by the owners thereof laid out into town lots and a
plat thereof tiled according to law, without the written consent of the
propietors of such grounds, but the council may by ordinance require
the owner of such grounds when laid out into lots or out lots to have the
streets, lanes, alleys or avenues to correspond as nearly as may be with
the streets, lanes, avenues or alleys in use in the city by aying to the
proprietors of such grounds such damages as may be found) due to such
proprietors to be ascertained by such provision as the council may by
ordinance prescribe or by other legal proceedings; JV'z'nth, to establish,
erect and keep in repair bridges, culverts and sewers and regulate the
use of the same, to establish, alter and change the channel of water
courses and to wall them up and cover them over; Tenth, to provide for
lighting the streets and erecting lamps thereon; Eleventh, to establish,
supportand regulate the night watch and patrol; Twelfth, to erect mar-
-ket houses, establish markets and market places and provide for the gov-
ernment and regulation thereof; Thirteenth, to provide for the erection
of all needful buildings for the use of the city; Fourteenth, to provide
for enclosing, improving and regulating the public grounds belongin .10
the city; F4’/"teenth, to improve and preserve the navigation of the 18-
sissippi river within the city; Sixteenth, to erect repair and regulate
public wharves and clocks, to regulate the erection and repair of private
wharves and to fix the rates of wharfage thereat; Seventeenth, to regu-
late the stationing anchorage and moorings of vessels within the city}

-' conromrrrons. -358

Eighteenth, to license, tax and regulate auctioneers, grocers, merchants,
retailers and taverns; and to license, tax, regulate, and suppress ordina-
ries, hawkers, pedlers, brokers, pawnbrokers and money changers; .7V’£ne-
teenth, to license, tax and regulate hackney carriages, omnibuses, wag- '
ons, carts and drays, and fix the rates to be charged for the carriage of
persons, and of wagonage, cartage and drayage of property; Twentieth,
to license and regulate porters and fix the rates of porterage; Twenty-
first, to license, tax, regulate and suppress theatrical and other exhibi-
tions, shows and amusements; Twegzty—second, to license, tax, restrain,
prohibit and suppress billiard tables, tippling houses and dram shops, and
to suppress gaming and gambling houses and other disorderly houses,
and to suppress bawdy houses; Twenty-third, to provide for the preven-
tion and extinguishment of fires and to organize and establish tire com-
panies;'also to regulate, restrain or prohibit the erection of wooden
buildings in any part of the city, to regulate and prevent the carrying on
manufactories dangerous in causing or producing fires or injurious to the
health 'of the inhabitants; to appoint {ire wardens and property uards,
with power to remove and keep away from the vicinity of any re all
idle and suspicious persons lurkin near the same and to compel any
person or persons present to aid in t e extinguishing such fire, or in the
preservation of property exposed to the danger of the same, and in pre-
venting goods from being purloined thereat; and with such other powers
duties as may be prescribed by ordinance, to compel the owners of houses
and other buildings to have scuttles upon the roofs of any such houses or
buildings and stairs and ladders leading to the same; Twenty-fourth, to
regulate and order the cleaning of chimneys, and to fix the ilues there-
of; Twenty-fifth, to regulate the storage of gunpowder, tar, pitch, rosin,
hemp, cotton and all other combustible materials and the use of lights and
candles in all stables, shops and other places, to remove or prevent the
construction of any fire place, hearth, chimney, stove, oven, boiler, ket-
tle or apparatus used in any house, building, manufactory or business,
which may be dangerous in causing or promoting fires, to direct the safe
construction of deposits for ashes, and severally to enter into or appoint
one or more ofiicers at reasonable times to enter into and examine all
dwelling houses, lots, yards, inclosures and buildings of every descrip-
tion in order to discover whether any of them are in a dangerous state,
and to cause such as may be dangerous to be put in safe and secure con-
dition; Twenty-sixth, to regulate and prescribe the manner and order the
building of partition and parapet walls and of partition fences; Twenty-
seventlz, to establish standard weights and measures, and regulate the
weights and measures to be used in the cit}, in all cases not otherwise
provided by law; Twenty-eighth, to provide for the inspection and measur-
ing of timber and other building materials; Twenty-ninth, to provide for
the inspection and weighing of hay and stone coal, the measuring of char
coal, firewood and other fuel to be used in the city; T/zz'rtz'eth, to provide
for and regulate the in- spection of beef, pork, flour, meal or other pro-
visions; provided, that nothing in this act shall be so construed as to au-
thorize the inspection of any article enumerated in this act which is to
be shipped beyond the limits of this State, except at the request of the
owner or owners thereof, or the agent having charge of the same; Thirty-
firsl, to regulate the inspection of butter, lard and other provisions,

35,4 oonroanrrons.

vending of meat, poultry, butter,.eggs and fruit, and to suppress, buck-
sters; Tlu'rty—second, to regulate the size of bricks -made or used in the
city; Thirty-third, to provide for taking an enumeration of the inhabi-
tants of the city; Thz'rty-fourth, to provide for the election of all elec-
‘‘ tive city officers and provide for removing from oflice any person hold-
ing an oflice created by this act or by ordinance not otherwise provided
for; T/zz'rty—f§/'tlz, to provide for the appointment of all oiiicers, servants
and agents of the corporation not otherwise provided for; Tln'r,t;y,-s,z'a:th,
to fix the compensation of the city oflicers and regulate the fees of all
jurors, witnesses and others for services rendered under this act or any
ordinance; Thirty-seventh, to regulate the olice of the city, to impose
fines, forfeitures and penalties for the breac of any ordinance, and pro-

vide for the recovery and ap ropriating such fines and forfeitures, and ~

the enforcement of such pena ties; Thirty-eighth, to erect a work house
and house of correction and provide for the regulation and government
thereof; Thirty-ninth, to create the oflice of port warden and define the
duties thereof, and to regulate and license all ferries within the limits of
the city; Fortieth, to levy and collect a poll tax, not exceedingfifty cent8,
upon every free white male person over twenty-one years of age who
shall have resided six months within the city; Forty-first, to remove all
obstructions from the side-walks and to provide for the construction and
repair of all side-walks and for the cleansing of the same, and of the
gutters at the expense of the owners of the ground fronting thereon;

arty-second, to revent and restrain any riot, noise, ‘disturbance or
disorderly assembla e in any street, house or place in the city; F ort_y-
tlzird, to prevent ang remove all encroachments into and upon all streets,
lanes, avenues and alleys, established by law or ordinance; Forty-fou-rth,
to exercise complete and have perfect control over any commons of the
city and all the property belonging to the city real and personal, wheth-
er lying in or beyond the limits of the corporation created by this act,
and the same to lease, sell,transfer and dispose of either absolutely or with
limitation to any person or persons whatsoever, and generally to make
such rules, regulations, by-laws and ordinances, for the purpose of main-
taining the eace, good government and order of the city of Louisiana
and the tradie, commerce and manufactures thereof as the city council
may deem expedient not repugnant to the constitution or general laws
of this State, and also to enforce the observance thereof by inflicting
penalties upon any inhabitants thereof or other person or persons for the
violation of any ordinance not exceeding five hundred dollars for any
one offence recoverable with costs in any action of debt by and in the
name of the city of Louisiana for .the use of the city, before any court
having jurisdiction or cognizance of the same; Forty-fifth, to make all
ordinances subject to the restriction in the last clause of the preceding
section, which shall be necessary and roper for carrying into effect the
powers specified in this section, and all other powers vested by this act
in the corporation, the city government or any department or oflice
thereof.

§ 3. No money shall be drawn from the treasury except in pursuance
of an ordinance or resolution of the city council regularly passed at a
re ular or special meeting of the council.

% 4. Every ordinance or resolution passed by the city council shall be

356

signed by the mayor or president pro tem of the city council and attested
by the clerk of the city council before it takes effect. .

§ 5. The style of the ordinances of this city shall be “Be it ordained
by the city council of the city of Louisiana.”

§6. All ordinances passed by tlie_city council‘ shall within thirty days
after they become laws be published in some newspaper published in the city
of Louisiana, or in Pike county, and the newspaper printed in Louisiana
shall he preferred; provided the terms of publication of such ordinances or
other official publications shall he as reasonable as other newspapers published
in Pike county; but the failure to publish any ordinance within the time
specified in this section shall not render void the effect of any such ordinance,
unless said delay may cause such ordinance to act retrospectively on the rights
of individuals.

§ 7. All ordinances of the city may be proven by the seal of the corpora-
lion, and when printed and published by authority of the corporation the
samefshall be received in evidence in all courts and places without further

roo .

P § 8. The city council may at any time when the ofiice of mayor shall be
vacant, or he be absent from the city, or otherwise unable to act, appoint a
president, pro tempore, who shall act as president of the city council and
mayor during the vacancy, absence or inability of the mayor; and shall,
dltpingdtlile time he acts, receive the same compensation as may by law be
a ow t e mayor.

‘CORPORATIONS.

ARTICLE IV.

EXECUTIVE AND MINISTERIAL OFFICERS.

§ 1. The chief executive officer of the city shall be the mayor, who
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city, and shall hold his
otlice for the term of‘ two years, and until his successor is duly elected
and qualified; provided, that an election to fill a vacancy shall be only
for the remainder of the term for which his predecessor was elected.

§ 2. N 0 person shall be mayor who at the time of his election is not
possessed of the ualilications for a councilman, or who holds any lucra-
tive odice under llhe authority of the United States.

§3. If two or more persons shall have an equal number of votes for ‘

mayor, or if the election be contested the city council eleeted.for the
same term shall decide the election by vote. _

§ 4. Whenever any vacancy shall happen in the ollice of mayor, it
shall be filled by election in such manner as shall be provided for by or-
dinance.

§ 5. The mayor may be removed from ofhce for any misdemeanor by a
majority of two-thirds of the city council.

§ 6. The mayor shall act as president of the city council, and shall
have power to nominate, and by and with the consent of the city council,
to appoint all city ofhcers not ordered by this act to be otherwise
appointed; he shall take care that the laws of the State and the ordinan-
ces of the city are duly enforced, respected and observed in the city;
he may remit tines, forfeitures and penalties accruing from or imposed
for the violation of any ordinance of the city; he may fill all vacancies
which may occur in any elective otlice, other than that of a member of
the council, until the same be filled by election, and in any other oflice

it

356 conromvrroxs.

until the end of the next session of the council which may happen after
the vacancy shall have occurred; he shall from time to time give to the
city cbuncil information relative to the state of the city, and shall recom-

__ mend to their consideration such measures as he shall deem expedient

for the advantage of the city; he shall have power to take and certify
under the seal of the city, the acknowledgement of deeds, conveyances
or other instruments of writing requiring authentication; and such deeds,
conveyances or other instruments [which] may be received to record in

-any county in this State, or may be read in evidence in any court in the

State, without further authentication. The mayor, while presiding in the
city council, shall have no vote on any measure or question, except there
be a tie, in which case he shall give the casting vote.

§ 7. The mayor may call special sessions of the council by proclama-
tion or by written notice.

§8. Whenever a special session of the city council shall have been
called by the mayor, he shall state to them, when assembled, the cause for
which they have been convenéd.

§ 9. There shall be a clerk of the city council, (who shall perform the
duties of register, and such other duties as the city council shall direct,) a
city treasurer, city constable, city attorney and city engineer, who, in addi-
tion to the duties prescribed by this act, shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by ordinance; there shall also be such other oflicers, ser-
vants and agents of the corporation as may be provided by ordinance, to be
appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council, and to perform such duties as may be prescribed by ordinance; and
such officers shall be removable at the pleasure of the city council by a
majority of two-thirds of the city council.

§ 10. The city council may by ordinance provide for the election by the
qualified voters of the city, of any of the ofiices named in this act.

§ 11. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the city council to keep a journal
of the proceedings of the council; to record in a separate book all ordinan-
ces or resolutions appropriating money; to keep a record of all oflicial acts
of the mayor, and when necessary toattest them; he shall keep and pre-
serve in his ofiice the common seal of the city, and all records, public papers,
and documents not properly belonging to any other otiice. ‘

§ l2 It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to receive and keep the
money 8f the city, and to pay out the same on warrants drawn by the
mayor or other oiiicers authorized by ordinance to draw them.

§ 13. The city constable shall within the city, in matters of a criminal
nature arising under any law of the State, possess the same powers, perform
the same duties, and receive the same compensation as the constable of
Buffalo township; he shall execute and return all process issued by the
mayor, recorder or any member of the city council or justice of the peace
under this act, or any ordinance of the city.

§ l4. lt shall be the duty of the city engineer to superintend the con-
struction of all public works ordered by the city; to make out plans and
estimates thereof, and to contract for the execution of the same; and to
perform all surveying and engineering ordered by the city; provided, how-
ever, such plans and contracts shall be first approved by the city council, or
they shall not be valid.

§ 15. The mayor and all other otlicers of the corporation shall reside

eonro1u'.rron_s., 357

githin the limits of the city during their continuance in omce; and if the
mayor of the corporation shall cease to reside within the limits of the same,
his ofiice shall be thereby vacated. .. '« _

' § 16. There shall be a recorder, who shall be a resident of the city, and
shall possess the same qualifications as the mayor under the provisions of
this act, who shall be appointed by the mayor and city council, and shall
hold his office one year, and until his successor is duly elected and qualified;
such recorder may be removed from office in the same manner as the mayor;

he shall have the same jurisdiction as justices of the peace, within the limits

of the city, in all State cases; he shall have jurisdiction over all cases arising
under any ordinance of said city, subject, however, to an appeal in all cases
to the~circu’t court of Pike county; and every such appeal shall be taken
and granted in the same manner as appeals are taken from and granted by
justices of the peace to the circuit court, under the general law of the State;
he shall charge, in all cases, the same fees which are now or may be allowed
to justices of the peace for the same kird of services, which shall be charged
and collected as other costs; he shall have power to administer oaths and
aliirmations.
_ § 17. .T he city council may by ordinance provide for paying the recorder
a yearly salary, instead of fees.
§l8. Durin' the absence, removal or inability of the recorder to act,
any justice 0 the peace within the limits of the city shall have power to
hear, try and determine all cases properly cognizable before the recorder.

ARTICLE V.

OF ELECTIONS.

§ 1. A general election for all the otlicers of the corporation required to
be elected by this act, or any ordinance of the city, shall be holden on the
second Monday of April in each year.

§2. At all elections for city officers the voters shall vote by ballot, and
only in the wards wherein they respectively reside.

§ 3. Judges of elections shall be appointed by the city council; they shall
take an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge their duties; they shall
open the poll-books at nine o’clock in the morning, and continue them open
until six o’clock in the afternoon, when they shall proceed forthwith to as-
certain and certify the result of the election in the presence of so many
candidates or other persons who may see proper to be present, aqua be
conveniently accommodated in the room; provided, that there aha never
be less than ten voters present at any count.

§ 4. No election shall be held in a grog-shop or other place where intoxi-,

eating liquors are vended.

§ 5. All personsqualilied as electors under the tenth section of the third
article of the constitution of the State of Missouri, who shall haveresided
six months within the city, and one month within the ward where they offer
to vote, next preceding the election, shall be deemed qualified voters at all
elections for city ollicers. «

§ 6. Elections for city ofiicers shall continue but one day, and duringthat
day the polls shall not be closed longer than two hours between the times
of opening and closing. .

§7. Special elections to (ill vacancies shall be held under such regula-

hens as may be provided by law or ordinance.

358 coneoaarxons.

ARTICLE VI.

01-‘ OPENING AND IMPROVING STREETS.

§ 1. It shall not be lawful for the city council to grade, pave, McAd-

amize, clean, water, or light any street, lane, or avenue, not opened and
established according to law and ordinance; it shall be lawful, neverthe-
less, for the city council to order the owner or owners of ground front-
ing on any private alley to keep the same clean, and if necessary there-
to to direct him or them to pave the same.

§ 2. When it is necessary to take private property for opening, widen-
ing or altering any public street, lane, or avenue, the corporation shall
make a just compensation thereof to the person whose property is so ta-
ken, and if the amount of such compensation cannot be agreed upon the
mayor shall cause the same to be ascertained by a jury of disinterested

freeholders of the city.
§ 3. In opening, altering, or widening alleys through blocks orsquares

of the city, the same proceeding shall be had as in case of openin , wi’-
dening, or altering public streets, lanes, or avenues, with this ad ition,
that the jury will ascertain the amount of benefit that will accrue to
the person whose property is taken, and those who may have petitioned
for the o ening, widening, or altering of such alley.

§ 4. hen the owners of the major part of the front of all the proper-
ty on the street, lane, avenue, or alley, proposed to be opened, widened,
or altered, shall petition therefor, the mayor and city council may open,
widen, or alter such street, lane, avenue, or alley, upon condition to be
prescribed by ordinance, but no compensation shall in such case be made
to those whose property shall be taken for opening, widening, or alter-
ing such street, lane, avenue, or alley, who have petitioned for the same,
nor shall there by any assessment of benefit or damages that may accrue
thereby to any of the petitions. .-

§ 5. All jurors em anneled to inquire into the amount of benefits or
damages which shall happen to any owner of property, proposed to be
taken for opening, widening, or altering any street, lane, avenue, or al-
ley, shall first be sworn to that effect, and shall return to the mayor their
inquest, in writing, and signed by each juror.

§ 6 he mayor shall have power, for good cause shown, within ten
days a ter any inquest shall have been returned to him, as mentioned in
the preceding section, to set the same aside and to cause a new inquest
to be made.

§ 7. The mayor and city council shall have power, by ordinance, to
enforce the payment of all sums which a jury shall declare to be the
amount of benefits accruing to the owners of property, upon any alley
which shall be opened, widened, or altered, if the owner be one of the
petitioners for openin , widening, or altering such alley.

§ 8. The mayor ang city council shall have power, by ordinance, to
levy and collect a special tax on the holders of the lots on any street,
lane, avenue, or alley, or part of any street, lane, avenue, or alley, ac-
cording to the respective fronts owned by them, for the purpose of pa-
Vln or grading such street, lane, avenue, or alley; provided, always,
Sl_1c tax shall not exceed one half of one per centum, nor shall the gra-
dung or paving be done at the expense of the owners of the lots fronting

coaronarrdns, 359

on the street, lane, avenue, or alley, unless a petition for such grading

and paving, signed by the pwners of a major part of the ground fronting
thereon be presented for such purpose. -

§ 9. ‘The city. council shall have power, by ordinance, to direct the

manner~in' which any property, ‘real or personal,‘ advertised for sale, or ,

sold for taxes, general or special, or for the costs of any improvement
done’ or ordered to be done by the authority of the corporation, may be
redeemed.

§ 10. Lands within the limits of the city, which have not been laid off
into blocks or lots, shall not be assessed or taxed, otherwise than by the
acre, as agricultural or waste lands, and shall continue to be so assessed
and taxed till laid off‘ into blocks or lots by the owners thereof respectively;
and the owners of such lands, in laying off the same into blocks and lots,
shall so arrange the streets that they shall correspond with previously
established streets of the city. -

ARTICLE VII.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 0

§ 1. The city council shall cause to be published within one month af-
ter the end of each fiscal year, a full, complete, and detailed statement

. of all moneys received and expended by the corporation during the pre-

ceding liscal year, and on what account received and ex ended, classi-
fying each receipt and expenditure under its appropriate ad.

§ 2. All ordinances and resolutions now in force in the town of. Louisi-
aha, an&l“rl1o(ti: inconsigenti with thtig act, shall remain in force until alter-
e mn°e,orrepreunerlisact. L 

§3.’All.suits, actions, and prosecutions, instituted, commenced, or
brought by tile corporation hereby created, shall be instituted, com-
menced and prosecuted in the name of the city of Louisiana. a '

§ ,4. All actions, fines, penalties and forfeitures, which have-accrued
to “the inhabitants of the town of Louisiana,” or to the trustees thereof,

. shall.[bei|lvested in and prosecuted for by the corporation hereby created.
5 A

roperty, real and personal, heretofore belonging to “the in-
ha itants oi) the town of Louisiana,” or the trustees of said town in their
corporate capacity, shall be and the same is hereby declared to he vest-
ed in the corporation hereby-created.
§ 6. This charter shall not invalidate any act done by “the inhabit-5
antsof-“the town of Louisiana,” or the trustees or any ollicer thereof,
nordivest them of any right which may have accrued to them prior to
the passage of thisact. _ ' A i
h§ 7. The general assembly may at any time alter, amend-or repeal this
c arter. . .
§ 8. This act is declared to he a public act, andvmay be read in evi-
dence in all courts of law and equity in this State, without proof. -
§ 9. The chairman of the board of trustees of the town» of Louisiana,

’ shall immediately after the passage of this act, take-necessary measures

to promulgate this law within the limits of the city- of Louisiana hereby
created. . - ' .
§ 10. The city,of Louisiana shall have powerrto erect and organizes

360 GQBPOBATIONS,

workhouse in Pike county; and any person who shall fail orneglact to»
pay any fine or costs imposed on him by any ordinance of the city of

ouisiana, for any misdemeanor or breach of any ordinance of said city,
shall, after the erection and completion of such workhouse, instead of
being committed to the jail of- the county, be committed to the.work-

° house until such fine and costs are fully paid; provided, however, that

I); such imprisonment shall exceed the period of six months for any one
o ence.

§ 11. Everyperson so committed to the workhouse shall be re uired to
work for the city at such labor as his health and strength wil permit,
within or without said workhouse, not exceeding ten hours each day;
and for such work and labor the person so employed shall be allowed,
exclusive of his board, fifty cents ‘per day for each days work, which
amount shall go towards paying such fine and costs. .

§ 12. It shall be lawful for said city, to provide, by ordinance,-for the
commitment to the county jail of Pike county, of any person against

‘whom there may be a judgment in favor of the city for the nonpayment

of any line or penalty, for any viollpition ofhtllljsh charger, gr any of the
ordinances of the city, until a war ouse s a ave een uilt or com-
pleted, subject to the limitation of section tenth of this article, and to
the general laws of the State. .
§ 13. The inhabitants of the city of Louisiana are hereby exem ted
from working upon any road‘ beyond thelimits of the. city, and mm
paying any tax to rocure laborers to work on such roads.
§ 14. The city s all not at anytime become a subscriber for any stock
in any incorporation, but said city may'by ordinance appropriate money
to aid in opening anyhroad leading tohthe ci1t;yh,cor in building any
wit in two m’ es of t e city, or in ct "er u ° im rovementswi ' e
city, and which may be deemed of gen-cilia] publicpbeneiit to the inhab-
itants of the city; provided, that no appropriation shall be made for.any
improvement beyond the limits of the city, unless a vote be talrenzexo
pzresply ltlnzhsuchtappro riiatljon, at; sonfre elec1f:ic;1}1].for mayor, tiand a major-
iyo a evoe oe ecas in avoro eaproria on.
§ 131 Thphiiscal gzalpi of ctlzhe city‘-shgll herealfter Eernpiinate on theiday
rece in e secon on ay in rr in eac year.
P § 16. g’.[‘here shall be a digest 011)‘ revision of the ordinanoes.ofthe
city, which are of a generalnature, published within six monthsafter
the passage of this act, and a like digest within every period of’ three
years thereafter. . ' ' i =
§. 17. The city council may by ordinance provide for colleetidgvfroln
any delin uent ofiicer of the --city, any revenue, money or property,‘>im-'
properly detained or not accounted for, by such otiicer, and toepmyide
tfrhe penlplty or punishment for such delinquency, or failure to account
or suc mone or ro ert .  
§ 18. The city cldunpcilfcr any ofiicer or department thereof,‘ shall not
have power to issue any scrip, bills or paper of any description whatev-
er, to circulate as a currency, or representative thereof; but-aany.Wér-
rant, draft, note, obligation or bond of the city, may be transferred land
made transfer:-able by‘ a proper endorsement thereof from eachuhohier,
under such restrictions and regulations as the city council may pre-

scribe, not cpntrary to the true intent and «meaning of -this section.

coaroaurons. 361

§ 19. The resent board of trustees of the town of Louisiana, shall
exercise all e powers and functions vested in the city council under
this act, until superseded under the same; and all acts and ordinances
passed by said board of trustees after the passage of this act, under the
same, shall be as valid as if the said trustees had been elected under
this act.

§ 20. All acts and parts of acts contrary to, and inconsistent with the
provisions of this act, or within the purview thereof, are hereby re-
pealed.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after the passage

of the same.
Approved March 10th, 1849.

¢\f\f\/ \/'\ ’\f\/{'\f'\ §/'\f\/\/\/\fU

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Boatmen’s Mutual Insurance Company.

§ 1. Style of company; term; eneral powers. §25. Length of time of olicy; may issue open;
2. Who to be taken as mem ers. e ect of incum range on property in-

3. Meetings, when and where held. sured.
4. Board of directors, how chosen. 26. Directors shall pay losses within 3 months,
5. ‘Vacancies, how tilled. unless they repair.
6. Quorum. g 27. Amount to be expended in rebuilding or
7. 8 ial meetings of the board, when and repairs.
ow called. 28. If property alienated, policy void; assured
8. Powers of directors; may appoint certain may receive premium note,‘ when;
omcers. alienee may have same renewed, how;
9. Directors, when they meet; president to effect. ‘
be elected by them; other powers and 29. Alteration increasing risk, vacates policy
duties. when; exception. '
10. Directors may extend the insurance to 30. Double insurance, effect of.
certain 0b1e¢t8- 3|. Company prohibited from engaging in any
11. Certain articles not included in policies trade, or banking. Act to be taken as
unless ex ressly enumerated. a public act.
12. Insurance, ow to be made. 32. Assessment; when and how made.
13. How to become a member; note to be de- 33. Lien on property insured, how enforced.
posited; when given up. 34. Demand, by whom made; how proven.
14. Losses and expenses, how paid. 35. Failure to pay assessment; pena ty.
15. Lien on property insured. 36. Members may be witnesses, when and in
16. Loss, notice of, when given. what suits.
17. Loss, notice of, how given. 37. Records of com any, evidence when.
18. Loss, damages for, how obtained. 38. Books open to t e company.
19. It‘ suit be brought, how adjudicated. 39. Agent may execute note and talfe out pol-
20. Non-suit, effect . ~ _ icy how.
2!. Loss or damage, how apportioned. 40. President pro tem.
22. Amount due by each member, how paid. 41. President and two directors may perform
23. Payment of, how enforced. certain duties.
24. Deficiency in assetts, how supplied; mem- 42. First board of directors, powers and du-
ber may be released from company, ties.
when. 43. Power to repeal.

Be itenacted by the General Jfssembly qfthe State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That N. J. Eaton, William B. Miller, George Atchison, jr., George
Taylor, Joseph Stetinius. Edward,Walsh, Thomas O’Flaverty, John L.
Blain, Thomas Miller, Trusten Polk, and James W. Morrow, and all
other persons who may hereafter become members of said company in
the manner herein prescribed, be and they are hereby incorporated and

made a body spbolitic, for the term of twenty years from the passage of

362 conroarrrons.

this act, by the name of “The Boatmen’s Mutual Insurance Company,”
for the purpose of insuring their respective steamboats, tackle, apparel
and furniture, and their cargoes, and the hulls of steamboats in the course
of building and repair, against loss or damage, whether the same shall
happen by sinking, fire, lightning, or any other means, excepting that of
design in the assured; and by that name, may sue and be sued, p ead and
be impleaded, appear, prosecute and defend, in any court of record or
other place whatever; may have and use a common seal; may purchase
and hold such real and personal estate as may be necessary to effect the
objects of their association; may make, establish and put into execution
such by-laws, ordinances and resolutions, not being contra? to the laws
of this State or of the United States, as may be necessary an convenient
for the regulation and government and for the management of their af-
fairs; and do and execute all such acts and things as may be necessary
to carry into full effect the purposes intended by this act of incorpora-
tion; Provided, that the real estate herein allowed to be held by the cor-
oration shall never exceed, except for the purpose of securing or col-
ecting any debt that may be due it, one lot in the city, town or village
in which the otlice of the company may be located.
§ 2. Every person who shall at any time become interested in said
company by insuring therein, and also their respective executors, admin-
istrators or assigns, continuing to be insured therein as hereafter pro-
vided, shall be deemed and taken as a member thereof, for and during
the time specified in their respective polcies, and no longer, and shall, at
all times, be governed and bound by the provisions of this act.
§ 3. There shall be a meeting of said company at Saint Louis, in Saint
Louis county, on the first Thursday of August annually, or on such other
day or at such other place within this State as the said company may
hereafter determine.
§ 4. At the first annual meeting of the company, there shall be chosen
by a majority of the members present or represented by proxy, a board
of directors, consisting of not more than eleven nor less than seven mem-
bers, who shall continue in oflice until others have been chosen and ac-
cepted the trust in their stead. “
§ 5. All vacancies happening in the board of directors, by death, re-
signation, or refusal to act for the space of three months, shall be filled
by the election of another or other directors, by a majority of the direc-
tors present at any monthly meeting; which directors, so chosen, shall
remain in oflice until the next general election of directors.
§ 6. A majority of the whole board shall constitue a quorum for the
transaction of business.
§ 7. Special meetings of the company may be called by order of the
board of directors, or whenever any owner of property insured by the
company shall apply to the directors, setting forth in writing the purposes
for which said meeting is to be called.
§ 8. The board of directors shall have power, First, to superintend
generally the business and concerns of the company; Second, to manage
the funds and property thereof, and of. all matters and tl.ings relating
thereto, not otheruise directed by the company; Tlu'7'r.!, from time to
time, to appoint a secretary, treasurer, and such other ollicers, agents

conroau-Ions. _ 363

and assistants as to them may seem necessary; to prescribe their duties,
tix their compensation, and to take security from them, as they may
deem necessary for the faithful performance of their duties; and Fourth,
to determine the rate of insurance, the sum to be insured on any of the
subjects of insurance mentioned in the first section of this act, and the

‘sum to be deposited for the insurance thereof.

 9. The board of directors may hold their meetings monthly, or oft-
ener, if necessary, and shall, First, elect one of their own members to
act as president, and fix his compensation; Second, order and direct the

pmakingand issuing all policies of insurance; Third, order the drawing

and manner of drawing checks or drafts upon the treasurer for the pay-
ment of all losses which may have happened, and expenses incurred in
transacting the business and concerns of the company; and, F;'/'1/1, keep
a record of their proceedings.

§ 10. The directors may extend the insurance of the company, First,
to all steamboats, their tackle, apparel and furniture, and their cargoes,
which touch or usually touch at Saint Louis in. the course of their voy-
ages; Second. to all the hulls of steamboats, and all steamboats in dock,
owned in whole or in part by citizens of this._State, in the course of
building or repair, or in dock in or on the Mississippi or Missouri rivers,
or any of their tributaries.

7 § 11. Books of accounts, written securities or evidences of debt, title

deeds, manuscripts or writing of any description, money or bullion, cu-
riosities, jewels,_ medals, musical instruments, plate, paintings, sculpture,
statuary, watches, gold or silver ware of any kind, alcohol, aqua-fortis,
gun-powder, spirituous liquors, tar, turpentine, pitch and varnish, shall
not be deemed or taken to be included in any policies of insurance, un-
less those articles, or such of them as it is desired to insure, shall be
particularly specified in the policy.
. § 12. Insurance shall be made in all cases upon the representation of
the assured, contained in his application therefor, and signed by him or
his agent or attorney, which representation shall, in fairness and good
faith, state all the material circumstances within his knowledge which
may effect the risk; provided, that in case of any loss or damage, the
valuation of the property, at the time of such loss or damage, shall be
ascertained and determined in the manner hereinafter prescribed.

§ 13. Every person who shall become a member of this company by
e ecting insurance therein, shall, before he receives his policy, deposite
his promissory note for such sum of money as shall be determined by the
directors, a part of which note, not exceeding fifty per cent. thereof,
shall be immediately paid for the purpose of defraying the incidental
expenses of the company, and the remainder of said deposite note shall
be payable, in part or in whole, at such time as the directors shall deem
the same requisite for the payment of losses or other expenses; and, at
the expiration of the term ofinsurance,such note,or such partofthe same
as shall remain unpaid after deducting all losses and expenses accruing
during said time, shall be relinquished and given up to the maker thereo .

. § 14. Every member of the company is bound to pay his proportion of
all losses and expenses happening or accruing to the company during
the continuance of the policy.

364 coiiroiuirious.

§ 15. All the subjects of insurance mentioned in the iirst section of
this act, and all the right, title and interest of the assured to the sub-
jects insured, are pledged, and the company have a lien thereon against
the assured, during the continuance of the policy, and until their iabil-
ities as members of the com any shall cease, and until all assessments
made for losses, damages ans expenses shall be fully paid.

§ 16. In case of any loss or damage happening to any property insured
by the company, the assured shall give notice thereof in writing to ‘the
president or secretary, or some director of the company, within thirty
days from the time such loss or damage shall happen. . .

§ 17. The notice required by the next preceding section may be given
by the master, clerk, owner or part owner of any steamboat, steamboat
hull in the course of building or repair, or steamboat in dock, and, so
far as the cargoes of any steamboat are concerned, by the master, clerk,
owner or art owner of such boat havin the car o on board, or b the
owner or gart owner of the cargo. g g Y

§ 18. The directors of the company, in the cases mentioned in the
16th section, shall, upon view of the property lost or damaged, or in
such other way as they deem proper, ascertain the amount of loss or
damage, and if the partysuifering is not satisfied with the determination
of the directors, the question may be submitted to arbitrators according
to the general law of the land, or such party may bring an action against
the company for such loss or damage in the circuit court of the county
in which the princi al office of the company is situate, within six months
after such loss or damage, and not afterwards.

§ 19. In the event that the party suffering shall bring his action and -

recover a reater amount than the sum determined upon by the direc-
tors, the plgaintitf shall have judgment a ainst the company for the amount
recovered, with interest thereon from t e time the loss or damage hap-
pened, and for costs of suit; but if no more shall be recovered than the
amount determined upon by the directors, the plaintiff shall become non-
suit, and the company shall recover the costs.

§ 20. The judgment of non-suit, mentioned in the last preceding sec-
tion, shall in nowise affect the claim of the suffering party to the amount
of loss or damage as determined by the directors.

§ 21. The directors, after notice shall be given of any loss or damage
sustained by the assured, and after ascertaining the extent and amount
of such loss or damage, in any of the modes ointed out in the 18th and
19th sections of this act, shall settle and etermine the amount to be
paid by the several members of the company as_ their respective propor-
tions of such loss or damage, and publish the same in such manner as
the may deem expedient, or as the by-laws may prescribe.

§y22. The sum to be paid by each member of the company shall al-
ways be in proportion to the original amount of his premium note, and
shall be paid to the treasurer within such time (not exceeding fifty days)
after the publication of notice as the by-laws may prescribe.

§ 23. If any member shall neglect or refuse to pay the sum assessed
upon him, within such time as the by-laws may prescribe, as his propor-
tion of any ascertained loss or damage, the company may sue for and
recover the whole amount of such delinquent’s premium note, with costs

conpoaarrons. 365

of suit; and the money thus collected shall remain in the treasury of the
company, subject to the payment of such loss or dama es and expenses
as have or may accrue during the continuance of his policy, and the bal-
ance shall be returned to the party from whom it was collected, on de-
mand, after fifty days from the end of the term of which insurance was
effected.

§ 24. If it shall ever so happen that the whole amount of deposite
notes shall be insullicient to pay the loss occasioned by any one disaster,

, the sufferers insured by the company shall receive towards making good

their respective losses, a proportionate dividend of the whole amount of
such notes, according to the sums by them respectively insured, and in
addition thereto a sum to be assessed on all the members of said compa-
ny, not exceeding forty cents on every hundred dollars worth of proper-
ty by them respectively insured; and no member shall ever be required
to pay for any oss more than fifty cents on each hundred dollars worth
of property insured by him in the company, in addition to his deposite _
note, nor more than that amount for any such loss after his said note shall
have been paid and expended; and any member upon the payment of the
whole amount of his deposite note, and surrendering his policy before
any subsequent loss or expenses have occurred, may be discharged
from the company.
§ 25. The company may make insurance for any time not less than
one month, nor more than one year; and for the convenience of shippers
may issue open policies, as is usual in other insurance companies; and
any policy of insurance issued by the company, signed by the president,
and countersigned by the secretary shall be deemed valid and binding
on the company in all cases wherein the assured has a title unincumbcr-
ed to the thing insured; but if the property insured be incumbered the
policy shall be void, unless the true title of the assured and the incum-
rances be expressed thereon. a
§ 26. The directors shall settle and pay all losses within three months
after they shall have been notified as aforesaid, unless they shall judge it
proper within that time to rebuild the steamboats or steamboat hulls des-
troyed, or to repair the damages sustained, which they are empowered
to do within a reasonable time.
§ 27. The directors in such cases shall never expend more in such re-
buildin and repairs than the sum insured on such steamboats or steam-
boat hu ls.
§ 28. Whenever the whole or any portion of the property insured by
the company, and included in any one policy, shall be alienated by sale
or otherwise, such policy shall be void, and surrendered to the directors
to be cancelled; and upon such surrender the assured shall receive his
premium note upon the payment of his proportion of all losses and ex-
penses that have accrued prior'to suc surrender; provided, that the
grantee or alienee having the policy assigned to him,may have the same
ratified and confirmed to him for his proper use and benefit, upon appli-
cation to the directors, and with their consent, within thirty days next after
such alienation, and previous to any loss or damage to the property in-
sured, on giving security to the satisfaction of the directors for such
proportion of the deposite or premium note as shall remain unpaid; and
y such ratification or confirmation the party causing the same shall be

366 coarorwrrons. ,

entitled to all the‘rights and privileges, and be subject to all the liabili-
ties to which the original assured was entitled and subject under this
act.
§ 29. If any alteration shall be made in any steamboat after insurance
has‘been made thereon with the company, whereby the same is exposed
to a greater risk than it was at the time it was insured, the insurance
made upon such steamboat shall be void, unless an additional premium and
deposite note shall be made to the company after such alteration; but
such alteration in steamboats, after the insurance is effected, as do not
increase the risk, shall not effect the insurance previously effected there-
on.
§ 30. If any insurance on any property shall subsist in this company,
and in any other ofiice, or from or by any other person or persons at the
same time, the insurance made in and by this company, shall be deemed
and become void, unless such double insurance subsist by and with the
consent of the directors, si nified by endorsement on the back of the
policy, si ned by the presifent and secretary. '
§ 31. he company shall not be concerned in any trade or business
except the insurance of property as herein specified; nor shall the com-
pany, by any possible construction of its charter, exercise any banking
privileges whatever; but this act shall be deemed and taken to be a pub-
ic act, and shall be liberally construed to effect the ends and purposes
hereby intended and contemplated.
§ 32. The directors of the company shall not make more than four as-
sessments for losses in any one year, and in order that such assessments
may be made payable quarter yearly at specific times, the directors are
authorized in case of any loss or damage to borrow such sum or sums of
money as may be required to pay such loss or damage, and in making
the quarterly assessment the interest accruein on the money borrowed,
and also all necessary incidental expenses, she I be included in such as-
sessment.
§ 33. In case it shall become necessary to resort to the lien on the
property insured, a demand for payment of the sum due shall be made
of the assured or his legal representatives; and in case of non-payment
the company may sustain an action on the deposite note, and their exe-
cution may be levied on the property insured, and the ofiicer making the
levy may sell the whole or any part of the property at auction, giving
notice and proceeding in the same manner as is required in sales under
execution, or the suit may be brought in equity at the option of the com-
pan . _
§y34. The demand required in the preceding section may be made by
any person who would be a competent witness in a suit between the par-
ties, and the affidavit of the person demanding payment of the assess-
ment, naming the day and manner of making such demand, shall be suf-
ficient evidence, in any court, of such demand having been duly made.
§ 35. If any person shall become a member of the company by effect-
ing insurance therein, and he, his heirs, executors, or administrators,
shall neglect or refuse the payment of any assessment duly ordered by
the directors of the company. for the term of thirty days after the same
sl all become payable, agreeable to public notice to be given by the trea-
s rer, the party so in default shall be excluded and debarred, and shall

contentions. 367

lose all beneht and advantage of “his insurance for and durin the term
of such default or non-payment, but nevertheless shall be iable and
obliged to pay all assessments that shall be made upon him in pursu-
ance of the revisions of this act.

§ 36. In a l suits by and against the company any member of the com-
pany shall be a competent witness,except in suits in which he is directly
a party, if such person be not otherwise disqualified.

§ 37. The records of the company, or copies thereof duly authentica-
ted by the signature of the resident and secretary, shall be competent
evidence in any suit in which the company may be a party.

§ 38. Each member of the company shall be entitled to and allowed
an examination of the books, papers, and general transactions of the
company upon application therefor to the secretary.

‘ § 39. Any person having authority in writin , from any owner or part
owner of any of the objects of insurance speciged in this act, upon filing
the same with the secretary, of the company may execute in the name
of his principal, the premium or deposite notlas required herein, and take
out a policy of insurance in the name of his principal, covering such por-
tion of his principal’s interest in the property insured as this charter and
the by-laws of the company allow to be insured; and all the acts of such
agent, within the scope of his authority, and all the duties and obligations
required by the principal, shall, when performed or entered into by such
a ent, be as binding an obligatory upon the principal as if he had contract-
eg in proper person; and the company shall be bound in the same manner
and to the same extent as if it had contracted with the principal instead
of the agent. i ‘

§ 40. The directors may elect a president pro tempore, who in the ab-
sence of the president, may perform all the duties of the president, and
receive such compensationtherefor as the directors may allow.

J

§ 41. Any two directors, including the president for the time being,
shell for all purposes, except the election of oflicers, fix their compensa-
tion, and making assessments upon members forlosses, constitute a quo-
rum for the transaction of business; provided, however, that a quorum
of a full board of directors may, by by-laws, prescribe the duties of
such inferior board within the limitations in this section declared.

§ 42. The persons named in the iirst section of this act, shall be and
they are hereby constituted a board of directors for said cpmpany, to
serve as such until the first annual election of directors herein provided
for, a majority of whom shall have power to fill all vacancies in their
body occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the State, or by
failure or refusal to act; a majority of their number shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business; they may.call the first meeting
of the members of the company, at any suitable time and place, by ad-
vertisement in at least two newspapers printed in the city of St. Louis,
giving at least ten days’ notice of the place, time, and design of such

_ meeting; and may make and establish by-laws for the government of the

company until the first annual meeting thereof; and may transact any
business necessary and proper to carry into effect the provisions and iii-
tentions of this act. '

368 coaroxusrrons.

§ 43. Any future legislature of this State shall have full power to re-
peal this charter whenever it shall be deemed expedient.
§ 44. This act shall take efect from itspassage.
Approved February 22, 1849.

 

AN ACT to empower the corporation of Tully to do certain acts.

§ 1. Trustees may authorize a survey of town; 2. Acts of trustees legalized.
how made. 3. This act not to interfere with private rights.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zs-sembly of the State of Mz‘ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. The trustees of the town of Tully, in Lewis county, are hereby
empowered to employ a surveyor to re-survey said town, whose duty it
shall be to make out a new plot of said town, conforming as near as pos-
sible to the original plat, together with a map of the two quarter quarter
sections upon which it is located, and the tie d notes of said survey; and

. the trustees of said town shall cause the same to be recorded, and the

same shall be as legal as if they had been originally recorded.

§ 2.,All the acts of the proprietors of said town are hereby legalized,
and all omissions on their part are hereby supplied, and their acts shall
be as effective as if they had complied with the laws of the State of
Missouri, in relation to towns and town plots.

§ 3. Nothing herein contained shall interfere with the private rights of
any person or persons whatsoever.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

AN ACT to incorporate the Phoenix Insurance Company.
§ 1. Company incorporated; capital stock; 3- cies how signed; director ceasing to he a
books to be opened. stockholder, effect.
2. Style and powers of company. 7. Funds, bow invested.
3. Stock, how paid in; pena ty for failure. 8. Stock, personal property; other povs ers of
4. What insurances company may make._ ( directors.
5. Of the election of directors. Q 9. Insurance on lives. A

6. Of the president and vice president; poli-i
Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. An insurance company is hereby established, with a capital of
fifty thousand dollars, which may be increased at the will of the stock-
holders, to any amount not exceeding live hundred thousand dollars, in
shares of one hundred dollars each, which com any shall be released
from the seventh and thirteenth sections, article Erst, of an act concern-
ing corporations. John How, Louis V. Bogy, Samuel T. Hyde, Robert
Earth, and John B. Camden, or any three of them, shall be commission-

coaromvrrons. 369

ers to open books for subscri tion to the said stock, in such manner, and
at such times and laces, as t ey may a point, until fifty thousand dol-'
lars of stock sha I be subscribed, an soon thereafter the subscri-
bers shall meet and choose their directors, first givin notice of such
meeting in one or more newspapers in the City of St. iouis.
§ 2._ The subscribers for the said stock, their successors, associates
and assigns, are hereby constituted a body corporate and politic, by the
name and title_ of the “Phaanix Insurance Company;” by which name
they and their successors shall have perpetual succession, and are made
capable in law of buying and possessing property of every kind, and the
same to sell or otherwise dispose of; of contracting and being contracted
with, of suing and being sued, of defending and being defended against,
in all courts and places whatsoever, in all manner of actions, and may
have a common seal, which they may change at pleasure.
A  '3. Thepayment for the stock subscribed shall be made in the fol-
lowing manner: at the time of subscribing, one dollar shall be paid the‘
commissioners on each share, and before the company shall be authorized
to issue a olicy of insurance, the further sum of ten dollars shall be
paid the irectors on each and every share; and the balance due satis-
actorily secured, payable on demand; any stockholder failing to meet
his calls for thirty days after the same shall have been demanded, the
directors shall have power to declare said stock forfeited to the com-
pany.
§ 4. The corporation hereby created, have full power and authority
to ihsure all kinds of property against loss or damage by fire, to make
all kinds of insurance against loss on propertyof every kind, in the
course of transportation, whether happening on land or water; to make
all kinds of insurance on lives, and to grant annuities, and to make such
other insurance as they may deem pfo er or expedient; to lend money
on respondentia or bottomry bonds, an to reinsure themselves against
loss on any risk which they may have taken, and generally -to do and
perform all necessary matters and things connected with these objects,
or either of them.
§ 5. The affairs of said corporation shall be mana ed by seventeen
directors, who after the first year shall be elected on t e second Tusday
of January in every year, in the city of St. Louis, as the bard of direc-
tors may designate, first givin ten days public notice of said election;
should anything prevent its taking place, as hereby provided, the cor-
poration shall not for that cause be deemed dissolved, but the election
may take place as shall be provided by the company’s by-laws, each
share being entitled to one vote. '
§ 6. The directors regularly chosen by the stockholders of this com-
pany, shall as soon as may be after every annual election, choose out of
their body one person to act as president and vice president; the first
named shall preside at all meetings of the directory; in case of his ab-
sence or death, the vice president will perform his duties; either of
whom, with the secretary or actuary, shall signthe policies or contracts
made by order of the board of directors, which contracts shall be valid
and binding, with or without the seal of said corporation, and such other
acts and things as may be prescribed in the company’s by--laws; any di-

370. . OOBPORLTIONS.

rector ceasing to be stockholder, forfeits his powers and privileges as a
director. ,

§ 7. The corporation hereby created, shall have full power and au-
thority to invest its capital and surplus funds in any funded debt created
or to be created by or under any law of the United States government,
or of any of the States, or of the city of St. Louis, and to sell and trans-
fer the same, as the directors may deem for the interest of the corpora-
tion, or to loan such of its unemployed moneys or funds, on such time
and security as the directors shall prescribe, to be made available in the
line of its ordinary business.

§ 8. The stock of — said company shall he considered personal proper-
ty, and shall be transferable according to such rules, and under such re-
strictions, as the board of directors may direct, who by their by-laws
may also prescribe what number of directors shall form a board compe-
tent to transact the business of the company, prescribe what number of
clerks or other officers may be necessary, prescribe their duties, titles
and salaries, and such other things as they may deem proper; always,
however, subject to the general laws of this State.

§ 9. Whereas it is expected that this company will be chiefly employ-
ed in taking insurances on lives, and- granting annuities, it shall be the
duty of the directors to have kept a separate account for this class of
business, distinct from their other insurances, which shall not be affected
by the loss or gains of their other insurance business, and to establish
such agencies as they may deem proper, for doing business; and it shall
and may be lawful for the said directors to allow all persons so insuring,
such part of the nett rolits or earnings of the company,- on the business
which each party shall) have done with said company, as may be deemed
for the mutual interest of the assured and assurers.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

' AN ACT to incorporate the “St. Louis General Insurance Con~p:my."

2. Books to be opened; b whom;Stockhold- ing corporations; laws of 1845 repealed.

§ 1. Style of Company. Capital Stock. § blc, when; 13th section of law concern.
ers may meet, when, irectora, how chos- 8. Directors and other officers; their powers

on. and duties.

3. Subscribers, a body politic, their powers. 9. Stock. how transferable.

4. Stock, huw paid in. 10. May hold real estate, in what manner.

5. May insure and be insured, general pow. ll. Policies, how executed and attested.
era. 12. Excess of stock, how apportioned.

6. Alfairs how managed; Directors how chos- 13. This act declared to be a public act; es-
en; Stockholders may vote by pmxy. pires in1879 .

7. President, how chosen; deficiency of cor-g 14. May exercise certain powers, after its char-
porate property, individual property lia- ter expires.

Be it enacted by the Central afsstmblg If the State of Miss: uri, as full: zrs:

§ 1. An Insurance Company, to be called the “St. Louis General lu-
surancc Company.” shall be established in the City of St. Louis. with :1
capital stock of fifty thousand dollars, which may be increased at the will of

CORPORATIONS. 37 1

the stockholders. to any amount not exceeding five hundred thousani dol-
lars, divided into shares of one hundred dollars each, to be subscribed and
paid far by individuals, companies or corporations, in the manner hereinafter
3 ci ed.

Pg 2. John O’Fall-an, Michael S. Cerre, John Smith, J. B. Brant, James
M. Hughes, L. Pickering and Edward Walsh, or any three of them, shall be
and they are hereby authorized as commissioners, to open books for sub-
scription in said city for the capital stock of said company, on the first
Monday in May next, and keep them open every day from ten o’clock in
the forenoon, until four o’clock in the afternoon, for the space of six days,
when the same shall be closed. If within the said six days, five hundred
shares shall have been subscribed for. itshall be lawful’ for the subscribers to
meet after fifteen days notice, given by any three of said commissioners in
some newspaper printed in the city of St. Louis, and choose their directors,
who may at any time cause the subscription books to be opened, and to
continue open until the whole amount of said stock shall have been taken.

§ 3. The subscribers for the stock of the company aforesaid. their asso-
ciates, successors and assigns, shall he. and they are hereby ordained, con-
stituted and declared a body corporate and politic by the name and style of
the ‘-St. Louis General Insurance Company,” and by that name they and
their successors shall have perpetual succession, and shall be capable in law
and equity of contracting and being contracted with, of sueing and being
sued, of impleading and being impleaded, of ‘answering and being answered
unto, of defending and being defended against in all courts and places
whatever, in all manner of actions, suits, complaints, and causes, and they
and their successors may have and use a common seal which may be chan-
ged or altered at pleasure.
§ 4. The payment of the stock subscribed shall be made and completed
by the subscribers respectively, at the time and in the manner following,
that is to say, after the election of directors, and before the company shall
go into operation, there shall be paid upon each share, ten dollars and the
balance upon each share shall be subject to the call of the directors, and
the said company shall not be authorized to make any policy or contract of
insurance until the whole amount of shares subscribed shall be actually paid
or secured in manner satisfactory to said directors, to be paid on demand.
§ 5. The corporation hereby created shall have full power and author-
ity to make all kinds of insurance against losses on goods, chattels, wares
and merchandise in the course of transportation, whether happening on‘ the
land or on the water, to make all kinds of insurance upon lives, and to
make such other insurances as they may deem expedient, to lend money
upon respondentia and bottomry, to lend their surplus or unemployed cap-
ital, or money on interest at such rates as private individuals may from time
to time be allowed by law to receive, and generally to do, and perform all
necessary matters and things relative to, or connected with these objects or
with either of them, and they may also cause themselves to be insured
against risks, upon their interests which they may have in any vessel,g00d5o
chattels, wares, or merchandise, in virtue of any such loans, on bottomry or
respondentia, or in virtue of any insurance.
§ 6. The stock and affairs of the company aforesaid or corporation,
shall be managed and conducted by five directors, who shallbe residents of
this State, they shall after the first two years, be elected on the first
Monday of May, every second year at such time and placein the city of St.

372 CORPORATIONS.

Louis, as the board of directors, for the time being, shall appoint, and shall
hold their offices for two years, and until others shall be chosen, and no long-
er, and the election shall be held under the inspection of three stockholders,
to be previously appointed by the board of directors for that purpose, and
shall be made by ballot, by plurality of the stockholders, allowing one vote
for every share, and stockholders not personally present, may_vote by proxy
made in writing, directly to the person representing them at such election.
In case it should happen at any time that an election of directors should not
be made on any day when pursuant to this act it ought to have been made,
the said corporation shall not for that cause be deemed to be dissolved, but

it shall and may be lawful on any other day, to make and hold an election

of directors in such manner as shall be regulated by the by-laws and ordi-
nances of the company. .

6 '7. The directors chosen regularly by the stockholders of said company.
shall as soon as may be after every biennial election, proceed to choose out
of their own body, one person to be president, who shall preside until the
next biennial election thereafter, or in case of the death or resignation of
the president or any director the vacancy may be filled by the board of di-
rectors and in case of the absence of the president, the board of directors
shall have power to appoint a president pro tempore, who shall have all the
powers and perform all the duties of the president re ularly chosen. In
case of deficiency of corporate. property, or estate liabe to execution, the
individual property, rights and credits of every member of the corporate
body hereby established having a share or shares therein, shall be liable to
be taken on execution to the amount of his share or stock,and no more, for
any debt or liability contracted or insured during his ownership, of such
share, shares or stock and such liability shall continue. notwithstanding any
transfer of such share,shares, or stock for the time of six months after trans-
fer thereof. The thirteenth section of the first article of an an act concern-
ing corporations, approved March 19th 1845, shall not apply to this act. _

§ 8. -The directors may by by-laws or ordinances of said company di-
rect what number of directors shall constitute a board and competent for
the transaction of the business of the corporation and they shall have pow-
er, subject to such by-laws, to appoint from their own body, one or more
persons to act as assistant in the performance of the business of the coat-
pany, with such salaries and allowances as they may think proper, and also
to appoint a secretary, and such clerks, servants and agents, as they n_Ii|_)’
deem expedient, and they shall have power also to declare and make (llVl'
dends of the profits of the business arising from the company, and make and
prescribe such by-laws, rules, and regulations as to them may seem proper»
and touching the business and interests of said company: Provided, that 8
majority of the whole number of directors shall be necessary to make any
such by-laws.

§ 9. The stock of said company, shall be considered personal property.
and shall, be assignable and transferrableaccording to such rules and t‘eSll'lC-
tions as the board of directors shall from time to time make and establish.
subject however tothe laws of this State, as the same exist or may be chan-
ged hereafter.

§ 10. It shall be lawful for said company to purchase,and hold such real
estate as may be convenient for the transaction of its business, not exceed-
ing twenty-five thousand dollars in value, and also to take and hold any real
estate as a security or in mortgage, or in pledge to secure the payment of

CORPORATIONS. 87 3

debts due in good faith to said com any, either for shares or capital stock, or
otherwise,and also to purchase rea estate at any sale made in virtue of any
judgment at law or decree in equity,made in favor of said company, to re-
ceive and take in satisfaction of any debt previously due to said company,
any real estate, to hold all such real estate except that herein first mention-
ed (which is intended for the ordinary use and accommodation of the com-
pany) so long only as shall be necessary to enable said company to make sale
of the same t'or.money or other personal property.

§ ll. All'policies or contracts of insurance, which may be made or en-
tered into by said corporation, shall besubscribed by the president or presi-
dent pro temporc, or by such other otiicer or ofiicers, as shall be designated
for that purpose, by the by-laws. and, being so signed, shall be binding upon
said corporation, without the seal thereof according to the tenor and effect,
true intent and meaning of such policies and contracts, and all such poli-
cies and ‘contracts may be signed and carried on without the presence of
board of directors; by assistants, committees, or agents, if done in confor-
mity with the by-laws, shall be binding upon the company to all intents and

r . - -
Pu§ 12. If a greater amount of stock be subscribed for, than is contempla- '
ten in the first and second sections of this act the same shall be aptmrtioned
among the subscribers in such equitable manner as the directors shall ap-

oint. 1

pr § 13. This act shall be, and is hereby declared to be, a public act, and the
same shall be construed as such. This act shall take effect and be in force
from and after the passage thereof, and shall continue in force until the thir-
ty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, and no long-
er.

§ 14. Notwithstanding the expiration of the term or period for which the
said corporation is created, or if this act should be repealed,it shall be law-
ful to use the corporate name style-,and capacity, for the purpose of suits
for final settlement and liquidation of the affairs and accounts of the corpo-
ration, and for the sale and disposizion of their estate, real, personal, and
mixed, but not for any other purpose or in any other manner whatever. It
shall not be lawful for the corporation hereby created to use or employ an y
part of its stock, funds orcapital, in dealing as a business in the buying and

selling goods, cl attels, wares, and merchandize.
Approved March 12, 1819.

ox/-x,/-./\/\/~._/-/\./-\/\/\;\./\/‘./\/\/\/‘\I*

AN ACT to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Rail Road Com-

pany.
§ 1. Com incorporated; powers. 1!. General powers.
2. Boar J directors powers and duties. 12. Dividends; when made.
3. Directors- when elected. 13. County courts may take stock.
4. Annual election of directors; when held; 14. Exhibit of affairs; when made.
who may vote at. 15. Plot of road when tinished; exhibits may be
5. lhrectors may appoint agentsand clerks; required.
other were. 16. Ex nee account; State may purchase;
6. Stockw en paid, penalty for failure. W en. _
7. Bnneyof road to be made. 17. Person ceaem to be a stockholder; ceases
8. Right of way how obtained. to be a mem er.
9. Read how to built. 5 18. Injury to road; penalty for.
10. Work when commenced. 19. Operations of company to what conuned.

\

374 coaroaa-nous.

Be it enacted by the Gen eral uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. A com any is hereby incorporated, called the Missouri and Mis-
sissippi Rail oad ‘Company, the capital stock of which is to be four
millions of dollars to be divided into shares of one hundred dollars each,
the holders of which, their assessors and assigns shall constitute a body
corporate and politic, and by the name aforesaid shall have continual suc-
cession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend and be de-
fended against in all courts and tribunals, may make and use a common
seal and alter or renew the same and be able in law and equity to make
contracts; may take, hold, use, possess and enjoy the fee simple or other
title in any real estate and may sell and dispose of the same, may make
by-laws, rules and regulations proper for carrying int oeffect the true
rovisions of this act, not repugnant to the constitution or laws of the
Bnited States or of this State.
§ 2. John Holmes, Texas Smith and David Porter of the county of
Wayne; E. F. Pratte, J osias Berryman and William Anthony of Madison

-county; Nimrod Eldridge, Samuel Burchard and Buford B. Wyatt of the

county of Gasconade; Thomas Anderson, Elijah Jones and Charles
Hubert of the county of Osage; Jesse N. Rall, Martin Mitchel and Lar-
kin Bates of the county of Pulaski. Dr. J . Relfe, Star Ruggles and Wil-
liam P. Lucas of the county of Washington; Milton P. Cayce, Vallen-
tine C. Peers and H. W. Crow of St. Francis county; William Marcey,
George C. Breckenridge and Silas Brickey of the county of Crawford;
C. E. Campbell and Joshua Carty of the county of Reynolds; Henry
Miller, Thomas M. Adams and Joseph B. Davis of the county of Stod-
dard; J . G. Watson, Morgan Hill and Edward Broughton of the county
of New Madrid; Thompson Ewing, Robert Aull, G. B. Steele, J.‘J-
Burtis and John P. Campbell of the county of Lafayette; Albert H-
Brevard, Joseph D. Russell and James M. McGuire at Jackson in the
county of Cape or Girardeau; Eugene Garahtey, Thomas J . Rodney and
P. H. Davis in the city Cape Girardeau, county of Girardeau; James
Atkinson, Horace H. White and James A. Brown of Warsaw in Benton
county; J . T. Berry, Joshua Sweering, J . W. Williams, Daniel Stewarfa
G. J . Gillett and William Wall of Henry county; Thomas Dale, David
Clarkson and Nelson McDowell of Dade county; Felix G. Allen, John
Harbinson, Thomas M. Shaw, Abraham Hunter and John C. Meyers of
the county of Scott; Robert White, Geo. Whitcomb, Hiram Pearson of
Mississippi county; William Calhoun, William Thornton, Brinkly Hornslla
Benjamin F. Wall and Jonathan Graves of Johnson county; -I059?“
Riden and Asa Ellis of Texas county; or a majority of them, shall col}-
stitute the first board of directors under this act, and shall hold their
oflices until their successors shall be qualified, they shall meet at such
time and place as may be designated by any three of them and organize
as a board of directors and whenorganized, they shall cause books-I0 be
opened for the subscription of the capital stock at such times and places
as they may designate, under the supervision of such persons as they
may appoint and may continue them open solong as they may deem PTO?”

and re-open them when necessary, until the whole stock shall be Sub‘
scribed.

coupons-rroxs. K 375 .

§ 3. So soon as two thousand shares shall be subscribed, the directors
shall cause an election to be held for nine or more directors, at such time
and place as they may appoint and advertise in one or more newspapers
in the State.
§ 4. An election of nine or more directors shall be held on the last
Monday in October in each year; but a failure to hold such election shall
not forfeit nor vacate this charter, but an election shall be held at any
other time,‘ that the directors may designate. The election shall be held
under the su ervision of one or more stockholders and the persons re-
ceiving the highest number of votes, shall be elected and shall be con-
tinued in ofiice till their successors are qualified. Every std'ckholder
shall be entitled to one vote for each share held by him and he may vote
by proxy.’ The directors shall meet soon after their election and elect
one of their number resident, who shall hold his oiiice for the term for
which he was elected) director and until his successor shall be qualified.
§ 6. The directors shall appoint agents, clerks, engineers, superinten-
dents and other ofiicers and servants for said company, shall keep a jour-
nal of their proceedings, shall cause correct books and accounts to be kept,
they may determine by by-laws what number of directors shall consti-
tute a quorum, and may appoint committees and fill all vacancies in any
otlice under said company. They shall fix the salaries of the president
and other oflicers and agents; but no director shall receive any compen-
sation for his services as such; they may take security from their ollicers
and agents.’ '
§'6. The directors shall call and advertise for the payment of the
stock at such times and in such manner as they deem proper and if any
stockholder shall fail to pay such requisition within ten days after the
time appointed, the said com any may recover the same with interest
and if not collected may dec are the stock to be forfeited and the for-
forfeited stock shall be sold by the directors. No delinquent stockhold-
er shall vote in said compan .
§ 7. Said company shall have power to survey, mark and locate the
route for a rail road from the town of Lexington in Lafayette county,
via. Warsaw in Benton county, to any point in this State, deemed most
desirable on the Mississippi river below the mouth of Apple Creek, and
may for that purpose hold a strip of land not exceeding one hundred feet
in width and may select such route as be deemed most advantageous
and may extend branch rail road to any point in any of the counties in
which it may be located.
§ 8. If the owners of the lands through which said rail road shall pass,
shall refuse to relinquish the right of way for said road to said company,
or if‘ the owners be infants, married women, persons of unsound mind or
absent, the fact shall be reported to the judge of the circuit court of the
county in which such lands are situated and said judge shall appoint three
disinterested citizens of the county, to view said land who shall take’in-
to consideration the value of the land and the advantages and disadvan-
tages of the road to the same, and shall report under oath, what damages
Wlll be done to said land or any improvements thereof, stating the amount
of the damages assessed, and shall return a plat of the land thus condemn-
ed; such report shall be filed in the otiice of the clerk of the circuit court

of the county, and the clerk shall enter judgment on the record of the

Q

876 ' GORPORATION53

court for the amount thereof, which shall be final ainst all parties con-
cerned, unless they shall file in writing with the c erlr, within ten days
after the enterin of the same their objections thereto, which objections
shall be examine by said judge in term time or vacation, who may hear
testimony and by judgment confirm said report, or may set the same
aside, and appoint three other viewers, who shall proceed in the same
manner, but not more than one view shall be granted to the same party;
in such cases the court shall adjudge the costs of the proceedings ac-
cording to equity. The judgment of the court in favor of said company
shall vest in it the fee simple titleof the strip of land, one hundred feet

' in width for the track of said road.

§ 9. Said company may build said road along or across, any State or
county road and the streets or wharves of any town or city and over any
stream or highway; but whenever said rail road shall cross any State or
county road, said company shall keep good and suflicient causeways or
other adequate facilities for crossing the same and said rail road shall
not be so constructed as to prevent the public from using any road,
street or highway, along or across which it asses. If said rail road shall
be built across any navigable stream, it sh 1 be the duty of the compa-
ny, to erect a bridge, sutliciently high on which to cross, or to construct
a drawbrid e, so that the free navigation of said stream may not be ob-
structed; w en any person shall own lands on both sides of the said road
said company shall, when required, make and keep in good repair one
causeway, or other adequate means of crossing the same. i

§ 10. Said company shall commence the construction of said road with-
in ten years after the passage of this act and shall complete the same
within ten years thereafter. ' A

§ 11. Said company shall have general power to use, manage and con-
trol said rail road shall determine what kinds of carriages shall be used
thereon and by whom and in what manner, and shall determine the terms,
condition and manner in which merchandize, property and passengers
shall be transported thereon; and shall have power to construct and keep
such turnouts, ates, bridges, culverts, toll houses, depots, warehouses
and other mac inery, fixtures and buildings as may be necessary; saio
company may receive such tolls and freights as may be determined on by
the directors and shall keep posted up, statements of the rates of tolls
and frei hts to be char ed.

§ 12. gbividends of t e profits of said company shall be made annual-
ly or oftener if necessary, but the directors may reserve a portion of the
profits as a contingent fund to meet expenditures and losses.

§ 13. It shall be lawful for the county court of any county in which
any part of the route of said rail road may be to subscribe to the stock
of said company, and may invest any of its funds in the stock of said
com any and to issue the bonds of said county to raise funds to pay for
stoc thus subscribed and take proper steps to protect the interest and
credit of the county, such county court may appoint some person to rep-
resent said county vote for it, and receive the dividends, to become due
to it from saic county, any incorporated city, town, or incorporatedcom pa-
ny may subscribe to the stock of said company and appoint an agent to
represent its interests and give its vote therein and to receive the divi-

ooapoaarxoszs. ' 877

«leads when due and may take proper steps to guard and protect the in-

terests of such city, town or corporation.
14. At every annual election the directors shall make to the stock-

ho ders an exhibit of the affairs and condition of the company; one sixth
part in interest of the stockholders may call a meeting by giving three
weeks notice of the call, in two or more newspapers in this State.
§ 15. When said road shall be completed, the company shall file a plat
thereof in the office of the secretary of State and the Legislature may
at any time, require a statement from the company as to the progress of
the work, the amount of business and the receipts of the company and
the books and accounts of said company may at any time be investiga-
ted by a committee appointed by the General Assembly.
§ 16. Said company shall keep a fair record of the whole expense of
constructing said road and at the end of lifty years, the State shall be at
liberty to purchase said road, by paying to the said company the amount
at which it shall be valued by persons to be mutually chosen by the
State and by said company, but two years notice shall be given to said
company of the intention of the State to purchase said rail road.
§ 17. Whenever any person shall cease to‘be a stockholder in said
company, he shall cease to be a member thereof. .
§ 18. If any person shall wilfully injure, obstruct or destroy said rail
road or shall break, destroy or deface any work, edifice or other fix-
ture or improvement, belonging to said company, he shall be considered
gpilty of a criminal offence and shall be punished in such manner as shall
prescribed by law and shall also be liable to said company for all
damages by it sustained.
§ 19. The operations of said company shall be confined to the con-
struction, use and management of said rail road and the acts necessary
and proper to carry the same into successful operation. '
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

 

AN ACT to incorporate the Missouri State Mutual Fire and Marine luau-.
‘ rauce Company of St. Louis.

Q 1. Company incorporated for purposes of 13. Certain times for which insurance may ,
insurance. be made, «he.
I. Who deemed members of the company. 14. Time in which losses are to be paid.
I. Time and manner of election of otlicers. 15. Houses alienated or sold under policy;

4. towers and duties of board of directors. revisions in relation to.
5. Building to be erected for said company; 16. A teration in houses or buildings.
when. 17. Buildings on leased lands.
6. Extent of insurance by the company. 18. Double insurance to be with consent of
‘I. Certain objects not deemed insurable. directors.
8. On becoming amember; deposit of vote. 19. Company not to engage in trade, bank-
9. Liabili? of members. ing, &.c. .
I0. Pr£r ings in case of loss or-damage by 20. Assesment yearly; directors may borrow
e. monc .
11. After notice of loss by fire or rendition 21. Membeyrs allowed to examine books, be.
of judgment; proceedin of company.
I2: Where amount of deposi notes unsum- 22. Annual re rt to be made by directors; to
cient; assessment authorized. be furni ed General Assembly.

‘£6

378 CORPORATIONS.

. 23. No policy to issue until insurance made; 28. Penalty for neglect or refusal to pay oil

on fifty thousand dollars; provisions as to assessment.

elections, vacancies,&.c. 29. Lien granted; its continuance.
24. Qualitication of members to vote. 30. Exemption from liabilities of company;
25. Suits by or against company; members where property sold, &c.

competent witnesses. 31. Reserved Phwers of the Legislature over
26. Records of company evidence. this charter.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§1. That John 0’Fallon, Joseph A. Eddy, Trueworthy Hoit, Oliver
Bennet. Daniel D. Page. J. L. Garrison. C. M. Valleau, Reuben Knox and
John Sigerson, and all other persons who may hereafter become members
of said company in the manner herein prescribed, be. aml they are hereby
incorporated and made a body politic fer the term of twenty years from
the passage of this act, by the name of the “Missouri State mutual tire and
marine insurance company of St. Louis,” for the purpose of insuring their
respective dwelling houses, stores, shops and other buildings, household fur-
niture and merchandise, steamboats, hulls, Larges, flatbcats and cargoes,
against loss or damage. whether the same shall happen by accident, lightning
or arty other means, excepting that of design in the assured, or by invasion
of an enemy or insurrection of the citizens of this or any of the United
States; and by that name may sue, and be sued, plead and be impleaded,
appear, prosecute and defend in any court of record or other place whatso-
ever. may have and use a common seal, may purchase and hold such real
and personal estate as may be necessary to effect the object oftheir associa-
tion, and the same may sell and convey at pleasure; p'ovi:led, such real
estate shall not exceed one block ofground in the city of St. Louis, or sixty
acres outside of the city limits; may make, establish and put in execution
such by-laws. ortlin:rnco.< and resolutions, not being contrary to the laws of
this State or of the United States, as may seem necessary or convenient for
their regulation and government, and for the arrangement of tlnir affairs;
and do and execute all such acts and things as may be necessary to carry
into full effect the purposes intended by this act of incorporation. _

§ 2. That all and every person or persons who shall at any time become
interested in said company by insuring therein, and also their respective
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, continuing to be insured therein,
as here.-after provided, slrtll be deemed and taken as members thereof for
and during the time specified in their respective policies, and no longer; and

‘ shall at all times be concluded and bound by the provisions oftl-is act.

§ 3. There shall be a meeting of said company at St. Louis, in St. Louis
county, on the first Monday in April annually, or on such other day as the
said company may hereafter determine, at which first annual meeting shall
be chosen by a majority of the votes of the members present, and by proxy,
:1 board of directors, cons.isting of not more than fifteen, nor less than nine
members, who shall continue in office until others have been chosen and
accepted the trust in their stead. In all vacancies happening in said board,
whether by removing from the State, dying or refusing or neglecting to act
for and during the space of three months successively, then and in every
such case, another director shall be chosen in the olare of each director so
removing. dying. refusing or neglecting to act as aforesaid, by a majority of
the directors present at any monthly meeting, which directors, so chosen,
shall remain in otlice until the next general election of directors‘; and a ma-
jority of the whole board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of

CORPORATIONS. 379

business. At their first regular meeting the board of ' directors shall class
themselves by lots into three classes of an equal number each, the term of
whose services shall respectively expire, as follows: The first [class] in one
year, the second class in two years, and the third class in three years.
Special meetings ofthe company mrty be called by order of the directors, or
whenever the owners of one part of the property insured in said company
shall apply to the directors, setting forth in writing the ptirposes for which
said meeting is called.
§ 4. The board of directors shall supcrintend the concerns ofsaid company,
and shall have the management of the funds and property thereof, and of all
matters and things thereto relating, not otherwise prnviced for by said
company; they shall have power from time to time to appoint a secretary,
treasurer and such other officers, agents and assistants as to them may seem
necessary, and prescribe their duties, fix their compensation, and to take
such security from them as they may deem necessary for the faithful per-
formance of their respective duties; they shall determine the rate of insu-
rance, the sum to be insured on any building not to exceed two-thirds of its
value, nor one-half of the value of personal property. and the sum to be
deposited for the insurance thereof; they shall order and direct the making
and issuing of all policies of insurance. the presiding of books, stationary
and other thirgs needlul for the ottiee of said company, and for carrying on
the affairs of said company, and may draw upon the treasurer for the pay-
ment of all losses which may h'|\"3 happened and for expenses incurred in
transacting the concerns ofsaid company; they shall elect one of their own
number to act as president, and may hold their meetings monthly and oftener
if necessary, for transacting the business of said company, and shall keep a
record of their proceeding-‘; and any director disagreeing with a majority
of the board at any meeting, may enter his dissent, with his reasons therefor,
on record.
§ 5. It shall be the duty of the directors of said company whenever the
premium notes thereof shall amount to the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, to built [build] or cause to he built, or procure for the use of said
company, a fire-proof lmilding suitable for the transaction of business, and
for the preservation of the funds and other property belonging to said com-
pany lrom destruction by reason or means of tire, and for the purpose of
providing said building the directors may assign any sum not exceeding five
per centnm of the amount of the premium notes aforesaid in any one year;
and it shall be the duty of the directors to keep said building in proper
repair, and to renew the same in whole or in part, as they may think neces-
sary or expedient.
§ 6. The directors may extend the insurance of said company to every
part of the State, on all the real or personal property within the same, with
the exceptions and provisions hereinafter enacted, not exceeding the sum of
ten thousand dollars in any one risk, at such rate or rates as said directors
may,in view of the equity of the case, and the interests of the company,
determine. Insurance shall be made in all cases upon the representation of
the assured, contained in his application therefor, and signed by him or his
attorney, which representation shall in fairness and good faith state all the
material circumstances within his knowledge which may effect the risk;
provided, that in case of any loss or damage by fire the valuation of the
property, at the time of such loss or damage, shall be determined by the
award of impartial men as hereinafter provided.

380 CORPORATIONS.

§ 7. Books of account, written security or evidence of debt, title deeds,
manuscripts or writings of any description, money or bullion, shall not be
degned nor taken to be objects of insurance in said company; curiosities,
jewels, medals, musical instruments, plate, paintings, sculpture, statuary,
watches, gold or silver were of any kind, shall not be deemed to be included
in any policy of insurance, unless those articles, or any of them, form part of
the usual and regular stock in trade of the assured, or are particularly speci-
fied in the policy; brewers, chemical establishments, bleaching houses or
mills. or the contents of either of them, alcohol, aquafortis, gunpowder,
spiritous liquors, tar, turpentine, varnish. or any other trades, wares or mer-
chandise which may hereafter be excluded by said company, at an annual
meeting, shall never be deemed insurable by the directors of said company,
nor any policy issued thereon.

§ 8. Every person who shall become a member of said company by eH"ect-
ing insurance therein, shall before he receives his policy, deposite his promis-
sory note for such sum or sums of money as shall be determined by the
directors; a part. not exceeding ten per centum, of ‘which note shall be
immediately paid for the purpose of discharging the incidental expenses of
the institution, and the remainder ofsaid deposite note shall be made payable
in part or the whole at any time when the directors shall deem the same
requisite for the payment of losses or other expenses; and at the expiration
of the term of insurance the said note, or such part of the same as shall
remain unpaid after deducting all losses and expenses accruing during said
time, shall be relinquished and given up to the signer thereof.

5 9. Every member of said company shall be, and hereby is bound to pay
his proportion of all losses and expenses happening or at-cruing in and to
said company, and all buildings insured by and with said company, together
with the right, title and interest of the assured to the lands on which they
stand, shall be pledged to said company, and the said company shall have a
liep thereon against the assured during the continuance of his, her or their

0 l(‘le9. ‘
P § 10. In case of any loss or damage by lire happening to any member
of said company, ttpon property insured in and with said company, the
said member shall give notice thereof in writing to the directors, or some
one of them, or to the secretary of said company, within thirty day!
from the time such loss or damage may have happened; and the direc-
tors, upon a view of the same, or in such other way as they may deem
proper, shall ascertain and determine the amount of loss or damage}
and if the party suffering is not satisfied with the determination of the
directors, the question m'ay be submitted to referees, or the said party
may bring an action against said company for the said loss or damage at
the next court to be holden in and for the county of St. Louis and State
of Missouri, and not afterwards, unless said court shall be holden within
sixty days after said determination; but if holden within that time, then
‘at the next court holden in said county thereafter; and if, upon trial.0f
said action, a greater sum shall be recovered than the amount determin-
ed by the directors, the patty suffering shall have the judgment thereof
against said company, with interest thereon from the time said loss or
‘damage happened, and costs of suit; but if no more shall be recovered
than the amount aforesaid, the said party shall become non-suit, and th0
said company shall recover their costs. Provided, however, that the

coaronarrons. 881

judgment last mentioned shall in no wise afect the claim of said safer-
ing party to the amount of loss or damage as determined by the direc-
tors aforesaid; and provided, also, that execution shall not issue on any
jgdgment against said company until three months after the rendition
t ereof.
§ 11. The directors, after receiving notice of any loss or damage by
Ere sustained by any member, and ascertaining the same, or after the
rendition of any judgment as aforesaid against said company for loss or
damage, shall settle and determine the sum to be paid by the several
members thereof as their respective roportion of said loss, and publish
the same in such manner as they shalfsee fit or as the by-laws may have
prescribed; and the sum to be paid by each member shall always be in
proportion to the original amount of his premium note or notes, and shall
e paid to the treasurer within thirty days next after the publication of
said notice; and if any member shall, for the space of thirty days after
such notice, neglect or refuse to pay the sum assessed upon him, her or
them, as his, her or their proportion of any sum as aforesaid, in such
case, the directors may sue and recover the whole amount of his, her or
their deposite note or notes, with costs of suit; and the money thus col-
lected shall remain in the treasury of said company. subject to the pay-
ment of such losses and expenses as have or may thereafter accrue, and
the balance, if any remain, shall be returned to the party from whom it
was collected, on demand, after thirty days from the term for which in-
Iurancer was efected. h h 1 d
12. And if it shall ever so a pen that the w o e amount of e os-
ite§notes shall not be suflicient toppa the loss occasioned by anypone
hrs, in such case the suferers insure by said company shall receive,
towards making up their respective losses, a proportionate dividend of
the whole amount of said note, according to the sums by them respec-
tively insured, and, in addition thereto, a sum, to be assessed on all the
members of said company, not exceeding forty cents on every hundred
dollars by them respectively insured; and the said member shall never
be required to pay for any loss occasioned by fire more than fifty cents
on each one hundred dollars insured in said company, in addition to the
amount of his deposite note, nor more than that amount for any such
loss after his said note shall have been aid in and expended; but any
member, upon payment of the whole of his deposite note and surrender-
ipgdhis policy before any subsequent loss or expense has occurred, may
e ischarged from said com any.
§ 13. Said company may ‘make insurance for any term not less than
one month nor more than ten years; and for the convenience of shippers,
may issue open policies, as is usual in other insurance companies; and
any policy of insurance issued by said company signed by the president
and countersigned by the secretary, shall be deemed valid and binding
on said company in all cases wherein the assured has title in fee simple,
unincumbered, to the building or buildings insured, and to the land cov-
ered by the same; but if the assured have a lease estate thereon, or if
the premises be encumbered, the policy shall be void, unless the title of
the assured and the encumbrances be expressed thereon. '
§.l4. The directors shall settle and pay all losses within three months

382 conromvrions.

after they shall have been notified as aforesaid, unless they shall judge
it proper, within that time, to rebuilt (rebuild) the house or houses des-
troyed or repair the damages sustained, which they are empowered to
do in convenient time; provided they do not lay out and expend, in such
buildings or repairs, more than the sum insured on the premises; but
no allowance is to be made, in,estim‘ating damages in any case, for gild-
ing, historical or landscape paintings, stucco or carved work, nor are
the same to be replaced, if destroyed by fire. ~

§ 15. When any house or other building shall be alienated, by sale 01‘
otherwise, the policy thereon shall be void, and be surrendered to the
directors of said company to be cancelled; and upon such surrendefa the
assured shall be entitled to receive his, her or their deposite note, upon
the payment of his, her or their proportion of the losses and expense!
that hav’e accrued prior to such surrender. Pr0t'z'dcc/, }w’lL'€’L'€7‘, that
the grantee or alienee, having the policy assigned to him, may h8}'€ W9
lame zatitied and confirmed to him, her or them, for his, her or their pre-
per use and benefit, upon application to the directors, and with.tl.e1r
consent, within thirty days next after such alie nation, or giving p_r0P€1'
security to the satisfaction of the said directors for such proportion of
the deposite or premium note as shall remain unpaid; and by such rati-
fication or confirmation, the party causing the same shall be entitled. to
all the rights and privileges, and subject to all the liabilities, to which
the original insured was entitled or subjected under tl is act.

§ 16. If any alteration shall be made in any house or building by tl]°
proprietors thereof, after insurance has been made thereon with said
company, whereby it may be exposed to greater rislr or hazard from fire
than it was at the time it was insured, then, and in every such case, the
insurance made upon such house or building shall be void, unless an _ad‘
ditional premium and deposite, after such alteration or repairs in build-
ings, not increasing such risk or hazard, shall, in any wise, affect tl10
insurance previously made thereon.

§ 17. In case any building or buildings, situated on leased lands, and
insured by said company, be destroyed by fire, and the owner or owner-9
thereof shall prefer to receive the amount of said loss in money, in such
case the directors may retain the amount of the premium note given for
the insurance thereof until the time for which insurance was made Shall
have expired; at the expiration thereof, ‘the assured shall have a right
to demand and receive such part of such returned sum or sums as has
not been expended in losses and assessments. _

§ 18. If insurance on any house or building shall be and subsist In
said company, and in any other office or from and by any other person
or persons at the same time, the insurance made in and by said comp3_“Y
shall be deemed and become void, unless such double insurance subsist
by and with the consent of the directors, signified by endorsement on the
back of the policy, signed by the president and secretary.

§ 19. The company hereby created shall not be concerned in traue 01'
other business, except the insurance of property against loss or dainag_8
by fire or otherwise, as specified, nor shall said company, by any p0§51"
ble construction of the power granted in this act, exercise any banl£1DS
privileges whatever, but this act shall be deemed and taken to be a p}1b‘

conroaarrons. 383

lie act, and ‘shall be liberally construed to effect the ends and purposes
hereby intended and contemplated.

3 § 20. The directors of said company shall not make more than one
assessment for losses in any one year; and in order that such assessment
may be made payable at the annual meeting of the company, the direc-
tors are authorized, in case of any loss or damage by fire, to borrow
such sum or sums of money as may be required to pay such loss or dam-
age, and in making the annual assessment, the interest accruing on mo-I
ney borrowed, and also all necessary incidental expenses, shall be in-
cluded in such assessment.

' § 21. Each and every member of said company shall be entitled to,
and allowed an examination of the books, papers, and general ' transac-
tion of said company, upon application therefor to the secretary.

..  22. It shall be the duty of the directors to make an annual report
of the condition, progress and affairs of said company, a copy of which
"report shall be furnished to the general assembly.

 23. The individuals named in the first section of this act, shall be

and they are hereby constituted a board of directors for said company,
to serve as such until the first annual election of the directors therein
provided for; they shall have power, if they think fit, to make up their
number to fifteen, as allowed in the third section of this act, from among
the members ofsaid company, and all vacancies which may occur in
said board by death, resignation, removal, or refusal to serve, may be
filled by the remaining members of said board, and a majority of their
number, at any time, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business; they may call the first meeting of the members of said com:
pany at any suitable time and place in the City of St. Louis aforesaid,
by advertising in at least two of the newspapers printed in said city,
giving at least ten days notice of the place, time, and design of said
meeting. They may make and establish by-laws for the government of
said company, until the first annual meeting thereof, and may transact
any businessmecessary and proper to carry into effect the provisions and
intentions of this act; provided, however, that no policy shall be issued
by said company, until his excellency the governor -of the State, shall
have made proclamation that application has been made for insurance in
said company on fifty thousand dollars at least, of . which notice shall be
given him by the directors. ' o. '
~ § 24. Every member of this company, having obtained insurance there-'
onto the amountiof five hundred dollars or under, shall be entitled to
one vote in the election of directors, and for each additional five hun-‘
dred dollars,’ one vote. .
§25. That in all suits by or against said company, any member of
said company shall be a competent witness, except in suits in which he
or she shall be directly a party; provided, that such persons shall not be
otherwise disqualified. _ , _
§ 26. The records of said company, or copies thereof duly authenti-
cated by the signature of the president and secretary, shall be compe-
tent evidence in any suit in which said company may be a party.
§27. In case it hall become necessary to resort to the lien on the

- property insured, the treasurer shall demand payment of the insured, or

is legal representatives, and of the tenant in possession; and in case of

384 coaroaarioxs.

non-payment, said company may sustain an action on the deposit note,
and their execution may be levied on the insured premises, and the 0&-
car making the levy may sell the whole, or any part of the estate at
auction, giving notice, and proceeding in the same manner, as is required
in sales under execution, or may proceed in equity, at the option of the
company; and the atiidavit of the person demanding payment of any as-
sessment, naming the day and manner of making uch demand. shall be
sutlicient evidence in all courts of law and equity,‘of such demand hav-
ing been duly _made.

§ 28. That if any person or persons who are or shall become members
of said company, by effecting insurance therein, their heirs, executors,
administrators or assigns, shall neglect or refuse the payment of any as-
sessment or assessments duly ordered by the directors of said company,
for the term of thirty days after the same shall have become payable,
agreeable to public notice by the treasurer, the party so in default shall
be excluded and debarred, and shall loose all benefit and advantage of
his, her or their insurance or insurances respectively, for and during the
term of such default or non-payment, and notwithstanding, shall be lia-
ble and obliged to pay all assessments that shall be made during the con-
tinuance of his, her or their policies of inurance, pursuant to the pro-
visions of this act.

_6 29. That the lien granted in the ninth section of this act, shall con-
tinue in force until all assessments made for losses and expenses shall
be fully aid.

§ 30. hat in all cases, where real or personal property insured 
said company shall become alienated by sale, by c iange in partnershi
or ownership, or otherwise, the policies issued thereon shall be void, ans
shall be surrendered to said company to be cancelled, and said company
shall not be liable for any loss and damage which may happen to any
property after such alienation as aforesaid, unless the policies issued
thereon shall have been duly assigned or confirmed by consent of the di-
rectors, to the actual owner or owners thereof, previous to such loss and
damn e, and no policy issued by said com any shall be deemed to have
been duly assigned or confirmed, unless the consent of the directors to
such assignment or confirmation, is certified on such policy by the secre-
tary of said company.

§ 31. The legislature reserves the power to amend,_ alter or repeal
this charter, for any violation of the same, or whenever it becomes inju-
rious to individual rights; and the said corporation shall always conform
to laws regulating the rates of interest in this State for the time being.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

C€U‘N’l‘lES--SPECIAL A‘c'rs.° F 385

COUNTIES-—SPECIAL ACTS. .»

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to preserve the records of
land titles in the c iunty of New Madrid.”

Be itenacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The recorder of the county of New Madrid, in this‘ State, is here-
by authorized and required, as soon as may be after the passage of this
act, to record in good, secure, and well bound books, the records of all
deeds and other instruments of writing, affecting the titles to any real
or personal estate in this State, and all other matters of record con-
tained in the record books in said oiiice, numbered four and five.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 3rd, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal a law entitled “An act to prevent certain tres-

passes,” so far as the citizens of Clarke county are included in

said act.

Be it enacted by the Gcneral.dssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of the above entitled act, approved February the
16th, 1847, as applies to any citizen of Clarke county, be and the same
is hereby repealed. .
§ 2. This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

‘\/xrx/x/\,~. /\/‘

AN ACT to provide foriilling vacancies in Caldwell county, Newton
and McDonald counties.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri,‘ asfoltows:

§ 1. That hereafter when a vacancy occurs in the oilice of constable,
justice of the peace, coronor, sheril.’t', clerk of the county court, clerk of
the circuit court, and justice of the county court, in the counties of
Caldwell, Newton, and McDonald, such vacancy shall be filled by spe-
cial election; providing such vacancy occurs six months or more before
the expiration of the term for which such oiiicer was elected.

§ 2. In case of a vacancy in any of the above oiiices, the county court
shall order an election, which shall be conducted in all respects as other
elections.

§ 3. In case there should be two vacancies at the same time in the
omce of justice of the county court, the county clerk shall inform the
governor of that fact, who is directed to issue his writ of election to [ill
said vacancies; that all oflices filled by virtue of this act, shall be for the
end of the term only for which the previous incumbent was elected.

This act to take elfect from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

9*.’ \/‘-.4‘ ¢- J ;.,- ;._,\/-\/-\/\/\/$

27

386 COUNTIES-SPIICIAL ACTS.

AN ACT to pay judges and clerks of election in the county cf Lincoln.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Any person serving as a judge or clerk of any election in the
county of Lincoln, after the passage of this act, shall be entitled to re-
ceive the sum of one dollar per day for his services, to be audited and
allowed by the county court, and paid out of the county treasury.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

~‘g\/-Va’-.g*\_4'\/‘.2. got. 1“. 2s r“

AN ACT concerning circusses and other public exhibitions.

Be it enacted by the General .€ssembly of the Sta’e .ofMz'.s‘sourz', as follows:

§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Holt, Buchanan, Callaway,
Boone, Howard, Scott, Mississippi, Cape Girardeau, St. Genevieve,
Warren, Barry, Platte, Cooper, Pettis, Cole, Saline, Henry, Lewis,
Rails, Atchison, Chariton, Marion, Madison, Reynolds, Ray, Lafayette,
Andrew, Clinton, Gentry, De Kalb, Pike, Franklin, and Montgomery,
are hereby authorized, from time to time, to impose by an order or orders
entered upon their records such tax as they may deem proper and rea-
sonable, upon all public shows and circusses in said counties.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the clerks of said courts to make out and
deliver a copy of said order to the constable of each township in said
counties, where such shows and circusses are usually held and exhibited,
and the said copy duly certified shall have the force and eE'ect of an ex-
ecution against the property so exhibited, or the persons so exhibiting,
and the constables s all be liable on their oiiicial bond for any default or
ne lect in collecting the same.

g 3. The money so collected shall be paid into the county treasury,
and shall go to and form a part of the common school fund of the coun-
ty; the treasurer of the county to whom it is paid shall give the consta-
ble who pays it duplicate receipts, one of which shall be deposited with
the clerk of the county court, and shall discharge the constable; and the
same shall be charged to the treasurer as other county school fund.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

\r\r\t\ '\f\'\f\/\f'\"\.’\f'\'\I\"\/\f‘.f\'\ ‘N fr‘ ". e‘\,—°\ "\/\_/\

AN ACT concerning the recorder of Lewis county.

Be it enacfea’ by the General dssembly of the State of .Missom*2', (zsfol/owm

§ 1. The county court" of Lewis county shall cause the recorder of
said county to make out a direct and inverted index to the record of
deeds in his oflice, in a large well bound book or books; stating in the
direct index an abreviated list of the property conveyed; for which the
recorder shall be allowed the additional sum of five cents each deed.

§ 2. The county court shall cause the diH'erent town plats of Lewis

COUNTIES-—SPECIAL' acrs. 387

county to be recorded in a well bound book, procured for that purpose,
and allow the recorder a reasonable fee therefor.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AH ACT respecting the county of Camden.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Camden coun is hereby authorized to levy
a special tax, not to exceed the revenue co lected for State and county
purposes, to pay the debts incurred in building the court house of said
county.

§ 2. An act entitled an act respectin the count of Camdem, appro-
ved February l6th, A. D. 1847, is here y repealed. -

This act to tiilée effect from and after its passage.

Approved arch 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT forllevying and collecting a road tax in the county of Ste. Gene-
vieve, and for other purposes.

§ 1. Taxlevied, assessed and collected. 7. Overseer, duty of; certificate of labor

2. Tax to be paid treasurer and certificate given.

received. 8. Oath to be taken.
3. Overseers to be elected, and superintendent 9. Fees; how aid.

also; term of otEce, &c. 10. Superinten eat and overseer tined.

1. Overseers, duty of; superintendent, duty ll. County court; power and duty.
of. 12. Collector; duty of.

5. Persons to be employed; if persons fail 13. Fees to clerk.
to attend, penalty. 14. Overseer only required to do work.

6. Persons may pay road tax by labor.
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qfthe State of Missouri, asfollows:

{} I. That hereafter there shall be a tax of live cents levied on each hun-
dred dollars worth of property, real and personal, in the county of Ste.
Genevieve, and a capitation tax of one dollar on each able bodied free white
male person over the age of eighteen years, for the purpose of creating a
fund to be applied in opening and keeping in repair the public roads in said
county, which tax shall be assessed and collected as the revenue of the State
is assessed and collected; and the collector shall be allowed the same con -
pensation as for‘ collecting the revenue, as is hereinafter directed.

§ 2. That when said tax is collected it shall be paid by the collector to
the treasurer of the county, on or before the first day of January in each
year, ali'(l"tl1'e treasurer shall give such collector a receipt for the amount of
money he may thus pay, and a receipt for the amount of all certificates of
labor such _collector may have received, as hereinafter provided.

'~ §3. That‘ the qualified electors of each township in said county of Ste.
Genevie"ve, at the usual places of holding elections in such township, shall’
on the first Monday in August in each year proceed to elect an overseer for
each road division in such township, and also a superintendent for said
county, who shall hold their oflices for one year, and until their successors

. are duly qualified; which elections, in all respects as far as applicable, shall

38$ OOUNTIEB7.--SPECIAL ac-rs,

be governed by the provisions of an act approved March ‘28, 1845, entitled
“An act to regulate elections,” and all contested elections arising under this
act shall be finally determined by the county court of said county.

§ 4. That it shall be the duty of the respective overseers to keep the road
division in good repair. It shall be the duty of the superintendent to direct
each overseer what work he shall do, and what improvements he is required
to make on his road division, and by what time he is to do such work, which
direction shall be given in writing; a copy of which the suQrintendentshall
file in the clerk’s otlice of the circuit court within twenty days after he gives
such instructions; and the superintendent in giving his instructions as aforesaid-
shall take into consideration the importance of the road to be improved,
and the ability of the county to make such improvements and repairs, so
that the most important roads of the county may have, as near as may he,
improvements and repairs made upon them at the expense of the county,
over and above other roads, which their utility and importance justly re-
quires; and it shall be the duty of the superintendent to give each road over-
seer reasonable time to do any work or make any repairs or improvements
[which] he is required to make.

§ 5. That each overseer shall have power to employ hands at the expense
of the county to make any improvements or repairs on the road in his
division, if the persons in his road division do not attend and assist him in
making such improvements and repairs after giving them three days notice
of the time and place he desires them to attend and work.

§ 6. That any person charged with a road tax may either personally or
by agent discharge the same by labor to be performed in the proper division
by any able bodied man, at the rate of one dollar per day for each hand,
and two dollars for each plough and team any band may furnish at the
request of such overseer.

§7. That whenever the superintendent shall require any overseer in
writing as aforesaid to make any improvements or repairs on any road divi-
sion as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the overseer of such road division to
give all the able bodied male persons in his road division, liable to work on
roads, three days notice at least of the time and place of working such road,
which notice shall be given in the manner now required by law; and it shall
be the duty of the overseer to give any person chargeable with a road tax,
for whose benefit labor may be performed, a certificate of the amount of
labor thus performed, and the amount of tax thus discharged, and the road
division on which such labor was performed; and the collector shall receive
such certificate, as far as the amount thereof goes, in payment of such road
tax; and the county court is hereby empowered to correct any error or
mistake in regard to the certificates of labor any road overseer may give
under the provision of this act.

§ 8. That the different road ovetseers and superintendents shall take an
oath before some person competent to administer an oath that he will faith-
fully and impartially discharge the duties of his office to the best of his
judgment and ability.

§9. That each overseer elected or appointed under this act, and the.-

superintendent of roads, shall receive two dollars for each day he may 118
necessarily engaged in discharging the duties required by this act, to b0
audited by the county court and paid out of the fund created by this act.

§ 10. That every superintendent and overseer who shall fail to discharge
the duties rtquired by this act shall be liable to be fined in any sum not

cou1d'rn:s—srncrAL acre. 389

less than twenty, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be recovered by
indictment in the circuit court.

Q 11. That the county court of Ste. Genevieve county shall have the
power, and it is hereby made their duty, to fill any vacancies that may
occur in the oliice of superintendent or road overseer in said’ county at the‘
first term of theincourt after they are informed of such vacancy.

§ 12. That the collector shall not coerce the payment of any road tax
until after the fifteenth day of October in each year. ‘

§l3. That the clerk of the county court shall be allowed a reasonable
compensation for the services he may perform under this act.

§ I4. That nothing contained in this act shall prevent any road overseer
from doing any more work or making any greater improvement on his road
division than is required by the superintendent of roads; provided, the same
18 done by those who are chargeable with a road tax in such division, or in
such other manner as not to be a charge on the road fund created by this
act.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

  

AN ACT concerning Trespasses.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly qfthe State cy‘ Missouri, asfollous:

§ 1. That so much of an act entitled “An act to prevent certain trespas-
ses,” approved February the 16th, 1847, as applies to Scotland county, be,
and the same is hereby repealed.
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

 

rvv\/\

AN ACT concerning Platte county.

5 1. County treasurer; duty of. 4. Certain odicers not permitted to deal in
2. Warrants paid. county warrants.

3. Treasurer; duties of. 5. Oihcer u lecting his duty, penalty of.
6. Act re ed.

Be itenacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

S 1. That the county treasurer of Platte county be, and he is hereby
authorized and required to keep a book in which he shall record the date,
amount and number of the several county warrants presented for payment,
and the name of the person in whose favor any such amount is drawn, and
also the date of such presentment. _

5 2. It shall be the duty of said treasurer to pay off said warrants out of
the fund mentioned in the same, in the order in which they shall be presented
for payment, and not otherwise.

§ 3. Said treasurer shall upon the receipt of money belonging to any par-
ticular fund so drawn upon, set the same apart for the payment of a warrant
or warrants previously presented against said fund; and said treasurer shall
record the date at which he shall set apart the money for the payment of
said warrant or warrants presented as aforesaid, and no interest shall be
allowed upon any warrant from the time money shall be set apart for the
payment thereof. -

390 coutrrrtas.—st=J:cutr. Acre.

§4. That no treasurer, collector, sheriff or other public officer of said
county shall be permitted. directly or indirectly, to deal in said county war-
rants; nor shall the sheriff or collector of the revenue in said county be per-
mitted to receive any county warrant in payment ol taxes, fines, penalties
or forfeitures accruing to said county, except from the person in whose favor
the same shall be drawn. . .

§ 5. If any county oliicer aforesaid shall violate the provisions of this act,
or fail or neglect to perform the duties herein‘ required, he shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor in otlice; and upon conviction before any -court
having competent jurisdiction shall be removed from oliice, and he and his
securities shall be liable in damages to the person or persons injured.

§ 6. So much of the act entitled “An act to establish and regulate county
treasurers,” approved March 27, 1845, as conflicts with the provisions of
this act is hereby repealed, so far as Platte county is concerned; provided,
that nothing contained in this act shall be construed to prevent any county
ollicer from selling any county warrant he may have had drawn in his favor
for oliicial services.

This act shall take etfect from and after the fourth of July, Anno Domini
eighteen hundred and forty-nine.

Approved March 12, i849.

 

\

AN ACT toprovide for leveeing the Mississippi river, in the counties of
Scott, Mississippi and N ew-Madrid.

§ 1. A tax levied. made, how damages shall be paid.
2. Duties of the collector of taxes in cotlect- 8. County courts chal exercise superintend-
ing this tax; he shall pay the same over ing control over the commissioners, have

before Jan. 1st, in each year; penalties power to fill vacancies, shall allow com-
for failing to discharge the dutiesimposed. tnissioners compensation, commissioners

3. H ow this tax shall he applied. required to take an oath.

4. County courts required to appoint cotnmis- 9. County court may cause any levee tobe
sioncrs to superintend construction of le- repaired when needful in their respective
vee, in what manner the same shall bei counties
made. 3 10. Two or more counties may unite their funds

5. Provides for failure of contractors to corn-3 to have such levees made.
plcte their work, 11. Penalty for breaking or injuring the work.

6. The manner of paying contractors. 12. The tax payers may petition the county

7. County court shall assess damages to per- court to suspend this act.
sons on whose lands said levee may be‘

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly of the State of Ilfissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That in addition to the taxes now imposed, or that may hereafter
he imposed, for county and State purposes, there shall be levied and col-

 

lected in each of the counties of New Madrid,Mississippi and Scott. a tax _

of ten cents on each hundred dollars worth of property liable to taxation, in
said counties, under an act approved March 27, 1845, entitled “an act to
provide for levying. assessing and collectigg the revenue,” for the pur-
pose of making a levee on the bank of the ississippi river, in each of said
counties.

§ 2. That the collector of taxes in each of said counties, shall collect
the tax imposed by this act, at the same time, and in the same manner, that
he collects the revenue of the State, and he shall pay the tax thus collect-
ed, intothe treasury of the county of which he is collector, on or before the
first day of January, in each year, and if such collector fails to discharge

ooumtiits-—sritcisL sore. 391

theduties herein imposed, it rhall be considered a breach of his oliicial bond,
and suit may be instituted and prosecuted on such bond in the circuit court,
to the use of the county of which he is collector, and like damages may be
recovered, in any such suit, as may be recovered of any collector, for fail-
ing to collect and pay any part of the revenue of the State.
§ 3. That the money already received, or which may hereafter be re-
ceived, by either of said counties, by virtue of an act approved March 27th
I8-J5, entitled "an act for the distribution of the proceeds of the 500,000
acres of land donated to this State by the Congress of the United States:
Provided, the same be not alretady appropriated. shall, with the money aris-
ing from the taxes imposed by this act, be applied to making such levee in
each of said counties as is hereafter directed, any law to the contrary not-
withstanding.
§ 4. That the county courts of New‘ Madrid, Mississippi and Scott coun-
ties. are each required to‘ appoint acommissioner to superintend the con-
struction of the levee to be made in the county in which its is appointed.
it shall be the duty of the commissioner that may be appointed in No
Madrid county, tolinvc a levee made wherever it may be needed, from a
point where the Missouri and Arkansas line intersects the Mississippi river
to the mouth of James’ Bayou, and it shall be the duty of the commissioner
who may be appointed in Mississippi county, to have a levee made from the
mouth of James’ Bay on to the divide line between Scott and Mississippi
counties, audit shall be the duty of the commissioner who may be appoint-
ed in Scott county. to have alevee made from the line dividing said counties
to the highlands in Scott county, said commissioners shall each have the
levee under his control made at such suitable distance from the margin ofthe
Mississippi river, as such commissioner may think best calculated ‘o ac-
complish the object of this act; which levee shall be composed of earth
and sand, of suflicieut height and strength to prevent the waters flowing
from the Mississippi river. during the freshets. from running over, or break-
ing through such levee, and such cominissionets shall have power to make
any contracts to have the levee, or any part thereof undcr bis control, made.
All such contracts shall be reduced to writing, and signed by such commis-
sioner, and the parties contracting with him. In all such contracts it shail
be distinctly stated how much of said levee the undertaker of the work
agrees to make. the place at which said levee is to be made. the time in
which such work is to be performed, and the height and breadth such levee
is to he made, with such other description and requirements as said commis-
sioner may think proper to make together with the amount such commis-
sioner agrces to give for doing such work; which writing shall be filed by
the commis.-inner, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the coun-
ty in which he acts as C0mmiSSl0l'l(’l', and such writing shall he kept and
carefully preserved by the clerk- of said court, and may be sued upon for
any bre: oi oi its conditions, in the name ofsuch commissioner, to the use of
such county; but in nosucli suit shall such c-vmmissiuner be bound for costs;
but in allcascs in which the defendant shall he adjudged to recover costs,
the same shall be paid out of the fund created hy this act.
§ 5. That if any person fails to complete any work ' it said levee, in
the manner, and by the time, he agreed to complete the same, it shall he the
duty, of the commissioner, having the superintendence of such work, to
have such work completed by some other person, and it shall le discretiona-
ry with such commissioner, whether such person, so failing, shall have any

392 coustrrrrs-—-srr.'cmL ACTS-.

compensation for any such work he has done, under any contract not com-
plied With.

§ 6. That when any undertaker of any part of said levee has complied
on his part, any contract,or any person is allowed any amount for unfinish-
ed work, itshall be the duty of such commissioners, to give such person a
writtenorder on the treasurer ofthe county in which he actg, for the amount
which_is due such person; which amount shall be paid to such person, by
the treasurer, out of any unit ppropriated money of the fund created by this act.

§- 7. Thatif any person object to any part of said leyee being made
-through his or her land, such person shall notify the commissioners of that
fact in writing, and after such commissioner is thus notified, he shall make
the same known to the county court of the county in which he acts, whose
duty it shall then be to have the damages of such owner of lands assessedin
the same manner that damages are authorized to be_assessed by the sixteenth,
seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth sections of an act, approved March
26th 1845, entitled “an act for opening and repairing public roads and high-
ways,” and all damages thus assessed, shall be paid out of the fund. created
by this act, by the treasurer of the county in which such work is proposed
to be made. The amount of any such assessment shall be placed in the

_hands of the commissioner, by the treasurer,and shall be paid by him to the

owner of such land. or tendered to him, her, or them and when such pay-
ment or tender is made, said commissioner, and all persons working by his
authority, shall have a right to enter upon such land, and construct such
levee as such commissioner may direct.

§ 3. That the county court of each of said counties, shall exercise a
superintendingcontrolover the C0l'|‘lfnl.~SlOYl€l'S, who may be appointed by
them in pursuance of this act, and shall have power to remove any
commissioner, and shall have power to till all vacancies that may occur
in such ofiice, and may from to time. allow the commissioners appointed
by them a reasonable compensation for any services he may perform an-
der the provisions of this act, to be paid out of the fund created by this
act. Before any commissioner shall proceed to discharge his duty, he
shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty to such commissioner,
to his best knowledge and ability.

§ 9. That said county courts shall have power to have any levee re-
paired in their respective counties; when necessary, and to have the same
paid for in such manner as they may direct.

§ 10. That if, at any time, two or more of said counties shall desire
to unite their funds, created by this act, for making or repairing the
levee authorized by this act, they shall have power to do so, and they
shall have power to apply such funds, and have such levee made in
such manner as they may direct.

§ 11. That ifany person or persons, shall wilfully and mischievously
break. or injure such levee, every such person, their aiders and abettors,
shall be liable to be fined, in any sum not exceeding one thousand dol-
lars, and be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding six months.

§ 12. That if amajority of the taxable inhabitants of either of said
counties shall, in writing, request the county court of their county to sus-.
pend the collection of the tax imposed by this act, it shall be the duty ol
such court to suspend the collection of such tax in such county.

This act shall take effect. and be in force from and after its passage.
Approvtd Marci) 9., l849.

cetmrms.-—srnc1An ACTS. 393

AN ACT to prevent certain trespasses in the county of Saline.

§ 1. Misdemeanor and indictment. 4. Counties of Scott, Charlton ahd Osage; act
2. Fine and imprisonment. § to apply to.

' 3. Term of imprisonment.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That any person who shall. wilfully and unlawfully, within the
county of Saline, cut down, destroy or carry away any timber or trees
whatsoever, being on any land not his own, and not the property of the
United States, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
subject to an indictment for the same.
§ 2. That any person convicted of any odlenee under this act, shall be
«lined in a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, or im risoned in the
county jail not exceeding ten days or shall be punished) by both such
due and im risonment, in the discretion of the jury.
§ 3. In cases of conviction under this act, the person convicted shall
be sentenced to imprisonment until the line and costs are paid, but the
county court may commute the line for imprisonment not exceding ten
days, and the rson convicted may be discharged from the costs under the
act for the re 'ef of insolvent debtors.
0§ 4. This act shall also apply to the counties of Scott, Chariton and
sage. r
This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. '

     

AN ACT authorizing the sale of certain lands in Ste. Genevieve county.

§ 1. On petition by parties- duty of court. 9. If share not called for in nine months;pro-
2. Notice to be pu lished four weeks, ac. ceedings.
3. Two commissioners to be appointed; their 15. Commissioners to make report; when.
duties. 11. It‘ report of commissioners not approved;
4. Scri to be included. duty of court.
5. Lan and scrips to be sold, are. 12. Compensation of commissioners.
6. Terms of sale, 13. Petition to contain the name of all the par-
7. of commissioners. ties, are.
8. Nett proceeds to be divided.

Wnnasas, A concession was made by the Spanish government of Upper
Louisiana, on the first of September, 1793, to thirteen inhabitants
of the town of Ste. Genevieve, for an indefinite quantity of land,
and which rant has since been confirmed by the United States, be-
ing claim o. 282 recommended for confirmation by the late board
of commissioners, and which claim has since been ascertained by a
survey (No. 3290 by the United States authorities to contain 2093
42-100 acres, an whereas, the persons to whom this land was
originally conceded, are now all dead, and have left numerous
descendants, and whereas, it would be ditiicult and expensive to
proceed to a partition of said land under the present law regarding
partition. Therefore, »

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That any one or more of the parties interested in the said conces- ‘

sion and lands, may tile a petition to the circuit court of Ste. Genevieve

394 ooUr§rr1r.s.—-srncran acre.

county praying said court for an order of sale of said premises, and for

a distribution of the proceeds amongst all persons interested according
to their respective rights.

§ 2. Notice shall be published for four weeks before the sitting of the
court, in some newspaper printed in the city of St. Louis, that said peti-
tion will be presented, wherein all persons having any interest in the
premises, shall be notified of the object of the petition, and on the pre-
sentation of said petition to the court, and satisfactory proof that the
notice was ublished for four weeks before the sitting of the court, the
court shall hear testimony to enable it to determine who are the parties
interested in said remises and the proportions thereof to which they are
res ectively enti ed, and the court shall ad'udge and determine the
rig ts of the parties interested therein and male an order of sale of the
premises.
§ 3. It shall be the duty of the court to appoint two commissioners to
examine the premises, and who shall be authorized to make any division
of said land into tracts, which will in their judgment promote the sale
of the same.
§4_. Any scrip issued in virtue of the second section of the act of
Congress, approved the 4th of July, 1836, in lieu of lands included in
the original grant or survey, or any part thereof shall be included in the
order of sale by the said court.
§ 5. The land and scri shall be sold at the court house door of Ste.
Genevieve county, in obedience to the order of court, and also in accor-
dance with any division of the land which may be made by the said com-
missioners, after giving twenty days notice of the time and place of sale,
by ten advertisements put up in ten of the most public p aces in the
county of Ste. Genevieve.
§ 6. The terms of sale will be one third cash, one third in three months
and one third in six months, the purchaser or purchasers to get a deed,
on the full payment of the purchase money.
§ 7. The commissioners or the survivor of them, shall make the sale,
and shall also make the deed to the purchaser of any portion of said
land or scrip, which shall convey all the right and title of the original
owners, and of all persons caiming under them, or any of them on full
payment being made. .
_ § 8. After the payment of all the costs and expenses of the proceed-
lng in this behalf, the nett proceeds of the sale shall be divided, and
paid over by said commissioners, or the survivor of them amongst and to
the descendants and representatives, and those claiming under them, of
the thirteen inhabitants to whom the land was originally conceded, and
should any of the representatives or claimants be minors or fame covert,
then a payment to the father, mother, guardian or husband shall be suHi-
cient.
§ 9. Should any person or persons entitled to a portion of the proceeds
of said sales, not call for, or claim the same within nine months from the
day of sale, the amount coming to him, her or them, shall be deposited
in the county treasury by the commissioners or commissioner, which
shall be a full discharge for the amount so deposited.
§ 10. The commissioners or commissioner shall make a full report to
the next following term of the circuit court, and if the court shall be .

courmuns.-spncian acre. 395

satished with the proceedings of the said commissioners or commission-
er, the same shall be approved. a 7

§ 11. Any person interested may appear and show cause why the said
report of the commissioners should not be approved, and if the same be
not approved, the court shall appoint other commissioners who shall pro-
ceed de novo to the division and sale of the said land and scrip, as if no
other commissioners had ever been appointed.

§ 12. The commissioners shall be entitled to two dollars per day each,
for every day they shall be actually enga ed about the said business, and
the shall be, and are hereby authorize to pay out of the proceeds of
sai ‘sale all the expenses attending the transaction of the business afore-
said.

§ 13. The petition shall state the names of all the parties interested,
so far as they are known to the arty applying for the order of sale, and
when not known, such fact shall)be stated, and the said petition shall be
verified by the oath of the ap licant, as to the facts known to him, and
as to his belief in regard to e facts he states, from the information of
others. ' ,

This act to take efect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to prevent trespasses in ‘the county of either Pettis or Clay.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That any person who shall knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully with-
in the county of Pettis or Clay cut down, destroy or carry away, any
timber or trees whatever, being on any land not his own, and not the
property of the United States, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be subject to indictment in said county, provided such timber
or trees shall be of the value of two dollars or upwards. _
§ 2. That any person convicted of any offence under this act, shall be
lined in a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, or _shall be imprisoned
in the county jail not exceedin ten days, or shall be punished by both,
such fine and imprisonment in tie discretion of the jury. ,
§ 3. In all cases of conviction under this act, the person convicted
shall be sentenced to imprisonment until the fine and costs are paid but
the court may commute such fine for im risonment not exceedin ten days,
and the person convicted may be disc arged from the costs under the act
for the relief of insolvent debtors. ‘ ’

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10th, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of the county of Cape Girardeau.

Be itenacted by the General efssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the several orders and proceedings of the county court of
the county of Cape Girardeau, borrowing the sumlof five thousand dol-
lars of the road and canal fund, belonging to the said county of Cape

396 COUNTIES.-SPECIAL acre.

Girardeau, and appropriating the same to the building of a court house
for said county, be and the same are hereby in all things made legal and
valid, and that the county justices for the time being,who made said or-
der, are hereby released from all supposed liability on account thereof,
any law to the ‘contrary notwithstanding. . .

§ 2.. That said county of Cape Girar eau,.havi_ng received the beneht
of said appropriationhby permanent and lelistingd improvement,‘ the same
and the inhabitants t ereof are hereby re ease rom payingt e interest
accrued on said sum so bbri-owed, and all interest hereafter accruing
thereon, any resolution or Jrder of said county ‘court to the contrary not-
"withstanding.

§ 3. That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to release
said county from re-payin said sum to said fund‘ but the county court
of said county of Cape Gigrardeau shall, as soon a,s may be, take the ne-
cessary ste s for refunding said sum to the road and canal fund for said
county, an to that end shall levy a special tax upon the inhabitants of
said county, in such amount to pay said sum in annual instalments as
shall seem to said court proper and expedient.

This act shall take efect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849. '

 

AN ACT appropriating certain funds in the hands of the treasurer of
the county of Cape Girardeau.

_Be it enacted by the General Assembly Qfthe State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the sum of one hundred and fifty three dollars and seventy-
seven cents, collected of the people of Ca e Girardeau county under
the late act levyin a tax on real estate, for the purpose of repairing roads
and highways, ant? remaining unap ropriated in the hands of the treasu-
surer of the county of Cape Girardeau at_ the time of the repeal of said
act, be and the same is hereby added to the county funds of said county
of Cape Girardeau, and shall be appropriated as hereinafter provided-

§ 2. That said funds shall be first applied to the redemption of certifi-
cates of extra labor and furnishing teams and implements, granted under
said act by the road overseers of said county, remaining unpaid in 001}-
sequence of the repeal of said act; and the treasurer of said county I8
hereby required to pay off said certificates out of said fund in the sam0
manner as if said act was still in force.

§ 3. That all persons holding such certificates shall present the same
to the treasurer of said county on or before the first day of August next;
or be forever precluded from having the same paid. _

§ 4. That said sum, or the residue thereof, after the redemption pf
such certificates, shall be appropriated to the improvement of the main
road leading from the town of Jackson to the town of Cape Girardeau,
in said county, in such manner as the county court of said county shall
by order direct, and the said county court is hereby required to make
necessary orders to carry this act into effect, and any warrant or order
required to be drawn by said county court, on the treasurer of said calm‘

ty, appropriating said funds or'the residue thereof as aforesaid, the Said

s
\

GQUNTIE8-.-SPECIAL acrs. 897

§:surar..shall promptly pay as in case of other orders or warrants upon

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the levying and collecting of a tax in the City
of St. Louis for purposes of education.

§ 1. T to be levied for educational purposes. 6. Qualifications of voters. r

2. Co 'ector, powers and duties of. 7. Duties of justices of the peace under this
3. Coll “tor to ive bond, to whom. act, manner of voting sac. .
4. Call or sh I make a tax list, how. 8. Polls to be opened in different wards, &c.

5. Electiokon this act to be held in June 1849.
Be itenacteliby the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Theréxshall be levied and collected annually, upon all real and
personal property within the corporate limits of the City of St. Louis,
made taxable by law for State purposes, a tax not exceeding one-tenth
of one per cent.;‘._which tax, when collected, shall be aid to the presi-
dent.and directors‘xof the St. Louis public schools; an by them be used
and applied in the ‘same manner, and for the same purposes, as other
money belonging to the corporation of the president and directors of the
St. Louis public schools, and in strict accordance with the provisions of
the act or acts of the legislature of the Territory and State of Missouri

in relation to said corporation. .
§ 3. The collector of St. Louis county shall have authority, and it is

- hereby made his duty, to\collect the tax in the first section of this act:

specitied, in the same manner, and under the same restrictions, penalties
and responsibilities, and with the same power, as is provided in the third
article of an act entitled “an-r.act to rovide for levying assessing and
collectin the revenue,” approved arch 27, 1845, and faithfully and
pgnctua 3; to pay over the same to the president and directors of the St.
’ uis pub ic schools. ' ~

§ 3. The collector of St. Louis county shall, before he enters upon
the duties imposed upon him by ‘s act, enter into bond to the president
and directors of the said St. Lotti}; public schools, in such sum as they
may require with good and sutiicient securities to be approved by said
president and directors, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties as such collector of the tax in this act specified.

§ 4. The said collector shall take the assessment made by the assessor
for St. Louis county, within the limits of the City of St. Louis, and
from said assesment is hereby authorized to make a tax list, in pursuance
of, and for the purposes in this act mentioned; and for his compensaglion
for such collection shall receive the same per centum as. is allowed im
bylaw for the collection of the State and county revenue.

§ 6. On the tirstvMonday of June, in the year eighteen hundred and
fo -nine, this act shall be submitted to the qualifiedvotcrs of the City
of 1:. Louis for their approval or rejection- and if a majority of such
qnaliiedsvoters, voting upon -the day aforesaid, shall vote in favor of this
set, the-same shall become and be a valid and binding law, from and

thelpresident and directors of the said St. Louis

398 COUNTIES-—SPECIAL ACTS.

after said day; but if a majority of such qualified voters, voting on the
day aforesaid, shall not approve of this act, the same shall be null and
void. ,

§ 6. No person shall be qualified to vote for or against this act, but

such persons as are twenty-one years of age, and resid_ents of the City ,5‘

of St. Louis, and who, at the time of such votin , shall be owners '0
real or personal property, subject to taxation by t e laws of the St#
for county and State purposes.

§ 7. The justices of the peace within the City of St. Louis, or ma-
jority of them, shall have power to appoint two or more persons t open
polls, and superintend the voting upon this act as aforesaid, in. he se-
veral wards of the City of St. Louis, which voting shall be vz}$a voce,
and the said persons so appointed by the justices as aforesaid, shall be
the judges of the qualifications of voters; and shall make return of the
result of ‘said votin to the ‘clerk of the county court of the county of
St. Louis, who shal certify said return under the seal of said court, to
ublid schools, who
sha transmit the same to the Secretary of State, W oslnall file the same
in his ofiice, which shall be evidence of whether this ‘law is in force or
not. 

§ 8. The polls for voting upon this act, shall be opened in the respeca
tive wards of the City of St. Louis, at the places /where the city»elec-
tions are usually held; and it shall be the duty of 'the president and di-
rectors of the St. Louis public schools, to pub sh this act in- all-the
newspapers printed and (published in the City 0 St. Louis, three weeks
successively before the ay of said voting; a, they shall also u! up
printed notices of the said voting, in five prominent places in eac ward
of‘the said city, ten days before the said first Monday in June 1849. -

Approved February 13, 1849. / -

r
/ _ a _ -
I _ u l

  .1?!‘

AN ACT to locate and permanently egstablisli the county seat_in.:the

county of Pntnam. , _ ’
§ Seat of justice permanently established at Win-  Effect of establishing the new seat of ‘us-
chester. tice. '

B e itenacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the seat of justice in and for the county of Putnam, is here-
by located and permanently established at the place known as Winches-
ter, in said county; and that the circuit and county courts inland? for
said county shall hereafter be held at that place. L:-. .-;-..

§ 2. All writs and process made or to be made returnableltorsaid
courts, or either of them, to the place where said courts have heretofore
been held in said county, shall be returned to the court at the county
seat established by this act; and all persons bound in recognizanceto
appear in said courts, or either of them, or who may be so bound after
the taking effect of this act, shall appear in discharge thereof in court
at the seat of justice established by this act, at the time established by
law for holding the court in which such person or persons are boundto.
appear, or such recognizance shall be forfeited; and no suit, recogni-

/

COUNTIES-—8PECIAL acrs. 899

zance, or other matter, shall be .dismissed, discontinued, or fail, by rea-
son of the alteration or change of the place of holding said courts in
said county, nor shall such change affect any suit or other matter de-
pending in said courts, or either of them, but all such matters shall be
determined at said courts at the county seat established by this act.
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 6, 1849. * '

 

AN» ACT respecting the county warrants of Scott county.

§ 1. Clerk to give notice; where, when and for z 3. If warrant is not presented to clerk, pay-
what purpose. ment barred.
2. Duty of clerk on return of warrant. i

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the ‘State  Zllisscuri, as follows:

§ 1. That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the.county court of
Scott county, to give notice in some newspaper published in this State,
for four consecutive weeks, the last publication to be at least four weeks
before the. first day of October next, and also by handbills put up in each
township in said county, at least eight weeks before the time aforesaid,
notifying all persons who have warrants on said county, to return them
to said clerk on or before the first day of October next, for the purpose
of havin the same registered.

§ 2. hen any such warrant shall be returned, it shall be the duty of
the said clerk to register such warrant, and calculate the interest due
on said warrant to the time of registering the same, and to endorse the
amount of such interest on the back of said warrant. ‘

§ 3. If any warrant is not presented to said -clerk by the lirst day of
October next, for the purpose of being re istered as aforesaid, if said
notices be given as aforesaid, the same sha l not be collectable, and the
holder of such warrant shall be forever barred from recovering the

same.
’ This act shall take efect from its passage.

Approved January 6, 1849.

   

»'\-V-\.\-\.'\r\.

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Holt county to levy a tax for
the payment of the debts of the county.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missour 2', as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Holt county may, in their discretion, levy a
tax in addition to what is now allowed by law, to such amount as said
court may deem expedient, for the purpose of the erection and comple-
tion of the public buildings thereof, any law to the contrary notwith-
standing. ’

§ 2. Such additional tax shall be levied, assessed, and collected as
other county revenue; and all such additional tax, when collected, shall
be faithfully applied as in the first section specified. '

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27,1849.

400 coU1~1'r1ns-—s_r,n.c1.A.I.. ACTS.-COURTS.

AN ACT concerning the Historical and ‘Philosophical Society of the
State of Missouri.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars is hereby donated
to the Historical and Philosophical Society of ‘the State of Missouri, for

the purpose of binding its books and documents, and for other necessary -

ex enses of said society.

2. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby required to draw his
warrant on the treasury of the State, in favor of said society, for the
amount so donated, the same to be paid out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated. .

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

 

/\ f\/KIKJ/\

 

AN ACT to refund certain money to the territory attached to Gentry
county.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1'. The revenue levied and collected by the county court of Gentry
county, for county purposes, in the territory lying north of Gentry coun-
ty, and south of the north-east boundary line of the State of Missouri,

' attached to the said county of Gentry for civil and military purposes,

after deducting the expenses of assessing and collecting the same,
and all expenses which may arise from criminal prosecutions, and
other costs which may originate] in the territory] aforesaid, shall be
reserved for the use of the said territory, whenever the same may be or-
ganized into a county.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

 

/V‘./\

COURTS.

AN ACT to establish a probate court in the county of Hickory.

§ 1. Probate court established. 3 red to circuit court for trial.
2. Judge of probate to be elected. 1 13. All business in count court, over which
3. First election to take place, when. 1 probate court may ave Jurisdiction and
4.. Same rules to govern said election as gov~ apers, books, &.c., relative thereto, to
em elections for members of Congress, . he removed into probate court.

v"J‘—‘

&c. 14. Judge to procure books, &.c.-, at expense
5. In case of tie, county court to order a new of county, for entering proceedings of
election. ~ said court in.

6:" Vacancy to be filled by election. .
7. Qualifications of judge; to be commission-
ed by Governor, upon certificate of
clerk.
8. Feeeallowed; to take oath of otiice.
9. Jurisdiction of probate court.
10. To hold four terms annually.
11. Probate judge to be conservator of the
peace; powers defined. )8. Ma procureaseal.
12. Jud prohibited from trying causes in 19. Ju genotprohibited from practicing Iran
W ‘ch he may be interested; to be refer- « attorney.

15. Judge shall have power to solemnize mar-
ri es, grant, hear and determine writs
ofaiabeas corpus, acknowledge deeds,
&c., as county courts now do.

9 16. When judge may be deemed guilty of a

misdemeanor, and how punished.
)7. May grant letters of administration in va-
cation.

./yx/\J‘v‘—¢ v 2 av./\.; -/ v’v'—\ ‘.‘\/N/x/‘J 4‘./c/./V14

COURTS. ’ 401

§ 20. Shall possess such powers as county courtsj 25. Three judges shall constitute a quorum.

now do. ; 26. County court, powers of, defined.
2l. Court to be held at the seat of justice. . 27. All .aws repugnant to this act repealed.

2'2. Justices of peace to constitute county; £8. Every election to fill vacancy of judge-

court. , ship, to be for his unexpired time.
23. Such county court to make certain rules, 29. County court to discharge its functions

and regulations. - . until probate judge is elected.
21. One of the justices composing said courté 30. Clerks of circuit and county courts to be

to be chosen president thereof. eligible to oliice of probate judge.

Be it enacted by the General .r2s.sembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. There is hereby established a‘ court of record, in and for the
county of Hickory in this State, to be styled “The Probate Court?’ the
same shall be composed of one judge, to be styled “The Judge of Pro-
bate.”

§ 2. The judge of probate shall be elected by the qualified voters of
the county, and shall hold his oliice for the term of four years, and until

his successor shall be duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed _

from otlice. _
§ 3. The first election for judge of probate shall take place, under
this act, on the first Monday in August, 1849, and each subsequent elec-
tion on the first Monday in August every period of four years thereafter.
§ 4. The election for judge of probate shall be proceeded on in the
same manner, and, in relation to the election of each judge of probate,
the different officers of both State and county, shall be governed by the
same rules and subject to the same duties and restrictions as are now
rovided in the case of elections for members of Congress, Governor,
liieutenant Governor, State Senators and Representatives, by the “act
to regulate elections, approved March 28th, 1845.
§ 5. Should any two or more persons have-an equal and the highest
number of votes given for the office ofjudge ofprobate, at any election,
the county court shall order a new election, an cause twenty days no-

.tice thereof to be given, by publication in some newspaper published in

the county, or by written or printed advertisements, one copy of which
shall be set up at some public place in each township in the county:
said election shall be governed in all respects as is provided in this act
for original elections.

§ 6. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of judge of probate,
such vacancy shall be tilled by election, to be ordered by the county
court of the county, of which notice shall be given as is provided in the
fifth section of this act.

§ 7. The judge of probate shall be at least twenty-live years of age,
and shall have resided in the county for which he is elected at least two
years previous to his election; shall be commissioned by the Governor,
upon the certificate and return of election made by the clerk of the
county court, whose duty it shall be to certify to the Governor the names
of the persons elected judge of probate under this act.

§ 8. The judge of probate shall be allowed for his services under this
act, the same fees that are now allowed to the clerks of the county
courts for similar services. He shall also be allowed the same fees that
are now allowed to the recorders of deeds for recording and copying ‘all
papers which he is required by law to record or copy; and said judge

l

402 cotmrs.

of probate shall, before entering upon the duties of his otIice,.take an
oath similar to that required to be taken by judges of the circuit court. .

§ 9. The probate court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in all
cases relative to the probate of last wills and testaments; granting letters
testamentary and of administration, ‘and revoking the same; appointing
and displacing guardians or curators of orphans, minors or perons of un-
sound mind; in binding out apprentices, and in the settlement and al-
lowance of accounts of executors, administrators, guardians and cura-
tors; to hear and determine all disputes between masters and their ap-
prentices; to hear and determine all suits and other proceedings insti-
tuted against executors or administrators upon any demand against the
estate of their testator or intestate, subject to an appeal in all cases to
the circuit court of the proper county, in such manner as is now pro-
vided by law in cases of appeals from the county court.

§ 10. The probate court hereby established shall hold four terms an-
nually, to-wit., on the first Mondays of March, June, September and
December; and the judge of probate shall have power to hold special
or adjourned terms of said court.

§ 1 l. The probate judge shall be a conservator of the peace, and shall
have power to issue all writs and process which may be necessary in the
exercise of the jurisdiction and powers of said court, and shall be sub-
ject to the same restrictions, and be governed by the same rules, and
shall dischar e the same duties and receive the like compensation as
now provide by law in relation to clerks of county courts.

§ 12. No judge of probate shall set upon the determination of any
cause or proceedin in which he is interested or related to either party,
or in which he shal have been counsel, executor or administrator, guar-
dian or curator; and in such case, the cause or proceeding shall be cer-
titied to the circuit court of the county, and said court shall proceed
thereon as the probate court might have done. -

§ 13. All process, proceedings, matters and business, the jurisdiction
of which is by this act vested in the probate court, and which shall be
pending in the county court as heretofore organized at the taking effect
of this act, shall be and the same is hereby removed into the probate
court for final judgment, decision, order, decree and adjudication; and
it shall be the duty of the county court to transfer to the probate court
hereby established, all papers, documents, hooks, and other things rela-
ting to any matter, the jurisdiction whereof is or shall be vested in such
probate court; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed
to give the probate court exclusive possession of books or records in
which the probate business of the county court shallstand entered with

. the other ordinary county business of said court, but the county court

clerk shall hold the same for the use and inspection of both said courts.

§ 14. The said judge of probate shall procure suitable books, at the
expense of the county, for recording the doings of said court exclusively,
and said records shall contain a faithful journal of all the doings of said
court which are prope.ly matters of record; provided, that no copies of
judgments, orders, decrees, or proceeding of the county court shall be
certified from the county court and entered upon the records of the pro-
bate court, except where the same shall be deemed by both said courts
to be actually necessary for the convenience of said court; but the clerk

covnrsu. 403

of the county court may certify proceedings from said court, or, u on
the order or’ any probate court, may and shall issue execution or ot er
process upon the proceedings of the county court by this act transferred
to the court of probate, and the said probate court shall have the same
poweré andfjurisdiction over juddg)men}ts or other proceedings, matters of
recor int e county court an y t is act transferred to said robate
court, as if certified copies thereof had been regularly entered ugon the
records of said court of probate.
§ 15. The judge of probate shall have power to solemnize marriages,
grant, hear and determine writs of habeas cor us, and rant in'unctions
returnable to the circuit court, in the same marriner as ccgunty cujurts now
do, and take and certify the proof and acknowledgement of deeds, con-
veyances, and other instruments of writing, in the same manner that
judges of other courts of record may now do.
§ 16. If any judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully do any act
br tlljing contrary to the dljties of his otlice, as prescribed by law, or
she knowin ly and wilful y omit or refuse to erform an act, service
or duty requigred of him by the laws of this Stapte, he sha)ll be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor in oflice, and, on conviction thereof, shall be re-
gnoved from office, and shall be, moreover, liable to the party injured in
amages.
§ 17. Thejudge of probate may in vacation do all things in relation to
grantitpg lletteps tipstafuuilntary andlof administration lwhigh may now be
one t e c er s o t e severa county courts int is tate.
§ l8.y The judge of probate shall procure a seal with such emblems
and devices as he shall think proper, which shall be kept by said probate
court; and until the same can be procured, said court may substitute a
scrawl therefor, ‘temporarily.
§ 19. Nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit the judge of
the probate court from practising as attorney in other courts of record
' in this State, except in cases of appeals from the probate court of which
he may be judge.
§ 20. The probate court hereby established shall have and possess all
the powers and be governed by the same laws which now govern the
th e county courts and the clerks thereof, so far as the same are applica-
ble and consistent with the provisions of this act, in all matters made
cognizable by this act in said court.
§ 21. The court of probate shall be held at the seat ofjustice of Hick-
ory county, and the judge of probate shall reside at and keep his office
at the county seat, '
§22. Hereafter, the justices of the peace of Hickory county, and
their successors in office, or any three of them, shall be, and they are
hereby”cor'Istituted the county court, instead of the justices of the county
court as now establisncd and rescribed b law, for the ur ose of trans-
alclting all business which thle county colhrt now t1'anIs)acFs, excepting
a business and matters conferred and en'oined u on the robate court
of said county by this act; and they shalljhold fo1i)r termslbf said court
in each year, and at the times now fixed by law for holding county
courts, and may hold s ecial or ad'ourned terms; and said 'ustices of the
peace Sllkall be exemptpfrom servirig on juries, performingj military duty
an wor ing on roads.

as

404 "counrs.

§ 23. Such county court, at the November term in every year, shall
make rules and regulations, so that, for the next ensuing year, every
justice of the peace in each municipal township in the county shall be
allotted to attend at least one term of said court for the next ensuing
year; and if any justice of the peace shall fail to attend the term or
terms of said court which by such allotment he shall be required to at-
tend, he shall forfeit and pay to the county of Hickory the sum of five
dollars, to be recovered by indictment in the circuit court of said coun-
ty: such forfeitures shall be applied to pay the contingent expenses of
the county. .

§24. The justices of the peace composing such county court, or a
majority of them, shall choose one of their number to be president of the
court, and in case of his absence, may appoint a president pro tem.

§ 25. Three justices shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day and require the attendance
of absent members; and a majority of the justices shall decide and de-
termine any matter or question pending before them, provided that there.
be a quorum or more present.

§ 26. The county court, as established by this act, shall have and per-
form all the powers, and be governed by the law now in force and here-
after enacted, governing the justices of the county courts, and also the
courts as now established under the general law. .

§ 27. All laws inconsistent with or repugnant to this act, are hereby
repealed, so far as the same are inconsistent with or repugnant thereto.

§ 28. Every election to fill a vacancy in the ofl‘ice,of probate judge,
shall be for the unexpired term of his immediate predecessor.

§ 29. Until the probate judge shall be elected and qualified unde r the
provisions of this act, the county court of Hickory, as now organized
and established by law, shall continue to discharge all the duties now
devolved upon county courts.

§ 30. The clerks of the circuit and county courts shallbe eligible to
the office of judge of probate.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

J\/‘v'V\/\r‘w'V\/‘v‘a\—'./\‘l.r'\o‘.r~ \‘¢ .» .‘. '.’.'J‘/ 1' » - - -

‘ AN ACT to CSiflbll:l'l Probate Courts in the Counties of >’r~huy|er, Ripley,
Mercer, Shannon, and Knox.

ARTICLE I.

{S 1. Probate courts to be established in Schuy- 5 offices at county seat; and upon removal
ler, Ripley: A/Iercer, Shannon, and Knox  from office, otlice to be vacated.
counties, and how organized. ' 6. Shall have power to issue writs no judge

'2. First election of judges; when to be held; ‘ to sit in any cause in which it '

eis inte-
tn be governed by an act regulating elec- ’ rested.
tions; ualitications of judges; how re- § 7. All business in county courts, within juris-
moved rom ot}ice;what fees allowed,&c. 9; diction of probate courts, to be removed
3. .lnrisdiction of probate courts. ? into the latter, for trial.

4. To hold four terms annually, and adjourned E 8. All writs, processes, &c., returnable here-

-terms when required. tofore to county court. of which proba'e

.". To be conservators of the peace; may use .' court is cognizahle, ‘shall be returrul
private seals until seals of oflice be pro- ;-i thereto.

vided; shall reside in county, and keep \

couars ' 405'

9. What constitutes a misdemeanor, and how; 12. Judges to have power to solemnize mar-
punished. 5 riages, arc. -
I0. Judges of probate court to tile bond ini 13. Probate courts to be governed by same

county clerk’s otiice. laws that govern county courts in probate
ll. Allowed for expenses for books, stationary, business.
fuel, sac.

 

ARTICLE II.

§ 1. Justices of the peace to constitute county I 4. Said court to be governed by the general

court. g law regulating county courts.

2. Said county court to make rules and regu- . 5. All laws inconsistent with this act are
lations.  repealed.

3. One member of said court to be chosen a
president. “

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. Poll books to be opened to test the sense 2. Upon petition of a majorit' of the tax
of the people respecting this act; how payers, the first article oft is act to be

determined. suspended. ‘
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qftlze State of Missouri, as follows:
ARTICLE I.

§ I. There shall be a probate court in the counties of Schuyler, Ripley,
Mercer, Shannon, and Knox, to be hel-cl at such tine and place as shall be
prescribed by law; the same shall be composed of one judge for each county,
who shall be styled thejudge of probate of said counties, respectively; he
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the respective counties, and shall hold
his ollice for the term of four years, and until his successor is dulyelected and
qualified, unless sooner temovt d from office; the election shall be certified by
the judges and clerks of election to the clerk of the crunty court of the county
for which he is elected; and, in case of a tie or contested election, the ‘same
shall be determined and decided by the county court. The clerk of the
county court shall certify to the governor the name of the person elected.
who shall thereupon commission him as judge of the probate coirrt of the
county in and for which he may be elected, for the time prescribed in this
act. When a vacancy occurs in the oiiice of probate judge, in either of the
a.l0l'CS&l(l counties. the county court shall, at the first term thereafter. Ol‘(lr_-I‘
a special election to be advertised and held, not more than thirty days
thereafter, to elect a 'udge to fill such vacancy, until the expiration of the
term for which t.e lJormcr judge was elected, and until his successor be
elected and qualified; and the courts hereby established are hereby declared
to be courts of record, and the judges thereof shall keep true and faithful
records of the proceedings of said courts.
§ 2. The first election ofjcdges of probate, for the counties herein named,
shall be held on the first Monday in August, l849, and each subsequent
election on the first Monday in August, every period of four years thereafter,
by the qualilied voters of the respective counties; and the different oflicers,
both of the State and county, shall be governed by the same rules, and
subject to the same laws, as provided in case of elections for members of
Congress, senators, and representatives, by an act regulating elections; and
the judge of probate shall be at least twenty-tive years old, a citizen of the
United States, and shall have resided in the county, for which he is elected
probate judge, one year previous to his election; and shall, before entering
upon the duties of his oflice, take an oath like that required to be taken by

I

406 covers.

a judge of the circuit court; and may be removed from otlice in the same
manner, and for the same causes, as any circuit attorney. He shall receive
such fees for his services as are ‘now allowed by law to the clerks of the
county courts and recorders of deeds, for like services rendered, subject,
however, to be taxed as other costs against the unsuccessful party, according
to law.

§ 3. The probate courts hereby established shall have exclusive original
jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and testaments,
granting letters testamentary and ofadministration, and revoking the same,
appointing or displacing guardians or curators of orphans. minors, or persons
of unsound mind; in binding out apprentices; and in the settlement and
allowance of accounts of executors and administrators, guardians and
curators; .to hear and determine all disputes and controversies whatever,
respecting wills, the right of executorship, administration, or guardianship,
or respecting the duties or accounts of executors, administrators, guardians,
or curators; and all disputes and controversies between masters and their
apprentices; to hear and determine all suits and other proceedings instituted
against executors and administrators upon 'any demand against the estate
of their testators, or intestate, together with the assignment of dower in real
or personal estate. subject to an appeal in all cases to the circuit court, in
such manner as is provided by law, providing for appeals from the county
courts. .

§ 4. The probate courts hereby established shall hold four terms annually,
commencing on the first Mondays in January, April, July, and October, in
each year, and may alter the times of holding said court by giving twenty
days public notice thereof, and may hold special or adjourned terms at any
time, when required for any special business, by giving notice ten days
be‘ot_'e holding such term, by setting up six written advertisements at public
places in different parts of the county, specifying what /business will be
transacted at such term; and no other business shall be transacted at such
special term only that so specified.

§ 5. The judges of probate shall be conservators of the peace; and in all
cases when it may be necessary to authenticate any copy of record or other
proceeding. may use their private seal.-, until seals of ofiice are provided;
shall keep their otiices at the county seats of their respective counties, and
shall continue to reside in the county in which elected; and whenever any
one of said judges removes from the county for which be was commissioned,
his oflice shall become vacant. ' I

§ 6. The judges of probate courts hereby established shall have power to
issue all writs which may be necessary in the exercise of their respective
jurisdiction, according to the usages and principles of law. No judge of
probate shall sit on the determination of any cause or proceeding in which
be is interested, or related to either party; but such cause shall be certified
to the county court, and said county court shall proceed thereon as said
probate court might have done.

§7. All process, proceedings, matters, and business, the jurisdiction of
which is by this act vested in the probate courts, and st-h'ch shall be pending
in the county courts as heretofore organized. at the taking effect of this act
shall be and the same are hereby removed into the probate courts for final
judgment, decision, order, decree, and adjudication; and it shall be the duty
of the several county courts to transfer to the several probate courts hereby
established. all papers, documents, books, and other things relating to any

couars. 407

matter, the jurisdiction whereof is or shall be vested in such probate courts;
provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to give the probate
court exclusive possession of books, or records,in which the probate business
of the county courts shall stand entered with the other ordinary county

bminessvof said courts, but the several county clerks shall hold the same for _

the use and inspection of both said courts.

§ 8. All writs, process, and notices, made or to be made returnable to the
several county courts next after the taking effect of this aft, relating to
matters andthings made cognizablc by this act, in the probate courts, shall
be-letumablethereto at the first term thereof.

V‘-§ 9. If the judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully do any thing
contrary to the duties of his otlice, as prescribed by law, and shall knowing-
ly and wilfully omit or refuse to perform any act, thing, service or duty, re-
quired of him by law, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in ollice,

and on conviction thereof shall be removed from oflice, and shall be liable-

to pay all damages that may accrue to any party in consequence of such
misdemeanor.

-» § 10. The judge of probate shall, before entering upon the duties of his
ollice, tile a bond in.the county clerk's ollice subject to the approval of the
court, in the sum of one thousand dollars, with such security as shall be
deemed good and sufiicient by the said county court: and the county court
may at any time require additional security thereto or may increase the
amount of the bond to such sum overdone thousand dollars as they shall deem
reasonable.

. ;§ II. The judge of probate shall be allowed all reasonable expenses for
suitable boolrs,stationary, and fuel, to be audited and allowed by the county
court. and paid by the county. ‘

§ 12. The judges of the probate courts hereby established, shall have
pgwer to solemnize marriages; grant, hear, and determine writs of ha-

as corpus; to grant injunction returnable to the circuit court, in the
same manner as county courts may do; and to take and certify the ac-
knowledgments of deeds and other instruments of writing.

~ § 13. The probate courts established by this act, shall have and per-
form all the powers, and be governed by the laws now in force or here-
after created, governing the county courts in relation to probate, and all
other business under the control and jurisdiction of the county courts,
and by this act conferred upon the probate courts.

ARTICLE ll.

§ 1. The justices of the peace in the counties named in the first sec-
tion of this act, and their successors in omce, or any three of them in
one county, shall be and they are hereby constituted the county court
in their respective counties, instead of the justices of the county courts,
as now prescribed by law, for the purpose of transacting all business
which the county courts now transact, excepting all business and mat-
ters conferred and en°oined upon the probate courts in said counties by
this act; A and_ they she I hold four terms of said courts in each year, at the
times now fixed by law for holding county courts in _said counties, and
may hold special or adjourned terms, and change the times of holding
regular terms, as by law directed; and said justices of the peace shal

408‘ cocnrs.

be exempt from serving on juries, or performing military duty, or work-
ing on roads.

§ 2. The county court, as constituted by this act, shall at the first term
in each year make rules and regulations so that for the year next ensu-
ing such term, every justice of the peac,e in each municipal township in
the county shall be allotted to attend at least one term of said courtfor
the next ensuing year; and if any justice of the peace shall fail to attend
the term or terms of said courts which, by allotment, he is required to
attend, he shall forfeit and pay to the county, unless he show good cause,
the sum of five dollars, to e recovered by indictment in the circuit

- court of the county; such forfeiture shall be applied to defray the con-

ingent expenses of the county.

t
3. The justices of the peace constituting the county court, as herein
provided, or a majority of them, shall choose one of their number to be
president of the court, and in case of his absence may appoint a presi-
dent pro tem. Three shall constitute a quorum to do usiness, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and require the attend-
ance of absent members; and a majority of the justices present, provi-
ded there be a quorum, shall decide any matter or question before them.
§ 4- The county court, as constituted by this act, shall have and er-
form all the powers, and be governed by the law now in force, or w ich
may be hereafter enacted, governing the justices of the county courts
under the general law. _
§ 5. All laws inconsistent with or repugnant to this act, be and the
same are hereby repealed, so far as the same are inconsistent herewith.

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. At the election for probate judges in the counties herein named,
on the first Monday in August, 1849, a column shall be opened in the
poll books for and against the second article of this act; and if a major-
ity in any one of the counties vote against said article, it shall not go in-
to effect or be in force in such county; but if a majority vote therefor,
it shall take effect-and be in force from and after the counting of the
votes; and it shall be lawful and proper at any time, when a majority
shall vote in favor of the same, that it shall thereafter (until the same is
repealed) be in force in such county.

§ 2. On petition of a majority of the tax payers of any one of the
counties named herein for that purpose, the county court shall make an
order declaring the first article of this act suspended and ino erative in
such county, and from the date of such order the first artic e shall be
inoperative until such order is rescinded.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after the 31st day
of July next. '

Approved March 8, 1849.

.a#-l'\ .P-’\r\.'\ .P\."

 

,.r\./\o*'

AN ACT relative to the probate court in Polk county. I

Be it enacted by the General .dssembl3/ of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That so much of an act entitled “An act to establish probate

covers. 409

courts in the counties of Greene, Polk, Barry, Newton, and Cedar,” ap-
proved February 11, 1847, as relates to Polk county is hereby repealed.
§ 2. The county court of Polk county is hereby invested with the ju-

risdiction over all cases of probate of wills and the administration of es-”

tates under the general laws on that subject within said county.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

/J\/V

 

'~/-/\’\/\f'

 

A supplementary act respecting St. Louis county court.
Be itenacted by tlze General dssembly of the State of Missozzri, as followsi

§ 1. If before the next general election the judge of the St. Louis
county court, who is now resident of the city of St. Louis, shall die, re-
more, resign, or otherwise vacate his office; the vacancy shall be filled
in the ordinary way, so that there shall always be one jud e of said court
a resident of the city; and the person appointed to fill such vacancy shall
continue in office till the next general election.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

r‘—/\/ xx . /\/ ./‘~..’\/‘x -“s/ -/‘~/x.’ x./‘s/‘./x/‘ /‘i ./\

AN ACT respecting St. Louis probate court.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The probate court of St. Louis county shall have power to ap-
point a clerk, who shall take an oath for the faithful erformance of his
duties; and whose appointment shall be approved by the judge of the cir-
cuit court, and filed in the office of the county court of said county; and
shall hold his otiice until revoked by the judge of said probate court; all
the compensation of said clerk shall be paid by thejudge ofsaid probate
court. -

§ 2. Said clerk shall have power to perform all clerical and ministerial
duties which might be done or performed by said judge of probate; and
he may appoint guardians, grant letters of administration, and do all
other acts not judicial in their nature, that said probate judge might do;
and he may take and certify the proof and acknowledgement of deeds,
and relinquishment of dower, in the same manner as the judge of said
probate court may do,and may administer oaths and take afiidavits.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

\I'\’\‘ \-"\-"\/*\» "\"\ ‘\/\ "\ v’\/’\ "y‘\"-.v*\,"~.,I‘\F

AN ACT supplementary and explanatory of an act entitled “An act to
establish a Probate Court in the county of Dallas.”

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The law establishin a probate court in the county of Dallas is
hereby declared to be in fu 1 force and effect, and as fully as if the same

410 _ oouars.

had originally been included in the counties of Camden, Laclede and
Taney. ‘

§  The county court of either of the counties above mentioned, may
at any eneral election, open a poll book for and against the operation
of this aw, and if a majority vote against the law, or if a majorityat
any time petition the court to abolish the law, in such county the same
shall be declared to be in operation [inoperative] in such county; and‘
the law governing other counties that have not probate courts, shall re-
main in full force in such counties, as fully as if this had not been estab-
lished. '

This act to be in force from and after the fourth day of July, A. D.,
1849.

Approved March 8, 1849.

\/\/\I\J'\/\/ \./\/\J\-'

 

AN ACT to establish a probate court in the county of Lafayette.

§ 1. Probate judge to be elected. tachmerits for contempt, fine and im-
2. Qualification of said judge. prison persons for such offences.
3. When said otiice becomes vacant; how to 23. Jurisdiction and powers of’ court.
be filled. 24. To have concurrent jurisdiction with cir-
4. Election to be conducted in the same man- cuit court in certain cases.
ner as election for members of Legisla- . 25. Suits may be brought in probate court
true. when demands exceed 200 dollars.
5. In case of a tie, county court to decide. 26. Probate court to have concurrent jurisdic-
6. Judge of county court to commission judge tion with circuit court in cliancery.
of probate. 27. Probate court to have the same powers
7. Judge to take oath to support constitution. county court in settlement of estates.
8. If said oath be not filed in thirty days; 28. Respecting duties of guardians, &c.
office to be declared vacated. 29. Fees of judge regulated.
9. Persons appointed to fill said vacancy to 30. May exercise same discretion in chancery
possess same qualifications as persons proceedings, in taxing costs, &.c., as cir-
elected. cuit courts now do.

10. Judge to purchase books, furniture, &c., i 31. To hold four regular terms annually and
for office. special terms.

11. Judge to make, keep and preserve records. 32. May exercise same functions in vacation,

12. Judge to have power to issue process. ; tion, that clerks of circuit courts now do.

13. All such process to be signed and tested ‘ 33. Where office to bekept.
by judge and have his seal of office at- 35. County court to audit and allow accounts
fixed and directed to sheriff or coroner. for fuel stationery, &c.

14. Sheriff to attend said court when required g 36. Circuit court to exercise supervisory con-
by judge and execute processes. trol over probate court.

15. Such process to be served by sheriff or 37. Appeal allowed and taken from probate
coroner, in the same manner as when is- court.
sued from circuit court. 38. Appeals to be taken within 30 days.

16. All returns of process by sheriff or coro-

/‘\_/\/V\/'\/ '\P1.l‘-

 

39. Party adppealing to give bond. _
ner, to be made to judge of probate; and g 40. Procee ings to he stayed in relation to mat
deeds to be executed as if said process ‘ ters appealed from and opposite party to

process had issued from circuit court.  be notified of‘ such appeal
17. All copies ofany record or aper of what- 41. Circuit court shall hear and determine such
ever kind, properly aut enticated by appeal, as if originally brought in said

jud e, to be received with like effect as court.
we original paper, in any court what-- 2. Circuit court to render judgment for costs,
&.c. '

18. All proceedings to be recorded and open to
inspection.

19. Judge to have a seal.

2'1. Office to be held and 'ud e to reside at '
county seat and booksJofogtlice to be open j . Clerk of county court required to deliver
to general inspection. P all original apers on file tojudge of’ pro-

2l. Judge to file away and keep all papers re- E hate, and all’ matters appertaining to said

23 J£&lgll'e‘(l bhy law to betkepti‘ b d_ S 47 I propatte cqurt. Hied _ f ‘

~. e o ave ower oen orce o e ience ~ . n re a ion o ceri copies rom C‘)l.lD y
to orders, ru e, &c , in court; issue at-  court clerk’s oflice.

3. Either party may require a jury.
4. Rules of practice in circuit courts to pre-
vail.
5. Declared a court of record.
6

§
 3
E
E

coum-s. 41 1

48..Judge of probate may solemnize marriages,«‘ 50. Further owers dedned.
&c. - 3 51. Clerk 0 county court to certify to secreta-

49. Shall have same powers as judge of circuit; r of State name of judge elected, &.c.
court, to hear and determine applications“ 52. Al conflicting laws suspended.
for injunctions, habeas corpus, &.c. K

Be it enacted by the General .65-sembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That on the first Monday in August, in the year eighteen hun-
drod and fifty, and on the first Monday in August every six years there-
after, there shall be elected by the qualified electors of Lafayette coun-
ty an officer to be styled the probate jud e of Lafayette county, who
shall hold his otiice for six years and until his successor is duly qualified
and commissioned

§ 2. No person shall be eligible to said office who is not a citizen of
the United States, who shall not at the time of his election, have been
an inhabitant of this State for two years, and of said county one year
next preceding his election. ~

§ 3. Whenever said judge of probate shall die, resign or remove out
of said county, the county court for said county shall declare said oflice
vacant, and proceed to appoint some suitable person to fill said vacancy,
who shall possess the qualifications as required in the second section of
this act, and shall hold said ofiice until the next regular election, and
until his successor shall be qualified and commissioned.

§ 4. Elections for said oflice of judge of probate shall be conducted in
all respects in the same manner, as is now or may hereafter be provided
for the election of members of the Legislature.

§ 5. When two or more persons receive an e ual number of votes, the
county court for said county shall decide whic one of them shall hold
said oflice; and whenever there shall be a contested election, the county
court shall decide the same.

§ 6. When the said oflicer shall be elected, or deeidetfby the said
county court to be entitled to said ofiice, the judges of the said coun-
ty court shall make out a commission, signed by them or a majority
thereof, attested by the clerk of said court under his seal of ofiice, who
shall immediately deliver the same to the person thus chosen.

§ 7. Every judge of probate shall within twenty days after receipt of
said commission, take an oath, to be signed by him and sworn to, before
some ofiicer authorized to administer oaths, that he will su port the con-
stitution of the United States and of this State, and wil faithfully de-
mean himself in oflice; which said oath shall, within thirty days after
commission shall have been delivered, be filed in the ofiice of the clerk
of said county.

§ 8. If said oath shall not be filed in said ofiice within thirty days af-
ter said commission shall have been delivered, the said county court shall
proceed to declare his office vacant, and fill the same by the appoint-
ment of some suitable erson.

§ 9. Every person who shall be appointed by the county court to fill
any vacancy, shall possess the same qualifications and shall be commis-

sioned and qualified in the same manner as is prescribed by the prece- -

ding section of this act.
§ 10. Every judge of probate elected under this act, shall purchase
suitable record books and furniture for his ofiice, and the county court

412 ‘ covers.

of said county shall audit and allow him a reasonable compensation
therefor, and the same to be paid out of the county treasury; and his
successor in office shall continue to purchase such record books ‘and
furniture as may be necessary, to be audited and allowed as aforesaid.

§ 11. Every judge of probate shallmake, keep and preserve complete
record of all wills, testaments and codicils, and the probate thereof; all -
letters testamentary and administration, and all bonds taken of. adminis-
trators, executors, guardians and curators, and preserve the originals on
file in his office; and all oaths and affirmations taken before him, and all
inventories, appraisments, sale bills and other exhibits presented to and
received by said court, appertaining to the administration of estates and
guardianship, and shall enter upon such books the amount of all such
appraisments, inventories and sale bills, and other proper exhibits, un-,
der a proper head for easy reference; and shall enter upon such record
all matters, controversies and suits as shall arise in his court for 8.d_1ll-
dication and decision, with names of parties and all final interlocutory’
judgments and orders which he may make thereon. _ _

§ 12. The judges of probate aforesaid shall have power to Issue all
original process which may be necessary and proper, in any matter. or
subject over which he may have jurisdiction, and a 1 other process which
may be necessary to enforce the orders and judgments of said court, and
all such process shall conform as near as may be to the process now used
in courts of law in this State.

§ 13. All process issued by said judge of probate shall be signed and
tested by himself, and shall have his seal of oflice, if he have one, if not
his private seal attached thereto, directed to the sheriff, or if he be in-_
terested, to the coroner; said process may be directed to and executed
by any such sheriff or coroner in any county in this State. ‘

§ 14. To enable said judge of probate to execute the powers conferred
upon him, it shall be the duty of the sheriff of Lafayette county, in per-'
son or by his deputy, to attend when required by said judge, all regular
and special terms of said court, and to reserve order in the same, in the
same manner as he is now required by law to attend and preserve order
in the circuit court. He shall execute all writs of attachment, sum-'
mons, subpoenas, citations, notices, and other process, which may.at any
time be legally issued by said judge; and such sheriff shall be entitled to
the same fees and compensation as is or may be allowed for the time be-
ing for the performance of similar services in the circuit court, to be
taxed and allowed by the said judge against the county, party or delin-
quents, as near as may be applicable, according to the rules and practice
of the circuit court. .

§ 15. Whenever any process shall come to the haiid of said sheriff or
coroner of Lafayette county, or sheriff or coroner of any other county
in this State, the same shall be executed and returned, in the same man-
ner, and with like effect, as similar process issued by the circuit court,
and the said sheriffs and coroners shall have the same power to execute
and enforce the same. as they now have, or may hereafter have, to exe-

’ cute and enforce similar process in the circuit courts; and all sales and

executions shall be conducted as sales now are, or may hereafter be re-
quired to be made under executions from the circuit court in this State.
5 16- Whenever any sheriff or coroner, under the provisions of this

COURTS. _ 413

act, shall sell any lands or tenements, or real estate, or interest therein,
or any goods and chattels, he shall make return of his process to the
judge of probate, with an endorsement thereon, of the manner in which
he executed the same, and the said judge shall file the same carefully in
his oflice, and the sheriff or coroner shall roceed to execute deeds of
conveyance in the same manner, and with ike effect, as he is now, or
may hereafter be required to execute said deeds on sales made under
process from the circuit court, and said deeds shall be received in evi-
dence, in the same manner, and with like effect, as deeds are now, or
may hereafter required to be received in evidence on sales under ex-
ecutions from the circuit court.

§ 17. All copies of any record, under writ or process of any- kind, or
of any paper of any kind required by law to be filed and kept in the of-
fice of saidjudge, or to be issued by him, and all copies of returns made
by any officer who is required to execute said writ or process properly
certified by said judge, under the seal of his otlice, or private seal, if he
should have no seal of office, to be a true, full, and perfect copy of

‘such record, order, writ, process or paper, or return, remaining on tile,

shall be received in evidence with like effect as the original, when pro-
duced and shown by said jud e of probate, in any court in which he may
be required to produce and s ow the same. '
1 § 18. Every judge of probate shall seasonably record at full length
in said books, all judgments, orders, decrees and rules, which he may
make; and shall make a complete alphabetical index thereto, which re-
cord thus to be kept, shall be free for inspection by any person inter-
ested therein, without any charge therefor.
§ 19. The said judge shall provide himself with a seal of office, with
some suitable device, which shall be paid for out of the county treasury,
in the same manner as is provided for in relation to books and furniture,
and he shall aflix the said seal to all process which he may lawfully issue;
and until he shall be provided with such seal, he may aflix thereto his
private seal. ,
§ 20. The said judge shall hold his oflice. and reside at the county
seat of Lafayette county, and shall at all reasonable hours be at his 01'-
fice, and suffer and permit all persons interested therein to examine all
books, papers and records in his oflice, free of charge; but if required
by any such person to make any examination by himself, he may demand
of any such person so requiring such examination, ten cents.
§ 21. The said judge shall mark and file away, and keep in conve-
ni‘ent bundles, all papers which are required by law to be kept in his
0 cc.

§ 22. The said judge of probate shall have power to enforce due obe-
dience to all the orders, rules, judgments and decrees which he may
make in the discharge of the duties of his office, and may issue attach--
ments for contempt offered such court or its process, by any executor,
administrator, guardian, witness, or any other person or persons, and
may line and imprison in the county jail, or either, all such offenders,
and may, in the same manner, fine and imprison, or either, any person
or persons who shall commit any act or contempt to said court whilst in
session, in the same manner as the circuit court may do in similar cases;
and when the judge shall impose any such hue, he shall issue an execu-

l

414 coUn'rs.

tion for the collection thereof; and the sheriff of Lafayette county shall
proceed to collect the same, in the same manner as he is now or may
hereafter be required to collect money by execution; which fine, when
collected shall be by him paid into the county treasury of Lafayette
county; provided,that the fine thus imposed shall not in any case exceed
fifty dollars for the same offence, and the term of imprisonment shall not
exceed ten days.

§ 23. The said judge of probate for said county, shall have original_

exclusive jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and
testaments, the ranting of letters testamentary andof administration,
and resealin ang revoking the same, a pointing and displacing guar-
dians of orphans, minors, and persons of) unsound mind; in bin ing out
apprentices, and in the settlement and allowance of accounts of execu-
tors, administrators, guardians and curators, to hear and determine all
disputes and controversies whatsoever respecting wills, right of execu-
torship, administrations and guardianship; all controversies between
masters and their apprentices; and to hear and decide all controversies
about the administration of the assets of estates; in his office to hear
and determine all demands against executors, administrators, uardians
and curators, when the demand does not exceed two hundred ollars.

§24. The said judge of probate shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with the circuit court in all the demands at law against estates, when
the executors, administrators, guardians and curators, are parties de-
fendant, and when the demand exceeds two hundred dollars.

§ 25. Executors, administrators, guardians and curators, may sue be-
fore the judge of probate in all cases at law in which the actions of
debt or assumpsit will lie, for all sums and demands and damage ‘claimed
to be due to themselves in their representative character, or claimed to
be due to the testator or intestate, when the balance claimed to be due
does not exceed two hundred dollars.

§26. The said judge of probate shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with the circuit court in all matters and controversies properly cogniza-
ble in courts of equity in this State, according to the rules of practice
which govern courts in chancery, as are prescribed by law, and in which
executors, administrators, guardians and curators, are necessarily par-
ties complainant or defendant; provided, that said judge of p'r'ol‘-ate
shall not have jurisdiction in any case whatever, to entertain or decide
upon any controversy in which may be involved the title to land and real
estate, or the right of possession to the same, or any interest orjright in
any way arising therefrom, or any proceeding to effect a partition of
land, tenements or assignment of dower therein; and for such services
shall be allowed the same fees, that are allowed to the clerksof the ‘cir-
cuit courts, in chancery cases. .

§ 27. The judge of probate shall have the same powers, and‘ perform
the same duties, that are now re uired to be performed by the county
court and clerks thereof in this btate, in the settlement of estates, in
the management of the property of orphans, infants, and persons of un-
soun}. mind, and in the management and control over apprentices, so far
as the general laws do not conflict with this act. ,

§ 28. Guardians, executors, administrators and curators shall perform their

comers. 2115

respective trusts and duties in the same manner as is now required by law,
solar as is not inconsistent with this act.

§ 29. The said‘ judge of probate shall be allowed for his services the
same fees that are now allowed the judge of the probate court of the county
of St. Louis, under an act entitled “An act to regulate fees of the judge of
the probate court of the county of St. Louis,” approved December 23,
1846.

§ 30. In all chancery proceedings before said judge of probate, he shall
exercise the same discretion in taxing costs as are now exercised by the cir-
cuit courts; and in all proceedings at law before him, he shall give judgment
for costs, and issue fee bills in the same manner as is required by law in
the circuit courts.

§3l. The said judge shall hold four regular terms of his court in each
year, as follows: on the first Mondays in January, April, July and October,
and he may appoint and hold special terms of his court in the same manner
that the judges of the circuit courts may now do.

§32. The said judge in vacation of his court may do all acts and things,
in granting letters testamentary of administration and guardianship, as the
several clerks of county courts may by law now do.

§ 33. If said judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully, contrary to I

the dut?es of his ollice, as is prescribed by law, or shall knowingly and wil-
fully fail or refuse to do any thing or act which he is required to do by the
laws of this State, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in ofiice, and
on conviction thereof before the county court of Lafayette county,shall be
removed from otlice; and in case of such removal from office, the said
county court shall proceed to fill such vacancy.

§ 31. The said judge of probate shall keep his office not more than two
hundred yards from the court-house, and shall there keep his records, papers,
seal and the property belonging to said oliice, and transact his oliicial and
ministerial business as he may transact in vacation. ‘

§-35. The county court shall audit and allow said judge of probate a
reasonanle allowance annually for the rent of his oliice, fuel and stationary,
to be pultl cut of the county treasury.

§ 36. Ti.-e circuit court of Lafayette county shall exercise the same super-
visory t;L-utrol over the said judge of probate as they now do over the jus-

tices of the peace, and may issue writs of mandamus and certiorari to said -

judge, and punish him by line and imprisonment in the county jail for con-
tempt or failure to obey any writ or order which the said circuit court may
lawfully issue or make. ,

§37. Appeals shall be allowed from all final orders, decrees and judg-
ments -sf said judge in favor of. any person who may be aggrieved by the
judgmt '_ti‘,.0l'Ll6I or decree of said judge to the circuit court, and ll‘ulll the
circuit wort to the supreme court, as in cases originally in the circuit court.

§ 3b. Appeals from the court of said judge shall be taken within thirty
days alter the rendition of said judgment, order or decree appealed from,
and not thereafter; the party appealing shall make out and tender_ to,the
judge of probate a statement, in the nature of exceptions, setting forth each
item, opinion or decision of said judge appealed from, within the time limited
for taking appeals, and the order, judgment or decree appealed from, and
the said judge shall sign the same. The said judge of p!'0l);tlt', after he
shall sign the said statement, and after the party shall have given bond as
hereafter required, shall grant an appeal and enter the same on his record‘,

-416 . covers.

and shall make out and transmit to the next Lafayette circuit court, after
granting such appeal, a full transcript of the record and proceeding in rela-
tion to the item or opinion so appealed from. _

§ 39. The party appealing as aforesaid, shall enter into bond with security,
to be approved by said judge, payable to the State of Missouri, and condi-
tioned that the party appealing shall prosecute his action without delay and

‘with effect, and shall pay all costs that may be adjudged against him; and

said bond may be put in suit, and recovered by and for the use of any person
who may be entitled to such costs.

§40. When an appeal shall be taken as aforesaid, the judge of probate
shall stay all proceedings in relation to the matters appealed from in the
same manner as justices of the peace are now required to stay them. The
party appealing shall give notice in writing to the opposite party, his agent
or attorney of the taking of such appeal, which notice may be served and
proved as notices are now required to be served, and proven. .

§4l. In all cases of appeal as aforesaid, when the notice has been served
on the opposite party ten days before the term of the court to which the
appeal is taken, or when the opposite party shall in person, or by his attor-
ney, enter his voluntary appearance on the first day of the said circuit court
to which the appeal is returnable. The circuit court shall proceed, de novo,
to try, hear and determine the same in the same manner as if the same had
been brought ori inally in the circuit court; when the judgment or opinion
of the judge shjl be aliirmed upon such appeal, the cler of the circuit
court shall certify the same to the said judge; when the judgment, order or
decree shall be reversed the court shall proceed to render such judgment or
decree as the said judge ought to have done, and the clerk of the said cir-
cuit court shall certify a true copy of such judgment, order or decree to the
said judge, who shall proceed to enter the same on his record-, and the same.
thus entered, shall be considered a judgment of said judge of probate, having
the same credit and effect as original judgments,‘orders and decrees entered
up by himself; and he shall proceed thereon to enforce the same, as if the
same had ori 'nally been made by him.

§ 42. In 23' cases before the circuit courttby appeal as aforesaid, the said
court shall render judgment for costs in the same manner, and with like
effect, as the said court can now do on appeals from justices of the peace.

§43. In all cases before the said judge of probate, either party may
require a jury.

§ 44. '1 he said judge of probate shall in all trials before him conform to,
and be governed by the rules of practice prevailing in circuit courts of this
State; and he shall have power to prescribe rules of practice not inconsistmt
with the laws of the land.

§ 4.5. The court of said judge of probate shall he, and the same is hereby
declared to be a court of record; and there shall be kept a just and faithful
record of all proceedings in said court. '

§ 46. When the sa’d judge of probate. required by this act to be elected,

shall have been duly qualified and commissioned. the county court of Lafay--

ette county shall enter an order on their record requiring the clerk of said
county court to deliver over to said judge of probate all original papers now
on tile in his office relative to all estates of deceased persons, orphans,
minors, idiots and persons of unsound mind. and all papers of apprentices;
and also, all other papers relating to any subject or matter over which the
gatd judge of probate has jurisdiction by this act, and the said judge of

covers. 417
. probate shall carefully keep the same in his office, as he is by this act re-
quired to keep such papers as are required by this act to be filed in his office;
and shall proceed to Settle all the unfinished business as if the same had
originated before him; and the said papers an.l certified copies thereof by
Iaidjudge shall be evidence in the same manner as provided in this act in
relation to papers required to be filed in his otiice.
§ 47. That all copies of entries made by the county court upon his record
books, and all copies of papers and writings filed in his otiice, duly certified
by said clerk of said county Cml1"tl‘lTlt'lf_‘I' his seal of oflice to the probate
court to be full and complete copies of the originals in his ofiice, shall be
received as prime facic evidence that they are truc.(:opics of the originals
of which they purport to be copies, and may be received as evidence as the
originals could be, and with like effect. It shall and may be lawful, and the
said judge of probate court is hereby authorized by subpcena to cause the
said clerk of the county court to appear before said judge of probate, and
produce to said judge of probate, upon any trial or proceeding before said
judge, the original of which Said copies are made and certified, to be read
upon such trials or proceedings before him. '
§ 48. The said judge of probate is hereby authorized and empowered to
perform all marriage ceremonie-: in like manner, and with like effect, as is
now or may hereafter be _required by justices of the peace, and other
persons authorized to solemnize the same.
§49. The said judge of probate may hear and determine applications
for injunction, habeas carpets and ne caveat, and he shall have the same pow-
era to hear and determine the same as the judges of the circuit courts now
or may hereafter by law have.
§ 50. In addition to the powers granted in the foregoipg sections of this
bill,suid judge of probate shall have full porvcr to solemnize marriage cere-
monies,_‘to take and cu-rtify deposit-ions and affidavits. and administer all oaths
required to be administered in the same manner, and with like effect, as if
the said duties had been performed by a justice of the peace; and he shall
receive tierefor power to take and certify the acknowledgment of all deeds
andinstruments of writing, and relinquishments of dowcr that can be taken
and certified by judges or clerks of courts of record, and shall receive there-
for the same fees that are allowed to clerks of the county court.
§ 51. So soon as any judge of prob:-rte shall be commissioned, it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the county court to certify to the Secretary of the
State the name of thejudge thus commissioned, the date of his commission,
and the length of the term for which he is commissioned.
§52. All laws conflicting with this act are suspended in their operation in
the county of Lafayette.
Approved March it), 1849.

 

AN ACT to establish a probate court in Saline" county.

ARTICLE I.
_ 1. Judge to be elected-' when. 7. Judge to take oath of otlice. I
2. Qualification of jutf e. 8. When office vacant;new incumbent appoint-
3. Vacancy, how I'll! . ed.

4. Eluctions, how conducted. E 9. Qualifications of persons appointed to till
5. In case of tie; how decided. vacancies.
6. County court to deliver commission. i

29

 

418 O covnrs.

ARTICLE II.

5. Duty of sheriff; his fees,

6. Further duties of sheriff.

7. To sell lands, make returns, deeds, &c.
8. Copies of records received as evidence.

9 1. Judge to purchase record books, etc.
2. General duties.
3. May issue process.
4. Process to be signed by judge, seal of of-
lice to be affixed; executed by sheriff.

ARTICLE III.

\.z"/\/-"/-x/‘\-

§ 1. Jud ments, &.c., to be recorded. 4. Papers to be marked and filed.
2. Sea of otiice to be provided. g 5. Power to enforce obedience to all orders,
4. Office to be kept at county seat. §'c.
. ARTICLE IV.
§ 1. To have exclusive jurisdiction; when. S formed.
. 2. To what cases concurrent jurisdiction 7. Fees of the judges.
shall extend. C 8. Costs, how taxed and collected.
3. What demands may be sued on. E 9. Four regular terms to be held.
4. Concurrent jurisdiction in equity in cer— 10. What acts may be done in vacation.
tain matters and controversies. E I l. Judge failing to perform duties.
:3. To perform duties now required of county ( 12. Oilice to be kept at county seat.
court and clerk. g 13. Allowances for rent of office, by whom to
6. How duties of guardians, &c., to be per- ( be made and how paid.
ARTICLE V .
§ 1. Circuit court to have su ervising control. 3 8. Fees in cases of appeals.
2. Appeals; when and to w at court allowed 2 9. Jury may be required in all cases.
3. Manner of taking appeals. j 10. Rule of practice.
4. Bond, with security, to be given. 5 ll. Ueclared to be a court of record.
5. Proceedings on matters appealed from. ) 12. All probable business on file within the
6. Proceeding of circuit court on appeals. 3 county court to be delivered to the judges
7. Manner of rendering judgment for costs. ) created by this act.

ARTICLE VI.

§ 1. Co ies of record to be evidence’. 3 4. Arbitrational powers granted.
2 Ju ge may perform marriage ceremonies.  5. Duty of clerk of county court.
a

3: Application for injunction, &c., may be 6. All ws conflicting suspended.
heard and determined. 2

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

'-ARTICLE I. V

§ 4. That on the first Monday in August, in the year 1849, and on the
first Monday in August every six years thereafter, there shall be elected
by the qualified electors of Saline county, an officer to be styled the pro-
bate 'u
untiljhis successor is duly commissioned and qualiiied.

§ 2. No person shall be eligible to said ofiice who is not a citizen of
the United States, who shall not at the time of his election have been an
inhabitant of this State for two years, and of said county one year next

‘precediag his election. '

§ 3. henever said judge of probate shall die, resign, or remove out
of said county, the county court of said county shall declare the said
oiiice vacant, and proceed to appoint some suitable person to till such
vacancy, who shall possess thequaliiications as required in the second
section of this act, and shall hold said oflice until the nextregular elec-
tion, and until his successor shall be ualified and commissioned.

§ 4. Elections for said otlice of judge of probate shall be conducted

ge of Saline county; who shall hold his oflice for six years, and .

comrrs. 419
in all respects in the same manner as is now or may hereafterbe pro-
vided for the election of the members of the legislature.

§ 5. Wlien two or more persons receive an equalnumber of votes, the
county court for said county shall decide which one of them shall hold
said office; and whenever there shall be a contested election, the said
county court shall decide the same.

§ 6. \Vhen the said officer shall be elected or decided by said county
court to be entitled to said ofiice, the judges of the said county court
shall make out a commission, signed by them or a majority thereof, at-
tested by the clerk of said court under his seal of office, who shall im-
mediately deliver the same to the person thus chosen.

§ 7. Every judge of probate shall, within twenty days after the receipt
of said commission, take an oath of office, to be signed by him and sworn
to before some officer authorized to administer oaths, that he will support
the constitution of the United States and of this State, and will faithful-
ly demean himself in office; which said oath shall be within thirty days
after said commission shall have been delivered, be filed in the office of
the clerk of said county.

§ 8. If said oath shall not be filed in said office within thirty days af-
ter said commission shall have been delivered, the said county court
shall proceed to declare his office vacant, and fill the same by the ap-
pointment of some suitable person.

§ 9. Every person who shall be appointed by the county court to fill
any vacancy, shall possess the same qualifications, and shall be commis-
sioned and qualified in the same manner as is prescribed by the preceding

sections of this act.

ARTICLE II.

§ 1. Every judge of probate elected under this act shall purchase
suitable records, books and furniture for his office, and the county court
of said county shall audit and allow him a reasonable compensation

therefor. —
§ 2. Every judge of probate shall make, kee and preserve complete
records of all wills, testaments and codicils, an the probate thereof; all
letters testamentary and adminstration, and all bonds taken of adminis-
trators and executors, uardians and curators, and preserve the originals
on file in his oflice; and all oaths and affirmations taken before him, and
all inventories, appraisements, sale bills and other exhibits presented to
. and recorded by said court, appertaining to the administration of estates
and guardianships; and shall enter upon such books, the amount of all
such appraisements, inventories and sale bills, and other proper exhibits,
under a_proper head for easy reference; and shall enter upon such re-
cord, all matters, controversies and suits as shall arise in
adjudication and decision, with the name of the parties, and all final and‘
interlocutory judgments and orders which he may make thereon.
§ 3. The judges of probate aforesaid shall have power to issue all
original process which may be necessary to enforce the orders and judg-
ments of said court; and all such process shall conform, as near as may
be, to the processes new used in courts of law in this State.
§ 4. All process issued by said judge of probate shall be signed and
tested by himself, and shall have his seal of office, if he have one, if not,

is court for,

420 couars.

his private seal, attached thereto, directed to the sheriff, or, if he be in-
terested, to the coroner: said process may be directed to and executed
by any such sheriff or coroner in any county in the State.

§ 5. To enable said judge of probate to execute the power conferred
on him, it shall be the duty of the sheriff of Saline county, in person or
by his deputy, to attend, when required by said judge, all regular and
special terms of said court, and to preserve order in the same, in the
same manner as he is now required by law to attend and preserve order
in the circuit court. He shall execute all writs of attachment, sum-
mons, subpoenas, citations, notices, and other process, which may at any
time be legally issued by said judge; and such sheriff shall be entitled
to the same fees and compensation as is or may be allowed for the time
being for the performance of similar services in the county court, to be
taxed and allowed in the same manner as is now provided for by law for
similar services in the county court. '

§ 6. Whenever any process shall come to the hands of said sheriff or
coroner of Saline county, or sheriff or coroner of any other county in
this State, the same shall be executed and returned in the same manner
and with like effect as similar process issued by the circuit court; and
the said sheriffs and coroners shall have the same power to execute and
enforce the same as they now have or may hereafter have to execute and
enforce similar process in the circuit court; and all sales and executions

-shall be conducted as sales now are or may hereafter be required to be

made under executions from the circuit courts in this State.

§ 7. Whenever any sheriff or coroner, under the provisions of this
act, shall sell any land and tenements or real 'estate, or alny interest
therein or any goods and chattels he shall make return of is process
tohthe judge of probate, with an e,ndorsement thereon lof ihe manner in
w ‘ich he executed the same and the said judge shall ii e t e same care-
fully in his office; and the sheriff or coroner shall proceed to execute
deeds of conveyance in the same manner and with like effect as he is
now or may hereafter be required to execute said deeds on sales made
under process from the circuit court, and said deeds shall be received
in evidence in the same manner and with like effect as deeds are now
or may hereafter be required to be received in evidence on sales under
execution from the circuit court.

§ 8. All copies of any record, order, writ, or process 03 qpy kind, or
of any paper of any kind required by law to be filed an ept in the
officeof said judge, or tb be issued by him, and all copies of returns
made by any oflicer who is required to execute said writ or process,
properly certified by said judge under the seal of his office or private
seal, if he should have no seal’of office, to be a true, full ,and perfect

l copy of such record, order, writ, process, or paper, or return, remainin
1

on file, shall be received in evidence with ke effect as the origina ,
when produced and shewn by said judge of probate in any court in which
he may be required to produce and show the same.

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. Every jud e of probate shall seasonably record at full length
in said books, al judgments, orders, decrees and rules which he may

covers. 421

make, and shall make a complete alphabetical index thereto; which re-
‘cord, thus to be kept, shall be free for inspection by any person inter-
ested therein, without any charge therefor. ’
§ 2. The said judge shall provide himself with a seal of office, with
some suitable device, which shall be paid for out of the county treasury,
in the same manner as is provided in relation to books and furniture, and
he shall afiix the said sea to all process which he may lawfully isue;

and until he shall be provided with such seal, he may aiiix thereto his -

private seal.
§ 3. The said judge hall hold his otlice at the county seat of Saline
county, and shal , at all seasonable hours, be at his oflice, and sufer and
permit all persons interested therein to examine all books, papers and
records in his oflice, free from charge; but if re uired by any such per-
son to make any such examination by himself, (lie may demand of any
such person, so requiring such examination, ten cents.
§ 4. The said judge shall mark and file away, and keep in convenient
bundles, all papers which are required by law to be kept in his oilice.
§ 5. The said judge of probate shall have power to enforce due obe-
dience to all the orders, rules, judgments and decrees which he may
make in the discharge of the duties of his ofiice, and may issue attach:
ments for contempt offered such court or its process, by any executor,
administrator, guardian, witness, or any other person or persons, and
may fine and imprison in the county jail, or either, all such offenders;
and may, in the same manner, fine and imprison, or either, any person or
persons who shall commit any act of contempt to said court, whilst in
session, in the same manner as the circuit court may do in similar cases;
and when the judge shall impose any such fine, he shall issue an execu-
tion for the collection thereof, and the sheriff of Saline county shall
proceed to collect the same in the same manner as he is now or may
ereafter be required to collect money by execution; which fine, when
collected, shall be by him paid into the county treasury of Saline county:
provided, that the fine thus imposed shall not, in any case, exceed fifty
dollars for the same offence, and the term ef the imprisonment shall not
exceed ten days.

ARTICLE IV.

§ 1. The said judge of probate for said county shall have original ex-
clusive jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and
testaments; the granting of letters testamentary and of administration,
and the repealing, and revoking the same; appointing and displacing
guardians of orp ans, minors, and persons of unsound mind; in binding
out apprentices, and in the settlement and allowance of accounts of ex-
ecutors, administrators, guardians and curators; to hear and determine‘
all disputes and controversies whatsoever respecting wills, right of ex-
ecutorships, administrations and guardianship ; all controversies be-
tween masters and their apprentices, and to hear and decide all contro-
versies about the distribution of the assetts of estates in his ofiice; to
hear and determine all demands against executors, administrators, guar-
ilians and curators, when the demand does not exceed two hundred dol-
ars.

422 covnrs.

§ 2. The said judge of probate shall have concur"rent jurisdiction with

the circuit court in all demands at law against estates, when the execu--

tors, administrators, guardians and curators are parties defendant, and
when the demand exceeds two hundred dollars.

§ 3. Executors, administrators, guardians and curators may sue be-
fore the judge of probate, in all cases at law in which the actions ‘of
debt or assumpsit will lie, for all demands, sums and damages claimed
to be due to themselves in their representative character, or claimed to
be due to the testator or intestate, when the balance claimed to be due

'does not exceed two hundred dollars.

§ 4. The said judge of probate shall have concurrent jurisdiction in
equity with the circuit court in all matters and controversies properly
cognizable in courts of equity in this State, according to the rules of
practice which govern courts of chancery, as are prescribed by law and
in which executors, administrators, guardians and curators are necessa-
rily‘parties complainant or defendant; provided, that said judge of pro-
bate shall not have jurisdiction in any case whatever, to entertain or de-
cide upon any controversy in which may be involved the title to land and
real estate, or the right of possession to the same, or any interest or
right in any way arising therefrom, or any proceeding to effect a arti-
tion of land tenements or assignment of dower therein; and for suc ser-
vices shall be allowed the same fees that are allowed to the clerk of cir-
cuit courts in chancery cases.
§ 5. The judge of probate shall have the same power and perform the
same duties, that are now required to be performed by the county court
and clerks thereof in this State, in the settlement of estates, in the man-
agement of the property of orphans, infants and persons of unsound
mind, and in the management and contro1’of apprentices, so far as the
general laws do not conflict with this act.
§ 6. Guardians, executors, administrators and curators, shall perform
their trusts and duties in the ame manner as is now required by law, so
far as is not inconsistent with this act.
§ 7. The said judge of probate shall be allowed for his services the
same fees that are now allowed to clerks of county courts for similar
services, he shall also be allowed the same fees that are now allowed to
the recorders of deeds for recording and copying all papers which he is
required by law to record or copy.
§ 8. In all chancery proceedings before said judge of probate, he shall
exercise the same discretion in taxing costs as is now exercised by the
circuit courts; and in all proceedings atlaw before him, he shall give judg-
ment for costs, and issue fee bills in the same manner as is required by
law in the circuit courts.
1. § 9. The said jud e shall hold four regular terms of his court in each
year as follows: on t e first Monday in January, A ril, July and Octo-
ber; and he may appoint and hold special terms of is court in the same
manner that the judges of the circuit court may now do.
i  10. The said judge in vacation of his court, may do all acts and
things in granting letters testamentary, of administration and guardian-
ship, as the several clerks of county courts may by law now do.
§ 11. If said judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully, contrary
to the duties of his office, as is prescribed by law, or shall knowingly

counts» 423

and wilfully fail or refuse to do any thin or act which he is required to
do bé the laws of this State, he shall be eemed guilty of a misdemeanor
in 0 cc and on conviction thereof before the county court of Saline
county, shall be removed from office, and in case of such removal from
othce, the said county court shall proceed to fill such vacancy.

§ 12. The said judge of probate shall keep his oflice within a con-
venient distance from or at the court house and shall there keep his re-
cords, papers, seat and the property belonging to said oilice, and transact
his oflicia and ministerial business, as he may transact such in vacation.

§ 13. The county court shall audit and allow said judge of robate a
reasonable allowance annuall for the rent of his oflice (should such be
other than in the court houseg to be paid out of the county treasury.

ARTICLE V.

§ 1. The circuit court of Saline county shall exercise thesame super-
visory control over the said judge probate as they now do over justices
of the peace, and may issue writs of mandamus and certiorari to said
judge and punish him by fine and imprisonment in the county jail for
contempt, or failure to obey any writ or order which the said circuit
court may lawfully issue or make.

§ 2. Appeals shall be allowed from all final orders, decrees and judg-
ments of said judge in favor of any person who may be aggrieved by the
judgment, order or decree of said judge to the circuit court and from
the circuit court to the supreme court, as in cases originally in the cir-
cuit court. .

§ 3. Appeal from the court of said judge shall be taken within thirty
days after the rendition of said judgment, order or decree appealed from,
and not thereafter. ‘ The party appealing shall make out and tender to
the judge of probate a statement in the nature of exceptions, setting
forth each item, opinion or decision of said jud e appealed from, within
the time limited for taking appeals, and the orger, judgment or decree
appealed from, and the said judge shall sign the same. The said judge
of robate, after he shall sign the said statement and after the party
shall have given bond, as hereafter re uired, shall grant an appeal and
enter the same on his record, and shal make out and transmit to the
next Saline circuit court after granting such appeal a full transcript of
the record and proceedings in relation to the item or opinion so appeal-
ed from.

§ 4. The party appealing aforesaid, shall enter into bond with securi-
ty to be approved by said judge, payable to the State of Missouri, and
conditioned, that the party appealin shall prosecute his action, without
delay and with effect and shall pay a 1 costs that may be adjudged against

-him; and said bond may be put in suit and recovered by and for the use

‘of any person who may be entitled to such costs. . ‘*

§ 5. hen an appeal shall be taken as aforesaid, the said judge of
probate shall stay all proceedings in relation to the matters appealed
from in the same manner as justices of «the peace are now required to
stay them; the party appealing. shall give notice in writing to the oppo-
site party, his agent or attorney of the taking of such appeal, which no-
tice may be served and proved as notices are now required to be served
and proved.

424 counrs.

§ 5. In all cases of appeal as aforesaid, when the hotice has been served
on the opposite party ten days before the term of the court to which the
appeal is taken, or when the opposite party shall in person or by his at-
torney enter his voluntary appearance on the first day of the said circuit
court to which the appeal is returnable; the circuit court shall pro-
ceed de novo to try, hear and determine the same, in the same manner
as if the same had been brought original] in the circuit court. When
the jud ment or opinion of the judge shallbe afiirmed upon such appeal
the clergk of the circuit court shall certify the same to the said judge,
when the judgment, order or decree shall be reversed, the court shall
proceed to render such judgment, order or decree as the judge ought to
ave done and the clerk of the said circuit court. shall certify a true
copy of such judgment, order or decree to the said judge, who shall ro-
ceed to enter the same on his record, and the same thus entered, she be
considered a judgment of said judge of probate, having the same credit
and effect as original judgments, orders and decrees entered up by him-
self, and he shall proceed thereon to enforce the same, as if the same had
originally been made by him.
§ 7. In all cases before the circuit court by appeal as aforesaid, the
said court shall render judgment for costs in the same manner and with
like effect, as the said court can now do on appeals from justices of the
eace.
P § 8. The said judge of probate shall be entitled to the same fees in all
cases of appeals, as the justices of the peace are now entitled to in ap-
peals from their judgments, and the clerk of the circuit court shall be
entitled to the same fees as he is now entitled to by law on appeals from
judgments of justices of the peace.
§ 9. In all cases before the said judge of probate, either party may re-
quire a jury.
§ 10. The said judge of probate shall in all trials before him, conform
to and be governed by the rules of practice prevailin in circuit courts
of this State, and he shall have power to prescribe rugas of practice ndt
inconsistent with the laws of the land.
§ 11. The court of said judge of probate shall be, and the same is
hereby declared to be a court of record, and there shall be kept a just
and faithful record of all proceedings in said court.
§ 12. When the said 'udge of probate, required by this act to be elec-
ted, shall have been duly qualified and commissioned, the county court
of Saline county shall enter an order on their record, requiring the
clerk of said county court to deliver over to said judge of probate all
original papers now on file in his ofiice, relative to all estates of deceas-
ed persons, orphans, minors, idiots and persons of unsound mind, and all
papers of apprentices, and also all other papers relating to any subject
or matter over which the said judge of probate has jurisdiction by this
act; and the said judge of probate shall carefully keep the same in his
oflice, as he is by this act required to keep such papers as are required
by this act to be filed in his oflide, and shall proceed to settle all the un-
finished business as if the same had originated before him; and the said
papers and certified copies thereof by the said judge, ‘shall be evidence
in the same manner as is provided in this act in relation to papers re-

quired to be filed in his oflice.

COURTS. - i 425 '

"" ARTICLE VI.

§ 1. That all copies of entries made by the clerk of the county court
upon his record books, and all copies of papers and writings tiled in‘ his
ollice, duly certified by said clerk of said county court, under his seal of
otlice, to the probate court, to be full and complete copies of the origin-
als in his oflice, shall be received as primafacie evidence that they are
true copies of the originals of which they purport to be copies, and may
be received in evidence as the originals could be, and with like effect.
It shall and may be lawful and the said judge of the probate court is hereby
authorized, by subpoena, to cause the said clerk -of the county court to
appear before said judge of probate, and produce to said probate judge
upon any trial or proceeding before said judge, the original of which said
copies are made and certified, to be read upon such trials or proceed-
ings before him.

§ 2. The said judge of probate is hereby authorized and empowered
to perform all marriage ceremonies in like manner and with like effect,
as is now, or may be
other persons authorized to solemnize the same.

§ 3. The said judge of probate may hear and determine applications
for injunctions, habeas corpus, and ne exeat, and he shall have the same
powers to hear and determine the same as the judges of the circuit
courts now or may hereafter by law have.

§ 4. In addition to the powers granted in the foregoin sections of
this bill, said judge of probate shall have full power to so emnize mar-
riage ceremonies, to take and certify depositions and affidavits, and ad-
minister all oaths required to be administered, in the same manner and
with like effect, as if the said duties had been performed by a justice of
the peace; and he shall receive therefor the same fees that are allowed
to justices of the peace; and he shall have full power to take and certify
the acknowled ment of all deeds and instruments of writing, and relin-
quishments of ower, that can be ttiken and certified by judges or clerks
of courts of record, and shall receive therefor the same fees that are al-
lowed to clerks of the county courts.

§ 5. So soon as any judge of probate shall be commissioned, it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the county court to certify to the Secretary of
State the name of the judge thus commissioned, the date of his commis-
sion, and the length of the term for which he is commissioned. _

§ 6. All laws conflicting with this act are suspunded in their operation
in the county of Saline, so far as they conflict with this act.

Approved March 10, 1849.

/\/\I\.«\I\4\./\J\.;\z‘.r\.4\/\J

AN ACT to establish a Probate Court in the Crunty of Pike.
§ 1. Probate court established; judge, how 7. Shall be a conservator of the peace, and

 

ereafter, required by justices of the peace and.

elected. keep his otlice at county seat.
2. Qualifications of judge. 8. Shall have power to issue writs, but not
3. Duty of judgedso elected; fees allowed; tot trytapiy case in which he may be
how remove . in eres e .
4. Jurisdiction and powers of said court. 9. All business in county cou.rt,_ov_er which
5. True records to be kept. g robate court may have jurisdlztion, to
6. To hold four terms annually, and special , e removed into the latter. ‘

terms when necessary. ’ 10. All writs, process, are , returnable to coun-

I

426 - COURTS.

to be returna le to the atter. 16. May practice as an attorney at law; exce t.
ll. What constitutes a misdemeanor in judge, 17. Vote to be taken by the people, upon t e
. and how punishable. adoption of this act.
12. To be allowed for books, stationary, &c. 18. All elections to be governed by the laws
13. Additional powers defined. . regulating elections of State otiicers.
14. To possess all powers, and be governed by 19. This act to apply to Crawford county.
same laws, that regulate county courts.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly Q/' the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. There shall be a probate court in the county of Pike, to be held at
such time and place as may be prescribed by law; the same shall he composed
ofone judge. who shall he styled the judge of probate; he shall be elected
by the qualified voters of Pike county; and shall hold his ofiice for the term
of four years, and until his successor shall be duly elected and qualified,
Unless sooner removed from otlice. The election shall be certified by the
judges and clerks of the election to the clerk of the county court of said
county, and in case of a tie between two or more persons, the same shall
be determined by the county court. The clerk of the county court shall imme-

ty court, co izable b probate court, § 15. May have Qseal.

.diately certify to the governor the name of the person elected under this act,

who thereupon shall commission him as judge of the probate court of Pike
county, for the term for which he may have been elected. When a vacancy
shall happen in the otlice of judge of probate court of said county, the county
court, at their next term after such vacancy occurs, shall order a special
election, to be advertised and held not more than thirty days thereafter, to
elect ajudge to fill such vacancy, until the expiration ofthe term for which
his predecessor was elected, and until his successor be elected and qualified.

§ 2. The judge of probate shall be at least twenty»five_years of age, a
citizen of the United States, and shall have resided in the county of Pike
one year previous to his election or appointment.

(} 3. He shall, before entering on the duties of his office, take an oath like
that required to be taken by the judges of the circuit court; and may be
removed from ofiice in the same manner, and for the same causes, as any
circuit attorney; he shall receive such fees for his services as are now allowed
by law to the clerk of the county court for like services, to be paid by the
parties respectively at whose instance the services are required; subject,
powever, to be taxed as cost against the unsuccessful party, according to
aw.

§ 4. The probate court aforesaid shall have exclusive original jurisdiction
in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and testaments. granting letters
testamentary and of administration, and revoking the same; appointing or dis-
placing gua!'dians‘0r curators oforphans, minors, or persons of unsound mind;
in binding out apprentices; and in the settlement and allowance of accounts
of executors iind administrator. guardians and curators; to hear and deter-
mine-all disputes and controversies, whatever. respecting wills, the tight of ex-
ecutorship, and administration, or guardianship, or respecting the duties or
accounts of executors, administrators, guardians. or curators; and all disputes
or controversies between masters and their apprentices; to hear and determine
all suits and other proceedings instituted against executors and administra-
tors, upon any demand against the estate of their testator or intestate,
subject to appeals in all cases to the circuit court, in such manner as may
he provided by law; and in all proceedings for the assignment of dower in

real and personal estate, subject to an appeal in like manner to ‘the circuit
court.

COURTS. » 427 .

§ 5. The probate court hereby established is hereby declared a court of
record; and the judge thereof shall keep true and faithful records of the
proceedings of said court.

§ 6. The court hereby established shall hold four terms annually, com-
mencing on the first Mondays of March, June, September, and D’.-cember,
in each year; but may alter the time of holding said court, by giting ten
days public notice by advertisement in some newspaper published in the
county, and may hold special and adjourned terms at any time when
required. '

§ 7. The said judge of probate shall be a conservator of the peace; and in
all cases when it shall be necessary to authenticate any copy of records or
other proceedings, he may use his private seal, until a seal of ofiice is pro-
vided; a.nd shall keep his oliice at the county seat. .

§ 8. The judge of said probate court shall have power to issue all writs
which may be necessary in the.exercise of its jurisdiction, according to the
usages'and principles of law. No judge of probate shall sit on the determi-
nation of any cause or proceeding in which he is interested, or related to
either party; such cause or proceeding shall be certified to the county court,
and said county court may proceed thereon, as the probate court might
have done.

§9. All process, proceedings, matters and business, the jurisdiction of
which is by this act vested i_n the probate eoui t, and which may be pending.
in the county court, ab fat] the taking effect of this act, shall be removed
into the probate court tfor final judgment, decision, order, decree, and
adjudication; and it shall be the duty of the county court of said county,
‘and of this clerk thereof,‘immediately after -the taking efibct of this act. to
deliver to the judge of the probate court hereby established, all papers, books,
documents, and other things relating to any matter, the jurisdiction whereof
is or shall be vested in said probate court, together with all records which
exclusively concern or relate to the jurisdiction transferred to said probate
court.

§ 10. All writs, process, and notices, made or to be made retuinable to
the county court next after the taking effect of this act, relating t_o things
and matters made cognizable by this act, in the probate court. shall be
returnable to the first term of the probate court to be held under this act-

§ ll. If the judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully do any act
contrary to the duties of his oliice, as prescribed by law. 01‘ Shall knqwmgly
and wilfully omit or refuse to perform any act, :Bl'VlC6, or duty required pf
him by the laws of this State, he shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor in
oliice, and on conviction thereof, shall be removed from oliicco and be
subject to ‘a suit for damages by the injured party. _

§ 12. The said judge shall be allowed all necessary expenses for suitable
books, stationery, furniture, and other necessaries for his ofiice, to be audited
by the county CO'll'i, and paid by the county. _

§ 13. The said judge of probate shall have power to solemnize marriage
contracts; grant, hear, and determine writs of habeas corpus, and grant
injunctions returnable to the circuit court, in the same manner as county
courts may do; and may take, and certify the proof and acknowledgment
of deeds, conveyances. and other instruments of writing.

§ 14. The probate court hereby established shall have and possess all the
po «er and be governed by the same laws that govern the county courts, so
far as the same are applicable.

428 COURTS.

§ 15. The Judge of said court shall procure a seal with such emblems and
devices as he shall think proper, which shall be kep_t in the otlicc of said
courn

§ 16. Nothing in this act shall he so construed as to prohibit the judge of
probate from practising in other courts of record in this State, except in
cases of appeal from the court of which he isjudge.

§ I7. The county court of Pike county Shall order columns to be opened
on the several poll books which may be made out for the general election
in 1850 tor and against this 'act, and if a majority voting on the subject
shall vote against it, the probate business of said county shall continue to be
tr,-insa"ed by the county court; but if a majority shall vote in favor of this
no‘, the county court shall immediately make publication of the fact, and
order an election forjudge of probate, to take place on the first Monday of
November next thereattcr; and the judge chosen shall hold his olhce until
the tirst Monday of August, in the year l85l, and until his successor shall
be duly elected and qualilied. There shall be an election for judge of
probate on the first Monday in August, 1854; and each subsequent election
for saidjudge shall be on the first Monday of August, every period of four
years thcrealter. _

§l8. All elections under this act shall be proceeiled on in the same

rm-nner and be subject to the same rules, duties, and restrictions as are

provided in the case of elections for State ollicers, by the act to regulate
elections, approved March 23, 1845.
§ 19. The above act shall apply to Crawford county.
This act to take effect as above provided.

Approved March (3, 1849.

 

r-\r\;\r-‘,4-\/\/\r\/\/\/'\/\f\ "'

AN ACT to establish Probate Courts in the counties of Platte and

Andrew.
§ 1. Probate Jud e of Platte and Andrew coun- to apply to same otiicers in Platte and
ties to be e ected. Andrew, in same courts.
2. The provisions of an act to establish a pro- 5. Said Probate Judge ma hold other otlices
bate court in Cooper, to be operative in than that of Judge of rebate.
Platte and Andrew. 6. Judge of Probate may reside any wherein
3. Probate Judge in Platte and Andrew to county.
possess same powers as said Judge in 7. Jud e to have an office at .court house,
Cooper. w er. practicable.

4. The duties required of allotlicers of Coop- 8. All contlicting laws repealed.
or county, in relation to probate court,

Be it enacted by the General ufssemblgy of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That on the first Monday in August, 1849, and every four years
thereafter, there shall be elected by the ualified voters of the counties
of Platte and Andrew, in each res ectivgly an officer to be styled the
Probate Judge of the county for which he may be elected, who shall hold
his office four years, and until his successor shall be duly commissioned
and qualified.

§ 2. The provisions of an act entitled “an act to establish a probate
court in the county of Cooper,” approved February 6th, 1847, are here-
by made operative in the counties of Platte and Andrew, and shall gov-
ern the probate courts of said counties of Platte and Andrew in all res-

covers. 429

I

pects, and in as full and ample a manner as the said act can be made ap-
plicable to said counties or the courts thereof.

§ 3. The probate judges of said counties of Platte and Andrew shall
possess the same powers and jurisdiction in their counties and courts as
is possessed in the county of Cooper by the probate judge of said coun-
ty, and they shall be allowed the same fees in their counties as are al-
lowed in Cooper county to the probate judge of said county for similar
services. . °

§ 4. The duties required of all ofiicers of Cooper county, in relation
to the probate court of said county, the same are hereby required of like
oflicers in the counties of Platte and Andrew, in relation to the probate
court of said county, [counties,] and the circuit courts of the counties
of Platte and Andrew, shall have the same supervisory control over the
probate courts of said counties, as is by the act above referred to, given
to the circuit court of Cooper county, over the probate court of said
count .- - .

§ 5.y Said probate judge may hold the ofiice of county court justice,

county court clerk, or justice of the peace, in audition to the oilice of
probate judge.

§ 6. So much of the act recited in the 2nd section of this act as re- _

quires the probate judge to reside at the county seat, shall not apply to
the probate judge of Platte, nor Andrew county, but the probate judges
of said counties may reside any where in the county, but shall keep their

office at the county seat, and shall lreelp the same open on every day, _

from ten o’clock, A. M. to 4 o’clock, M., Sundays and the 4th day
of July only excepted; or reside at the county seat, at his option.
§ 7. The provisions of- the 13th section of the fourth artic e of the act
above referred to, shall not be exercised in either the county of Platte
or Andrew while there can be procured for said probate judge a suita-
ble otlice in the court house of the county.
§ 8. All laws conflicting with this act, or the act recited in the second
section of this act, so far as the same relates to the counties of Platte or
Andrew, are hereby repealed.
This act to take efect from and after the fourth day of July next.
Approved March 12, 1849. '

   

5

AN ACT supplementary to an act to establish a Probate Court in the
county ol Cooper; approved February 6, 1847.

§ 1. Probate courts established in Sullivan, 4. Probate judge not required to reside at
Grundy, Putnam and Gentry countiemé county seat, and may practice as attor-

2. Duties of county courts in,said counties ne in certain cases.

in relation to probate courts. 5. Pro ate courts in said counties to be go’v-
3. Judge of probate may exercise same func- erned by the provisions of the act to
tions as justices of the peace, and receiv which this is amendatory.

same fees. i

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. There shall be a probate court in each of the counties of Sullivan,
Grundy, Putnam and Gentry. The judge of the probate court in each of
the counties aforesaid, shall have power to employ a clerk at his own ex-
pense, who may do any writing pertaining to the duties pf said probate

430 couars.

judge, and who may receive and file all papers which are by law required to
be filed in the office of such judge, and who may do all acts and things,
granting letters testamentary and of administration and guardianship, which
the clerk of the county court may now do in vacation ; which clerk shall act
under oath, and for whose ofiicial acts the said judge shall be responsible.
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the respective county courts in the aforesaid
counties to cause an election to be held in their several counties on thetirst
Monday in August next’, for the purpose of electing a probate judge; at
which election a vote shall likewise be taken for and against this act, and in
all counties where a majority of the votes taken are for this act, it shall be
in full force and effect from the time of taking such vote; and in such coun-
ties as a majorityfvote against it, it shall be inoperative.
§ 3. The judge of any probate court established by this act may exercise
generally the functions of a justice of the peace in and for the township in
which he resides, and shall receive the same fees and be subject to the same
liabilities as other justices of the peace in their ofiicial capacity. -
§ 4. Nothing in this act to which it is supplementary, shall be construed
.as requiring the probate judge to reside at the county- seat of the county in
which he lives, or to prevent his practising as attorney and counsellor at law
in any court‘, except in cases originating in the court over which he presides.
§ 5. Any probate court established by this act, shall be governed by the
provisions of the act to which this is supplementary; and the county ofiicers
in any county which shall adopt this act, shall begoverned by an act to
establish a probate court in the county of Cooper; approved February 6th,
1847. in all its provisions, as applied to the county of Cooper, except such
provisions as confiict with this act.

Approved March I2, 1849.

 

AN ACT supplementary to an act entitled “An act to establish a Probate
"Court in the county of Dunklin; approved February 15, l847.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the above recited_act providing for the establishment of a pro~
bate court in the county of Dunklin, shall apply in all its provisions to the
county of DeKalb, if a majority of the votes given at the election to be held
as hereinafter provided, shall be in favor of the same.

_ §2, The first election for probatejudge shall be held at the several elec-
non precincts in DeKalb county, on the first Monday in August next, and
on the first Monday in August in the year eighteen hundred and fifty; and
each subsequent election on the same day of said month of August, at the
end of every period of four years thereafter. The clerk of the county court

' shall certify to the Governor the name of the person elected under this act,

who shall thereupon commission him as judge of the probate court of the
county of DeKalb for the term for which he may have been elected, '
§ 3. A poll shall be opened at the several election precincts in DeKalb
county, on the first Monday in August next, with two columns; one headed
“For the Dunklin County Probate,” and the other “Against the Dunklin
County Probate ;” and if a majority of the votes given shall be in favor of
ftltl probate court, the act to which this is supplementary shall be in force
‘-'m'Nte county of DeKalb; but if a majority of said votes shall be against

.eoun'rs. K 431

said probate court, the act aforesaid shall be void and of no efect in said
county of DcKalb.
This act to take eflect from its passage.
Approved March 10, I849. —

 

AN ACT to establish a Probate Court in the County of Moniteau.

§ 1. Probate eonrt established in Moniteaup ll. All business in county court, cognizable by

judge to be elected, how. probate court, to be removed into the let-

2. Clerk of couty court to certify to Governor, ter, together with all papers relating there-
tlie name of person elected. to.

3. \Vhen vacancy occurs, how tilled. 12. All writs, &c., returnable to county court,

4 Qualiiieatioru: of judge, and where he shall <, in such cases, to be returnable to probate
reside. 5 court.

6. Jurisdiction and powers of court, defined. 14. What constitutes misdemeanor in judge and
7. Declared to be a court of record. how punished.
8. To hold four terms annually and special‘ 15. To be allowed for books, stationary, &c.

5. Shutl take an oath, and how removed. S 13. Ali writs, ts-c., returnable how and when.

terms when required. 16. Further powers defined.
9. Further powers, dctined. i 17. Probate court to possess all powers belong.
10. To isue writ. but not to try cases in which ing to county courts, and be governed by
he may be lntersted. the same laws, so far as applicable.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz', as follows:

= § 1. There shall be a probate court in the county of Moniteau, to be
held at such times and places as shall be prescribed by law, the same shall

' he composed of onejudge, who shallbe styled the judge of probateof’

Moniteau county, and shall be elected by the qualified voters of Moniteau
county, and shall hold his ofliee for the term of four years, and until his
successor is duljr elected and qualified unless sooner removed from otiice.

The election shall be certified by the judges and clerks of election to the

clerk of the county court of Moniteau county, and in case of atie between
two or more persons the same shall be determined by the county court. - 5

§ 2. The clerk of the county court shall certify to the Governor the
name of the person elected under this act, who shall thereupon commission
him as judge of the probate court of the county of Moniteau, for the term
for which he may have been elected.

§ 3. When a vacancy shall happen in the oflice aforesaid the county
court, at their next term after such vacancy occurs, shall order a special

' election to be advertised and helu not more than thirty days thereafter to

elect it judge to fill such vacancy until the expiration of the term for which
the judge was formerly elected and until his successor be elected and quali-

lied.

' § 4. The judge of probate shall be at least twenty-five years of age, a’
citizen of the United States, and shall have resided in the county of Moni-
teau one year previous tothis election or appointment, and shall hold his
court at the county seat of said county and keep his oflice there.

9 5. He shall before entering upon the duties of his oflice take an oath,
like that required to be taken by the judges ofthe circuit court, and may _be
removed from otlice in the same manner and for the same causes as any ctr.
-cuit attorney, he shall receive such fees for his services as are now allowed
by law to the clerk of the county ‘court, for like services to be paid bs the

arties rcspectiveiy, atwhose instance the services are” rendered, subject
however to be. taxed as costs against the unsuccessful party, according to law.

432 ‘ oomrrs.

§ 6. The probate court of Moniteau county shall have exclusive orig-
inal jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and testa-
ments. granting letters testamentary and of administration, and revoking the
same, appo nting and displacing guardians or curators of orphans, minors or
persons of unsound minds, in binding out apprentices, and in the settle-
ment and allowance of accounts of executors, administrators,guardians and
curators, to hear and determine all disputes and controversies between mas-
ters and their apprentices, to hear and determine all suits and other pro-
ceedings instituted against executors and administrators upon any demand
against the estate of the testator or intestate, subject to appeal in all cases
to the circuit court in such manner as appeals are now taken from the
county courts in all proceedings for the assignment of dower in real estate,
as well as personal, subject to appeal in like manner to the circuit court.
§ 7. The probate court hereby established is hereby declared a court of
record, and the judge or clerk thereof shall keep true and faithful records
of the proceedings of said court. -
§ 8. The probate court hereby established shall hold four terms annually.
commencing on the Erst Monday in September in each year and every
three months thereafter, and may alter the times of holding said court by
giving ten days public notice thereof, and may hold special or adjourned
terms at any time when r.-quired.
§ 9. The judge of prubateshall be a conservator of the peace and in
all cases where it shall be necessary to authenticae any copy of record or
other proceedings the said judge of probate may use his private seal until II
seal of oliice is provided.
§ 10. The judge of said court of probate shall have power to issue all
writs which may be necessary in the exercise of its jurisdiction, according
to the usages and principles of law, no judge of probate shall set on the
determination of any cause or proceeding in which he is interested, or rela-
ted to either party, such cause or proceeding shall be certilied to the county
\ Eourt and said court shall proceed thereon as the probate court might have
one. ‘
§ H. The first election of judges of probate shall be held on the first
Monday of August 1849, and on the first Monday of August every f0|J|'
years thereafter, and said election shall be governed by the laws in relation
to the election of county court judges as far as the same are appli_cablc.
§ l2. All process, proceedings, matters and business, the jurisdiction of
which is by this act vested in the probate court and which may be
pending in the county court, shall be and the same is hereby remov-
ed into the probate court for final decision, judgment, order, decree. 3"d
adjudication, and it shall be the duty of the county court of Moniteau cowl‘
ty, and of the clerk thereof, immediately after the taking effect of this act
to deliver to the judge of the probate court hereby established, all papers.
books. documents, and other things relating to any matter, the juris<licti0l1
whe=reol' is or shall be vested in said probate court, together with all rc(0l‘_tl5
which exclusively concern or relate to the jurisdiction transferred to Stud
probate court.
§ l3. All writs, process and notices made or to he made returnableto
the term of the county court next after the taking effect of this act, relating
to matters and things made cogniznble by this act in the probate court shall

be returnable to the lirst term of the probate court to be held under this
act.

coon:-s. ' 433

§ 14. If the judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully do an
act or thing contrary to the duties of his otiice, as prescribed by law, or shal
knowingly and wilfully omit or refuse to perform any act, thing, service or
duty required of him by the laws‘ of this State, he shall be deemed guilty of
aéiisdemeanor in otlice, and on conviction thereof shall be removed from
o co.

§ 15. The judge of probate shall be allowed all necessary expenses for
suitable books, stationary, furniture, fuel and other necessaries for his oflice,
to be paid by the county, and may appoint his clerk, who shall take an oath
faithfully todemean himself in othce, keep true records of all matters requir-
ed by law and perform such duties as his oflice requires.

§ 16. The judge of probate shall have power to solemnize marriage
contracts, perform marriage ceremonies, grant, bear and determine writs of
habeas corpus and grant injunctions, returnable to the circuit court in the
same manner as county courts now do, take and certify the proof and ac-
knowledgment of deeds, conveyances, and other instruments of writing.

§ 17. The probate court of Moniteau county shall have and possess
all the power and be governed by the same laws that govern the county
courts, so far as the same are applicable.

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 9, 1849. '

 

AN ACT to establish a Probate Court in the county of Carroll.

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfoHows:

§ 1. That an act entitled an act to establish a probate court in the county
of Dunklin, approved February 15, 1847, shall apply in all of its provisions
to the county of Carroll, if a majority of the votes given at the election to
be held as hereinafter provided, shall be in favor of the same.

§ 2. The first election for probate judge shall be held at the several elec-
tion precincts in Carroll county, on the first Monday in August next, and

. the first Monday in August in the year eighteen hundred and fifty; and each

subsequent election on the same day of said month of August, at the end of
every period of four years thereafter. The clerk of the county court shall
certify to the Governor the name of the person elected under this act, who
shall thereupon commission him as judge of the probate court of the county
.of Carroll for the term for which he may have been elected.

§3. A poll shall be opened at the several election precinctsin Carroll
county, on the first Monday in August next, with one column, headed “For
the Dunklin County Probate,” and another column, headed “Against the
Dunklin County Probate; and if amajority of the votes given shall be in
favor of said probate court, the act to establish a probate court in the county
-of Dunklin shall be in force in the county of Carroll; but if a majorityof
said votes shall be against said probate court, the act shall be void and of no
effect in said county of Carroll.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

-. so

434_ COURTS.

AN ACT to establish a probate court in the county of Ozark.

§ 1. Probate court established. 10. County clerk required to move certain bu-
2. Qualifications of judges. siness to probate court.
3. Judge to take oath of otlice; fees, &c. 11. All process, &.c., returnable to county to

I 4. Jurisdiction and powers of judge. be made returnable to probate.
5. Shall hold four courts annually. 12. Misdemeanor how punishable.
6. Declared to be a court of justice. 13. To be allowe books, &.c.
7. To be conservator of peace; have a seal. 14. To possess same powers and governed by
8. Further powers dehned. same laws as county courts.

9. Election for probate judge; when.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. There shall be a probate court in the county of Ozark, to be held
at such time and place as shall be prescribed by law; the same shall be
composed of’ one judge, who shall be styled the judge of probate of said
county; he shall be e ected by the qualified voters of the county, and
shall hold his oflice for the term of four years, and until his successor is
duly elected and ualified, unless sooner removed from office; the elec-
tion shall be certi%ed by the judges and clerks of elections, to the clerk
of the county court, who shall proceed therein as in cases of other elec-
tions; and in case of a tie between two or more persons, the same shall
be determined by the county court; the clerk of the county court shall
certify to the governor the name of the person elected under this act,
who shall thereupon commission him» as judge of the probate court for
the county of Ozark, for the time prescribed by this act; when a vacan-
cy shall happen in the oflice of judge of the probate court in the county

aforesaid, the county court clerk shall be ex-ollicio judge of said probate _

'court until the next general election; and shall be subject to re-election
to fill said vacancy; nothing in this act shall be so construed as to dis-
qualify the clerk of the county court from being elected and serving as
judge of said probate court. ~

§ 2. The judge of probate shall be at least twenty-live years of age,
a citizen of the United States, and shall have resided in the county for
which he is elected one year previous to his election.

§ 3. He shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take an oath.

like that required to be taken by the judge of the circuit court; and maybe
removed from oflice in the same manner and for the same causes as any
circuit attorney; he shall receive such fees for his services as are now
allowed by law to the clerk of the county court for like services, to be
paid by the parties respectively at whose instance the services are ren-
dergd, subject however to be taxed against the unsuccessful party ac-
‘cor ing to law.

§ 4. The probate court hereby_ established shall have exclusive original
jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and testa-
ments, granting letters testamentary and of administration, and revoking
the same; appointing or displacing guardians or curators of orphans, mi-
nors, or persons of unsound mind; in binding out apprentices; and in the
settlement and allowance of accounts of executors, administrators, guar-
dians and curators; to hear, try and determine all disputes and contro-
versies whatsoever, respecting wills, the right of executorship, adminis-
tration or guardiadship, or respecting the duties or accountsof executors,
administrators, guardians, or curators, and all disputes and controversies
between masters and their apprentices; to hear and determine all disputes

couars. 435

and other proceedings instituted against executors and administrators
upon any demand against the estate of the testator or intestate; subject
to appeal in all cases to the circuit court, in such manner as may be pro-
vided by law; and in all proceedings for the assignment of dower, in
real and personal estate, subject to appeal in like manner to the circuit
court. . .

§ 6. The probate court hereby established shall hold four terms annu-
ally, commencing on the first Mondays in March, June, September, and
December, in each year; and may alter the times of holding said courts
by giving fifteen days public notice thereof, and may hold special or ad-
journed terms at any time when required.

§ 6. The probate court hereby established is hereby declared a court
of record, and the judge thereof shall keep true and faithful records of
and the proceedings of said court. ‘

§ 7. Said judge ofprobate shall be a conservator of the peace, and in all
cases when it shall be necessary to authenticate any copy of records or oth-
er proceedings; the said judge of probate may use his private seal until the
proper seal of oflice be provided and shall keep his oflice at the county seat.

§ 8. The judge of probate shall have power to issue all writs which
may be necessary in the exercise of his jurisdiction, according to the
usages and principles of law; no judge of probate shall set on the deter-
mination of any cause or proceeding in which he is interested,’ or related
to either party; such causes or proceedings shall be certified to the coun-
ty court, and said county court shall proceed thereon as the probate
court might have done. _ _.

§ 9. The first election for said judge of probate shall be held on the
first Monday in August, 1849, and in 1850, and every subsequent elec-
tion, on the same day, at the end of every period of four years thereafter.

§ 10. All powers, proceedings, matters, and business, the jurisdiction
of which is vested by this act in ,the probate court hereby established’,
and which may be pending in the county court, as heretofore organized,
at the taking effect of this act shall be and the same is hereby removed
into the probate court for finaljudgment, decision, order, or decree and

adjudication, and it shall be the duty of the county court and the clerk.

thereof, immediately after the taking effect of this act, to deliver to the_
judge of the said probate court hereby established, all apers, books,
documents, and other things relating to any matter, t e jurisdiction
whereof is or shall be vested in the said probate court, together with all
records which exclusively concern or relate to the jurisdiction transfer-
red to said probate court. '

§ 11. All writs, process, and notices made or to be made returnable to
the term of the county court next after the taking effect of this act, re-
lating to matters and things made cognizable by this act, in the said pro-
bate court, shall be returnable to the first term of said probate court to
be held under this act.

§ 12. If any judge of said probate court shall knowingly and wilfully
do any act or thing contrary to his office, as prescribed by law, or shall
knowingly and wilfully omit or refuse to perfofm any act required of him
by the laws of this State, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in
ollice, and on conviction thereof shall be removed from oflice.

§ 13. The judge of probate shall be allowed all necessary expenses for,

436 . counrs.

suitable books, stationery, furniture, and other necessaries for his odice,
to be audited by the county court and paid accordingly; said judge of
probate shall have power to solemnize marriage contracts; grant, rear,
and determine writs of habeas corpus, and grant injunctions returnable
to the circuit court, in the same manner as county courts now do; take
and certify the proof and acknowledgment of deeds, conveyances, and
other instruments of writing.

§ 14. The said probate court shallhave and possess all the power, and
be governed by the same laws that govern the county courts, so far as
the same are a plicable.

This act sha I take effect and be in force from and after its passage, or
so soon thereafter as the judge of probate is elected and qualified.

Approved February 27, 1849.

J

 

'\z\,,»~.,-

AN ACT to establish a probate court in Madison county.

§ 1. Establishment of; style.

2. Qualifications of judge; how commission-
ed.

3. When vacancy occurs, how to be tilled.

4. Jurisdiction and powers of the judge, de- into the probate court.
fined. 12. What business, heretofore returnable to the

6. Number of terms to be held, and special 3 county court, to be made returnable to
terms. \d probate court.

6. further powers, define . 13. To be allowed for books, papers, &c.

7. Otlice to be kept at com? seat; record of t 14. When judge of probate to be elected; ten-
proceedin s to be kept; ees allowed, &.c, ure of said office.

8. Judge may ave a clerk; duties defined. 15. May practice as an attorney—except.

9. Not to try any case in which he may be 16. This act to apply to Pulaski county.
interested. 17. When to take effect.

10. To have all powers and be governed by
same laws as county courts.

11. What business, over which county court:
formerly had jurisdiction, to be removed

e/x./-., -\/*../\/~ _/x.x\./

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. There shall be a court of record in Madison county, Missouri, to
be styled “The Probate Court,” and the same shall be composed of one
judge, to be styled “The Probate Judge of Madison county.’.’

2. The judge of probate -shall possess the same qualifications of
ju ges of the county court; be elected, commissioned and qualified in
the ‘same manner that county judges are, and removed from ofiice for
like causes; and he shall hold his ofiice four years and until his succes-
sor is duly elected and qualified as the law directs.

§3. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the ofiice of probate judge,
from death, resignation or otherwise, the same shall be filled by appoint-
ment of the Governor, if such vacancy happen within six months of the
expiration of the term for which the late judge of probate was elected;
if not, within that time, then the county court shall order an election to
till such vacancy.

§ 4. The probate jud e shall havevhave exclusive original jurisdiction
in all cases relative to t e probate of last wills and testaments; granting
letters testamentary and of administration, and revoking the same; ap-
pointing or displacing guardians or curators of orphans, minors, or per-
sons of unsound mind, or binding out apprentices, and in the settlement
and allowance of accounts of executors, administrators, guardians and

' COURTS. 437
curators, and to hear and determine all disputes and controversies what-
soever respecting wills, the right of executorship, administration or
guardianship, or respecting the duties or accounts of executors, admin-
istrators, guardians or curators, and all disputes or controversies between
masters and their apprentices; to hear and determine all suits and other
proceedings instituted against executors or administrators, upon any de-
mand against the estate of their testator or intestate, and shall have the
same power to assign dower and make partition of personal estate that
the county courts now have by law.

§ 5. The probate court hereby established shall hold four term annu-
ally, on the iirst‘Mondays of January, April, July and October, in each
year, and the judge may alter the times of holding said court by giving
four weeks notice thereof by publication in some newspaper printed in
the county or by temadvertisements set up in ten of the most public
places in the county, and may hold special or adjourned terms whenever

e thinks it necessary. ’

§ 6. The judge of probate shall be a conservator of the peace, ‘shall
have power to solemnize marriages; grant letters testamentary and of
administration, in vacation, take and certify the proofand acknowled e-
ment of deeds and other conveyances, in the same manner that o er
courts of record and their clerks now do. _

§ 7. He shall keep his ofiice at the county seat of said county-—-«shall
keep, or cause his c erk.to keep, a true record of all his proceedings,
and shall receive the same fees that are allowed by law to the clerks of
the county and circuit courts, and other officers, for performing like
services, to be paid by the parties respectively at‘ whose instance the
services were performed, subject, however, to be taxed as costs against
the unsuccessful party, according to law. He shall procure and keep a
seal, with such emblems and devices as he thinks proper, to authenti-
cate, when necessary, any copy of record or other proceedings; but,
until a seal is procured, he may use his private seal.

§ 8. The judge of probate may have a clerk, who shall perform such
duties as clerks of the county court may perform, in their oilicial capa-
city, and hold his oflice subject to the will of the judge of probate, who
shall pay his clerk and be responsible for his official acts.

§ 9. No judge of probate‘ shall sit on the determination of any cause
or proceeding in which he is concerned or related to either party, but
such cause or proceeding shall be certified to the county court, and said
court shall proceed thereon as the probate court might have done.

§ 10. The probate court of Madison county shall have and possess all
the power, and be governed by the same laws that govern county courts,
so far as the same are applicable. _

§ 11. All process, proceedings, matters and business, the jurisdic-
tion of which is, ‘by this act, vested in the probate court, and may be
pending in the county court as heretofore organized, at the takin(g effect
of this act shall be removed into the probate court for final ju gment,
decision, order, decree and adjudication; and it shall be the duty of the
county court of Madison county, and the clerk thereof, immediately
after this act goes into effect, to deliver to the judge of probate, all
books, papers, documents, records and other things relating to any mat-

. X

F

438 counrs. e '

ter, the jurisdiction whereof is or shall be vested in the same probate

court.

12. All writs, process, notices and reports, made or to be made re-
turnable to the county court next after the taking effect of this act, re-
lating to matters and things made cognizable by'this act in the probate
court, shall be made returnable to the first term of the probate court to
be held under this act.

§ 13. The judge of probate shall be allowed all reasonable expenses
for suitable books, stationery, furniture and other necessaries for is of-
fice, to be audited by the county court, and paid out of the county trea-

8ul§.yl4. A probate judge shall be elected at the general election on the

‘first Monday in August, A. D. 1852,» and every four years thereafter;

but the first election under this act shall be held on the first Monday in
Au ust, A. D. 1849, and the probate judge elected at that time shall only
hol his ofiice three years, or until his successor is duly elected and
qualified. .

§ 15. Nothingwin this act shall be so ‘construed as to prevent any pro-
bate judge of adison county, who 18 otherwise qua ified, from prac-
ticing as an attorney, counsellor or solicitor in any court of law or equity
in this State; provided, however, said judge shall not be allowed to
practice as aforesaid in any appeal case from his court, or in any case
that may in any manner he brought before such judge for judicial action.

§ 16. This act shall apply to Pulaski county. ‘

§ 17. This act shall take effect when the judge of probate, to be
elected on the first Monday in August, shall have been elected and qual-

ilied.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to establish a probate court in the county of Henry.
ARTICLE I.

5. County court to commission.
6. Judge to take an oath to support constitu-
tution; when otiice to be declared vacant.

§ 1. Probate judge to be elected.
2. Eligibility of such persons.
3. When otiice vacatedjhow filled.
4. County court to decide contested elections.

ARTICLE II.

 

1_ Book, and furniture, 5. Process; how executed and returned.
2. Duties of jud e defined. 6. Duties of sheriff defined.
3. Process, byw om executed. 7. All copies, &.c., issued to be received as
4. Sheriff to attend court when required; du- é evidence.
ties, &.c.

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. Records of proceedings to be kept. E 3. Allapapers to be marked and filed in clerk’:
o

2. Oliice to be kept at county-seat; number ce.
of regular terms. 4. Further powers of judge defined.

ARTICLE IV.

1, .lnr'm,l1ct'mn and owers defined. 5. Chaucer roceedin s.
, P ) Y P 8
2. .l1.1rlj;'05 to exercise same powers as county 6. How removed from office, and for what
rm_1rt.c_. an-l clerks thereof. offences.‘
"3. I'!ut_'u2_= of guardians curators &.c. ,‘ 7. Count court~ duties of.
9 2 Y 9

-"s. .l‘-‘-.rlgH9I.j, ‘t't'llF1T‘.I-€€33llOW9d.

I

covers. 439

ARTICLE V.
1. Circuit court to exercisesu iso con- 7. Duties of circuit court in cases of a ale
§ trol over robete court. perv 1? thereto. ppe

2. Appeals al owed. 8. Fees.

3. Appeals to be taken within thirty days. 9. Either party entitled to a 

4. Duties of parties appealing. 10. Rules of practice in circuit court to prevail
5. Duties of judge in relation to such appeals. in probate court.

6. Further reference to appeals. ll. Duties of clerk of county court in relation

to probate business.

ARTICLE VI.
5 1. Copies of papers from clerk of county 4. Clerk of county court to certify name of

court to be received as evidence. judge elected to Secretary of State.
2. Additional powers of judge defined. 5. Declared a court of record.
3. A plication, &c., for injunction may be 6. Act to be submitted to the voters of the
card and determined. county for ratification.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssenibly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

ARTICLE I.

§ 1. That on the first Monday in August, in the year eighteen hundred
and fifty, there shall be elected by the qualified voters of Henry county an

ofiicer to be styled the probate judge of Henry county, who shall‘

hold his oflice until his successor shall be duly elected, qualified and commis-‘
sioned. Said probate judge shall be elected every four years thereafter,
and shall hold his o$ce until his successor shall be duly qualified and com.
rnissioned.

§ 2. N 0 person shall be eli ible to said ofiice who is not a citizen of the
United States, [and] who shal not at the time of his election have been an
inhabitant of this State two years, and of said county one year, next prece-
ding his election. -

§3. Whenever said judge of probate shall die, resign or remove out of
said county, the county court of said county shall declare said otiice vacant,
and shall proceed to appoint some suitable person to fill said vacancy; and
who shall hold his oliice until the next regular election, and until his succes-
sor shall be duly qualified and commissioned.

§4. The county court shall have jurisdiction, and decide in case of con-
tested election for said oflice.

§ 5. When said otiicer shall be declared elected, the county court shall
make out a commission, signed by them, or a majority thereof, attested by
the clerk of said court under his seal of office, and who shall immediately
deliver the same to the person thus elected.

S 6. Every judge of probate shall within twenty days after the receipt of
said commission take an oath, to be signed by him, and sworn to before some
odiccr authorized to administer oaths, that he will support the constitution of
the United States and of this State, and will faithfully demean himself in
o$ce, which oath shall within thirty days he filed in the office of the clerk
of said county; and in default of which the office shall be declared vacant

by the county court, who shall proceed to fill such vacancy as provided in .

section five of this act.

ARTICLE II.

§l. Every diudge of probate! elected under this act shall purchase
suitable recor hooks and furniture for his odice, and the county court
of_ said county shall audit and allow him a reasonable compensation

.4‘

\

440 counrs.

therefor, and order the same to be paid out of the county treasury.

§ 2. Every judge of probate shall make, keep and preserve complete
records of all wills, testaments and codicils, and the probate thereof; all
letters testamentary and administration, and all bonds taken of adminis-
trators and executors, guardians and curators, and preserve the original
on file in his office; and all oaths and aflirmations taken before him, and
all inventories, appraisments, sale bills and other exhibits presented to
and recorded by said court, appertaining to the administration of estates
and guardianships; and shall enter upon such books the amounts of all
such appraisments, inventories and sale bills, and other proper exhibits,
under a proper head, for easy reference; and shall enter upon such re-
cord all matters, controversies and suits as may arise in his court for ad-
judication and decision, with the names of the parties, and all final and
interlocutory judgments, and which he [may] make thereon.
~ l § 3. Process issued by said judge )f probate, shall be signed and test-
ed by himself, and shall have his seal of oflice, if he have one, if not, his
private seal, attached thereto and -directed to the sheriff, or if he be in-
terested, to the coroner; said process may be directed to and executed
by any such sheriff or coroner, in any county in the State.

' _ § 4. To enable said judge of probate to execute the powers conferred

on him, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or his deputy of Henry county
to attend when required by said judge, all the regular and special terms
of said court, and to preserve order in the same; he shall execute all
writs of attachment, summons, subpcenas, citations, notices and other
process which may at any time be legally issued by said judge; and
said sheriff shall be entitled to such fees or compensation as is allowed-
by the circuit court for similar services, to be taxed and allowed by said
judge against the county, party or delinquent, as near as may be appli-
cab e to the rules and practice of the circuit court.

§ 6. Whenever any process shall come into the hands of said sheriff.
or coroner of Henry county, or sheriff or.coroner of any other county in
this State, the same shall be executed and returned in the same manner
andwith like effect as similar process issued by the circuit court, and
the said sheriffs and coroners shall have the same powers to execute and
enforce the same as they now have or may hereafter have to execute and
enforce similar process in the circuit court; and all sales and execu-
tions shall be conducted as sales now are or may hereafter be required
to be made under executions from the circuit courts of this State.

§ 6. Whenever any sheriff or coroner under the provisions of this act
shall selliany land, tenements or real estate, or any interest therein, or
any goods and chattles, he shall make return of his process to the judge
of probate, with an endorsment thereon of the manner in which he exe-
cuted the same, and said judge shall file the same in his omce, and the
sheriff or coroner shall proceed to execute deeds of conveyance in the
same manner and with like effect as he is now or may hereafter be re-

‘ quired to execute said deeds on sales made under process from the cir-

cuit courts; and such deeds shall be received in evidence in the same
manner and with like effect as deeds are now or may hereafter be re-
quired to be received in evidence, on sales under executions from the
circuit court.

§. 7. All copies of any record, order, writ or process of any kind, or_of

?

counrs. 441

any paper of any kind, required by law to be filed and kept in the office
of said judge, or to be issued by him, and all copies of returns made by
any otlicer who is required to execute said writ or process properly cer-
tified by said judge, under the seal of his office, to be a true, full and
perfect copy of such record, writ, order, process or paper or return re-
maining on file, shall be received in evidence‘ with like effect as the ori-
ginal when produced and shown by said judge of probate in any court in
which he may be required to produce and show the same.

ARTICLE III.

§ 1. Every judge of probate shall record at full length in said books
all.judgments, orders, decrees and rules which he may make, and shall
make a complete alphabetical index thereto, which record thus to be
kept shall be free for inspection by any person interested therein, free
of char e.
§ 2. he said jud e shall hold his otlice at the county seat of said
county, and shall bol four regular terms of his court in each year, to-
wit: on the first Mondays in January, April, July and October; and he
may a point and hold special terms of his court in the same manner as
the ju e of the circuit courts may now do. ' '_
. § 3. he said judge shall mark and file away and keep in convenient
bundles, all papers which are required by law to be kept in his office.
§ 4. The said judge of probate shall have ower to enforce due obedi-
ence to all the orders, rules, judgments and secrees which he may make
in the discharge of the duties of his oflice, and may issue attachments
for contempt offered such court or its process, and shall "fine all and any
person so offending, in any sum not exceedzng twenty dollars, at the dis-
cretion of the court. ‘

ARTICLE IV.

§ 1. The said judge of probate for said county shall have original and
exclusive jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and
testaments, the granting of letters testamentary and of administration, and
repealing and revoking the same; appointing and displacing guardians of
orphans, minors and persons of unsound mind; in binding out apprentices
and the settlement. and allowance of accounts of executors, administra-
tors, guardians and curators; to hear and determine all disputes and con-
troversies respecting wills, rights of executorship, administration ‘and
guardianship; all controversies between masters and their apprentices,-
and to hear and decide all controversies about the distribution ofthe as-
setts of estates in his ollice; to hear and determine all demands a ainst
executors, administrators, guardians and curators when the deman does
not exceed two hundred dollars. '

§ 2. The judge of probate shall have the same powers and perform the

I same duties that are now required to be perormed by the county courts

and clerks thereof in this State, in the settlement of estates; in the man-
agement of the property of orphans, infants, and persons of unsound
mind; management and control over apprentices; so far as the general
laws do not contlict with this act.

§ 3. Guardians, executors,administrators, and curators shall perform
31 '

-‘P
' 5

442 counrs.

their respective trusts and duties in the same manner as is now required
by law, so far as is not inconsistent with this act. ~

§4. The said judge of probate shall be allowed for his services the
same fees that are now allowed clerks of the county courts for similar
services; he shall also be allowed the same fees that arenow allowed to
the recorders of deeds for recording and copying all papers which he is
required by law to record or copy.

§ 6. In all chancery proceedings before said judge of probate, he shall
exercise the same discretion in taxing costs as are now exercised by the
circuit courts; and in all proceedings at law before him he shall give
-judgment for costs and issue fee bills in the same manner as is required
by law in the circuit courts.

§ 6. If said judge of probate shall knowingly and wilfully violate any
of the duties of his oflice as prescribed by law, he shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor in oflice, and on conviction thereof before the county
court of Henry county, shall be removed from oilice, and in case of such
removal from office the said county court shall proceed to [ill said va-
cancy.

§7. The county court shall audit and allow said judge of probate a
reasonable allowance annually for the rent of his office, to be paid out

'of the county treasury.

ARTICLE V.

§ 1. The circuit court of Henry county shall exercise the same super-
visory control over the said judge of probate as they now do over justi-
ces of the peace, and may issue writs of mandamus and certiorari to said
judge, and punish him by fine and imprisonment in the county jail for
contempt or failure to obey any writ or order which the said court may
lawfully issue or make.
§ 2. Appeals shall be allowed from all final orders, decrees, and judg-
ments of said judge, in favor of any erson who may be aggrieved by
the judgment, order, or decree of said judge to the circuit court, and
from jhe circuit court to the supreme court as in cases originally in the
circuit court.
§ 3. Appeals from the court of said judge shall be taken within thirty
days after the rendition of said judgment, order, or decree appealed from,
and not thereafter; the party appealing shall make out and tender to the
judge of probate a statement of the nature of the exceptions, setting
-forth each item, opinion, or decision of said judge appealed from, within
the time limited for.taking appeals, and the order, jud ment, or decree
appealed from, and the said judge shall sign the same; t e said judge of
probate after he shall sign same [said] statement, and after the arty
shall have given bond, as hereafter required, shall grant an appeal and
enter the same on his record, and shall make out and transmit to the
next Henry circuit court after granting such appeal, a full transcript of
the record and proceedings in relation to the item or opinion so appealed
rom.

§ 4. The parties appealing aforesaid shall enter into bond with secu-
rity, to be approved by said judge, payable to the State of Missouri, and
conditioned that the parties appealing shall prosecute his action without
delay and with effect, and shall pay all costs that may be adjudged

eouars. 448

against him; and said bond may be put in suit and recovered by and for
the use of ‘any person who may be entitled to such costs. ‘-

‘ § 6. When an appeal shall be taken as aforesaid the said jud e of pro-
bate shall stay all proceedings in relation to the matters appeal-led from,
in the same manner as justices of the peace are now required to stay

'them; the party appealing shall give notice in writing to the opposite

party, his agent, or attorney, of the taking of such ap eel, which notice
may be served and proved as notices are now require to be served and
proven.

()6. In all cases of appeal as aforesaid, when the notice has been served
on the opposite party ten days before the term of the court to which the
appeal is taken, or when the opposite party shall in person, or by his attor-
ney, enter his voluntary appearance on the first day of the said circuit court
to which'the a peal is returnable. the circuit court shall proceed, de now,
to try, hear an determine the same in the same manner as if the same had
been brought ori inally in the circuit court; when the judgment or opinion
of the judge sha l he aliirmed upon such appeal, the clerk of the circuit
court shall certify the same to the said judge; when the judgment, order or
decree shall be reversed the court shall proceed to render such judgment or
decree as the said judge ought to have done, and the clerk of the said cir-
cuit court shall certify a true copy of such judgment, order or decree to the
said judge, who shall proceed to enter the same on his record; and the same,
thus entered, shall be considered a judgment of said judge of probate, having

.the same credit and effect as original judgments, orders and decrees entered

up by himself; and he shall proceed thereon to enforce the same, as if the
same had originally been made by him.

§ 7. In all cases before the circuit court by appeal as aforesaid, the said
court shall render judgment for costs in the same manner, and with like
effect, as the said court can now do on appeals from justices of the peace.

§ 8. The said judge of probate shall be entitled to the same fees in all
cases of ap eals as the justices of the peace are now entitled to in ap-
peals from t eir jud ments, and the clerk of the circuit court shall be
entitled to the same gees as he is now entitled to by law on appeals from
judgments of justices of the peace.

§ 9. In all cases before the said judge of probate, either party may
re uire a jury.

lg 10. The said judge of probate shall in all trials before him conform to.
and be governed by the rules of practice prevailing in circuit courts of this
State; and he shall have power to prescribe rules of practice not inconsisterit
with the laws of this State.

§ ll. When the said judge of probate, required by this act to be elected,
shall have been duly qualified and commissioned. the county court of Hen-
ry county shall enter an order on their records reqjring the clerk of said
county court to deliver over to said judge of probate all original papers now
on tile in his oiiice relative to all estates of deceased persons, orphans,
minors, idiots and persons of unsound mind. and all papers of apprentices;
and also, all other papers relating to- any subject or matter over which’ the
said judge of probate has jurisdiction by this act, and the said judge of
probate shall carefully keep the same in his omce, as he is re nired by this
act to keep such papers as are re uired b this act to be ti ed in his of-

lice, and s all proceed to settle al the un nished business as if the same

4«_44 covnrs. °

had originated before him; and the said papers, and certified copies there-
of by the said judge shall be evidence in the same manner as is provi-
ded in this act in relation to papers required to be filed in his oilice. '

ARTICLE VI.

§ 1. That all copies of entries made by the clerk of the county court
upon his record books, and all copies of (papers and writiii s filed in his
oflice, duly certified by said clerk of sai county court un er his seal of
oilice to the probate court, to be full and complete copies of the originals
in his oflice shall be received as prima facie evidence that they are the
true copies of the originals of which they purport to be copies, and may
be received in evidence as the originals could be and with like effect; it
shall and may be lawful, and the said judge of probate is hereby author-
ized by subpoena to cause the said clerk of the county court to appear
before said judge of probate, and produce to said probate judge upon
any trial or roceeding before said judge, the original of which said co-
pies are made and certified to be read upon such trials or proceedings

efore him.

§ 2. The said judge of probate is hereby authorized and empowered
to perform all marriage ceremonies in like manner and with like effect
as is now or may be hereafter required by justices of the peace and other
persons authorized to solemnize the same.

§ 3. In addition to the powers granted in the foregoing sections of this
act, said judge of probate shall have full power to take depositions and
ailidavits and administer all oaths required to be administered in the
same manner and with like effect as if the said duties had been perform-
ed by a justice of the peace, and he shall receive therefor the same fees
that are allowed to justices of the peace; and he shall have full power to
take and certify the acknowled ment of all the deeds and instruments of
writing and reliuquishments of gower that can be taken and certified by

judges or clerks of courts of record, and shall receive therefor the same

fees that are allowed to clerks of the county courts.

§ 4. So soon as the judge of probate shall be commissioned it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the county court to certify to the Secretary of
State the name of the judge thus commissioned the date of his commis-
sion, and the length of the term for which he islcommissioned. .

§ 5. The court of saidjudge of probate shall be and the same is here-
by deglapecllla courtdqf record, tiéld thetre shall be kept a just and faithful
recor o a procee ings in sai cour .

§ 6. The above act shall be submitted to the qualified voters of Hen-
r-y county for their adoption or rejection, at_ the August election in the
present year,eighteén . undred and. forty nine, when if a ma] irity of said
voters cast their votes in its favor, it shall become a law; on the contra-
3’, ii’ at majotiility pot]: atgitililnst it, tthe saidtatct is tli}lllt{;l]nCl.V((i)ld. Ift slhaltlbe

ee uyo ecer o ecounycour onoiy eju geso eecion
in each township of the vote to be taken, and direct a poll to be opened
for and against the probate court. Ifa majority vote for the act, it shall
be the duty of the county court to cause an election to be held at the
several precincts in the county for ajudge of probate, who when elected
shall be sworn into office and commissioned, as provided in the first ar-

coun'rs.. 445

ticle of this act. Said election to be held‘ on the second Monday 
September, in eighteen hundred and forty-nine.
Approved March 12, 1849.

   

\/\.4\./\J\/\.l\J\/\J\/

AN ACT regulating changes of venue in criminal cases in St. Louis county.

§ l. Change of venue from the St. Louis crim- 3. Aliidavit to be filed in application for
inal court, to be taken to the court of change of venue. special venue shall be
common pleas of St. Louis county. issued in certain case.
2. Duties of common pleas defined.

Be 2': enacted by the General Assembly qf the State of Missouri, as fbllows .-

§ 1. Hereafter in all cases of change of venue from the criminal court
of St. Louis county, applied for on account of the interest, prejudice or re-
lationship of the judge of said court, or on account of any other legal ob-

jection to said judge; the cause shall not be sent to a different county for

trial, but shall be transferred to the court of common pleas of said county;
and upon the transcript of the record of such cause being filed in the ofiice
of the clerk of the court of common pleas, said court shall he possessed of
full jurisdjction of the cause and shall proceed to hear and determine the
same.

6 2. In every case of change of venue to the courtof common pleas it
shall be the duty of said court to have the same tried and disposed of as
soon as the same can be done without injustice to the defendant or injury to
the public interest, and it shall, when necessary, hold special terms of said
court to try and dispose of such causes, and shall have all the rights, powers
and authority and perform all the duties of the criminal court'in relation to
the same. *

§ 3. It shall not be lawful for a person indicted in St. Louis county to
obtaina change of venue to any other county, but if any person thus in-
dicted shall tile his aliidavit, supported by the aliidavit of some disinterested.
respectable person, stating that the minds of the inhabitants of the city of
St. Louis are prejudiced against him, then a special venue shall be issued to
summon a jury consisting of persons who reside in St. Louis county and
outside of the city of St. Louis to try said cause; and if any person thus
indicted, shall file his alhdavit supported by the afiidavit of some disinterest-
ed and respectable person, stating, that the minds of the inhabitants of said
county, who reside outside of the city of St. Louis are prejudiced against
him, then a venire shall issue in said cause, to summon a jury, consisting of
persons who reside within the city of St. Louis to try said cause.

" This act shall take effect, on the first day _of March in the year eighteen

hundred and forty-nine.

Approved February 17, 1849.

f\/\

 

‘/‘

 

AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled “An act to establish Probate
Courts in the counties of Greene, Polk, Barry, Newton and Cedar,”
approved February 11th, 1847.

Beiienactedby the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§-1. So much of an act entitled “An act to establish probate courts in

446 coon-rs.

the counties of Greene, Polk, Barry, Newton and Cedar,” approved
February 11th, 1847, as relates to the county of Barry is hereby repeal-
ed.

§ 2. The county court of the county of Barry is hereby invested with
all the powers possessed by the county courts of this State, in the ad-
ministration of estates and probate of wills, under the general law on
those subjects.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved February 10, 1849.

\ t

 

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to establish a Probate Court
in the county of Cooper,” approved February 6th, 1847.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State qf Missouri, as,/‘allows:

§ 1. The {udge of the probate court of the county of Cooper, shall be
allowed for is services in probate and all other business re ating to the
settlement of guardians, curators, idiots and lunatics, the same fees as
are allowed to the judge of the probate court of the county of Saint
Louis, by an act entitled an act to regulate the fees of the judge of the
probate court of the county of Saint Louis, approved December 23rd,
1846.
§ 2. The said judge of robate shall be allowed all necessary expen-
ses for_ stationary, fuel and) other necessaries for his odice, to.be paid by
the: :8ld1:3.Oli11nttg.0f. Coope:-1 ip addition to the allowances required by the
ac o w ic is is amen a ory.
§ 3. That the decisions of the supreme court of this State, and the
acts of the Legislature shall hereafter be furnished to the said judge of
probate aqii they are liliow or hereafter may be required to be distributed
to ot er 0 cers in t is State.
§ 4. The said judge of probate may hold adjourned and specialterms
of§sa5id1pJrobate court, Evhenever the bu8:]n?188 of said cogirt may require it.
. otice of suc special term s a be given y advertisements
placed up at five public places in the county, at least five days before
commencement of such term.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal the acts establishing a probate court in Osage county.
Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly qf the State if Missouri, as follows:

§ I. “An act establishing a probate court in Osage county,” approved
February 11th, 1847; also, an act supplemental to said act, approved

February 16th, 1847, be and the same are hereby repealed.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of thejudge of the said probate court of Osage
county immediately after the passage of this act, to deliver to the clerk
of the county court of Osage county, all the records, books, papers,
documents, furniture, and all other things belonging or pertaining to the
othce of said judge or over which he had by law any control; and the
said clerk shall receive and keep the same; and all records, books and

oouurs. \ 447

papers pertaining to said omce of probate judge, shall be hereafter held
and retgardled as tpte recordsi, lcflooks, and papers, belonging to said clerk,
exec as erema er l'0Vl e .

§ 93 The county colirt of Osage county and the clerk thereof, shall
possess the same power and discharge the same duties, and receive the
same compensation as if said acts establishing said probate court had
never been enacted, and the said county court and the clerk thereof,
shall so soon as the said records, papers, books and documents are de-
livered to said clerk proceed on the same, to hear, try and determine all
causes and proceedings pending before said judge, in the same manner
as if said proceedings had originated before said county court.

§ 4. All writs, process and roceedings returnable to the first term of
the robate court next after t e passage of this act, shall be returnable
to t e first term of the county court next after said term; provided, how-
ever, that the same may be continued for good cause shown said court.

§ 6. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the said county court imme-
diately after receiving the records, books, papers and documents from
said probate judge, to deliver all such books, papers, records and docu-
ments as pertain to the omce of justice of the peace to some justice of
the town ip, who shall proceel to hear, try an determine all causes in
the same manner and with like effect, as if said causes and proceedings

. had originated before said justice.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

 

U

 

'\f\’\.f\%/\

AN ACT authorizing justices of the county courts in counties wherein
probate courts are established to act as executors, administrators,
guardians and curators.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly Q/' the State of Missouri, as follow 3:

§ 1. That the justices of the county courts in the several counties
wherein probate courts are established, be and they are hereby declared
competent to act as administrators, executors, guardians and curators,
subject to the law in such cases made and provided.

§ 2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, be and the
same are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT respecting the Saint Louis County Court.

Be itenacted by the Gen eral ./issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. At the next general election in August in the year eighteen hun-
dred and fifty, there shall be elected three judges of the county court of
Saint Louis county by the voters of said county; and after that time the
county court of said county shall consist of three judges, and no more,
one~of said judges shall be a resident of the city of St. Louis, and the
other two shall be residents of that part of Saint Louis county which is
outside of the limits of said city.

448 covers.

'§ 2. If any vacancy shall occur in the odice of any judge of said court
before the next general election, the same shall not be filled, but the
judges remaining shall compose said court, with full power to act as such‘;
provided, the number of judges of said court shall never be less than
three, and if the number of judges shall be reduced below three, by
resignation or otherwise, then such vacancy shall be filled according to
law, so that said court shall consist of three judges. ‘

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

I\J\./\.4\/\-I

 

AN ACT in relation to the Judge of the Probate Court of Morgan coun-
ty, and the clerk of the county court of said county‘.

§ 1. Judge may appoint clerk; powers and du- ' 5. Regular terms.

ties of. 6. Wnts and process, &.c., when tirst return-
2. Compensation of clerk. able.
3. Fees of probate jud e. 7. Clerk may be administrator, arc. &.c.
4. Claims of judge to e allowed by county 8. Acts inconsistent with this repealed.

court; in what cases.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State Q/' Missouri, as follows
§ 1. The judge of the probate court of Morgan county is hereby au-

thorised and empowered to appoint a clerk of said court, who shall have '

the same power and authority in the vacation of said court, to grant let-
ters of administration, and testamentary, and to do and perform all oth-

, er acts in relation to probate matters, which the several clerks of coun-

ty courts in this State are now allowed to do. -

§ 2. Said clerk shall receive the same compensation for his services
as is allowed the judge of said court for such services, provided that no
cpmpensation shall be allowed said judge for services performed by his
c erk. ,

§ 3. The probate judge of the said court shall be allowed the same
fees for his services, and shall be allowed for the same services that are
allowed the probate judge in St. Louis county.

§ 4. Whenever the judge of the probate court of said county of Mor-
gan shall have a claim against the estate of any deceased person in said
county, the same may be proven and allowed by the county court of said
county in the manner prescribed by law in such cases.

§ 5. Regular terms of said court shall hereafter be held on the first
Mondays in March, June, September and December.

§ 6. All settlements to be made, all writs and process, returnable to
the next regular term of said court, shall be made and return-able to the
next term of said court, as established under this act.

§7. The clerk of the county court of said county and any deputy
thereof, may be an executor, administrator, guardian or curator, any law
to the contrary notwithstanding. ,

§ 8. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
act are repealed so far as the operation of this law is concerned.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

 

Rs

counrs. _ _ 44.9

AN ACT respecting the county courts of Jackson county-in this State.
‘Be it enacted by the General élssembly of the State Qflllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. There shall be twelve terms of the county court held in the coun-
ty of Jackson in each year, each term to commence on the first Monday
of each month except in the month of August; and in the month of Au-
gust, the said term shall commence on the second Monday of said month.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 22, 1849.

 

AN ACT to repeal an act entitled “An act to establish a probate court
in the county of Dunklin,” approved February 15th, 1847.

Beitenacted by the General ulssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. An act entitled “An ‘act to establish a probate court in the coun-
ty of Dunklin,” approved February 15th, 1847, is hereby repealed.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved January 26, 1849.

£.

 

AN ACT supplemental to an act entitled “an act respecting the Recorder’s
otlice of St. Louis county,” approved January 6, 1847.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

6 I. The recorder for St. Louis county shall have the authority, and may
perform all the duties relative to the acknowledgment and proof of deeds,
and all other instruments in writing. conveying and transferring property
in the State of Missouri, that clerks of any court of record possess under an
act entitled “an act regulating conveyances,” approved March 25, 1845.

§ 2. Said recorder shall have the power to administer oaths, and take and
certify aliidavits, as clerks of a court of record are authorized to do.

§ 3. Said recorder may appoint one or more deputies, to be approved by
the presiding judge of any one of the courts of record of said county, who
shall be at least seventeen years of age, and shall take the like oath, and
may, in the name of the principal, perform all the duties of chief recorder.
But the recorder and his sureties shall be responsible for the conduct of his
de uties.

£4. The recorder shall record in the record of otlicial bonds and com-
missions in his ollice, all appointments of deputies, with the approval and
oath thereon endorsed, and the discharge of such deputy shall be evidenced
by endorsing such discharge on the margin of the record of the appointment.

This act to take effect and he in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

450_ , nnomslm MEMBERS.
- DECEASED MEMBERS.

AN ACT to pay the Funeral expenses of the Hon. John McHenry,
‘ late Member from Bates County.

Be it enacted by the General uissembty of the State of Jllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereqy authorized to draw his
warrant on the treasurer, in favor of Henry Cordell, for the sum of eighty-
three dollars and eighty-two cents, for thepurpose of defra ing the funeral
expenses of the Hon. John McHenry. late member from tes county, to
be paid out of any money not otherwise appropriated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT to pay Funeral expenses.
Be ‘it enactedby the General .125-sembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to audit and allow
the funeral expenses of the late member of the General Assembly, from the
county of Taney-—Hon. Theophilus Bass.

§ 2. The commissioner of the permanent seat of government is hereby
directed to cause a tomb, with the proper inscription thereon, to be erected
in the public graveyard, near the city of Jeflerson, over the remains of said
Theophilus Bass. The cost of said tomb and funeral expenses not to exceed
two hundred dollars. . .

§3. The said funeral expenses and cost of tomb shall be audited and
allowed by the auditor of public accounts, and paid out of any money in the
treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

5

 

AN ACT to provide for the erection of Tombs over the remains of the
Hon. James R. McDearmon, late auditor of public accounts, and the

Hon.'John McHenry, late member of the House of Representatives,
from the county of Bates.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qftlze State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The commissioner on the permanent seat of government is hereby
authorized and required to cause suitable tombs to be erected over the
remains of the Hon. James R. McDearmon, late auditor of public accounts
of the State of Missouri, and the Hon. John McHenry, late a member of
the house of representatives, from the county of Bates.

§2. Said commissioners, when said work is completed, shall certify to
the auditor of public accounts the cost of erecting said tombs, not to exceed
in either case, the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars; and the auditor
shall draw his warrant on the general contingent fund in favor of the person

to whom the same is due for the amount so certified to be due for said work.
This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 10, I849.

mvoltans. - 451
DIVORCES.
AN ACT for the relief of Benjamin Wilson and Mary Wilson.

Be it enacted by the General vissembly qftlte State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony now existing between Benjamin Wil-
son and Mary Wilson, his wife, of the county of Ste. Genevieve, and State
of Missouri, be, and the same are hereby dissolved; and the said Benjamin

and Mary are restored to all the rights and privileges to which they were
entitled before their intermarriage.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

 

\l‘

AN ACT for the relief of Elvira Ann Moore, of Perry county.

Be it enacted by the General vissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the said

Elvira Ann Moore and Edward H. Moore be, and the same are hereby
dissolved.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, I849.

\/\/\/

 

/\§/

AN ACT for the relief of William Logan.

Be it enacted bythe General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfoléows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony beretofere contracted between Wil-
liam Logan, of the county of Mercer, and Louisa his wife, (formerly Louisa
Russe|l,) be, and the same are hereby dissolved.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Martha Abrams.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly Q/'tIte State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the said Martha Abrams, of Scotland county, be, and she is
hereby absolved and divorced from the bonds of matrimony heretofore con-
tracted by her with Benjamin Abrams, and that they be held at nought; and
that the said Martha Abrams be permitted to marry again in the same man-
ner as if the said Abrams was naturally dead, and as if they had never in-
termarried.

§ 2. The name of the said Martha Abrams is hereby changed to that of

Martha Clemmons, and by said last mentioned name the said Martha shall
hereafter be known in law and equity.

This act shall take etiect from and after its passage.
Approved March _3, 184.9.

452 .mvonc1:s.

AN ACT for the relief of Sarah Jane Gralman.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State of Missouri, as-follows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore solemnizerl between Herman
Van Gralman and SarahJane Gralman are hereby dissolved and annulled,
and forever made void; and the said Sarah Jane is restored to all the rights
and privileges of a feme sole, and the name of the said Sarah Jane is
changed from that of Gralman to that of Tully, her parental name.

This actshall take effect and be in forcefrom and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Nancy Ann Warson.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as./‘allows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Joseph
Warson and Nancy Ann Warson, formerly Nancy Ann Wiuklei, be, and
the same are hereby dissolved; and that the said Nancy Ann Warson is

hereby divorced from her husband, the said Joseph Warson.
§ 2. And that the name of the said Nancy Ann Warson is hereby changed

to her maiden name, Nancy Ann Winkler; and that she shall hereafter be

known and called by her said maiden name.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

I

   

AN- ACT forthe relief of Charles Herrimon and Martha Frances Herrimon.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony between Charles Herrimon and Martha
Frances Herrimon are hereby dissolved, and they shall be forever divorced
from each other; and shall hereafter enjoy all the rights and privileges of

unmarried persons.
§2. Nothing in this act shall effect the legitimacy of the child of the

parties aforesaid, and the said Martha Frances Herrimon shall be entitled to

the care, management and control of the same.
This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved March 10, I849.

\/\../\/\/\/‘\/'\./'\/\

   

AN ACT for the relief of Hardin Hargis.
Be itenacted by the General .9ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between
Hardin Hargis, of the county of Sullivan, and Katharine his wife, he
and the same are hereby dissolved, and that the name of Katharine
Hargis is hereby changed to Katherine Chambers, her former name.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

mvoncss. 453,

AN ACT to divorce Thomas J. Doolin and Levina Doolin from the
bonds of matrimony.

Wrrnams, Thomas J. Doolin,_of the county of Jefferson in the State of
Missouri, has petitioned this General Assembly to pass a law di-
vorcing him from the bonds of Matrimony by him contracted with
Levina Doolin, formerly, and before marriage, Levina Null, and it
appearing to the satisfaction of this General Assembly that the said
Levina has, subsequently to the aforesaid marriage, intermarried
with Jackson Hellertian, and that the facts set forth in said petition
are sufficient to entitle him to a divorce—therefore,

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State of lllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the said
Thomas J. Doolin and Levina his wife, as aforesaid, be and the same are
hereby dissolved, and that the said Thomas J. Doolin and Levina Doolin
are hereby released from all liabilities incurred by said marriage.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 5, I849.

 

/'\/\/'

AN ACT divorcing Jane Logan from her husband, John Logan.
Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore existing between Jane
Logan and her husband, John Logan, be and the same are hereby forever
dissolved.
§ 2. And that the name of Jane Logan, acquired by marriage to John
an, be chanied to that of J ane Reese, her original name.
his act to ta e effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 23, 1849.

 

%.£v

AN A(lT for the relief of Nancy H. Sneidgar of Callaway county.

' Be itenacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

p § 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted and now existing
between the said Nancy H. Sneidgar and Robert Sneid ar of ‘Pike
county; be and the same are hereby dissolved, and the said Nancy be
restored to all her rights and privileges enjoyed by her prior to her mar-
ria e with said Robert Sneidgar, her present husband.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

l

 

f\./\/\/\/'\.t'\ Pu

AN ACT to divorce Robert Roland.

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly of the State of Missouri, asfoltovs:
- § 1. That Robert Roland, of the county of St. Louis, is hereby di-

454 mvoncns.

vorced from his wife Ulrica Roland, and the bonds of .-of matrimony ex-
isting and contracted by said parties are hereby declared to be null and
void, and the said Robert Roland permitted to marry again, as if said
Ulrica Roland were dead; provided, that nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to affect the legitimacy of their offspring.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

\.\p

AN ACT for the relief "of James Davis.
Be it enacted by the General uissembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

J § 1. That said James Davis is hereby absolved and divorced from the
bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted by him with Wyrinda Davis,
formerly Wyrinda Steel, and the said James Davis is hereby restored to
all the rights and privileges of a single man, and that he have all the
ri hts and privileges as if they had never intermarried.

his act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

   

AN.ACT for the relief of William C. Fawkes.

Be it enacted by the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows: '

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore existing between William
C. Fawkes, of Clinton county, and Mary Fawkes, his wife, formerly
Mary Stephenson, of Randolph county, be and the same are hereby dis-

-solved.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

AN ACT to dissolve the bonds of matrimony existing h&ea3 Bart-
ley W. Gorin and Mary E. Gorin, his wife.

Be itenacted by the General uissembly of the State of lllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony existing between Bartley W. Gorin
and Mary E. Gorin are hereby dissolved, and they be and are hereby
forever discharged and relieved from all liability existing by the force
of the aforesaid matrimonial bonds.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the benefit of Susannah Perkins of Moniteau county in
the State of Missouri.

Be it enacted by the General Bssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:
~§ 1- The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted by the said Su

nxvoncns. 4&5

sannah Perkins with hér‘husband John Perkins, is hereby, fully, effectu-
ally and forever dissolved; provided, however, that nothing herein con-
tained shall’be so construed as to affect the rights of property by the
parties acquired under and in virtue of their marriage.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the benefit of Nancy Green.
Be it enacted by the General .ds.sembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted and existing
between Nancy Green formerly Nancy Markland) and Ansel Green,
are hereby dissolved an annulled, and the said Nancy Green is hereby
restored to all the rights and privileges to which she was entitled before
her marria e with the said Ansel Green, and hereafter she shall be known
and called ancy Markland. A

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
” Approved March 6, 1849.

 

\/\./\/

AN ACT to divorce Robert Snell, of Platte county, Missouri,‘ and
Elizabeth, his wife.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Zllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Robert
Snell and Elizabeth Snell, formerly Elizabeth Simpson, be and the same
are hereby dissolved. ‘
This act to take efect from and after its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Margaret L. Ridgeway. ,
Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore and now existing between

Margaret L. Ridgeway, of Lewis county, and her husband, Thomas
Ridgeway, be and the same are hereby dissolved.

§2. That the name of Mar aret L. Ridgeway be and the same is
hereby changed, and she sha hereafter be known and called by the
name of Margaret L. Crooks.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849.

456 nrvoncns.

AN ACT for the relief of Sarah’ E. Chaney.

Be itenacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Sarah E. Chaney, of the county of Boone, is hereby divorced
from her husband, Richard F. Chaney, and the said Sarah is restored to‘
all the rights and privile es of a femme sole. .

§2. The said Sarah . Chaney’s name be and the same 18 hereby
changed to her former maiden name, Sarah E. Pemberton.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to dissolve the bonds of matrimony existing between Wil-
liam Cates, of Ray county, and Mary Ann Cates, formerly Mary
Ann Routh, and for other purposes.

Wazanas, The petition of William Cates, of Ray county, asking this
General Assembly to divorce him from the bonds of matrimony by
him contracted with his wife, Mary Ann Cates, (formerly Mary Ann
Routh) shews that, in the year 1837, a marriage was solemnized
between said Cates and the said Mary Ann Routh, and that she, the
said Mary Ann, within a few months after said marriage, without a
reasonable cause, abandoned her said husband, and eloped with an-
other man; and whereas, after the lapse of about ten years after
said marriage (during all of which time she, the said Mary Ann,
continued, and still continues, to remain separated from her said
husband) he, the said Cates, believing that the marriage relation
by him contracted with the said Mary Ann had, by lapse of time,
ceased to exist, and that he could marry again without violating

the laws of the country, did, in the year 1848, intermarry with one
Nancy Hill;-therefore, '

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the

said William Cates and Mary Ann, his wife, formerly Mary Ann Routh,
be and the same are hereby dissolved. ~

§ 2. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the
said William Cates and the said Nancy Hill, are hereby declared legal
and binding to all intents and purposes.

§ 3. That the said William Cates is hereby released from all penalties
imposed by the first section of the eighth article of an act entitled “An
act concerning crimes and punishments,” approved March 27, 1845.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849. '

.4‘ /-a.’-,. ‘-r

AN ACT to divorce Nancy Smith, of Osage county, from her husband. -

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows.-
§ 1, That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between N an-

nrvoncns. 457

cy Smith, (late Nancy Maxwell,) and Isaac Smith, be and the same are
hereby dissolved, and the said Nancy Smith be and she is hereby releas-
ed from all liabilities incurred by said marriage. .

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

   

AN ACT to divorce Thomas Kemble and Caroline Kemble’ from the
bonds of matrimony.

Be itcnacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Zllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between
Thomas Kemble and Caroline Kemble, his wife, formerly and before the
intermarriage Caroline Middleton, be and they are hereby dissolved, and
the said Thomas and the said Caroline are hereby divorced from the

bonds of matrimony contracted by them, and released from all liability
incurred by the aforesaid intermarriage.

‘§ 2. Nothing in this act shall in any wise affect the legitimacy of their

children.
This act to take efect from and after its passage. ~

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to divorce Cynthiana Hawkins.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssemblu qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Cynthiana.Hawkins, late Cynthiana Zumault, is hereby divorced
from the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted with William Haw-
kins, and that the said Cynthiana is restored to her maiden name, Cynthi-
ana Zumault. : '

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT'to dissolve the bonds of matrimony existing between William .

Payne, of ‘_Daviess county, Missouri, and Elvira J ; Payne, his wife.
Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the
said William Payne and'Elvira J. Payne, formerly Elvira J. Johnson, be

and the same are hereby dissolved, and the said William Payne is res- r

tored to. the ri ‘ms and privileges of a single man. .
This a'ct‘sha' l’tak'e effect andtbe in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to divorce Christine Koenller.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly Q/' the State qflllissouri, as foilows:
§ 1. The marriage heretofore solemnized between Christine Koeniler,

31

458 nrvonons.‘ -

of the county of Gasconade, and Andrew Koenller, her husband shall be
and the same is hereby dissolved, and the said Christine forever divorced
from her husband, as if he was naturally dead and said marriage had
never been solemnized.

§ 2. That the said Christine is hereby authorized to choose for herself
her next husband, free from the influence or control of her father or any
person else.

That act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.‘

Approved March 12, _l849. A

 

AN ACT for the relief of Sophia Lee Eclrler.
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qfthe State of Missmzri, as follows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted and now existing '

between John Eckler and.Sophia Lee Ecolrler, are hereby dissolved, an
both the said parties are restored to all rights and privileges and immu-
nities enjoyed by .them prior to such intermarriage.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, L849.

 

AN ACT to divorce John .Harris from his wife Elizabeth Harris.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly qfthe Sta*e of Mzlssouri, as follows:

§ l.- The bonds of matrimolnly heretofore contracted between John
Harris and his wife Elizabeth arris, be and the same are hereby dis-

solved and forever abolished, but the-legitimacy of the children shall not
be affected by the passage of this act.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\&

 

I'\/\f\f'\I'\f'\r\/'\I'\f\"\/'\

AN ACT.for the relief of Mary Jane Ferguson, formerly Mary Jane
McMahan, of Saline .county. .

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qftltestale qf1|lz'ssour¢', asfollows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore, contracted between Mary
J anei Ferguson, formerly Mary Jane McMahan and Moses 0. Fe uson,
be and the same are hereby dissolved; and the said Mary Jane ergu-
son shall be‘ entitled to all the rights and privilegeswhich she, wouldrhave
enjoyed had she never been married as aforesaid. _

§ 2. Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to affect the legiti-
vmacy of the child or children of the partiesaforesaid.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.
C

mvoncl-zs. 459

AN  to divorce Susan Pile from her husband John’ Pile.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretore existing between [Susan Pile
and her husband John Pile, are hereby dissolved. 4.

§ 2. Thesaid. Susan Pile is hereby restored,: and shall be«entitled to

all the rights and privileges which she enjoyed before her marriage with

said John Pile.
This act to talte effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849,

 

AN ACT for the relief of Clayton Tidin and Julia G. Tiflin, formerly
‘ of the county of St. Louis.

§ 1,. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Clayton
Timn and J uha G. Tidin, formerly Julia G. ‘Crow, be and the same are
hereby dissolved, and the said parties are hereby restored to all the rights
and privileges of unmarried persons, in the same manner as if the mar-
riage contract had never been entered into. _ -

6 2. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the legitimacy of
an%cl1ild or, children of the parties aforesaid. v ,

 ;::::.b;.;:::':3 2222:“ Pam
P ’ °

 

AN ACT to divorce Ann Long from the bonds of matrimony contracted ‘

with George Long.

Be it enacted by the General flssernbly of the State of ]l’Iz'soauri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Ann
Long and George Long, be and they are hereby dissolved, and that she
be released from all liabilities incurred by the aforesaid intermarriage.

§ 2. Nothing in this act shall in any wise aifect the legitimacy of the

children. ‘
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

/51

AN ACT to divorce Nancy Reinliiart frcm her husband Davis W. Rein-
art.

Be it enacted by the Generrl Jrsembly of the Slots 0} Missouri, as follows:

§l. That Nancy Reinhart be and she is hereby divorced from the

Ronds of matrimony by her heretofore contracted with Davis W. Rein-
This act to take effect and be in force'from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. ,. .

460 I mvoncxs.

AN ACT to divorce Nancy Bryan from her husband Benjamin B. Bryan.

Be it enacted by the General .4ssembly of the State of Illissouri, as fbllows:

§ 1. That Nancy Bryan, of Cole county, Missouri, is fully, effectually,
and forever divorced from her husband Benjamin B. Bryan, and is here-
by restored to all the rights of a feme sole, (or single woman.)
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to divorce) Lavina Clark from her husband‘.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Lavina Clark, of the county of Ste. Genevieve, be, and she is
hereby divorced from her husband James Clark; and that she is entitled to

her former rights and privileges
§ 2. The name of Lavina Clark is hereby changed to Lavina Mason.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN Act to divorce Nancy Violett from her husband Jackson Violett.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly qf the State of Missouri, asjbllows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Nancy
Violett (formerly Nancy Campbell) and Jackson Violett are hereby dissolved,
and the said Nancy fully divorced from her husband; and the said Nancy
shall hereafter be known and called by her former name, to wit: Nancy
Campbell.

This act shall be in force from its passage. ‘

Approved March 8, 1849. A

 

A/\»p.A/s lvvrhf

AN ACT.divorcing William T. Page.

Be it enacted by the General _./rfssembly of the State of Mi.ss0urz',.as follows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted by William T. Page

and Melisa 'Ann Teter, of Boone county, are hereby dissolved.
This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 7, 1849.

.... /‘\/‘u./N./‘\/‘ -r'~.-\"\-'./‘/- V ..- .

AN ACT to divorce Susan Shelton.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly Q/‘ the State Qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Susan Shelton is hereby divorced from her husband VVilliam H.
Shelton. and released from the bonds and disabilities incurred by reason of
her inn riage with said William H. .\fliel!un; and she shall have the guardian-
Ship. custody, and control of her cllilclren. '

'l‘hi§act ti) take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

mvoncns. G 461

AN ACT for the relief of Jane Ingraln.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembty of the State of Missouri, as follows:

()1. Jane Ingram, of the county of Callaway, is. hereby divorced from
the bonds of matrimony which exist between herself and husband George
D. Ingram; and the said Jane Ingram is fully restored to all the rights,
privileges, and munities [immunities], appertaining or in anywise belonging
to an unmarried woman.

§ 2. The said Jane Ingram shall have the exclusive control of her children,

‘ the ‘offspring of her marriage with the said George D. Ingram, in their

person, education, and training, during minority, and they shall not in
anywise be governed or contrnlled’by the said George D. Ingram.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, I849.

 

AN ACT to divorce Joseph B. Kelsiclt and Margaret Kelsiek his wife,

Be it enacted by the General dssemblg of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§l. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted and now existing
between Joseph B. Kelsick and Margaret his wife are hereby dissolved, and
each of the parties restored to all the rights and privileges enjoyed by them
prior to such intermarriage.

This act to,be in force from its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

-"’\/‘/’\/\/\/\/x_/‘-./ ./'5.-~. ,—~_,- _ --._ .- ‘_ —_

AN ACT for the relief of Jemima Armfield.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Misso-tri, as follows:

' § 1. That Jemima Armlicld. oi Gentry county, be, and she is hereby
absolved and divorced from the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted
by her with Jonathan H. Armfield. and that they be held at naught, and
that said Jemima Armfield be permitted to marry again. in the same manner
as if the said Jonathan H. Armlield was naturally dead, and as ifthey had
never intermarried; provided, nevertheless, that said divorce shall in nowise
affect the legitimacy of their offspring.

§2. The name of said Jemima Armtield is hereby changed to that of
Jemima Linville, her former maiden name.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

4
Pfx,/' [XI \‘f‘/‘/‘ Z \_/\,,I\(\‘_/\j“_I'\_/‘_’\/5f‘

AN ACT for the relief of Nancy Franklin.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missourz, as follows:

§ 1. That Nancy Franklin, of the county of Knox, be, and she is hereby
absolved from the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted by her with
Josiah Franklin, and that they be held at naught, and the said Nancy
Franklin be permitted to marry again in the same manner as if said Josiah
Franklin were naturally dead, and as ifthey had never intermarried.

g_.

462

I

DIVORCES.

§2. That the name of the said Nancy Franklin be, and the same is
hereby changed to Nancy Gibson, her maiden name; and she shall hereafter
be known as such, both in law and equity. _

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

\/\/\/\)\/\J'\/\/€\J\/\J\.4\J‘~

AN ACT to divorce Isabella Atterberry from her husband Zephaniah
Atterberry.

Be it enacted by the General vdssembly of the Slate of .Missouri, as follows:

§ I. That the bonds of matrimony existing between the said Isabella
Atterberry and Zephaniah Atterberry are hereby dissolved.
' § '2. The said Isabella Atterberryis hereby restored to her maiden name,
and shall hereafter be known by the name of Isabella Hay.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 3, 1849.

l\/\/‘ ".-'v\1\¢~./'.'\/\J\ A/*./\/\.I\"~fJv\/*.A/ /vx/\/~.”/VN/V

 

AN. ACT for the relief Paulina Payton.

Wnrmms, It is represented to this General Assembly, that said Paulina
Payton has been deserted by her husband John W. Payton, without
good cause, for about six years, and that he, the said J uhn W. Payton,
is a non-resident of this State; therefore, '

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the said Paulina Payton, of Grundy county, be, and she is
hereby absolved and divorced from the bonds of matrimony heretofore con-
tracted by her with the said John W. Peyton, and that they ‘be null and
void; and that the said Paulina Payton be permitted to marry again, in the
same manner as if said John W. Payton were dead, and as if they had
never intermarried; provided, nevertheless, that said divorce shall in nowise
affect the legitimacy of their offspring. '

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 2'7, 18-19.

r\/\z\/\/\/ \/\/\.a\/ \./\’\./\.I\./\/\/‘~-/‘

AN ACT for the relief of Sarah G. Odell.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. Sarah G. Odell, of Johnson county, be, and she is hereby absolved
and divorced from the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted with
Thomas R. Odell, and that they be held at naught; and that said Sarah G.
Odell be restored to all her rights and privileges in the same manner as if
said Thomas R. Odell were naturally dead, and as if they had never inter-
married; provided, nevertheless, that said divorce shall in nowise affect the
legitimacacy of their offspring.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

DIVOBCES. 463

AN ACT to divorce Louise Anne Dupre.

Be it enacted by the General edssembly qftlze State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The bonds of matrimony hitherto contracted between Louise Anne
Dupre, late Louise Anne Papin, and Eugene Dupre, be, and the same are
hereby dissolved; and the said Louise Anne Dupre is hereby released from
all liabilities incurred by said marriage, and the said Louise Anne Duprc
may resume her maiden name of Louise Anne Papin, and she shall have the
sole control, management, custody, andiguardianship of the children of said
marriage.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved Februa:-y.22, 1849.

c4 

   

AN AC1‘ to dissolve the bonds of matrimony existing between Francis A.

Driller. of the county of Callaway, and btatc of Missouri, and his wife
Caroline Driller.

Be it enacted by the Gen eral dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the said
Francis A. Driller and Caroline Driller be, and the same are hereby dissolved.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, I819.

 

AN ACT to dissolve the bonds of matrimony existing between Robert
McCrory, of Holt county, Missouri, and Nancy his wife.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Illissouri, as/‘allows:

§l. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between the
said Robert McCrory and Nancy Crory (formerly Nancy Alar) be, and
the same are hereby dissolved.
This act shall take elfect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

 

I\.*\._/\/\/'\ \..r%/\/\-

Wrmnnas, Juliet Maria Reynolds, dau hter of John T. Cleveland, of How-
ard county, has petitioned this eneral Assembly for I divorce from
her husband Loring H. Reynolds, and whereas, it ap ears to be right
and proper that her petition should be granted, there ore,

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:
§l. Julia Maria Reynolds shall be, and is hereby divorced from her

husband Loring H. Reynolds, and restored to all the rights and privileges ,

of an unmarried person; and the bonds of matrimony between Juliet M.
Reynolds and Loring H. Reynolds are hereby dissolved, and they shall be
forever divorced from each other.

§.2. She shall hereafter be known and called Juliet Maria Cleveland.

.464 I nrvoncrcs.

§3. All the property she may hereafter acquire by gift, inheritance.
contract, or otherwise, she shall have as her absolute property, free from
the control of the said Loring H. Reynolds, and from all liabilities for his
debts.

This act to take eiTect from its passage.
Approved February 24, 1819,

\/\/\/\/\I\/

AN ACT for the reliefpf Mary High, of St. Clair county.
Be it enacted by the General vissembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows:

C} 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Mary
High, of the county of St. Clair, and Randolph High be, and the same are
hereby dissolved.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

 

 

AN ACT to dissolve the bonds of matrimony between Presley E. Gordon
and his wife Margaret Jane Gordon.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ l. The bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between Presley E-
Gordon and Margaret Jane Gordon his wife are hereby dissolved.

This act to take effect from aad~after'its passage.
Approved February 23, 1849.

\/s/\/\/\/\/\/\

AN ACT to divorce Britten A. Hill and Mary Melinda liill.
Be it enacted by the General Hsscmblg of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony contracted between Britton A. Hill
and Mary Melinda Hill his wife he, and the same are hereby dissolved,and
they are hereby forever divorced from each other.

§2. That the said Britton A. Hill and Mary Melinda Hill are hereby
restored to all the rights and privileges pertaining to unmarried persons, as
though said marriage had not been consummated.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

 

.f\g\./'\f-

 

AF ACT to divorce Sarah Mayo.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the State qf Mzssouri, as follows:

§ 1. Sarah Mayo is hereby divorced from her husband Peyton R. Mayo,
and released from the bonds and disabilities incurred by reason of her
marriage with said Peyton R. Mayo.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 23, 1849.

nmcrions. 4.65’

ELECTIONS.

AN ACT to alter and change the time of opening and continuing open the
_ polls for elections in the city of St. Louis.

Be it enacted by the General uqssemblg ofllhe Stale of .Mz'ssourz', as folliws:

. § 1. That hereafter the polls for all elections embraced and provided for
in the act entitled "An act to regulate elections,” approved March 28, 1845,
shall, by the judges of elections, he opened within the county of St. Louis
at sunrise, and shall be continued open until sunset on the same day.

Approved March 12, 1849.

     

AN ACT to provide for the election of County Treasurers in the counties
of Clark, Andrew and Platte.

§ 1. Treasurer’s o$ces; when they shall become) 6. Treasurer shall take an oath of otlice.
vacant. 7. Cases of vacancy in oflice rovided for. .
2. Treasurers made elective; to be coininis- 8. Duties of treasurer rescri ed.

sioned by the county court; shall hold 9. Penalties incurred or violating the previ-
his office for two years. sions of this act.

3. In case of a tie in election the county court 10. Laws conflicting with this act repealed.

may appoint from the persons tied. 11. County court of Clark county may order an
4. How elections shall be governed. election for treasurer.
5. Treasurer shall give bond.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The offices of the treasurers of the counties of Clark, Andrew and
Platte, in this State, shall become vacant on the first Monday of August, in
the year eighteen hundred and fifty. _ -

5 2, The quahlied electors of the counties of Clark, Andrew and Platte,
in this State, shall on the first Monday of August, eighteen hundred and
fifty, and every two years thereafter, at the general election for county
otiicers, elect in each of said counties a treasurer thereof, who shall be com-
missioned by 'the county court of the proper county, and shall hold his office
for the term of two years, and until his successor shall be elected and _quali-
tied, unless sooner removed from otlice.

§ 3. In case of two or more candidates having an equal, and the highest
number of votes for said office of treasurer, the county court of _the proper
county shall select the treasurer aforesaid from the persons so tied.

§ 4. Said election shall be governed and conducted under the law regula-
ting the election for county otiiccrs in said counties. . _

§ 5. The county treasurers elected under this act shall, within ten days
after their election as such, give bond and security as required by the first
article of an act entitled “An act to establish and regulate county. treasur-
ers,” approved March 27, 18451.) I d d h b d

§6. The said treasurers, w en so eecte , an aving given _on ac-
cording to law, shall take an oath faithfully to demean themselves in othce
during their continuance in otiice, which oaths sh-ill be endorsed on their
commissions; and in the discharge of their duties, they shall, in all respects,
be governed by the laws now in force in relation to county treasurers, as
fully and completely as if said treasurers were appointed under the first
article of the act mentioned in the tifth section of this act.

§7. In case of vacancy in the otiice of treasurer by death, resignation,

466 y - mmcrrons.

removal or refusal to give bond or to qualify, it shall be the duty of the
county courts of the proper county to fill such vacancy by appointment,
agreeably to the provisions of the act referred to in the fifth section of this
act; the persons so appointed shall hold his office until the next general
election for said county. ~

§ 8. In addition to the duties now required to be performed by the county
treasurers of said counties, they shall each procure and keep a well bound
book at the expense of the county of which they are treasurer, and in which
book said treasurer shall, when any warrant legally drawn for money by the
county court of his county shall be presented to him for payment, he shall
enter the same in said book, stating truly the date, amount and number of
the same, and in whose favor the same is drawn, and the time the same was
presented; and all warrants so presented shall be paid out of the funds men-
tioned in said warrants, and in the order in which they shall be presented
for payment and not otherwise.

§ 9. Any county treasurer violating the provisions of this act,,or of the act
referred to in the fifth section of this act, or failing to comply with the pro-
visions of either of said acts, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be removed from otlice, and he and his securities shall be liable in
damages to any party injured thereby; provided, however, that said county
treasurers shall not be at liberty to refuse the payment of any warrant
legally drawn upon them and presented for payment, for the reason that
warrants of prior presentation have not been paid, when there shall be
money in the treasury belonging to the fund drawn upon, sudicient to pay
such prior warrants and any such warrant so presented; but said treasurer
shall, as he shall receive money into‘ the treasury belonging to funds so
drawn upon, set the same apart for the payment of warrants previously pre-
sented, in the order presented, in order that no warrant of subsequent pre-
sentation shall remain unpaid on account of warrants of prior presentation
being unpaid by reason of the holder of the same failing to present the same
for payment after funds shall have accrued in the treasury for the payment
of the same; provided, further, that no interest shall be paid upon any war-
rant presented for payment after funds for the payment of the same shall
have-been set apart, the date of which setting apart shall be recorded by
the proper county treasurer.

9' 10. All laws conflicting with the provisions of this act shall be, and the
same are hereby suspended in their operation within the counties mentioned
in this act.

§ ll. The county court of Clark county may order an election for county
treasurer whenever it thinks prop: r, and the person elected shall hold his
oliice until the next general election; and whenever a treasurer is elected
and qualified under the provisions of this law, the oHice of the present inc
cumbent shall be vacated.

This act to take eflect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize a special election in Jasper county.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly qftlze State Qf Missouri, asfollows:
§ 1. That it shall be lawful for the qualified voters in the county of Jasper

m.nc'rro_Ns. 467

to hold an election on the drst Monday in August next for the purpose of
electing an assessor for said county for one year, and until his successor is
elected and qualified.

§ 2. That the said, election shall be conducted by the laws now in forge
governing -the elections of assessor, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this act. ,

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

_AN ACT to amend an act entitled “an act to regulate selections,” ap-

proved March 28, 1846.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of JlIz'sssurz', asfollows:

§ 1. The county court of the county of J acksonshall have pgwer to
divide the township of Kaw in their county into two election districts
from time to time as the convenience of the inhabitants may require.

§ 2. The places of holdin elections shall be designated, judges and
clerks of elections appoints in such districts and the elections therein
conducted in all respects in the same manner as is required by the law
to which this is amendatory.

3. Poll books for each district shall be made and furnished to the

' ju gas of election therein, in the same manner as is now prescribed by law

in res ect to poll books for each township, and the returns shall be made
in eac electron district to the omceof the clerk of the county court,
in the same manner as in case of a township forming one election dis-
trict. ‘ t ' .
This act to be in force, from and after its passage.
Approved February 6, .1849.

 

3

AN ACT to change the manner of voting in the city of Lexington and
Lafayette county.

Be it enacted by the General Jfssernbly of the State of Jllissourf, asfollaws:

§ 1. Hereafter, all elections in the city of Lexin ton and county of
(Ifafayetlte, slhall be by ballott, and all elections sh 1 continue for one
a an no on er.
This act to tfke effect from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

 

AN ACT to amend “An act to regulate elections,” approved March
28, 1345.

§ 1. Elections to be by ballot, and for one day 7. Clerks to enter the names of voters.

only. _ 8. Fraudulent ballots to be rejected.
2. Sheriffs to provide ballot boxes. 9. When ballots are to be considered fraudu-
3. Duty of vo er. lent.
4. Duty of judge. 10. Ballots to be entered in poll books‘ and pub-
5. Poll books to be signed by judges and at- licly proclaimed.
tested by clerks. 11. Form of poll books.

5. B:il.lot bpxes to be opened and tickets to 12. All conducting laws to be suspended.
NI .

468 ELECTIONS.

Be itenactedby the General vfssembly Q)’ the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That all elections hereafter in the counties of Andrew, Holt,
Barry, Ozark, Wright, Laclede, Cedar, Dallas, Henry and Lafayette, in
this State, shall be‘by ballot, and shall continue for one day only.

§ 2. That the sheriffs of said counties shall provide, at the expense 0!
said counties, a ballot box for each township in said counties, and de-
posite the same with the constable of the proper township, whose duty
it shall be to preserve the same, and have such box present at the proper
time and lace at all elections in his township, for the use of the
judges of e ection: aid constables shall deliver said boxes to their suc-
cessors in oflice within ten days after their successors shall be qualified,
and in default thereof, shall forfeit ten dollars, to be recovered by action
of debt before any justice of the peace, at the suit of the constable of
the township in which such delinquent contable resides, and shall be
paid into the treasury of the ‘proper county for the use” of common
schools. A

§ 3. Each voter shall, in full view, deliver to one of the judges of
election, a single ballot or piece*of paper, on which shall be written or
printed the names of the persons voted for, with a designation of the
oflice which he or they may be intended to 511. l

§ 4. The judge to whom any ticket shall be delivered, shall, upon re-
eel t thereof, pronounce in an audible voice the name of the voter, and
if t e judges shall be satisfied that the person offering to vote is a leghal
voter, his ticket shall be placed in the ballot box without inspecting e
names written thereon, and the clerks of election shall enter the name
of the voter and number in the poll books, agreeably to the form pointed
out in the eleventh section of this act.

§ 5. At the close of the polls, the oll booksshall be signed’ by the
judges and attested by the clerks, an the names therein contained shall
be counted and the number set down at the foot of the poll books, in the
manner hereinafter provided in the form of the poll books.

§ 6. After the poll books are si ned in the manner hereinafter pro-
vided in the form of the poll boois, -the ballot boxes shall be opened,
and the tickets shall be taken out, one at a time, by one of the judges,
who shall read distincty, while the ticket remains in his hands, the name
or names thereon written or printed, and then deliver it to the second
jud e, who shall examine the same and pas it to the third judge, who
sha 1 string it on a thread and carefully preserve the same; and the same
method shall be observed in respect to each of the tickets in the ballot
box, until the number of tickets taken out of the ballot box is equal to
the number of names in the poll books.

§ 7. The clerks shall enter in separate columns, under the names of
the persons voted for, as hereinafter provided in the form of the poll
books, all the voters so as aforesaid read by the jud es.

§ 8. When two or more ballots are found to placed or rolled to-
gether, such ballot shall be considered fraudulent, and shall be rejected.

§ 9. If a ballot should be found to contain a greater number of names
for any office than the number of persons required to fill such oilice, it
shall be considered fraudulent as to the whole of the names designated
to fill such office, but no further; but no ballot shall be considered fraud-

V ELECTIONS. 469

ulent for containing a less number of names than are authorized to be
inserted.

§ 10. After the examination of the ballots shall be completed, the
whole number of votes for each person shall be enumerated, under the
inspection of the jud es, and set down as hereinafter provided in the
form of the poll boois, and be publicly proclaimed to the people pre-
sent.
§ 11. The following shall be the form of the poll books to be kept by
the judges and clerks of election held under this act: Poll book of the
election held-in the township of ,,in the county of , on the
day of , in the year of our Lord ei hteen hundred and E .
A. B., C. D. and E. F., judges, and G. H. an I. K., clerks of said elec-
tion, were severally sworn as the law directs, previous to their entering
on the duties of their respective oflices.

Number and names of voters.

No. 1 A. B.
No. 2 C. D. _
No. 3 E. F.
It is hereby certi1ied_that the number of voters at this election amount
to -———.
Attest: A B.,
I. _l{., ) (,1 \ .1” C. D., Judges of Election.
G H.,g —' H  15.. F.,

 

_, ..-V"h:2z2.e.s‘ r_g/';::3z‘._s-«nzs 2'()f<'?r/_/l'_I?‘, um/./"u;' u..~/mt qfjicre3—cmz./aizz.ing the ..’\‘'b.
9/‘ m;£¢.'.s‘ _3;'z's'{r2I_/rn‘ Cm'.‘/3. t,'(m.r/idtzle.

_n _ 1 i{:-pr:-:~:'#$1T.;_.iW'F in llll‘. ] h
,. _t._L_;I ._ ,_ _ _ .

:-'T.'_'m- :.:-n_;'1.:l.11L;1'L».

1- lll_jll11l_f I’1i‘_l
\,._ .‘ .

I
>|__._.n_._____,___._ ___
I

E I \ !   * a

We hereby certify that A. B. had votes for Governor, and C. D.
had votes for Governor; E. F. had votes for Representative
to Congress, &.c., &c.

Attest: A. B., ' .
I. K., E Clerks_ 0. D., Judges of Election.

 

G. H.,. E. F., . .
§ 12. All aws which conflict with the provisions of this act, are sus-

pended in' their operation within the counties mentioned in the ~lirst«sep- .

tion of this act. - - i t 
' This act to take effect from and after its passage. ,  5 "
Approved March 12, 1849. “‘

   

/\.;\/'

.470 ‘ ‘ ELECTIONS.-—Fl.BBlE8. '

AN ACT authorizing the establishment of a second election precinct in
Cedar township in the county of Boone.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, asfalloos:

§ 1. The county courtof Boone county is hereby authorized to estab-
lish in addition to the election precinct at Bass’s mill in Cedar township
in said county, another place of voting in said township, and to appoint
three discreet persons as 'udges to ho] elections at the same.

This‘ act to take elfect rom its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

o\J\l\./\

AN ACT to regulate elections in the county of Putnam.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State’ of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That hereafter when any vacancy shall occur twelve months pre-
vious to any general election in the oflices of county court justices,
clerks, justices of the peace or contable, or of any county oflicer with-
in and for the county aforesaid, the same shall be filled b election, to
be held under the general law regulating elections for such oilicers.

§ 2. The county court of said county shall whenever any such vacan-
cy arises in said county, make an order requiring an election to be had
[held] either in the county or township, as the vacancy may require and
cause notice thereof to be given according to the present law now in

force re ulating elections.
§ 3. hould no election he held, then the county court of said county

may fill the same; and the names of the persons so elected or appointed
shall be certilied to the ofhce of Secretary of State.

§ 4. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed. -

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

   

'‘\./'‘l /‘ -I"./'\J\I "a--"\

FERRIES.
AN*ACT*'to establish free ferries across Aux Cuivre River in Lincoln
county.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfallows:

1. That the county court of Lincoln county is hereby authorized, if
said court shall deem it to be the interest of the citizens of said county
to establish one or more free ferries accross the Aux Cuire river, which
ferry or ferries shall be free to all persons residing in the aforesaid coun-
ty; and all other persons crossing at said ferry or ferries shall 'pay the
le al rates of ferriage for crossing the aforesaid river.

% 2. The county court of said county of Lincoln shall ap ropriate so
much of the interest arising from the road and canal fund elonging to
the said county, as shall be necessary to carry into effect the object con-
templated by the tirst section of this act.

§ 3. This act to be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

FIBBIB8. 47 1

AN ACT. to authorize Thomas M. Horine and others to keep a ferry.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asjbwws:

§ 1. Thomas M. Horine, John Walsh and Edward Walsh, are hereby
authorized to keep a steam ferry across the Mississippi river, op osite
the town‘of Chester in «the State of Illinois, and shall have the exc usive
right and privilege of keeping a ferry within the limits of a tract of land
now owned by the said com any, lying and being opposite the said town
of Chester in the county o Per .

§ 2. The said county court of any county, shall and is hereby au-
thorized and required to regulate the ferriage across said river, from
time to time, as the same may be deemed proper.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize Isaac R. Campbell to keep a ferryacross the Des-
Moines river, at the town of Lancaster, in the county of Clark.

5 1. Isaac R. Campbell authorized to keep a 7 4. When liable for damage; bond sullicient

ferry under certain conditions. evidence.
2. Bond to be executed and filed. 5. Duties of J. R. Campbell.
3. County court to regulate ferriage. 6. County court have power to establish an-
t . ' other ferry.

Beitenacted by the General dssembly the State of Missouri, asfo'lIows:—

§ 1. Isaac R. Campbell his heirs or assigns, are hereby authorized to
keep a ferry across the Des Moines river at the town of Lancaster in
Clark county, without obtaining a license for that purpose, for twenty-
Eve years from and after the passage of this act; provided, that the said
Isaac R. Campbell shall on or before the first day of September, in the
year eighteen hundred and forty-nine, furnish a good and suflicient ferry
boat provided with the necessary hands to attend the same, to be used
in crossing said river as a public ferry boat at the town aforesaid and

keep the said boat in good repair.

§ 2. The said Isaac R. Campbell to entitle himself to the privileges
of this act, shall execute to the State of Missouri, a bond with good se-
curity, in a sum to be determined n by the county court of sa1d'coun-
ty, conditioned for the faithful per ormance of his duties under this act,
which bond shall be approved by the court ‘aforesaid and filed with the.
clerk of said court. '

§ 3. The said county court of Clark is hereby authorized and required
to regulate the ferriage for crossing said river from time-to.time as the
same _ma be deemed roper.

§ 4. The said Isaac . Campbell and his security or or securities shall
be liable upon their bond aforesaid to any (person who may suffer damage
by detention or otherwise in crossing sai river in said ferry boat, and
the same may be sued on by any person aggrieved, and a copy of said'~
bond under the seal of said court attested by the clerk of the same, shall
be sudicient evidence upon any trial for damages aforesaid.

 5. It shall be the duty of the said Campbell his heirs or assi s,'at
all times to transport over the said river persons on foot, persons on orsei

\

472 Panama.

-back, wagons and teams,and stock of every description (except after

night) and afailure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this act.

§ 6. If the said county court shall become satisfied that the said
Campbell has failed to comply with any of the provisions of this act,
they shall have full power to establish another ferry or ferries.

This act to take effect from and after the first day of May next.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize Jeremiah Wayland to keep a ferry at the town of
St. Francisville, in the county of Clark.

§ 1. Authority granted to keep" ferry under . 5. Boat to bekept in repair.

conditions named. ' 6. Refusal to trans )O!'lI passengers or property
2. Grantee to give bond; same to be appro- or violation 0 this act.‘ . .

ved by county court. 7. County court may establish other ferries in
3. County court shall regulate ferriage. case of non-compliance of this act.

4. Liabilities of principal and securities.
Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Jeremiah Wayland, his heirs or assigns, are hereby authorized to
keep a ferry across the Des Moines river, at the town of St. Francis-
ville, in the county of Clark, free from license, for twenty-five years
from and after the passage of this act; provided, that the said Jeremiah
Wayland shall on or before the first day of September, in the year
eighteen hundred and forty-nine, furnish a good and sufficient boat, fur-
nished with the necessary hands to manage and attend to said boat used
in crossing said river as a public ferry boat, at the town of St. Francis-
ville, and keep the same in ood repair. V

§ 2. The said Jeremiah Vgayland, to entitle himself to the privileges
of this act, shall execute to the State of Missouri, a bond with suliicient
security, in a sum to be determined by the county court of C_lark,_con-
ditioned for the faithful performance of his duties under this act, which
bond shall be approved by the court aforesaid, and filed with the clerk
of said court. - ' ' ' I.

3. The said county court of Clark is hereby authorized and requi-
re to regulate the ferriage across said river from time to time as _‘the
same may be deemed proper.

§ 4. The said Jeremiah W'ayland and his securities shall be lia‘bl‘e_up-
on their bond aforesaid, to any person who may suffer damage‘ by" deten-
tion or otherwise in crossing said ferry, and the same may be sued«,on by
any person aggrieved, and a copy of the, same under the seal of t_he,court,
attested by the clerk, shall be suliicient evidence upon any trialhad for
damages as aforesaid. , , _ T

§ 5. If the said boat should get out of repair, or be prevented-from
being used, shall be repaired or replaced without any unnecessary de-
lay. .'
§ 6. It shall be the duty of the said Wayland, his heirs or assigns, at
all times, (except at night,) to transport over the said river, persons on
foot, persons on horseback, wag ons and teams, and stock of every des-
criptiun, and a failure to do shal be deemed a violation of this act.

§ 7. If the said county county shall be satisfied at any time that the

warms um JURORS. 4'13
said We land has failed to comply with any of the provisions of this act,
they sh have full power to establish other ferries.

This act to be in force from and after the first day of May next.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

JURIES AND JURORS.
AN ACT to provide for the payment of jurors in the county of Sullivan.

§ 1. Compensation of grand jurors fixed; clerk shall grant a certiticate to jurors for ser-
of circuit court duties under this act. vices.
2. Compensation of petit jurors in certain 4. Compensation of jurors before‘ justices of
cases. the peace fixed.
3. Othcer to whom the verdict isrendered 5. Operations of this act to be decided by
the tax payers.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the Stale of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Each person serving as a grand juror in the county of Sullivan
shall receive as full compensation for such services one dollar for each
day he may actually serve, and the clerk of the circuit court in said
county shall be governed in the performance of his duties under this act
by the provisions of the 18th, 19th, and 20th sections of “An act con-
cerning grand and petit jurors,” approved March 27, 1845.

§ 2. Each person serving as a etit juror in the circuit or county court,
or on a coroner’s inquest, or on t e service of a writ of ad quud damnum,
or who may be summoned to assess damages consequent upon the open-
ing or repairing of any road, or to try the right of property, shall be en-
ti ed to receive the sum of fifty each in eac case, which shall be taxed
and collected as other costs in the case, and paid into the county treasu-
ry by the proper oflicer collecting the same.

§ 3. It shal be the duty of the ofiicer to whom the verdict is render-
ed, in either of the cases aforesaid, to grant to each juror serving as
aforesaid, a certiiicate stating the case on which he served, and the
amount to which he is entitled, which certificate or script shall be veri-
fied by the oflicial signature of the oiiicer granting the same, and shall
entitle the holder to receive its amount out of the county treasury; pro-
vided, that no juror shall be entitled to receive pay for more than two
cases on the same day.

§ 4. Each person serving as a juror before any justice of the peace,
shall receive twenty-live cents for each verdict rendered, to be taxed,
collected, and paid over as other costs in the case.

§5. A majority of the tax payers of said county of Sullivan, shall
have power to suspend the operation of this act by petition to the coun-
ty court, or by a vote at any election, and the county court shall be gov-
erned by such petition or vote, and make an order declaring its opera-
tions suspended, until a majority of the legal voters of such county shall

by vote or ‘petition require its reinstatement.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.
33

474 JURIES AND JUBOB8.

AN ACT to provide for the pay of petit jurors in the county of Madison.

§ 1. Pay of petit jurors in Madison county. 3. Jurors to receive fifty cents for each days’
2. Other jurors, their fees. l service, &.c.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

 1. Every person who shall serve as a petit juror in any cause tried
in the circuit court, county court, or any justices court, in the county of
Madison, shall be entitled to receive fifty cents, to be taxed as other
costs in the suit, and the same shall be collected by the sheriff or con-
stable, as the case may require, and paid over to such juror.

§ 2. Any person serving on a jury to try the rights of property, assess
damages consequent upon the opening of any State or county road, and
in all other cases wherein a jury is required by law, and not herein men-
tioned, shall receive iifty cents, to be taxed, collected, and paid over as
in the first section.

§ 3. In all cases where a petit juror shall be detained on any jury long-
er than one day, he shall be entitled to receive fifty cents for each day
he may serve as such, to be taxed, collected, and paid over as in the
foregoing sections; provided, no person shall receive pay for serving on
more than one jury in the same day.

This act to talre effect from and after the first day of May next.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to pay grand and petit jurors in Harrison county.

Be it enacted by the General .dsscmbly of the State of Missouri, asfollows,

§ 1. Each person serving as a grand juror in the county of Harrison
shall receive as a full compensation for his services, one dollar for each day
he may actually serve, and the clerk of the circuit court in the above men-
tioned county, in performance of his duty under this act, shall be governed
by the provisions of the 18th, 19th and 20th sections of an act concerning
grand and petit jurors; approved March 27th, i845.

§ 2. Each person in the above mentioned county, who serves as a petit
juror in the county or circuit court or on a coroner’s inquest, or under the
service of a writ of ad quad damnum, shall receive tifty cents for each
verdict rendered; but in case of the same person serving on more juries
than one in the same day, he shall only receive pay for the lirst verdict ren-
dered, to be taxed as other costs in the suit or case. .

§3. Any person serving as a juror before any justice of the peace in
the county above mentioned, shall receive for his compensation the sum of
twenty-five cents for each verdict rendered, taxed as other costs in the suit;
but in case any person shall serve in more than two suits in the same day,
in that case he shall receive pay only for the two first suits in which a verdict
is rendered.

§4. lfthe county court of the above mentioned county shall become
satisfied, by petition, that a majority of the tax paying citizens of said
county are opposed to the operations of this act, comparing the petition with
the assessor’s tax list last made out and returned, such court Shall declare
this act null and void in said county.

wnuns AND muons. 475

§ 5. All acts and ‘part of acts ccntrary to the provisions of this act are
hereby repealed.

This act shall he in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, I849.

 

AN ACT to provide for paying petit jurors in Gentry county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qsscmbly Q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter each juror in Gentry county, who shall be empannelled
as a petit juror in the circuit court, or who shall be summoned to assess
damages consequent upon the opening of any road or the erection of any
mill dam, or to try the right of any property shall be entitled to receive the
mm of forty cents for his services in each case, which shall be taxed and
collected as other costs in the suit or proceedings.

§ 2. Each juror serving as such in the county court, or before any justice
of the peace, shall be entitled to receive the sum of forty cents for his ser-
vices, which shall be taxed and collected as other costs in the case; provided.
always, that he shall not claim in more than one case in the same day.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

'\/\/\./\/‘

 

"x/‘\/‘\J\ I\./ \?\/\..’’\/‘s../ \

AN ACT to pay grand and petit jurors in Putnam county.

Be itenacted by the General tdsscmbly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Each person serving as a grand juror in the county of Putnam shall
receive as a full compensation for such service, one dollar for each day he
may actually serve, and the clerk of the circuit court in the above mentioned
county, in the performance of his duties under this act, shall be governed
by the provisions of the 18th, 19th and 20th sections of an act concerning
grand and petit jurors; approved March 27th, 1845.

§ 2. Each person in the above named county, serving as a petit juror in
the circuit or county court or on a coroner’s inquest, or under the service of
a writ of ad quad damnum, shall receive fifty cents for each verdict ren-
dered; but in case of the same person serving on more juries than one on

the same day, he shall only receive pay as above for the first verdict rendered,
to be taxed as other costs in the suit or case.

§3. Any person serving as a juror before any justice of the eace in the
county above mentioned, shall receive as compensation twenty- ve cents for
a verdict rendered, taxed as other costs in the suit; but in case any person
shall serve on more than two juries on the same day, before a justice of the
peace in said county, he shall receive pay only for the two first verdicts ren-
dered.

§ 4. If the county court of the county of Putnam shall become satisfied by
petition that a majority of the tax payers of said county are opposed to the
operation of this act, after comparing the said petition with the assessor’s

tax list last made out and returned, said court shall declare this act nugatory
and void in said county.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved February 27,1849.

476 msuns AND muons.

AN ACT to provide for paying petit jurors in Ste. Genevieve county.

He itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The sheriff of Ste. Genevieve county shall hereafter summon
twenty-four men as a petit jury from the citizens of said county to attend
each term of thecircuit court for said county, who shall attend court
during the term, unless sooner discharged.

§ 2. The said jury shall be summoned twenty days before the sitting
of the court, and each juror shall be entitled to receive one dollar per
day for each day he shall attend court as a juror.

§ 3. If other juries are needed by the court for the trial of causes,
talesmen shall be summoned to attend for each particular case, and who
shall receive twenty-live cents each for the trial of each cause.

§ 4. In every civil case at law there shall be taxed as costs the sum of
three dollars, which shall be paid by the plaintiff before the trial of the
cause by a jury, and the same shall be recovered from the loosing party
as other costs. If the case is tried by the court, without the interven-
tion of a jury, this sum is not to be paid.

§ 5. The amount taxed in each case above specified, hall be collected
by the sheriff, and paid by him into the county treasury.

§ 6. Upon the demand of each juror summoned under the first section
of this act, the clerk of the court shall give him a scrip certified by his
oliicial signature, showing the amount each juror is entitled to receive

‘ for his services out of the county treasury; and the sheriff shall pay to
' each juror summoned under the third section of this act, at the time the

case is tried, the twenty-live cents coming to him for serving in that

particular case.
6 7. The amount specified to be paid to each juror shall be paid out of

the county treasury, and if the amount collected as costs, before speci-
fied, be not suilicient, the deficiency shall be paid out of the county
treasury.
This act_to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 €%

 

AN ACT to pay grand jurors in the county of Dallas.

§ 1. Grand jurors to receive compensation. 3
2. Duties of clerk. j

Be it enacted by the Gmerol Assembly of the Stale of Missouri, asjbllows:

§ 1. Each person serving as a grand juror in the county of Dallas
shall hereafter receive for his services the sum of one dollar for every
day he may be in attendance as such grand juror.

§ 2. The clerk of the circuit court of said county shall keep a book,
in which he shall enter upon the application of each grand juror the
number of days such rand juror shall have served, and such entry shall
be verified by the oat}? or atlidavit of such grand juror.

§ 3. Upon the demand of such grand juror the clerk shall give him a
scrip certified by his official signature, showing the amount such grand
juror is entitled to receive for his services out of the county treasury;

3. Clerk to give scrip; how paid.
4. Compensation of clerk.

mums AND JURORS.- 477

and it shall be the duty of the county treasurer of said county, on the
presentation of uch scrip, to pay to the bearer of the same the amount
theretaspeciiied out of any money in the treasury of said county not

otherwise appro riated.
§ 4. The cler of the circuit court of aid county shall receive the

sum of one dollar and fifty cents at each term of the circuit court for his
duties as provided under the second section of this act, to be paid out of

the county treasury.
This act shall be in force and take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT concerning grand and petit jurors in the county of Nodaway_
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State Qf Missouri, asfollowsr

§.l. The county court of the county of N odaway is hereby authorized
in their discretion to levy a tax upon the people and property of said
county, suflicient to raise an adequate fund for the payment of grand or
petit jurors, or both, and to establish the rates at which either or both
shall be paid for their services out of the county treasury.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

..4n.,i~_;\,' g./-\/‘\/“./"«—/Wnf‘-'\_."\../‘_/\.’\./"Z‘J‘

AN ACT in relation to Grand and Petit Jurors.

2. Jurors to receive compensation; when, and

§ I. A section of a certain act repealed. 3. To what counties this act applies.
how much. i

Be it enacled'by the General ./.’ssembl_y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. So much of the seventeenth section of an act in relation to jurors.
approved the twenty-second of March, 1845, as provided that it shall be in
the discretion of the county court of any county, to say whether such
compensation shall be paid, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

§ '2. Hereafter, each person who shall be compelled [to serve} as a petit juror,
in the circuit or county court, and before justices of the peace, or who shall be
summoned to assess damages consequent upon the opening of any road, or
the erection of any mill dam, or to try the right of property, shall be entitled
to receive a fee of forty cents for his services in each case, and in case said
juror shall be detained longer than one day on the trial of any cause, then
said juror shall be entitled to receive forty cents for each additional day he
may be detained, which shall be taxed and collected as other costs in the
suit or proceeding.

§ 3. This act shall only apply and be in force in the counties following,
viz: Texas, Crawford, Jefferson, Pulaski, Camden, and Wright. __

This act; shall take effect and be in force from and after the first day 25*.‘
April, 1849

Approved March 10, l8l9.

478 wares sun muons.

I

AN ACT to pay Jurors in Warren County.

§ 1. Provides for paying jurors in justices’ t 4. When a juror is detained‘ more than one
courts. . E day, fees to be received therefor.
2. Provides for the pay of jurors in the circuit 5. Provides for the taking effect of this law,
court. é provided it is not declared void by the
3. Provides for paying jurors in other cases. 5 county court.

Be it enacted by the General .4ssembly of the Slate qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Each and every person being lawfully summoned as a juror in any
of the justices’ courts, in the county of Warren, shall be entitled to receive
lifty cents for such services in every case when they serve as ajuror, to be
taxed as other costs in the suit, and collected and paid over by the constable
to each person so summoned and serving.
§ 2. Each person summoned and serving as a juror in the circuit court in
the county of Warren, shall be entitled to receive fifty cents each case in
which he may be summoned and serve as a juror, to be taxed and paid by
the parties as other costs in the suits, and collected and paid over by the
sheriff to each juror.
§ 3. Every juror summoned by any otiicer in said county to make inquiry
upon the view of a dead body of any person, or to inquire upon the damages
on any writ of ad quod damnum, or to inquire of any matter not embraced
in the provisions of the preceding sections, shall he entitled to receive the
sum of titty cents for each day such juror may be engaged in such inquiry,
to be taxed and paid over to each juror as other costs in the case.
§ 4. And be it further enacted, that in all cases where a petit juror serving
in any of the circuit courts in Warren county shall be detained more than
one day, shall be entitled to fifty cents for each additional day’s service, to
be taxed as other costs in the suit, and paid as provided for in the preceding
‘ sections; but nothing in this act shall be so construed as to allow any person
pay for serving on more than one jury the same day.
(3 5. This act shall take efiect and be in force from and after the first day
of June next; provided, that the county court of the above named county
may, in its discretion, before the lirst day of June next, or at any subsequent

period thereafter, make an order declaring this act inoperative in said
countv.

Approved March 9, 1849.

 

’\/‘.f\/\’\f‘\/\/‘\/'\/\/'\’\.§/'5

AN ACT for the pay of Jurors in St. Louis.

6 i. Personssummoned as jurors, number of. 6. Per centage on fees and emoluments of
2, Number of jurors in each civil case. i dtiicers; amount of.
3. Talesmen summoned,vvhen, compensation  7. Duty of the several courts.

Of. 3 .8. Provision for payin jurors, in event of
4. Additional jury fee to be taxed. insufficiency of sai fund.
5. No grand jury to be summoned, when. l

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qfth; State of M "ssouri, asfullozos:

§ 1. The number of persons to be summoned as jurors to attend any court
of record in St. Louis county for any one week shall not exceed eighteen,
"unless otherwise ordered by the court.

§ 2. In any civil case in said courts, whether tried on issue or exparte,
the jury may consist of any number not less than six nor more than twelve,

mums sun muons. 479

unless one of the parties shall demand a jury of twelve, or the parties agree
on a number less than six.
§ 3. Whenever the same may be necessary, talesmen may be summoned
to till up a jury, but such talesmen shall receive only fifty cents per day for
their services.
§ 4. In addition to the jury fee now required to be paid in advance, a
further fee of three dollars shall be taxed as costs in every case actually
tried by jury, to be collected as other costs.
§ 5. At the November and March terms of the criminal court of said
county, no grand jury shall be summoned, unless specially ordered by the
court
§ 6. The amount to be assessed in aid of the jury fund on the fees and
emoluments of the several officers of said county, according to the fifth,
sixth, and seventh sections of “an act to promote the payment ‘of jurors in
St. Louis county,” approved January 29, A. D. 1847, shall never exceed
six per cent. on the amount of their respective receipts, and the county court
is authorized and empowered to settle with the former officers of said county
for all sums due from them under said law, and to give them a release upon
their paying into the county treasury a sum equal to six per cent. upon the
amount of their respective receipts. If any such ollicer be dead, such
settlement may be made with his legal representatives, and such representa-
tives may pay the amount into the treasury, and obtain the release.
§ 7, It shall be the duty of the several courts of said county and their
otiicers to adopt such measures as will prevent all unnecessary accumulation
of costs for jury services, and to discharge jurors when it is probable that
their services will not be needed.
§ 8. Ifa sutiicient jury fund shall not be obtained under the provisions of
this act, then jurors may be paid out of the county treasury.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

g-

 

AN ACT concerning grand and petit jurors in Mercer county.

§ 1. Duty of county court. _ 9. Pay of grand jurors.
2. Manner of selecting grand jury; number of. 10. Accounts of grand jurors, how kept.
3. Summons issued for grand jury, by whom 11. Clerk to issue scrip.

served and in what manner. 12. Treasurer to pay such scrip, when pre-
4. Clerk to examine the names in each jury sented.
box; when. 13. Pay of petit jurors.
5. Names of and ‘more to be withdrawn; 14. Pay of coroner’s jury. .
when to e repllaced 15. Pay of jurors in suits before justices of the
6. Proceedings in case of a special term. peace.
7. Number of petit jurors to be drawn in 16. Compensation of c.erk.
criminal cases. 17. Acts inconsistent with this act, repealed.
8. Penalty on clerk for failing to perfonm his
duty.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. The clerk of the county court of Mercer county shall procure as
many boxes with sliding covers as there are municipal townships in the
county, and marl: each of said boxes with the name of a township in
said county; and such clerk shall examine the list of the names of the

480 JURIE8 AND maons.

persons subject to a poll tax in his county, and shall write on separate
pieces of paper, of equal size and form as near as may be, the names of
all such persons as are liable to serve on juries, who are free from all
legal objections, of good character and of sober habits, and such clerk

shall put such names respectively in the box marked with the name of

the township in which the person resides, and the clerk shall make a
memorandum of the names in each box.

§ 2. Twenty days before the first day of every term of the circuit
court in the county, the clerk of said county, at said clerk’s ollice, in
the presence of at least three persons, to be requested to attend for the
purpose as witnesses, residents of the county, after shaking each of the
boxes with the ‘names placed therein as aforesaid, shall draw out, without
looking into the box, sixteen names, and shall write them regularly as
they are drawn, on a piece of blank paper; and in drawing out said
number, the clerk shall apportion the number of jurors amongst the sev-
eral townships in the proportion that the number in each township bears
to the whole number in the county, as near as may be: the sixteen names
thus drawn from the several boxes shall constitute the grand jury at the
next succeeding term of the circuit court.

§ 3. Said clerk shall further issue a summons, directed to the sherif
of the county, commanding him forthwith to summons the persons whose
names were drawn as grand jurors, to appear at the court house in the
county on the first day of the next term of the circuit court in and for
the county, at 10 o clock, A. M., on that day, which summons shall be
served by the sheriff by reading the ame to each person, or leaving a

j true copy thereof (excepting the names of other jurors) at the usual

place of abode of each juror, with some free w ite person above the
age of fifteen years, at least three days bofore the first day of the term
0 court at which he is required to appear, and such sheriff shall make
return on such writ of the manner in which he executed the same.

§ 4. The clerk of the circuit court shall, at least twenty days before
each term of the circuit court, examine the names in each box, and
throw out the names of such persons as shall have died or removed from
the county since the last preceding term of said court, and also the
names of all such persons against whom any legal exemption may have
occurred since the last preceding term of said court, and such clerk
shall also annually place the names of such persons as have been added
to.the poll tax list in the box marked with the name of the township in
which such person shall reside. '

§ 5. The names of all such persons as shall have been drawn to serve
on the grand jury shall be placed in a separate box, from time to time
as they shall be drawn, and shall not be placed in the township box to
be drawn again until at least three-fourths and not over live-sixths have
been drawn out to serve as grand jurors, at which time said clerk shall
again place all the names in the ssveral township boxes and proceed to
draw as heretofore prescribed for all subsequent grand juries.

§ 6. In all cases where a special term of a circuit court shall be or-
dered by the judge of the circuit court, the clerk of such court shall
proceed to draw a grand jury in the same manner as herein prescribed,

and they shall be summoned to appear at such special term in like man-
ner as at a regular term.

iunrns AND muons. 481

§ 7. In every case where any erson shall stand indicted for any cri-
minal o&'ence which may be tri at the first term of the court, the clerk
of said court shall then draw as petit jurors a number equal to all the
preemptory challenges on the part of the State and the accused and
twelve in addition. . e

§ 8. If any clerk of the circuit court shall fail to discharge the duties
required of him by this act, or shall wilfully violate any of the provisions
of this act, or shall be guilty of any partiality, he shall forfeit and ay
for each and every offence to the county, a sum not less than fifty dbl-
Iars nor more than five hundred dollars, to be recovered by indictment.

§ 9. Each person servin as a grand juror in the county of Mercer
shall hereafter receive for iis services the sum of sixty cents for each
day he may be in attendance as such grand juror, and live cents for
every mile he may necessarily travel in going to the court house of said
county. '

§ 10. The clerk of the circuit court of said county shall keep a book
in which he shall enter, upon the ap lication of each rand juror, the
number of days each grand juror shal have served an the number of
miles such grand juror may have travelled in oing to said court on the
most practicable route, and such entry shall e verified by the oath or
allidavit of such grand juror.

§ 11. Upon the demand of such juror, the clerk shall give him a scrip,
certified by his oflicial signature, showing the amount such juror is en-
titled to receive for his services out of the county treasury.

§ 12. It shall be the duty of the county treasurer of said county, on
the presentation of such scrip, to pay to the bearer of the same the
amount therein specified, out of any money in the treasury of said county
not otherwise appropriated. '

§ 13. Each person serving as a petit juror in the county or circuit
court of Mercer county, shall receive for his services the sum of fifty
cents for each verdict rendered by said juror, to be taxed, collected and
paid over as other costs in the case. ' i

§ 14. Each person serving as a juror at a coroner’s inquest or under
a writ of ad quad damnum, shall receive for his services the sum of
forty cents, to be collected and paid over as other costs in the suit as
now prescribed by law.

§ 15. Each person serving as a juror in any suit before a justice of the
peace, shall receive the sum of twenty-live cents for each verdict ren-
dered, to be taxed, collected and paid over as other costs in said suit.

§ 16. The clerk of the circuit court of said county shall receive the
sum of two dollars at each term of the circuit court of said county for
his duties as prescribed in the second section of this act, to be paid out
of the county treasury. '

§ 17. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, are hereby
re ealed, so far as Mercer county is concerned.
J‘§‘his act to take effect and be in force from and after the first day of

y next.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

482 JUIIES am: JU:IOB8.

AN ACT to provide for paying jurors.

9 1. Amount to be paid jurors in certain cases. § 3. This law may be declared void, how.
2. Pa of jurors in the county court and be- g 4. Acts inconsistent, repealed.
ore justices of the peace. A

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the ‘State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter, each juror who shall be empannelled as petit juror in the
circuit court, or who shall be summoned to assess damages consequent
upon the opening of any road or under the service of a writ of ad quad
damnum, or in a coroner’s inquest, or to try the ‘right of property, in
the counties of Ray, Carroll, Chariton, Shannon, Polk, Caldwell and
Cass, shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty cents for his services
in each case, which amount shall be taxed and collected as other costs
in the suit or proceeding.

§ 2. Each person serving as a juror in the county court or before any
justice of the peace within the aforesaid counties, shall be entitled to
receive the sum of thirty-seven and a half cents for his services in each
case, said amount to be taxed and collected as other costs in the cause.

§ 3. If the county courts in any of the counties aforesaid shall become
satislied by etition that a majority of the tax payers of the county are
opposed to this act, comparing the said petition with the assessor’s tax
list last made out and returned, such. court shall declare this act nuga-
tory and void in that county. ’

§ 4. 1311 acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this act, are hereby
re eale .

his act shall take efect from its passage.
- -r Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to pay grand jurors in the county of Oregon.
Be it enacted by the General ./Zs-sembly Q/‘the State cf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That hereafter, each grand juror serving as such in the county
of Oregon, shall be entitled to receive the sum of_f1fty cents for each

day he may be required to serve, to be paid out of the county treasury
of said county.

§ 2. The c er]: of the circuit court of said county shall furnish each
juror, if required so to do, a certificate of the number of days he has
served, and upon the presentation of such certificate to the treasurer of
said county, the same shall be paid as above required.

This act to take effect from and after the passage thereof.
Approved March 6, 1849.

   

AN ACT to provide for the selection and pay of jurors in the county of
Buchanan.

§ 1. Selection of grand jurors. § 3. Manner of selecting petit jurors.
2. How selection to be made. 4. Juror’s box; how kept.

warns um waons. 483

5. Juror liable in case of absence. 10. Names of jurors not to be disclosed.

6. Deficiency of gratfd and petit jurors sup- ll. Jurors to be of unimpeachable character.
plied; how and by whom. 12. Noticeto be given to jurors; when.

7. Court ma discharge jurors. 13. Clerk to set the criminal docket for cer-

8. Jurors to paid; how. tain times.

9. Fees shall be taxed for juries, as other 14, Jurors paid in other cases.
costs.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State Qf lllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. Not less than fourteen nor more than forty-live days before the
commencement of each regular term of the circuit court of Buchanan
county, the county court shall select eighteen persons qualified to serve
as grand jurors, and deliver the names to the clerk of the circuit court,
who shall issue to the sheriff a summons commanding him to summon
them to appear on the first day of the next succeeding term to serve as
grand jurors. _

§ 2. Not less than fourteen nor more than forty-hve days before the
commencement of the regular spring term of the circuit court in each
year, the county court shall select one hundred persons qualihed to

serve as petit jurors; and they shall write the name of each person so.

selected on a small piece of paper, which papers shall be as nearly alike
in size and shape as racticable, and shall be so folded as that the names
shall not appear; and they shall put all the papers so folded into a box
provided for that pur ose, called the juror’s box, and seal it up and cause
it to be delivered to t e clerk of the circuit court.

§ 3. Not less than ten nor more than twenty days before the commence-
ment of each regular term, the clerk of the circuit court shall break the
seal of the juror’s box, and shall draw therefrom, first having well shaken it,
twenty-four names; or if he shall have good reason to believe that any
person whose name is so drawn is sick, or absent from the county, or
otherwise unable to serve, then he shall draw additional names until he
shall get twenty-four able to serve, to compose the petit jurors for the
trial of causes at the next succeeding term_ of the circuit court; the clerk
shall issue to the sheriff a summons commanding him to summon such
persons to appear to serve as such jurors.

§ 4. After the jurors for any term shall have been drawn, the juror’s
box shall be scaled up not again to be opened till necessary to draw for’
another term, unless otherwise ordered by the circuit court or the judge
thereof; the juror’s box shall be kept in the custody of the clerk of the
circuit court.

§5. If any juror, either grand or petit, shall fail to attend, or shall

absent himself without leave of court, he may he proceeded against as '

for a contempt of court.

§ 6. If a suflicient number of jurors, either rand or petit, shall fail to
attend, or shall be discharged or otherwise gisqualilied to serve, the
court or judge may cause the deficiency to be supplied either by causing
more names to be drawn from the juror’s box, and them to be summoned,
or by causing persons to be summoned from the bystanders.

§7. Petit jurors shall be required to serve during the term unless
sooner discharged, but the court may at any time discharge the whole
or any portion of the jurors summoned, and if necessary may cause more
to be summoned, drawn from the juror’s box, or from the bystanders;

484 JURIES AND muons.

while in attendance, jurors shall be under the controlnof the court, and
for disobedience may be punished as for a contempt; if a special term
shall be called the court or judge may cause the jurors to be drawn from
the juror’s box or from the bystanders, as shall be deemed most conve-
nient and most conducive to the public good. ._

§ 8. Jurors shall be allowed for pay one dollar per day while in at-
tendance, and live cents a mile in going from their residence to the court
house and back, but they shall only be allowed mileage for one trip at ’
one term; the clerk shall swear them to their respective accounts, and
give to each juror a scrip certifying his allowance at each term, s ecify-
ing the term, the number of days in attendance, and the number o miles,
together with the aggregate allowance in words, at full length, and signed
by the clerk; this scrip shall be payable out of the county treasury, and
shall be received by the collecting oflicers in payment of taxes; the clerk
shall be allowed one dollar for issuing each jury summons, and two dol-
lars and fifty cents in full for all services connected with making out ac-
counts, and making out and certifying scrip for all the jurors at each
term of the court, to be paid out of the county treasury.

§ 9. A fee of four dollars, taxed as other costs, shall be allowed upon
the trial of each cause, upon an issue or issues of fact, to be called the
juror’s fee; this fee, when collected, shall be paid into the county trea-
sury. V

§ 10. The county court and the oflicers thereof, and the oflicers of the
circuit court, shall not disclose the name of- any 'uror, nor of any person
selected for a juror, unless in the necessary disc arge of their respective
duties; a wilful violation of this provision shall be deemed a misdemean-
or in office; when selecting names for jurors the county court shall cause
spectators to be removed.

§ 11. The county court in selecting 'urors shall take special care to
select only those persons of the best an most irreproachable character,
and shall take them from all parts of the county as far as practicable.

§ 12. Before the commencement of each regular term the sheriff shall
give jurors at least three days’ notice; he may summon them verbally
when done personally,but when this is not practicable, then by a written

‘notice left at their usual place of abode, with some free white member

of the family over the a e of fifteen years.
§ 13. The clerk of t e circuit court shall set the criminal docket on
the second week of each regular term, beginning with Monday, unless
otherwise ordered by the court or judge.
§ 14. In Buchanan county jurors before the county court, and also be-
fore justices of the peace, shall be paid fifty cents each for each cause
tried by them; in cases of forcible entry and detainer, or unlawful detainer,
and all other causes before justices of the peace, except cases of assault and
battery, a jury shall be composed of only six persons; in all cases before
the county court, or before justices of the peace, except cases of
breach of the eace, the party demanding a jury, or in those cases where
the law providpes for a jury without interposition of either party, the
plaintiff shall pay to the officer the juror’s fees, together with the fees for
summoning them, before the oflicer shall summon any juror, and in de-
fault thereof, in the former case the cause shall be tried without a jury,
and in the latter it shall be dismissed; and the oflicer, when a jury shall

warns AND ‘Janene. 485

have been ‘summoned, shall pay to the jurors their fees before they dis-
perse; if the oilicer refuse to pay such fees he shall forfeit four—fold to
the person aggrieved; if jurors refuse to receive their fees, they shall be
forfeited to the county; at the end of each year every oflicer’ having in
his hands juror’s fees, or who ought to have them, shall account therefor
under oath, and pay the same into the county treasury in like manner as
other dues to the county, and in default thereof any such oflicer shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanorein office; a party paying juror’s fees
in advance may, if he prevail in the suit, recover them as other costs
from the opposite party. So far as juries in the circuit court are con-
cerned, this act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

4J\f\f\/\ /'\/\

 

/\/'

AN ACT to equalize the service of» Grand Jurors in the county of
Schuyler.

§ 1. Preparatory action of the county court in ‘ 5. Court shall revise and replenish the boxes;
_ se ecting grand jurors. i when. \
2. Boxes to be rovided; tickets placed therein.( 6. In case of a sufiicient number failing to ap-
3. Clerk to raw names therefrom; such pear; roceedings thereon.
names to be summoned as and jurors. 7. General) law made applicable in certain
4. Discrimination to be used in awing names. cases.

Be 1': enacted by the General Assembly qfthe State If -Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of the county of Schuyler shall at the first
regular term of said court, after the takin effect of this act, select from
the list of taxable persons in the county,t e names of all sober, discreet
men qualified in the judgment of said court to serve as grand jurors and
write each name on a separate ticket and place the same in boxes as
hereinafter provided.
§2. The clerk of the court shall provide as many small boxes with
sliding lids as there are municipal townships in the county, and put upon
each box in plain legible letters the name of the township to which such
box is allotted, placing the tickets prepared by the court therein in such
manner that the names selected from a township shall be put in the box

«

marked therefor. —

§ 3. It shall be the duty of the clerk in the presence of the sheriff 0
his deputy, at least twelve days before each term of the circuit court in
said county after shaking each box to draw as many names (in all not to
exceed eighteen) therefrom as is the just proportion of such township,
according to the number of suitable- persons selected therein, and said
clerk shall issue a writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to sum-
mon such persons as have been drawn as grand jurors to serve at‘-the
next term of the court. , ‘

§ 4. In drawing the names from the boxes, if any persons name is drawn
who is known to be dead, non-resident or otherwise so situated that he
cannot serve, others may be drawn in the lace thereof, and the tickets
drawn from the boxes from time to time, shall not be returned, but kept
in safety until at least three-fourths of the names are drawn from the

boxes. . y _
§ 5. Whenever three-fourths of the tickets have been drawn from the

boxes and the. court shall deem it necessary the court shallrevise and

I

‘486 JURIE3 ‘Ann Junoas.

replenish the boxes, as in the first section directed and the 'ersons ser-

ving as grand juorors under the provisions of this act sha not receive
any com ensation for their services.
6. I from any cause on the first day of the court when the panel is
c ed, a suflicient number do not appear, or appearing are excused the
sheri&' shall by order of the court summon from the by standers or others
convenient a sufficient number to supply such deficiency, and the clerk
shall return the tickets containing the names of such as fail to appear
into the proper boxes, he shall also keep a list of all those summoned
from the by-standers as herein provided, and such service rendered by
them shall exempt them from being summoned when their names are
drawn from the jury box, and in drawing the clerk shall pass such over.
§ 7. On all things not provided for in this act the officers and jurors
shall be held to comply with the laws nowin force regulating the sum-
moning and services of grand jurors, and all parts of acts inconsistent
with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.

This act to take effect and be in force, from and after the lirst day of
June, 1849.

Approved February 27, 1849. '

v'\/\§\/\l

 

AN ACT concerning grand and petit jurors in the county of Lafayette.

§ 1. The sherili‘ to summon grand and petit , 13. Jurors subject to atine, for failing teat-

juror, when. ) tend.

2. Jurors to be selected aocordingto population 14. Court may direct bystanders to be sum-
3. Jurors, when to appear. moned, when.

4. Oath to be taken by sherilf. 15. Clerk or sheriff may be lined, upon fgilure
6. Mode of selecting grand and petit jurors for. to perform their duties.

each term. 16. Jury trials to have precedence.

6. Grand jurors to be sworn to the mileageg 17. Sheriff allowed certain fees.
claimed by them. 18. Plaintid to pay jury fee; when.

7. Fees of grand jurors. how paid. 19. Proceedings, when sheriff is interested.

8. Treasurer required to pay and redeem ju- 20. Juror serving, excused one year tbergaftér,
rors scrip. 21. Jury fees to be taxed as other costs in the

 

9. Proceedings in cases of indictments. when .) case.

defendants entitled to a peremptory chal-§ 22. Said jury fees to be paid into the county
lenge of more than three jurors. ) treasury.

l0. Mode of selecting a jury in civil cases. 23. Petit jurors to be paid; how much, and by

ll. Names of jurors to be replaced in jury box. whom. and out of what fund.
when. 24. Acts inconsistent with this act, repealed.

12. Bystanders to be summoned, when. E 25. Cougrty court may declare this act void;

w en.

Be it enacted by the General Jissentbly of the State of Missouri, asfollozvs:
§ 1. That the sheriff of Lafayette county in this State shall at least

‘thirty days before each term of the circiut court in said county, summon

forty good and lawful men of the body of the county, to serve as grand and
petit jurors, to try the several criminal and civil cases which may be triable
at said term.

§ 2. That the sheriff shall select the jurors required in the preceding
section from the different townships in said county, in the proportion that the
free population of said townships bear to each other as near as practicable.

§ The jurors summoned as aforesaid shall appear on the first day of
the term for which they were summoned at ten o’clock in the forenoon and
the shenlf shall furnish the clerk with a list of -the names so summoned.

mm-.s Annzivaoas. 487

§ 4. r The clerk of the circuit court in said county, shall in open court
for said county administer to the sheriff the following oath: “You A. B.
do solemnly swear or afiirm (as the case may be) that in summoning jurors
to be returned to this court (circuit) and that in executing every wnt and
precept which has come to your hands for the returns of jurors, you have
used your utmost diligence to summon and return as jurors, sober and judi-'
cious persons of good reputation and qualified by the laws of this State to
serve as jurors, and have prevented any man from being summoned and re-

‘ turned by you or by any officer under you who, in your judgment will be ‘

influenced in determining any of the matters which shall come before him
as a juror by hatred malice or ill will, fear or affection or by any partiality
,Whatever, and that you have not summoned or returned as a juror any per-
son who in your opinion- or to your knowledge hath been solicited to be re-
'turned upon the panel of jurors.”
§ 5. The names of jurors so furnished by the sheriff, shall be wtitten on
separate pieces of paper, which shall be rolled up and each township shall
be balloted for separately in the following manner, to wit: the jurors of one
township to be first placed in a small box, with a sliding lid to be provided
and kept by the clerk for that purpose; and the clerk under the direction of
- the court shall draw out names singly until he gets a certain number which
by adding an equal number from each of the remaining townships in the
county, will make the pannel required and the 'urors of each remaining
townships shall be drawn in like manner separat y and the first jurors sub-,
sequently drawn in township balloting to an equal number from each re-'
maining township with the first drawn, as near as practicable, shall be listed
with the first drawn, till the whole lotdrawn shall amount to sixteen jurors,
which shall constitute the grand jury of the county; and after the foreman
be appointed by the judge of said court shall be qualified and governed in
all things by the laws now in force on the subject of powers and duties of
grand jurors, and the names of the remaining jurors not drawn, as grand
jurors shall be all placed in said box to be drawn as petit jurors.
§ 6. The grand jury shall continue to serve till discharged by the court
and when discharged the clerk shall enter in a book for that purpose the
name of each person claimin as a grand juror, and the numberof miles he
may say he necessarily trave led in coming to court and returning there-
from to his place of residence, and his statement so made shall be veritied
by his oath taken before the clerk.
§ 7. The clerk of said court shall when called upon for the same‘give
to each grand juror a scrip containing a brief statement under his otlicial
‘signature showin the amount to which said juror is entitled ,allowing him
one dollar for eac day he may have served on said grand jury, and live cents
for each mile he may havenecessarily travelled in coming to and returning
from the place of sitting of said court to his residence.
§ 8. The treasurer of said county is hereby required upon the produc-
tion to him of any scrip given by the clerk as aforesaid to pay the same out
of any money in the treasury appropriated for county expenses and said
scrip shall be received by the sheriff or collector in payment of any debt due

-the count .

§ 9. 'i:hat when any indictment or other cause shall be called for trial,
in which the defendant is entitled to a peremptory challenge of more than
three jurors the clerk under the discretion of the court, shall draw twelve
names frbm the box in which they may be deposited, who shall compose the

488 Jeans sun Junons.

jury to try the cause, unless some one or more may be challenged for cause
or otherwise; and if any be refused then the clerk shall draw as many more
names, as with those received, will complete the pannel and so in succession
until the pannel is completed, or all the names in the jury box be drawn,
whichever may first happen; if all the names be drawn from the box with-

_out completing the pannel, then the balance of the jury shall be composed

of by—standers to be summoned as hereafter provided.

§ 10. That in all cases in which ‘a jury may be required the clerk shall
draw from the box where the same are deposited, eighteen names,,which
shall be written on two pieces of paper, in the order in which they are drawn, '
and one shall be handed to the attorney of each party, or to the plaintiff or
defendant as the case maybe when there has been no attorney employed.
Each of whom shall have the privilege of striking three names from the list
if they choose to do so; it shall then be returned to the clerk and he shall,
thereupon set down in his minute book the first twelve names not stricken
out, or not challenged for cause, as a jury to try the case on hand andif
not challenged for cause render it necessary to draw more names from the
box, so many shall be drawn under the direction of the court as may be ne-
eessary to complete the jury.

§ 11. That in all cases where the jury shall be completed the names of
the jurors not on the pannel shall be returned into the box, and the next jury
that may be wanting, shall be drawn from the remaining names as in the
first case, unless the first jury shall have returned with their verdict, in

,: which event their names shall also be returned into the box and be drawn

again as herein before directed.

§ 12. That if any of the jurors summoned as directed in the first section
of this act, shall fail to attend before a petitjury be wanting the sheriff by
an order of court, shall summon as many by-standers or others as will com-
plate the number of twenty-four, and those first summoned, and who fail to
attend shall no longer be considered asjurors for that term and shall receive
no compensation for their attendance.

§ 13. That.any juror who shall fail to attend at the hour of adjourn-
ment of the court, or who does not show good cause for his failure shall be
subject toa fine of not less than one, nor more than five dollars which ‘line
shall by the clerk be deducted from the amount to which such juror shall be
entitled for previous services.

§ 14. That thwt the court may as often as it may be deemed necessary
direct so many by-standers to be summoned as jurors over and above the
standing number of twenty-four as may he required, and if for any cause
a standing juror shall be excused by the court, the sheritf shall summon an-
other to fillrlhe vacancy.

§ 15. That if the clerk or sheriff shall fail to perform any of the duties
assigned them by this act they may be fined for such failure not less than
five nor more than fifty dollars, but such failure shall be no ground of objec-
tion to anyjuror, unless such objection is made before such juror is sworn,
nor shallit be any objection to the verdict rendered by such juror.

§ 16. It shall be the duty of the circuit court so far as it can be done
consistently with a due leg:u‘d to justice to preventany other business from
interfering with the progress of jury trials until all the jury cases of the term
are disposed of’, and to that end the court Shall have power to cause all mo-
tions and other business in which ajury will not be wanting, to be docketed

wt’

Jiinins AND JUROR8. 489

or continued to such days of the term as will happen subsequent to those set
apart forjury trials. “ .
§ 17. in lieu of the fees allowed to the sheriff by the existing laws for
summoning a jury, he shall in each civil case be allowed the sum of
pne dollar for each jury that may be empanelled to the plaintiff, and
taxed in the bill of costs against the unsuccessful party, and this shall
be full compensation for summoning the jury and attending upon the
same in court.
§ 18. The circuit court shall have the same power to renderjudgment
in any suit pending in such court as they now have by law without empan-
eling a jury, and it shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants
in any cause pending in said circuit court, to confess a judgment for such
sum, the plaintiff or plaintiffs may be entitled to recover, and if the plaintiff

' shall refuse to accept such confession of judgment and shall demand a jury

to be empaneled in said cause, and shall not recover a greater amount than
the defendant proposed to confess judgment for, such plaintiff or plaintiffs
shall be liable to pay the costs consequent upon the empaneling of said jury
in the same manner as is provided in other cases by this act. That in all
actions of covenant, assumpsit or debt, founded upon any bond or note for
the direct payment of mone , unless the defendant by pleadi shall ren-
der it necessary to empanelya jury, no jury shall be empaneliiii, but judg-
ment shall be rendered by default and entered according] .

§ 19. Whenever the sheriff or any of his deputies shall be a party or
there Shall be am" just cause in the opinion of the court why such sheritfor
his deputies should not have summoned the jury it shall and may be lawful
for the court to direct a jury to be summoned and empanclcd by the corn-
nor or s ecial elizor, from the b -standers. .

§ 20. pNo person who has bezn summoned and served as a juror accor-
ding to the provisions of the first section of this act shall be liable to serve
as a juror for the next twelvemonths thereafter.

§ 21. In all suits originating in the circuit court of Cooper [ Lafay-
ette] county which shall be tried and decided by a jury, the clerk shall tax
the sum of two dollars to be collected as other costs in the case; and _in all
appeals from justices of the peace tried in the circuit court, there shall be
taxed as costs in the case, in addition to the present costs taxable by law
the sum of one dollar, to be collected as other costs in said case.

§ 22. All costs collected by the sheriffwhich may have been taxed on any
execution, by the last preceding section, shall be paid into the treasiiry of
said county, and be kept there apart and denominated the jury fund, and
shall be kept for payment of scrip. issued in favor of petit jurors who have
served under the rovisions of this act.

§ 23. At the eiid of each term or sooner, if ‘all the jury cases have been
tried, the court shall discharge the panel of jurors. summoned and empon-
eled according to the provisions of this act, and the clerk shall call up the
persons whp hale seti)'velc{l as ji‘i)roi}']s m}der tgetprovisions ofhthis act‘, and .:.ll‘i1a”|:
enerina oo o e e t im or a ur ose, enum.ero
which each claimant majlaclaiin and the number? of iiniles necessarily traveled
in coming to and returning from court, and the same shall be verified by the
oath of the claimant as in case of grand jurors claiming for serv'ces under
the provisions of this act, and said clerl: shall give to said claimant a scrip
for the amount to which he is entitled payable out of the jury fund, which

34

490 mains AND maoas.

amount shall be the same for mileage, as is paid. to a grand juror, and one
dollar per day for every day that he shall serve as such petitjuror, which scrip
shall be paid by the county treasurer out of any jury funds which may be in
said county treasury: Provided that there is a sufficient amount of said fund
in the treasurer’s handsgto pay such scrip, and if there shall be a deficiency’,
the same shall be supplied out of any money in the county treasury appro-
priated for county expenditures; and provided, that in such case where a by-
stander may be empaneled to try any cause, he shall be entitled to seventy-
five cents for each original case,and fifty cents for each appeal case, in
which he may serve as a petit juror, unless the cause so tried shall occupy
one day or more, in which event he shall receive one dollar per day to be
claimed and charged and scrip issued therefor as in case of serving on a
standing panel under the provisions of this act, but no person serving as a-
by-stander, shall be entitled to mileage; provided also, that no grand or petit
juror shall receive mileage as aforesaid, except for one trip in going from
his residence to the county seat of the county and in returning home there-
from, at any one term.

§ 24. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.

§ 95. If the county court of Lafayette shall be satisfied from a petition of
amajority of thetaxable inhabitants of the county, as ascertained from the
tax list of the preceding year, that it is not the wish of a majority of such
taxable inhabitants, that this law should not be in force in said county,
said court shall make an order declaring such law to be inoperative in said
county, and from making such order, this act shall be void and of no effect.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT to provide for paying jurors in Lawrence county.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter, each juror who shall be empanelled and serve as a
petit juror in the circuit court, in the county of Lawrence, shall be enti-
tled to receive the sum of forty cents for his services in each case, to be
taxed, collected and paid over as other costs in the cause.

§ 2. Each juror serving as such in the county court, or before a
justice of the peace, within the aforesaid county, shall be entitled to re-
ceive the sum of thirty-live cents for his services in each case, said
amount to be taxed, collected and paid over as other costs in the cause.

This act to take effect ‘and be in force from and after the first day of
June next. '

Approved March 7, 1849.

 

I AN ACT to provide for paying petit jurors in Clark county.

I e itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter each juror who shall be empanelled as a petit juror in
the circuit court of said county, or who shall be summoned to assess
damages in consequence of the location of any county or State road, or

wnins ‘AND muons. 491

to try the right of property shall be entitled to receive the sum of seven-
ty-five cents for each day he shall serve as juror, or the sum of thirty-

seven and a half cents for each jury he may serve upon, when he shall.

not serve more than four hours, which shall be collected as other costs.
§ 2. Each juror serving as such in the county court or in a justices
court shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty cents.

This act to be in torce from and after the first day of May next.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\&A/7A5EP££ 

 

AN ACT to pay Grand and Petit Jurors in Henry county.

3. Provisions for paying jurors in justices

courts.
4. Providing for paying jurors in certain other
§ cases.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly Q/' the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That each person lawfully summoned and serving as rand juror
in the county of Henry, shall be entitled to receive for each ay he may
serve as such the sum of one dollar; also the sum of five cents for every
mile he may necessarily travel in going to and returning from the county
seat to be paid out of any money in the county treasury, not otherwise
appropriated. p

§ 2. That each erson lawfully summoned and serving as juror in the
circuit court of enry county shall be entitled to receive the sum of
seventy-live cents for each and every case in which he may serve as

s} 1. Allowing grand jurors per diem and mile-
age.
2. Allowing petit jurors compensation.

wxarvx -. -. -

such; also in all cases when such juror shall be detained more than one-

day he shall be allowed the sum of seventy-live (cents) for each addi-
tional day he may thus be detained, to be taxed, collected and paid over
as other costs in the case. '
§ 3. That each person lawfully summoned and serving asjurors in any
of the justices courts in Henry county, shall be entitled to receive the
sum of fifty cents for each and every case in which he may serve as
' such and also in all cases when such juror shall be detained more than
one day he shall be allowed the sum of fifty cents for each additional
day he may be thus detained to be taxed, collected and paid over as
other costs in the case.
§ 4. In all cases in which ajury shall be summoned by any sheriff con-
stable or other oflicer to try the right of property or to assess damages
consequent.upon the opening of any road or the erection of any mill
dam each juror shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty cents to be
taxed, collected and paid over as other costs in the case.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

-' u’ ...a‘ r / 4' - .» - >./-‘-«~._,.-,_/-

AN ACT to pay Petit Jurors in the county of Lincoln.

§ 1. Provides for the pay of jurors in justices 3. Persons summoned asjurors in other cases;
courts. _ how paid.
2. Jurors in the circuit court to be paid. 4. Jurors detained more than one day in the
circuit court to be paid therefor.

492 wan-:s AND waons.

Be 2'! enacted by me General .Hsse'mbly of the State qf 1|'Iz'ssaurz', as follows:

§ 1. Each and every person lawfully summoned as ajuror in any of
the justices courts in the county of Lincoln shall be entitled to receive
the sum of fifty cents for such services in every case where they serve
as jurors to be taxed as other costs in the suit and paid over by the con-
stable to each person so summoned and serving.
§ 2. Each erson serving as a juror in the circuit court of said county
shall be entit ed to receive the sum of fifty cents for each case in which
he may be summond and serve as a juror to be taxed as other costs in
the suit and paid over by the sheriff to said juror.
§ 3. Every person summoned as ajuror by any ollicer in said county
to make enquiry upon view of the dead body of any person, or to enquire
of any matter not embraced in the provisions of the preceding section
shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty cents for each day such juror
may be engaged in such enquiry, to~be taxed as other costs.
§ 4. In all cases where a petit juror serving in any of the circuit co urts
in Lincoln county shall be detained more than one day, he shall be enti-
tled to receive the sum of fifty cents for the tirst days service and seven?-
ty-live cents for each additional days service to be taxed as other costs
in the suit and paid over as provided in the preceding sections, but
nothing in this act shall be so construed as to allow any person pay for
serving on more than one jury in the same day.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

"-\.r\. \.—‘-—1\/ --I‘~I\ "\ “-1 J _/-..'~J\..« --'\« K./\.4\./\.J\./\./\/\-I"

AN ACT to provide for paying Jurors in Franklin County.

§ 1. Jurors in the circuit and county courts; j 3. Jurors summoned in other cases; what
when paid, and how. . amount paid.
2. Jurors serving before justices ofthe peace; t
how paid.

Be it enacled by the General ./Zssembly Q/the State QfMz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter, each juror who shall be employed as a petit juror in
the circuit or county court, in Franklin county, shall receive twenty-five
cents for his services in all cases where a verdict is rendered, to be
taxed and paid as other costs in the suit, and paid over to those entitled
to the same.

§ 2. Each juror, serving as such before any justice of the peace,
shall be entitled to receive the sum ofotwenty-live cents for his services
in each case, which shall be taxed and collected as other costs in the
case.

§ 3. Each person summoned as a juror by any oflicer in said county
to make inquiry upon the dead body of any person, or to inquire upon
the damages of any writ of ad quod damnum, or to inquire of any matter
not embraced in the provisions of the preceding sections, shall be entitled
to receive the sum of fifty cents for each day he may be employed in
such services.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

warns AND muons. 493

R

AN ACT to provide for paying Petit Jurors in the County of Macon.
Be it enacted by the General .dsse7'nbly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Jurors in circuit and county courts to be § 3. Jurors summoned in certain other cases to '

paid; and how. E receive pay; and how collected.
2. Jurors in justices’ courts to receive pay;
how collected. 2

Be it enacted by the Gencralafssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. Hereafter, each person legally summoned and enpannelled as a
juror in the circuit or county court, shall be entitled to and receive for
his services the sum of fifty cents for each day he shall serve on
said jury. to be taxed, collected, and paid over as other costs in the suit.

§2. Each person summoned and empannelled as a juror before a
justice of the peace in any cause, shall be entitled to and receive the
sum of fifty cents for his services as juror in said cause, to be taxed
against the unsuccessful party, and collected and paid over by the proper
ollicer, as other costs, to the person entitled thereto.

§ 3. In all cases in which a jury is summoned by a constable, sheriff,
or other officers, to try the right of property, or to assess damages con-
sequent upon the opening of any road, or the erection of any mill dam,
each juror shall be allowed the sum of fifty cents, to be taxed as other
costs in the proceedings.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

4\/\/‘/‘\J'x/\/V‘vff.’\/\/

   

AN ACT concerning Grand Jurors in the County of Cass.
Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows.

§ 1. The grand jury in and for the county of Cass shall hereafter be
chosen as follows: The county court of said county, at each August and
February term thereof, shall designate, by a list, the persons who are to
compose the rand jury at the next ensuing term of the circuit court;
which list shal be filed by the clerk of the county court within three
days thereafter in the office of the clerk of the circuit court; the clei'lr
whereof shall thereupon issue a summons commanding the sheriff of said
county to summon those mentioned in said list as grand jurors, and they
shall be summoned accordingly. The county court shall select men duly
qualified by the present law, and shall take them from the different parts
of the county as equally as may be.

§ 2. This act shall be in- force from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

N!‘-"\/\/N./\r\/‘/N/‘ " /'\/\ A ’\/\/\/'\/'\/-\r

AN ACT to pay petit jurors in Cole county.

Be itenacted by the General .dssembl_y Q/‘the State of JlIz'ssom~z°, as ollozzrs:
§ 1. Hereafter every person duly summoned and empannelled as a

' juror in any cause or proceeding in a court of record in said county of

494 JURIES AND wnons.

Cole, shall be entitled to receive for each day’s attendance as such the
sum of fifty cents; but a juror attending and being duly empannelled in
more than one cause or. proceeding on the same day, and at the same
place, shall only receive for his services the fee to which he is entitled
for attending in one case only, and in that case each cause or proceeding
shall be taxed with its proportional part of such jury fee.

§2. Hereafter every person duly summoned and empannelled as a
juror in justices’ courts, or to try the right of property, or to assess

damages consequent upon the opening of any road in said county of
Cole, shall be entitled to receive lbr each days attendance as such the

sum of thirty cents, in the same manner and under the like restrictions
as is provided for in the first section of this act in reference to petit ju-
rors in courts of record in Cole county.

§ 3. The jury fee for which this act provides shall be in all cases
taxed, collected and accounted for as other costs of suit.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

—\./\/\__,\,\_,\,\_/\/\./\/\./\/\./\.a\J\ l'\4\/\.a\/NJ

AN ACT concerning grand and petit jurors in Louis [Lewis] county.

§ 1. Applies an act now in force in Cooper ) 2. Clerk to tax jury tees against the unsuc-
county to LCWJS county.  cessful party; amount of same.
3. How collected and to whom paid.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State Q/' Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That an act concerning grand and petit jurors in the county of

Cooper, approved February 15, 1847, shall be extended to, applied and
be in force in the county of Louis, [Lewis.] '

§ 2. The clerk of the circuit court of the said county of Louis [Lewis,]
shall in every case tried in the circuit court tax up against the unsuc-

cessful party a jury fee of three dollars, except in appeals from justices
of the peace, in which cases the fee shall be one dollar and fifty cents.

§ 3. Said jury fees shall be collected as other fees, and shall be paid
by the sheriff into the county treasury.

-This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

s/\/‘\/\/\/\/\/\.r\ ,--\,/\ /'.../\

 

./\/\/\/\./’

AN ACT to pay grand and petit jurors in the county of Knox.

§ 1. Provides to pay grand jurors. 4. Jurors fees; how taxed. -
2. Provides for paying petit jurors. 5. This law may be made nugatory; how and
3. Provides for paying jurors in justices courts when.

Be it enacted by he General ./Qssembly of the State qf Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. Each person serving as a grand juror in the county of Knox,
shall receive, as a full compensation for such service, one dollar for
each day he may actually serve, and the clerk of the circuit court of said
county, in the performance of'his duties under this act, shall be governed
by the provisions of the 18th, 19th and 20th sections of an act concern-
ing grand and petit jurors; approved March 27, 1845.

9 2. Each person in said county serving as a petit juror in the circuit

JURIES AND JUBOBS.-MILL_S AND MILL name. 495

or county courts or ‘on a coroner’s inquest, or under,the service of a
writ of ad quad damnum, shall receive forty cents for each case on
which he may serve; but the same person shall not receive pay for
serving on more than one jury on the same day.

§ 3. Any person serving as a juror before any justice of the peace in
said county, shall receive as compensation twenty-five cents for each
case on which he may serve; but no person shall receive pay for serving
on more than two juries on the same day.

§ 4. The fees for the compensation of jurors, as specified in the two
last sections, shall be taxed and collected as other costs in the case.

§ 5. If the county court of said county shall at any time become sat-
islied by petition that a majority of tax payers of said county are opposed
to the o erations of this act, comparing said petition with the assessor’s
tax list ast made out and returned, the said court shall make an order
declaring said act nugatory and void.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

"\./\/\/\./\/\/\./\/\/'\/\

MILLS AND MILL DAMS.

AN ACT concerning a dam across Platte river.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Illissouri, as follows:

§1. That Phineas Skinner, J. T. Forbes, John Long and John We
Forbes, their heirs and assigns be, and they are hereby authorized to
continue a dam ten feet high across Platte river, at Ashworth’s ford in
Platte‘ county, for the propulsion of mills and other machinery.

§ 2. If the land of any individual be overflowed by the back-water, in
consequence of such dam, or the health of the neighborhood be annoyed,
or the rights of property of individuals be otherwise injured or affected
thereby, the person or persons aggrieved may petition the circuit court
of said county; and such proceedings shall be had thereon as is required
by an act entitled “An act concerning mills and mill dams; approved
March 3, 1845. ,

§ 3. This act shall be liable to modification or repeal by the General
Assembly of the State of Missouri at any time, for the purpose of impro-

A vine} the navigation of said river, or for any other purpose.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

4’~./x/"t./‘\/‘\u/\/N/K,/\./\/\/‘\/“ /‘ ~./ \./\./\/\/\/‘

AN ACT to amend an act entitled “An act to abate a mill dam in Liv-
ington county, and to remove obstructions to the navigation of the
West Fork of North Grand river;” approved February 11, 1847.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Gabriel Balinger, of Daviess county, John Cooper and Joseph
Slagle, of Livingston county, John Colvin, of Caldwell county, and
Townsend Taylor, of Grundy county, are hereby appointed new commis-

1

4,96~ MiLLs Mn _MiLL DAMS.

sioners under the-act to which this is amendatory, with all the powers,
and subject to all the duties of the original commissioners; and the said
act to which this act is amendatory shall in all‘ respects apply to said
new commissioners, as did the same to the original commissioners.

This act to be in force from its passage._
Approved March 12, 1849.

'\/\./

 

\/\/\;"\./‘\./\/-

"AN ACT to authorize the erection of a Mill-dam across Platte river.

\
Be it enacted by the General vissembly qf the State of Mz‘ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. Daniel D. Burnes, and such others as he may associate with him,
are hereby authorized to erect, maintain, and keep a mill-dam across
Platte river, in Platte county, at a point in said county known as the old
mill site of David Hamilton, a few miles below Estill mills, said Hamilton
has heretofore had a grist mill; the land upon each side of said Platte
river belonging to Daniel D. Burnes and brothers.

§ 2. If any person or persons shall be injured by the erection of said
dam, either by overflowing or by back water, then the said person or
persons may petition the circuit court of said county for a writ of ad
quod damnum to assess the damages thereby sustained, which shall he
proceeded on to final judgment, as in like cases now provided for by

aw.

_ § 3. Said dam may be erected, kept, and maintained, any height not
exceedin eight feet, provided the height of the same shall not be, sufiicient
to back t e _water of said stream so as to interfere with the machinery
at Estill’s mills; and should said Burnes and associates so construct said
dam as to back the water, as mentioned in this section, so as materially
to interfere with the machinery or operations thereon, at said Estill’s
mills,they shall forfeit and pay to the party injured for each day the said
machinery shall be so obstructed in their operations, ten dollars. This act
shall not prejudice the rights of the Platte river navigation company.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849. r

 

\1\4\4\/\/\/\/\;\.v \./\./~

AN ACT to authorize George A. Smith to build a Mill-dam across
Big River, in Jefferson County.

§ 1. Privilege to build a mill-dam granted. 5 3. Forfeiture to be paid, when.
2. Dam to be constructed so as.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly qftlie State of Missouri, asfollows;

§ 1. The privilege of building or erecting a mill dam across Big river
is herby granted to George A. Smith, on the tract of land now owned
by him, lying on said river, in the county of Jefferson.

§ 2. The said George A. Smith shall so construct said dam as to leave
an open space or passage for water over the middle of said dam, at least
thirty feet wide, immediately below and adjoining which, shall be a
sloping apron or inclined plane for the safe and easy transportation of

O

HILLS AND MILL DAMS. 497

such produce as may be carried to market by navigation, andsaid dam
in the space for the passage of the water shall not be raised higher than
five feet above low water mark, and the balance of said dam shall be at
least seven feet high.

§ 3. If ‘the said George A. Smith, or other person owning said dam,
shall neglect or refuse to construct said dam,or when constructed, shall

fail or refuse to keep such dam in the condition provided in the receding‘

sections within a reasonable time, he shall forfeit and pay to t e county
of J eiferson three dollars for every thirty days such dam shall be

out of repair, or not completed, in the manner required by this act; ,

and shall further be liable to the owner of any boat, or other water craft,

-for the full amount of damages he may sustain in consequence of such

failure or neglect to construct and keep said dam in repair, in manner
aforesaid, to be recovered by action of debt before any court having
jurisdiction thereof. a

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize Nathan Meek to erect a Mill-dam.
Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of1lIz’ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. That Nathan Meek be, and he is hereby authorized to erect, keep,
and maintain a mill-dam across the rapids of the N odaway river, in
Andrew and Holt counties; the ends of the dam to terminate on the lands
now owned by said Meek; thedam to be erected of sufiicient altitude to
propel a grist and saw mill, and such other machinery as the said Meek
may see t to erect at said dam.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to permit Madison Graham, of Jeiferson County, t) keep
in repair a Mill-dam across Big River. ,

Be itenacted by the General vfssembly of the State of Illissouri, as follows:

§ 1. Madison Graham, of the county of J eiferson, is hereby permitted
to keep in repair a mill-dam heretofore erected at the old Wideman
mill-seat, on Big river, in said county of Jefferson. '

§ 2. This act shall not exempt the said Graham from liabilities for
injury done to any lands on said stream by reason of said mill-dam.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

   

AN ACT to authorize James M. Clark, John S. Crandall, Thomas W.
Jacobs, and Basil S. Nordyke to build a dam across the east fork of
the North Grand River.

498 ’ MILL AND MILL DAMS.-—NAMES cannon».

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. James M. Clark, John S. Crandall, Thomas W.Jacobs, and Basil
S. Nordyke, of Grundy county, are hereby authorized to build a dam

across the east fork of North Grand river, at or near a point where said"

river passes through the south-west quarter of section twenty, township
sixty-one, in range twenty-four, for the purpose of erecting a saw and
grist-mill.

§ 2. The first section of an act entitled “ an act declaring North Grand
river a public highway,” approved February 13, 1839, shall be, and the
same is hereby repealed, so far as the same applies to the east fork of
said river, north of the point desi nated in the first section of this act.

This act to be in force from an after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize Young L. Hughes and Alexander Bellmap to
erect a mill-dam.

Be itenacted by the General .6ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Young L. Hughes and Alexander Belknap be and they are
hereby authorized to erect, keep and maintain a dam across the river
One Hundred and Two, in Andrew county, at what is now commonly
called Hughes’ Mill, of suflicient altitude to propel a saw and grist mill
and such other machinery as they or their assigns may see {it to erect at
said place on said stream.

§ 2. If any person or persons shall be aggrieved or injured, either by
the overflow or back water occasioned by said dam, he or they may ap-
ply to the circuit court and obtain a writ of ad quad damnum to sum-
mon a jury to assess the damages by him or them sustained in conse-
quence of such dam, and the proceedings shall be had under the direc-
tion of the court, and if any damages be assessed, judgment shall be
rendered against said Hughes and Belknap for the amount thereof, or
the party injured may bring his or their suit in the circuit court of the

county and recover such damages as he or they may show himself or
themselves entitled to.

_This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

r\,/~ /\/’\/‘\a"m."\/\/\/./-./\/\/‘\ re/‘x/'v'\_/\/\_

NAMES CHANGED.

AN ACT to change the name of John Parmeter, of Barry county, Mis-
souri, to John Roberts.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missozzri, as follows:

§ 1. That the name of John Parmeter, of Barry county, Missouri, be
and the same is hereby changed to that of John Roberts, and he is hereby
made the son (by adoption) and legal heir of Daniel Roberts and Sarah

-mums CHANGED. 499 *

his wife, of the county of Barry and State of Missouri; and the said
John Parmeter shall forever hereafter be known in law and equity by
the name of John Roberts, and he shall be as capable of inheriting the
estate of the said Daniel Roberts and Sarah, his wife, as if he had been
their natural born child.
This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

 

AN ACT to make William B. Ro ers heir and son by adoption of
William Rogers and ary Rogers, his wife.

Be it enacted by the General yfssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That William B. Rogers, of the county of Dallas and State of
Missouri, is hereby made the son by adopgion and the legal heir, in law
and equity, of William Rogers and Mary ogers, his wife, of the county

‘ of Dallas,and State of Missouri, and that the said William B. Rogers

shall be as capable of inheriting all the estate of the said William Rogers
and Mary Rogers, his wife, as if he, the said William B. Rogers, had

been their natural born son.
This act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved January 24, 1849.

‘_/\/\/\l\/NAJ

AN ACT to change the names of the children of Sarah Door, of
Wayne county.

Be it enacted by the General yissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the name of James McAfee Door be changed to the name
of James McAfee Williams, and that the name of Sarah Anne Door be

changed to the name of Sarah Anne Williams, and the name of Cynthia -

Door be oh god to the name of Cynthia Williams, and that the name
of Richard oor be changed to Richard Williams. Said persons, who
are children of Sarah Door, and residents of Wayne county, shall always
hereafter be known and called by the names herein directed.

§ 2. That the said children of the said Sarah Door are hereby declared ,

legitimate heirs of John Williams of Wayne county, ca able of inherit-
in from the said John Williams in the same manner as is children born
ingawful wedlock.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

   

‘AN ACT to change the name of William McGowan Patton.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That from and after the passage of this act, the name of William
McGowan Patton, of Jackson county, Missouri, shall be and the same
is hereby changed to William Hugh Patton, by which name he shall

500‘ NAMES cnauonn. —

hereafter be known in law and equity, and shall be as capable of inher-
iting his portion of his deceased father’s estate by said last mentioned
name as if he had been originally or from his infancy known and called
by said last mentioned name.

' This act shall be in force from and after its passage.

Approved January 16, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change the name of Charles Edgar Boon.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follotps:

§ 1. The name of Charles Edgar Boon, of Callaway county, is hereby
changed to that of Charles Edgar Jackson, and by said last mentioned
name, the said Charles Edgar shall hereafter be known in law and
equity.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change a name.
Be it enacted by the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the name of Solomon David Lauterwasser, of St. Louis
county, is hereby changed to that of Solomon David Lauter. This act
shall not in any respect prejudice the rights of any otherjperson.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

\_/\

AN ACT to change the name of Sarah Mayo.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Jllissourati, as follows.-

S_§ 1. That the name of Sarah Mayo is hereby changed to that of Sarah
imms.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

\J'V\

 

I'\P\/'\."\f\/\/\/\/\r\ v'\/'\ r\.»\/\f\/\/\"\."

AN ACT to change the name of Joseph Hamilton of the county of
Lewis, Mo., to Joseph Hubbard.

Be itenacted by the General vfssembly of the State of Missouri, as follews:

§ 1. The name of Joseph Hamilton, of Lewis county, Missouri, is
hereby changed to that of Joseph Hubbard, and an inheritable right is
hereby created in the said Joseph to the estate of Elijah Hubbard, of
Lewis county, Missouri, and the said Joseph shall forever hereafter be
known and called by the -name of “Joseph Hubbard,” and shall take,

. RELIEF. 501

hold and inherit the estate of said Elijah Hubbard, in the same manner
as if he, said Joseph, were the natural born child of said Elijah. '
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

RELIEF.

AN ACT concerning the estate of William  Meader.
Be it eizactedby the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. It shall be lawful for Francis A. Ross, guardian of William H.
Meader, to sell all or so much of the real estate of his said ward as shall
be to his interest, and to loan the money arising therefrom atinterest for
his benefit, under the direction and control of the probate court in Morgan
county; such sale may be made on a credit, or for cash at private sale or by
auction, as may be deemed best calculated to promote the interest ofsaid
minor; if said land be sold on a credit, the purchase money shall be well
secured, and a lien retained on the property sold.

§ 2. Before the sale of such property, said guardian shall cause the
same to be appraised at its fair cash value, by three disinterested citi-
zens of said county; said appraisers shall be sworn, and shall report of
their proceedings to said probate court; and said land shall not e sold
for less than its a praised value.

§ 3. Said guarcllan shall make re ort of his proceedings to the probate
court of said county for approvalor rejection: if the proceedings are
re ular and lawful such sale shall be confirmed, but if the same be found
to e irregular or unlawful, then the sale shall be set aside and a new
sale ordered; the deed of said guardian shall convey to the purchaser
all the right, title, claim, and interest of said minor in and to the real
estate so sold; the fund arisin from said sale shall be managed and con-
trolled as other estate of s°ai minor.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849. "

/‘~._/ /\/'»/ x/‘~./-./‘M./‘ ,"a"\_/ ~"‘-"-I ‘/"~"' ” "‘:“~.“-

AN ACT to authorize the city of St. Louis to borrow money.
Be it enacted by the ‘General ./fssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. The city council of the city of St. Louis are hereby authorized
to borrow for a period not exceeding twenty years, and at a rate of in-
terest not exceeding eight per cent. per annum, any sum not exceeding
fifty thousand dollars, as the same may be wanted, for the purpose here-

inafter mentioned.
§2. For the money so borrowed the mayor shall issue the bonds of

the city, under the seal thereof, countersigned by the register, which
bonds shall state where the same are payable, and shall have coupons

attached for the payment of interest. _
§ 3. The money so borrowed shall be expended under the direction of

the city council for the construction of asewer or sewers, commencing

502 — nnnmr.

at any point on or near Seventh street and north of Washington avenue,
as may be deemed most desirable, to drain off all water that collects at
intersections of cross streets with Seventh street, and north of Washing-
ton avenue. ,
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

—/‘~/\/\/\/* /“u/-./\./\./N./“./--' - ' uv n‘-

AN ACT respecting St. Louis wharf.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Zllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. The city council of the city of St. Louis shall have power to
provide by ordinance for compromising, adjusting, and purchasing the
conflicting claims that have been set up by indivi uals to the ownership
of any part of the city wharf or landing, in front of the city, and to ob-
tain from the claimants relinquishments of all their pretensions to hold
or own any part of the wharf as private property; and to take all neces-
sary steps to quiet the title of the city to such portions of the wharf or
landing. so that the same may be hereafter improved and used as a pub-
lic city wharf, as other portions of the wharf are now held and used; the
city council shall have power by ordinance to provide the means for
carrying this act into effect, by loan, taxation, or otherwise. '

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

\/v\AAAA.AQO

AN ACT for the benefit of the heirs of James Martin.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court for Callaway county is hereby authorized and
empowered to make an order directing the sale of the west half of the
south-west quarter of section 2, township 46, range 11 west; also, the
west half of the north-west quarter of section 11, in township 46, range
11 west; also, the south-east quarter of the southeast quarter of section
No. 3, township 46, range 11 west; and prescribe the terms, time, and
place of said sale.

§ 2. John W. Martin is hereby constituted a commissioner to execute
the order of said court according to the terms and effect of the same,
and shall execute a deed or deeds upon payment of the purchase money,
which deed or deeds shall divest as well the said John W. Nla.-rtin as the
heirs of his body, of all right, title, and interest in and to the lands afore-
said, and vest the same in said purchaser and purchasers.

§ 3. Said commissioner shall proceed to sell said real estate, collect
the purchase money, and re-invest the same in real estate, in (‘allaway
county, and receive from the vendor a deed for the real estate thus pur
chased, which shall in all things correspond with a deed now on file in
the office of the recorder for Callaway county, executed by J3IlH'S l\:lar-
tin in his life time to John W. Martin, dated 25th June, 1844, and recor-
ded in said recorder’; oflice, 28th June, 1844.

,nr.Ln‘-sr. " 503
§ 4. Said commissioner shall make to said county court a full report
of all his proceedings under and by virtue of this act, subject to confirm-
ation or rejection. _ _ .
That act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

     

AN ACT for the benefit of Isaac Nevins, of Moniteau County.

§ 1. Donations of land made. Q land. Treasurer shall receive certificate
2. Dgty of secrqtatpy of State to furnish certi-  of secrtlatary of Stpteh as money due on
e copy 0 t 18 act. ‘ . quarter y return 0 t e receiver.
3. Register and receiver of State land ofliceé 4. Register of lands ‘required to make a
atent.

may receive certificate of secretary of 3

State, and grant therefor a certificate for 5. T e land granted not liable to execution.

Wnnasas, It is represented to the General Assembly of Missouri, that
Isaac Nevins, of the county of Moniteau, is now sixty-ei ht years
of age, and that he has served his country faithfully and onorably
under General Andrew Jackson, at the battle of New Orleans, in
the late war with Great Britain, and is now the father of twenty-four
children, twenty-two of whom are now living, and that his wife gave

birth to three of said children on the nineteenth day of February, ' A

1848; and that said Nevins, owing to age and infirmity, is unable to
support his numerous family, free from want; therefore, in considera-
tion of the services rendered the State,

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the said Isaac Nevins be, and is hereby authorized to select
one hundred and sixty acres out of any of the unsold lands donated to this
State by an act of Congress, approved September 4, 1841, and which
shall not be held by a pre-emption right.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the secretary of State, andlhe is hereby __:

required, immediately after the passage of this act, to issue a certificate
to the said Isaac Nevins, setting forth the provisions thereof.

§ 3. Whenever the said Nevins shall, by himself or agent, select the
land aforesaid, he shall present the certificate of the secretary of State,
as above provided, to the register of the State land office, in the district
in which such selection is made; and it shall be the duty of the register

and receiver ofsuch land office to receive the certificate of the secretary‘

of State, and give the said Nevins a certificate in like manner, as if he
had made payment in full for said land. The certificate of the secretary
of State shall be received by the State treasurer as so much money due
on the quarterly returns of such receiver. .

§4. It shall be the duty of the register of lands, and he.is hereby
required, upon the presentation of the certificate of the register and
receiver, to make a patent to Isaac Nevins for the land aforesaid, accord-
ing to the provisions of this act. '

§ 5. The lands aforesaid shall never be sold under execution to pay
the debts of said Nevins, but shall be retained by him for his use and
benefit during his life, and at his death shall descend to his legal heirs.

This act shall take effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12,1849.

0

9

504~ I RELIEF.

AN ACT to authorize Joseph Rountree and Martin Ingram, administra-
tors of Sidney S. Ingram, late of Green county, to sell certain real

estate.
_ 0
§ 1. Administrators appointed and empowered; —: 3. Probate court shall require certain duties
property described. of administrators.
2. Property shall be appraised; appraisers to 4. Administrators shall make deed or deeds

make report to probate court thereof; to purchasers.
property shall not be sold for less than
its appraised value.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly qf the State Q/'1Vz'ssourz', as/"allows:

§ 1. Joseph Rountree and Martin Ingram, administrators of Sidney
S. Ingram, late of Green county, are hereby authorized and em owered
to sell the following real estate belonging to the estate of the sai Sidney
S. Ingram, deceased, situate, lying, and being in the county of Green,
viz: The east half of lot number one, north-east fractional quarter of
section number six, in township twenty-seven, of range twenty-two; also,
the west half of lot number one, north-west fractional quarter of section
number five, in township number twenty-seven, of range twenty-two;
also,the east half of lot number two, of the north west fractional quarter
of section live, and the north half of the north- west fractional quarter of
section five, both in township number twenty-seven, of range twenty-two;
and the east half of the south-east quarter of section thirty-one,in town-
ship twenty-eight, of range twenty-two; and the west half of the south-
west quarter of section thirty-two, in township twenty-eight, of van e
twenty-two; containing, in all, three hundred and fifteen and twenty- eig t
hundredth acres, all situate in Green county.

§ 2. Said property shall, before sale, be appraised by three disinterested
householders of the county of Green,‘to be appointed by the judge of the
probate court of said county, and who shall be sworn to appraise said pro-
perty, or real estate,at its fair cash value, and make report thereof to said
probate court, and said property shall not be sold for less than its appraised
value; such property may he sold either at private or publicsale, and upon
credit, or for cash, as may be deemed best calculated to promote the inte-

' rest of the heirs of said estate, but if such property should be sold on a

credit, the purchase money shall be well secured by bond and security, and
a lien on said property be retained till payment shall be completed; said
administrators shall, under oath, file such sale bill in the oliice of the
judge of the probate court within ten days after the sale, and it shall be
evidence in the same manner and with like effect as inventories.

§ 3. Said probate court shall require said administrators, before selling
said real estate, to give additional bond and security, to be approved by
said court, sufficient to cover the whole amount of such sale, and said
court shall have full power to compel said administrators to make settle-
ment, and pay over the proceeds of the sale of said real estate, in the same
manner as they are by law bound in other respect to do.

§ 4. Said administrators shall make to the urchaser or purchasers a
deed or deeds, upon the payment of the pure ase money, conveying to
him or them, all the right, title, claims, and interest now held by the
heirs of the said Sidney S. Ingram,‘ deceased, in and_ to the above de-

\ nnnuar. ’ , 505
scribed real estate, and such deed or deeds shall be as effectual as if it or
they had been executed by the deceased, prior to his decease.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, .1849.

/\_’\/\ISv&r\y \,/“)€\.,-_’ /b

 

AN ACT to authorize certain persons to-sell Real Estate.

§ 1. Curator authorized to sell real estate. § 2. Curator responsible for money;-and ac-
count ma e.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows;

§ 1. That the curator of the minor heirs of Emanuel Best,’ deceased,‘
be, and he is hereby authorized to sell and convey, any and all real estate
belonging to said heirs, upon such terms as such curator may deem most
advisable for the interest of said heirs; and shall execute a deed of
conveyance to the purchaser thereof, and which, when executed and
delivered, shall convey all the right and title of said heirs, imand to said
real estate, so sold to such purchaser. That the curator of the minor
heirs of Thompson Kenyon,‘deceased, be, and he is hereby authorized
to sell and convey any and all real estate belonging to said heirs, upon
such terms as said curator may deem most advisable for the interest of
the heirs concerned, and shall execute a deed of conveyance for the same
to the purchaser thereof ;~ and which deed, when so executed and deliv-
ered, shall convey all the right, title, interest, and claim of the heirs of
said Thompson Kenyon, deceased, in and to the real estate so sold, to
the purchaser thereof. _

§ 2. That said curators shall be responsible for all moneys received by
them for the sale of said real estate, and shall account for the same in
the same manner as they are required to account for other money and ',
property of the minors of whom they are the curators, and the curators, ;
and the court of said county, having jurisdiction of probate business,. .‘
shall have the power to compel said.curators to account for all moneys
received under this act, and shall hold a supervisory control over them,
and may require them to give new or additional security, and may compel
said curators to settle as often as such court may deem the interest of
said heirs may require.

This act to take effect from its passage. - , 1;
Approved March 12, 1849.

.
.\/\_,\,\ /\J\J\/\./N./\z\.«\/\/\.4\./y/xax/\/\/\./x.»\.\./\..\2'I )

AN ACT to pay the Adjutant General for certain services.

§ J. Auditor of public accounts; duty of. 4. Warrant for certén amount; certihcate for-
2. Adjutant general make out accounts. E warded.
3. Account paid, &.c. ; 5. Copy of act forwarded.
0

Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. It shall be _the 'duty‘.of the Auditor of public accounts to examine
thoroughly the claimgpf ‘G. A. Parsons Adjutant General "of this State,

whenever presented to him» for. examination, for all services rendered by
35' I "

506 nnnuzr.

said Parsons in organizing volunteers called into service during the
Mexican war. «
§ 2. The adjutant general shall malre out his account for the time he
was actually engaged in service, which shall be certified by him in his
o$ci,al capacity, and in addition to such certificate the auditor may re-
quire any other evidence, he may deem necessary to a proper investiga-
tion of such claim. -
§ 3'. It shall be the duty of the auditor of ublic accounts to allow so
much of said claim as is just according to the rules and regulations of
the army of the United States and the amount thus audited and approved
shall immediately be certified and forwarded by said auditor to the sec-
retary of war or the paymaster general of the United States, so that the
same may be allowed and paid to said Parsons according to the act of
Congress to pay volunteers and others for services in the Mexican war
and the act to refund certain monies, &c., approved June 2, 1848.
§ 4. The auditor may draw his warrant on the State treasury in favor
of the said Parsons for an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars
if so much be found just and due for his services and in making out the
certificate as provided in the 3d section of this act,-he shall State the
amount for which he may have drawn his warrant on the State treasury,
, and in case the claim certified by him shall be allowed by the general
government, the amount specified in said warrant shall be refunded to
the State of Missouri.

§,5. The auditor shall at the time of forwarding the certificate of said

claim as above provided also forward a copy of this act and such other __ ,

information as he may deem proper.
This act to take efect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

P\

 

"'\'\f\f‘\5%.

 

’\F\f‘

Q‘ AN ACT for the relief of the officers and privates of Captain Moses H.
"W - Simon’s cavalry company.

.§ 1. Adjutant general; duty of. E 4. Accounts certified and paid unless in obe-

2. Claims to be certified. dience to orders of General Ward.
8. Quarter master general to settle.

Be it enacted by the ‘General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

,; § 1. It shall be the duty of the adjutant eneral of the State of Mis-
souri, toadjust and settle the accountsof‘ a’l persons who are shown by
the muster-roltl of Cppt. M’oses H.dS1mon s, ‘to have been membersbof

18 company 0 cava ry in t e expe ition in t e year 1847 against t e
Muswatkee or Fox Indians, and who shall give satisfactoiy’evidence of
having served in that expedition in removing said Indians from Gentry
county. _

§ 2. In the settlement of said accounts, in the manner required by the
preceding section, the adjutant general shall certify the claims of all
such persons as to him may seem right and just, and the amount allowed
shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the army of the

- United States. . ‘ . ' '

§ 3. The quartermaster general shall settle theuaccounts of James C.

Patten, who, in the capacity of quarter master furnished supplies and

331.1’:-:r. 5011

I \

subsistence for said company and expedition and allow all such as he-
inay deem just and pro er.

§ 4. The accounts at owed by the adjutant general and uarter master
general, shall be certified by them to the auditor, who s all draw his
warrant on the State treasury for the same and the treasurer of [the]
State shall pay the same out of any money in the treasury, not otherwise
appropriated; provided, however, that no money shall he paid out under
the provisions of this act, unless it shall be made appear, to the satisf_ac- ‘
tion of the adjutant general, that the services thus rendered and charged
for, were in obedience to the orders of General Ward.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

o~/\/‘kl

AN ACT for the benefit of the heirs of Joseph Fuel.
§ 1. 'Lawful to sell or convey real estate; terms 3. Guardian to report; new sale ordered pro-

 

of sale. vided;_duty of court in relation to bond.
2. Real estate to be appraised; appraisers
sworn and report made. .

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of lllissouri, asfoUows,..

§ 1. _That it shall be lawful for Thomas Morris the uardian of
Lucinda Fuel and Susan E. Fuel, minor heirs of Joseph Fue , deceased, _
to sell and convey all or any part of the real estate belonging to said
Lucinda Fuel and Susan E. Fuel, and to lend the money arising there-

‘ from, at interest for their benefit, under the superintendence and control
of the county court of the county, in which said real estate may be
situated. Such sale may be for cash or on credit, at public or private
sale as may be deemed best calculated to advance the interest of said
minors, if such sale be on a credit, the urchase money shall be well ,
secured by a lien on the property sold, tillp the money is paid. ' -o_

§ 2. Before the sale of such real estate, the county court shall cause I
the same to be appraised by three disinterested persons, residents of the
county in which it is situated. The appraisers shall be sworn and shall
make a report of their appraisement to the county court, and said prop-
erty shall not he_sold for a less sum than its appraised value.

§ 3. The guardian of said minors shall make‘ a report of his proceedo

ings to the county court for their approval or rejection, if the proceed-
ings be found to be irregular or unlawful, then the sale shall be null and‘
void, and a new sale shall be ordered, but if the proceeding shall be
found regular and lawful, said sale shall be confirmed. The deed of said
guardian shall convey all the right, title, claim and interest of said mi-
nors, in and to said real estate sold. It shall be the duty of the county
court to cause said guardian to keep his band at all times sutlicient to
secure the proceeds of such sales, for the use and beneiit of said minor
heirs. '
This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

€'/ 4 //Ivx/-fvJV‘\/f?JJV\%‘J‘J\/K/\/«'5/?/\/\/\%£I

508- i _ RELIEF.

. AN ACT for the improvement of the harbor, opposite to St. Louis.

§ 1. City of St. Louis authorized to borrow mon-

5. Liabilities.

ey, and approprtats same. é 6. Debts of City Council.
2. Special tax levied on certain property. ~ 7. Special tax to_cease.
3. Mayor, duty of, election held’. ( 8. Sense or qualified voters taken.
4. Electcilon, how conducted, result, how pro-E

cee .

Be it enacted by the General Hssemblg of the State of .Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. The city of St. Louis, subject to the provisos hereinafter contain-
ed, ishereby authorized to borrow any sum of money not exceeding fifty
thousand dollars, and to issue the bonds of said city not exceeding said
maximum sum, and bearing an interest of not more than six per cent. per
annum, payable semiannually, and to appropriate the money so borrowed
to the construction of such works within or without the limits of said city,
as may be necessary to improve or secure the harbor opposite the southern
part of said city, and to remove all obstructions to navigation from said
part of ‘the harbor.
§ 2. .1e mayor and city council are hereby authorized to levy and
collect a special tax not exceeding one tenth of one percentum in addition
to the taxes already authorized, on all property taxable by law for State
purposes, within that part of said city, which is bounded on the north by
ine street,on the east by the Mississippi river, and on the south and west
by the southern and western limits of saidcity; the proceeds of which
special tax shall be exclusively for the payment of the principal and inter-
est of any money borrowed for the purpose before mentioned, Provided, '
that the qualified voters of the described part of said city, shall be in favor

of such loan and taxation.
§ 3. It shall be the duty of the mayor of said city within the month of

, April next to order ten days public notice containing a copy of this act, to
- be given in at least titre daily newspapers (including if possible two printed

in the German language) published in said city, and the sense of the quali-
fied voters of the described part of said city, to be tested as to the proprie-
ty of such loan, and taxation on behalf of said city.

§ 4. The test shall be conducted in every respect in accordance with

the article on “election,” contained in the charter of said city, saving that
the judges shall,if the board of aldcrmen be not in session, be appointed by
the mayor and the presiding officers of the two branches of said city coun-
’eil, or any two of said oiiicers. No ballot shall be counted, unless the words,
“For the harbor loan,” or “against the harbor loan,” be written or printed
thereon; and if it shall appear that in the aggregate there are more ballots
for, than against said harbor, then the mayor and city council and their suc-
cessors in oflice are authorized, and shall carry out the provisions of this
act, according to the true intent and meaning thereof; provided that any
work done under the authority of this act, shall not interfere or be incon-
sistent with any works already done or contemplated, and necessary to be
done, for the improvement of the harbor of St. Louis, generally.

5 5. Any member of the city council who shall vote for any ordinance,
that shall be passed for the application of the money borrowed under au-
thority of this act’, to any other object than the improvement: of the harbor
opposite the southern part of the city of St. Louis, or for the application of

BELIEF. . \ 509

the proceeds of the tax provided for by this act, to any other object than the
paymetft of the principal and interest of the loan )1erein authorized, and
any mayor of said city who shall approve any ordinance, by which the pro-
ceeds of such loan or tax shall be diverted to any other object, shall be lia-
ble to pay the amount so diverted, to the city for its application towards
the improvement of the harbor opposite the southern part of the said city,
and the same may be recovered, by action on the case against such mayor.
or such member in the name of the city; and upon the passage of such or-
dinance by which such illegal appropriation shall be made, any member of
the council present shall be deemed to have voted for the passage of such
ordinance, unless the yeas and nays are entered upon the journals of such
board of the city ¢Euncil. -
§ 6. Itshall be the duty of the city council in the month of June.in eve-
ry year during the existence of the debt herein authorized to be made, to
cause to be published for three successive days in three daily newspapers,
(including if possible one in German langua e) published in said city, a true
and full statement, signed by the proper ollicers of the city, as to the bonds
issued, the monies received on them and by taxation, the monies paid or ex-
pended and on hand under authority of this act. "
§ 7. The special tax herein authorized to be levied shall cease’ soon as.
. the rincipal together with interest herein authorized to be borrowed, shall
be ully paid. _
§ 8. In case the test ordered to be made in the month of April next"
should decide against the harbor loan, the city council may at any time
thereafter order the sense of the qualilied voters of _the before described part
of said city to be tested, again, as to the propriety of said loan and taxation
on the part of the said city, and every such test shall be conducted in the
same manner, as the one ordered to be taken in the month of April next,
provided in any one year not more than one test, shall be taken.
This act shall take ect from its passage.

- Approved March 1 , 1849. . 4

.4

I

 

AN ACT concerning partition of Land.
§ 1. Upon petition; the court authorized to do 4. Disposition of same at her death.

certain acts. 5. Fees of commissioner.

2. Contents of petition. 6. Report of commissioner; court to approve.

3. Disposition of the interest of widow and 7. After payment purchaser to receive title.
in what manner. 8. Cornmissioner to give bond.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows: '

§ 1. That upon the petition of the heirs of James Jones, deceased, and
those interested in said estate in the circuit court of Franklin county
praying for the sale of said real estate and for the appointment of Ed-
ward M. Jones as a suitable person to sell the same, the court shall be
authorized to order the sale of said lands in conformity with the prayer
of the petitioners either at public or private sale, and shall appoint said

‘ Edward M. Jones as a commissioner therefor.

§2. The petition and proceedings thereon shall conform as near as
may be to the requirements of an act to provide for the partition of land
and personal property, approved February 21, 1845.

§ 3. That the interest of Mary Jones, widow of said Mary [James]

0

£-

510 nnunr.

I

Jones may be sold with the other interest therein, and the one-third part
of the money arisingf om the sales of said lands be loaned out at1ntei-est
under the order and irection of the circuit court, and the said Mary
shall be entitled to receive annually the accruing interest thereon during
their [her] natural life, but no rioht to receive or disturb the principal;
provided said Mary so consent in the petition referred to, and filed in the
ofhce of the clerk of Franklin circuit court.

§ 4. That upon the death of said Mary the aforesaid sum so loaned,
and arising from said sale shall be equally divided between those who
may be ‘entitled to receive the same. ’

§ 5. The same fees that are now allowed to the shelgff by the existing
law shall be allowed to the said commissioner, for se ng and disposing
of said-real estate under this act.

§ 6. The said commissioner shall make a report of his proceedings to
the circuit court of the proper county and if the circuit court approve
thereof, the sale shall be ratified and confirmed, and if the sale be not
approved, the court may order the real estate to be resold under the
provisions of this act or the act now in force. .

§ 7. ‘>11 the confirmation by said court of said sale, and full payment
being made by the purchaser for the aforesaid land, sold as aforesaid,
the court shall order said commissioner to make to the purchaser a deed,
which shall be made in the same manner, and shall have the same eHect
as deeds now made by the sheriff under the existing law.

§8. Said commissioner shall be required to execute a bond to“ the
State of Missouri for the use of those interested therein, conditioned,
that he will pay over all sums of money that may be required by the
judgment, order, sentence or decree of any court having competentjuris-
diction, or for which said commissioner may be liable, and that he will in

all things faithfully discharge the duties enjoined upon him, by virtue of
his commission. '

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of the county of Hickory, Benjamin Miller,

James Rankin, Joseph Montgomery, William Paxton, James Luster,
John Herd and G. W. Wallace.

.§ 1. Commissioner authorized to do 'certain 4. Time and method of drawing warrant pro-

things. scribed.
2. Money to be paid into county treasury. 5. Warrants payable on demand, and bearing
3. County court shall draw a warrant. interest.

Be it enaclerl by the General Assemb7y of the Slate qf Missouri, as /bl;/ows:

§ 1. The commissioner of the county seat of Hickory county is hereby
authorized and required to sell the north-west quarter of section nine-
teen in range twenty-two, in townshipthirty-seven, in said county, being
the same lands upon which the county seat of said county was originally
located, to the highest bidder on a credit of twelve months, after having
given thirty days notice of the time, place and terms of sale, which
shall be at the court-house door in said county, on the first Monday in
May, A. D. 1849, and said commissioner shall take the bond of the pur-

. nm.mr._ 511

chaser, with good security, for the purchase money; and when said pur-
chase nioney shall be paid, said commissioner shall execute and deliver
to said purchaser or his assigns a good and sufficient deed of said lands,
conveying the title thereto to the purchaser or his assigns; but if said
purchase money shall not be paid, the county court of said county may
re-sell said lands, or enforce the collection of the bond for the put chase
money; and if said lands shall not be sold at the time aforesaid, the
county court may order the sale at any other time.

§ 2. The money received upon the s'ale of said lands shall be paid
into the county treasury of said county. i

§ 3. At the first term of the county court of said county held after the
l0th day of May, 1850, the county court of said county shall order, and
then cause to be drawn, a warrant on the county treasury of said county
in favor of the said Benjamin Miller, James'Rankin,Joseph Montgomery,
William Paxton, James Luster, John Herd and G. W. Wallace, payable
on demand, for the sum of two hundred and seventy-five dollars and
eighty cents; and the treasurer of said county shall pay said warrant out
of any funds in the treasury of said county known as the co nty seat
fund, or any funds derived from the sale of the lands aforesa‘, or the
county revenue; and said warrant when paid shall be held by said coun-
ty, and shall be deemed in law and equity a receipt in full for the money,
interest and expenses paid for entering said lands as well as the original
purchase money paid into the land office by the said Rankin, Montgomery
and others aforesaid, for the use of Hickory county, in the purchase of
said lands, on which to locate the county seat for said county.

§ 4. The county court of said county may cause said warrants to be
drawn in favor of the said Miller and other persons aforesaid at any time
before the sale of said lands; and if said warrant shall be drawn and de-
livered to said Miller and others, before said sale of lands as herein spe-
cified, said court may order that said lands shall not be sold until ordered
by said court.

§ 5. In either case the warrants aforesaid shall be payable on demand,
and shall draw interest at the rate of six per centum per annum.

This act to take eE'ect from its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

\.I\J\/\/\J‘\J\4

 

\J\J\/K/\_.\J\A.

' AN ACT to authorize the Register of lands to receive the delinquent;

list of the late collector of Pike county for the years l847—’48.

Be it enacted by the General ./lssembly qf the State o/'2lIz'ssaurz', as follows:

§ 1. The‘register of lands is hereby authorized and reqluired to receive
of S. W. Finley, late collector of Pike county, the de inquent tax list
of said county for the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven, in like
manner. and with the same effect, as if the said list had been-returned
within the time prescribed by law.
' This act to take effect from its passage.
"_-" Approved February 27, 1849.

 

_‘_‘_, vyvy- ’

512 nr.L1r.r.

A BILL to pay the agent appointed to settle claims for subsist-
sisting, &c., troops for the Mexican war. '

Wnrmnas, The last General Assembly passed a law to provide for pay-
ing the expenses of subsisting and forwarding troops for the Mexi-
can war, which act provided that the Governor should appoint an agent
to superintend the arrangement and payments of the expenses, &c.;

therefore,

Be it enacted by the General xfssembly of the Slate of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw _his
warrant on the State treasury in favor of said agent for the sum of fifty
dollars, payable out of the fund appropriated by the act referred to in
the preamble of this act. ‘
§ 2. For any services hereafter performed by said agent, he shall re-
ceive such compensation as shall be allowed him by the Governor, not
i to exceed two dollars per day, for each day engaged, to be paid as pro-
vided for in the first section of this act. '
This gt to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the sale of certain real estate belonging to the
heirs of Elisha Chase, deceased.

§ 1. Commissioner for purpose of selling real 4. Further duties.

- estate. 5. Allowance to Lewis Bolton.
_ 2. Heirs;duty of. 6. Report, deed.
3. Commissioner; duty of. 7. Duty of guardian of H. L. Chase.

Be itenacted by the General .ds'sembly q/' the State of.Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. George E. D. Hockaday, of the county of Callaway, is hereby
appointed commissioner for the purpose of sellin the real estate of the
said Elisha Chase lying, and being in the State 0% Missouri, whose’ duty
it shall be to advertise and sell said lands, and make distribution of the
proceeds thereof in the manner hereinafter directed.
§ 2. Before said commissioner shall proceed to sell said land,the heirs
' of said Elisha Chase shall file in the recorder’s office of said county of
Callaway an instrument in writing, duly executed, by each of said heirs,

O

‘.or if either of them be an infant, then by his guardian, acknowledged '

and certified in the manner that deeds are required to be acknowledged
and certified, which shall express their consent to the sale of the lands
therein mentioned, and the distribution of the proceeds thereof as speci-
fied in this act. -

§ 3. It shall be the duty of said commissioner, as soon as the instru-_
ment referred to in the preceding section shall be filed as aforesaid, to
advertise said lands for sale in some newspaper printed in said county
of Callaway for. eight weeks, giving a description of the property to be
sold, the time and terms of sale; and such sales shall be conducted in
the manner that sales of real estate under execution are conducted in.

§ 4. It shall be the duty of said commissioner to divide the proceeds:

arising from the sale of said lands among the persons entitled to disti'i-
. . J

antler. 513

bution thereof, in the following manner: that is to say‘ to William H.

Chase, one-iifth part; to John R. Seal, and wife, one-fifth part; to William '.

H. Chase, guardian of George H. Chase, one-fifth part; to Lewis Bolton,
and Anne, his wife, late widow of the late Elisha Chase, one-fifth part;
and to Lewis Bolton. guardian of Henry L. Chase,'one-fifth part.
" § 5. The allowance herein made to the said Lewis Bolton, and wife,
shall be in lieu of the dower which the said Anne is entitled to in said
real estate of her former husband, Elisha Chase.

§ 6. Said commissioner shall make report of his proceedings to the
county. court of the county of Callaway aforesaid; and if the same is
approved by said court, and the proceedings of said commissioner have
been in accordance with the provisions of this act, said court shall make
an order approving the same, and the commissioner, so soon thereafter
as the purchase money is aid, shall make to the purchaser or purchasers
of suchlands good and and)
title as the deceased had to such lands.

§ 7. It shall be the duty of the guardians of the said Gerge H. Chase
and Henry L. Chase to give bond and account for the money coming to
them from the sale of said lands, and in all respects to be governed by
the laws of this State in relation to guardians and curators.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\/\

 

r\r\/\/'\/'\r-\/-\/\/\/\f\I‘./'\’\/W

AN ACT for the beneht of the heirs of William H. Tureman.

§ 1. County court authorized to order sale. 4. Further instructions to commissioners.
2. Commissioners appointed; duties of. 5. Commissioners to execute bond, &c.
3. Commissioners s all pay over money.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly qffhe State qfMisso'z¢ri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Callaway county is hereby authorized and
empowered to order the sale of all the right, title and interest of Mary
H. Clatterbuck and John Clatterbuck, Thomas T. Tureman, and Charles
W. Tureman, also James Tureman, Robert Tureman, Benjamin Ture-
man, and William Tureman, minor heirs of William H. Tureman, in and
to south-west quarter of section 18, township 47, range 9, containing
one hundred and twenty acres; also, south-east quarter of north-east

{Quarter of section 15, township 47, range 10, containing forty acres;

and tix the time, place, ‘and terms of said sale in said order.

§ 2. Said court shall appoint a commissioner, whose duty it shall be to
execute said order, and upon the receipt of the purchase money execute
a deed to the purchaser, which said deed shall divest the parties named
in the first section of this act of all right, title, and interest in and to
said lands, and vest the same in the purchaser.

' § 3. It shall be the duty of said commissioner to pay to the said John
Clatterbuck and Mary H., his wife, one-third of the purchase money,
which shall be in satisfaction of her dower; upon conditions that the
said John Clatterbuck and Mary, his'wife, execute bond, with good se-
curity upon real estate, that the amount thus paid shall at the death of
said Mary Clatterbuck be paid to the heirs proper of William Tureman,

their executors, guardians, or curators.
36

sufficient deeds for the same, conveying such .

514 iuizmiir.

§ 4. It shall be the duty of said commissioner to pay over the residue

"of said purchase money to Ben'amin F. Overton and Weden Major, ad-

ministrators of the estate of illiam Tureman, to be administered ac-
cording to law in liquidation of demands against said estate, and proper
distributions among the heirs aforesaid.

§5. The county court aforesaid shall require said commissioner to
execute bond to the State of Missouri, in double the amount of funds
that may at any one time come into his hands, for the faithful perform-
ance of his duties as such commissioner; upon which suit may be brought
by any person or persons injured by a breach thereof, and shall make to
said county court a full report of all his proceedings under and by vir-
tue of this act, subject to confirmation or rejection.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the benefit of the estate of James T. Williams.

Be it enacted by the General Jlssembly of the State of 1lIz'ss/iuri, as follows:
§ 1. John B. Cecil, executor of the estate of James T. Williams, de-

- ceased, is hereby authorized and empowered to sell and convey all or

any art of the real estate to which the said James T. Williams was en-
title at the time of his death, and which may be included within the

limits of or adjoining the town of Springfield, in Greene ‘county, Mis-
souri.

§  All sales of land or town-lots made in pursuance qf the foregoing
pl'0VlSl0nS, shall be made upon such terms as in the opinion of the said
executor shall.seem most advantageous to said estate. . .

§ 3. The said John B. Cecil, as executor as aforesaid, is hereby em-
powered and required whenever the purchase money is fully paid upon
any contract he may make under the provisions of this act, to make to
the purchaser a deed conveying in fee simple all the right, title, and in-
terest which the said James T. Williams had, at the time of his death, in
and to the land or town-lots sold as aforesaid, which said deed shall be
acknowledged and recorded in the same manner and with like effect as
other deeds for the conveyance of land.

§ 4. All the powers herein granted to the said executor, in the event
of his death, resignation, or removal, shall vest in the person to whom
by law the care, custody, and management of said estate shall be com-
initted. ’

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

—/ ,,-’\,/ ‘ . . '_z ~_,r ,z \, -\ at ~/‘ .a"‘.,/‘\/‘\/5f‘

AN ACT for the benefit of the heirs of Douglas Smith.

.32 it cizaclcd by the General Assembly of the Strdc of .tlIz'ssrm.rz', as follows:

§ 1. William Nichols, guardian and curator for Hiram B. Smith and
Francis M. Smith, infant heirs of Douglas Smith, deceased, he and he is
hereby authorized and empowered to sell all the right, title, and interest

RELIEF. I _ '5l5_ "

of said wards in and to one hundred and sixty acres of land situated in»,
sections fourteen and fifteen, in township forty-six, ofrange ten, the same‘
assigned to Polly A. Smith, as her dower in the real estate of the said
Douglas Smith, deceased. A
.. § 2. The said guardian and curator may sell said interest in said land
either on time or for cash in hand, and he is authorized by this act upon
payment of the purchase money to execute a deed for the same to the
purchaser, which deed shall divest said heirs of all right,title, and inter-
est in and to the land aforesaid, and vest the same in the purchaser; the
said guardian and curator to be responsible, upon his oflicial bond, for
proper and legal disposition of the funds arising from said sale.
§ 3. Said guardian and curator shall make to the county court for Cal-
laway county, a full report of his proceedings under this act, subject to
continuation or rejection.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

r\./‘./\, \/\/\/‘_/‘V \/ g/\/\/‘./\./\/\./“.4”

AN ACT for the benefit of Henry Cotfey’s heirs.

§ 1. State abandons claim to certain lands. 5 3. Patrick O’Longhlin, sen , his duties. .
2. Share of next of kin. , 4. Cgratgr may be appointed, in what case;
is uties.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Mzissouri, as follows:

1. The State of Missouri hereby releases, relinquishes, abandons
an quit claims all the right, title, claim and interest which she has or
may be entitled to by escheat in and to all the real and personal es-
tate of Henry Coffey, deceased, situate in this State, and the next of
kin of said Henry Coffey are hereby authorized and empowered to in-
herit and receive his estate, as heirs and distributees, in the same man-
ner that they would have been entitled to inherit and receive the same
if they had been citizens of the United States or residents of the State
of Missouri at the time of the death of the said Henry Coffey.

§ 2. The share of Patrick O’Longhlin, junior, who is represented to be
a person of unsound mind, may be received by Patrick O’Longhlin, sen.,
his father, for the sole use and benefit of Patr;ck O’Longhlin, junior, and
the receipt of said Patrick O’Longhlin, senior, or the receipt of his at» .
torney in fact duly authorized for that purpose, shall be a good voucher to
the administrator of the estate of said Henry Coffey and any other pub-
lic officer who may now or hereafter have any part of the same in his
ppssession, for the distributive share of said Patrick O’Longhlin, junior.

§ 3. It shall be the duty of Patrick O’Longhlin, senior, to take good
care of the share of said Patrick O’Longhlin, junior, and to apply the
same faithfully and properly to the maintenance and comfort of said Pat-
rick O’Longhlin, junior, and he shall hold and manage the same in trust
for the purposes aforesaid, under the su erintendence and direction of
the proper tribunal for such persons in tlie county in which said parties
reside.

§ 4 If any proceeding for partition, or other cortroversy in relwicfn
to the said estate, shall arise, in which it shall be necessary to have a

516 RELIEF.

curator of the estate of said Patriclr O’Longhlin, junior, the probate court

.of St. Louis county shall appoint such curator, who shall give bond and
‘approved security fo‘r the. faithful performance of his duties, and shall

have full power to represent the interests of said Patrick O’Longlin,

junior, in such proceedings for partition, or other controversy.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

 

r\/\/\r\-‘ \ rxz-\t\/\f\v*\-‘\/\ “i. ’\r‘\.r‘~\~"\ "

AN ACT for the relief of the orphan heirs of David S. Butler, deceased.

§ 1. Executor appointed; duties prescribed. ? 3. Further duties of executor. _ .
2. Judge of probate shall certify the amount 4. Providing for disposition of funds arising
of sales, with copy of will.  from sale.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issemblg  the State If Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Charles Burkes, executor of the last will and testament of David
S. Butler, late of the county of Ste. Genevieve, in ‘he State of Mis-
souri, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sell the lands on
which the said deceased resided at the time of his death—~first givin
thirty days notice of the time of sale by written handbills, two of which

- he-shall put up at the most public places in the town of Farmington, and

eight in the county of Ste. Genevieve—on a credit of nine, twelve
and twenty-four months, in three e ual installments, with interest
from the day of sale, taking bonds for t e different payments, with un-
doubted security to each-——to put the purchaser in possession, and to
convey all the right, title and interest of said deceased in and to the
same on the receipt of the last payment: Provided, that the sale shall
take place on the premises, and that the probate judge of the county of
Ste. Genevieve shall first appoint three disinterested householders of said
county to appraise under oath said lands, and in no event shall the same
be sold for less than two-thirds of the appraised value thereof; and that
the said executor account for the proceeds of said lands and the interest
accruing thereon as other moneys of said deceased.

§ 2. The probate judge of the county of Ste. Genevieve shall certify
the amounts of sales of real and personal estate of said deceased, to-
gether with a copy of the will of said deceased, to the probate judge of
the county of Cooper, who shall file the same in his office, and he shall

' also take a sufiicient bond from William R. Butler and Colin Johnson, or

either of them, and certify the same to the said probate judge of Ste.
Genevieve. -

§ 3. It shall be lawful for the said Burkes, and he is hereby directed,
upon the production of the certificate last named, or a duly certified
copy thereof, (after final settlement) to pay over to the said William R.
Butler or Colin Johnson, or either of them, having given bond as afore-
said, or to their legal a ent, the total nett proceeds of the sales of the
whole property of said geceased, and upon the filing of his or their re-
ceipt, or the receipt of his or their agent, endorsed upon said agent’s
authority, in the office of said probate court of the county of Ste. Gen-

egieve, shall operate as a full discharge of all liability of said Burkes
for the said payment.

nnunr. 51 7-

|

§ 4. The said William R. Butler and Colin Johnson shall loan said
money at the highest rate of interest they can obtain for the same, not
exceeding six per cent. per annum, and shall apply the annual interest
to the support and education of‘the children of said deceased; they shall

_ also make annual settlement with the probate judge of Cooper county,

and carry out the directions of the will of said deceased, so far as the
same does not conflict with the provisions of this act, and the said court
shall exercise due diligence in protecting said funds, and shall require
additional security when in its opinion the same shall be necessary.
This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Hardage Lane, Jr., Samuel H. Peake, and
Elizabeth C. his wife, of St. Louis. Mo.

Wnsnsas, Hardage Lane, father, and sole survivin parent and guardian
ofHardage Lane, Jr., together with Samuel H§’eake, and Elizabeth
C. his wife, have petitioned the General Assembly of the State of
Missouri for the passage of a law authorizing the said Hardage Lane,
guardian of said Hardage Lane, Jr., to execute a deed or deeds
effectual to convey to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, all the
interest, right, and title which descended to said Hardage Lane, Jr.,
from his deceased mother, in and to a certain lot of ground, or parcel
of land, described in the petition of said Hardage Lane and Samuel
H. and Elizabeth C. Peake, as follows, to wit: Begin at the corner
established as Thomas Ingram’s south-east corner on the west line
of a street, which is the eastern boundary of lot number three, sold
to Thomas Ingram, which street is eighty feet wide, and runs from
Lucas avenue south 17° 40’ west, between lots number four and’

five, of the first series allotted by said commissioner, and continues‘

on that course to the pond. From said beginning corner continues
N. 75° 15' W. along said Ingram’s line eight hundred and eighty-
three feet to the margin of the pond; and the same course continue
to the middle of the main channel of the creek in its natural bed
when the pond is exhausted; thence down the creek along the middle
of the channel thereof, to a point at which the western line of said
street, which runs S. 17° 40' W., forming said Ingram’s east boun-
dary, will intersect the creek; from this said point of intersection,
along the west line of said street N. 17°, 40', E. to the begiryling
corner, more or less, being about seven hundred and sixty feet from
the margin of the pond, on this line, which real estate was conveyed
to Ann Rebecca C. Lane, wife of said Hardage Lane, and mother
of said Hardage Lane, Jr., deceased, by deed from the commissioners
for the partition and sale of the estate,Auguste Chouteau, deceased;
which deed is dated on the sixth day of September, in the year
eighteen hundred and thirty-two; and whereas, the prayer of the
said petitioners seems to be reasonable, and ought to be granted,
for the reasons stated in said petition, therefore,

\

518 RELIEF.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Hardage Lane, surviving parent and guardian of Hardage
Lane, Jr., of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, be authorized to execute
and acknowledge a deed or deeds to -such purchaser or purchasers of

said real estate or such parts thereof as the said Hardage Lane, guardian,
of said Hardage Lane, Jr., may, in his discretion, see fit to sell and’

dispose of, in fee simple; and that such deed or deeds, executed and
acknowledged by said Hardage Lane, guardian of said Hardage Lane,

J r., shall be effectual to pass all the. title, claim, and interest, estate and _

property, in and to said real estate,or any part thereof, which descended
to said Hardage Lane, Jr., from his deceased mother, Ann Rebecca C.
Lane, to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, rantees in such deeds.
Every such sale shall be reported to the proiate court of St. Louis
county, for confirmation or rejection.

§ 2. That such purchaser or purchasers shall take the estate so con-
veyed to them or any of them, without being held to see to the due
application or accounting for, of the purchase money by said Hardage
Lone, as guardian for said Harda e Lane, Jr.; but nothing in this act
contained, shall exempt the said ardage Lane, guardian as aforesaid,
from the obligations to account for the purchase money so received by
him, on account of his said ward, Hardage Lane, Jr.

§ 3. This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

’_’\/N/\f\l‘a‘\/\/\/\/‘gl'\I\/‘J\/\/\r\/\I\r\F‘.f‘J\/-/V‘/\’\’

AN- ACT to authorize the sale of certain Real Estate in Harrison

County.
§ 1. Sale of real estate; debts paid. 5 3. Sale to be governed by.
2. Deed made. :3 4. Acts repealed. ~

Be it enacted by /he Generrl Jfssembly of the State 0] .Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That William R. Allen, of the county of Harrison, is hereby
authorized to make sale of so much of the real estate belonging to the
estate of Joseph Fanning, deceased, as was mortgaged by said Fannin
in his lifetime, and is now under mortgage, and to apply the procee s
thereof (or so much as may be necessary) to the payment of the debts
secured by said mortgage, after deductin out of the proceeds of such

sale the same compensation that is allowe by law to the sheriff in such‘ _-

cases, and the residue of the proceeds of such sale (if any) shall be paid
over by said Allen to the administrator of the estate of said Fanning, to
be applied by said administrator as required by the general law govern-

ingtexecutors and administrators in the payment of debts due by the said’

estate.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of said Allen, upon making such sale as afore-
said, to execute and deliver to the purchaser or purchasers of said land,
or any part thereof, a deed conveying to said purchaser all the right,

title, interest, estate, and claim that the said Joseph Fanning,deceased,
had In and to the said mortgaged premises.

§ 3. The said VVillia1n R. Allen, in making such sale as aforesaid,shall
be governed by the general law regulating the sale of real estate by

BELIEF.

sheriffs under executions, so far as the same relates to notice and the
mode of conductingsuch sale, provided that it may he lawful for such

519.,

sale to be made during any term of the county court or circuit court, in,

the discretion of the said William R. Allen.
§ 4. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
,act are hereby repealed.
This act shall take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

F

   

\_,/\ ./M/\/\f'/‘~,/'\/\_/\

AN ACT to provide a general system of Sewerege in the city of St.

Louis.
4. Money borrowed.
2. Special tax levied and collected. §
3. Sewers to be constructed.

5. Application of money.
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The mayor and city council of St. Louis shall cause, by ordi-
nance, the city to be laid off into districts to be drained by principal and
lateral or tributary sewers, having reference to a general plan of drain-
age by sewers for the whole city, and number and record the same.

§ 1. Mayor and city council; duty of.

§ 2. Whenever a majority of the owners of real estate within any dis.-.

trict shall petition for the construction of the sewers in said district, the
city council shall have power by ordinance to levy and collect a special
tax on the real estate within said district so drained, not to exceed one-
half of one per centum per annum on the assessed value of said real
estate, for the purpose of constructing said sewers, which tax shall be
annually levied and collected as other city taxes, and shall constitute a
lien on the real estate on which it is assessed; and shall not be repealed
or altered until the debt created thereby shall have been fully paid.

' § 3. Whenever a petition signed as aforesaid is presented to the city
council, they shall provide by ordinance for the letting and construction

I

of the sewers, or such parts thereof as shall be necessary, and may from-

time to time extend, enlarge or alter the same under such terms, and on
such conditions as they may deem necessary.

§ 4. The mayor and city council, upon the presentation of a petition
as aforesaid, may borrow any sum of money necessary for the construc-
tion of the sewers in any district, and issue the bonds of the city for the
,same, payable and predicated in interest and principal, upon the tax in
the second section of this act, mentioned.

§ 5. All monies collected under and by virtue of this act, shall be ap-
plied to the district from which it is so collected, and to no other purpose
or use.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

-\-x.. ‘-4-./~...~. \/..'x/\J\_.'./ /

 

x./“x.

AN ACT for the relief of William J. Girdner, former collector of Mer-
cer county.

Be it enacted by the General Jsscmbly of the State of Jllissouri. as follows:
§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to settle with

G

.520 BELIEF.

the former sheriff of Mercer county, and that he shall be released from
-‘all the penalties of the law in such cases, and allowed his mileage and
" commission fees; and he [shall] be allowed to the first of June to settle

his arrearages.
. This act to be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

.r\/\/\/\/v‘\fv\/N4‘ /~/\/v-.r~/\/vva./~/we/\.A/vx.

AN ACT supplemental to the act entitled “An act for the relief of
William P. Burney.

Be it enacted by the General -.dsscmbl_t,' of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Cass county is hereby authorized to release
the said William P. Burney from all liabilities which he may be under to
said county by reason of his failure to pay over the county revenue in
due time; provided, said Burney shall pay, or has paid, into the treasury
of said county all such revenue, together with six per centum thereon
from the time the same should have been paid until it is or shall be

aid.
P This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\/\/\/\.I\./N/\/\,/\/\/N/x/“x /\.r-. u ~-r-~M-

AN ACT for the benefit of Benjamin Chapman and others.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stale of .Mzssmm', as follows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw
his warrant upon the State treasurer, in favor of Benjamin Chapman, for
the sum of fourteen dollars and forty-three cents, to be paid out of the
funds appropriated to pay costs in criminal cases.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

/\/\/\/\.‘\4‘\/\/\ “

AN ACT for the relief of Luke W. Burris, sheriff of Washington county.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly Q/‘the State of .Mz°ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and
required to draw his warrant in favor of Luke W. Burris, sheriff of
Washington county, for the sum of thirty-one dollars, it being the amount
paid by the said sheriff as a reward for the retaking [of] one William
Baldwin, and lodging him in the jail of Washington county, from whence
he had escaped; said Baldwin having been indicted as accessory to the
murder of one William Johnson, in St. Francois county.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

/yr./\r .'*./ /‘a\/.,v*J‘\/\,'\/'g"_/\/‘/‘,‘ '~/ . ‘_.‘‘/‘x\.J\ ‘A "s-''‘.‘.* 1‘ A/rfd

BELIEF. 521.

AN ACT for the relief of S. B. Miller, collector of Saline'county. ';

Be it enacted by the General .4ssembly of the State Qf ‘.Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. The register of lands is hereby authorized and required to receive
and certify to the auditor of public accounts, the list of delinquents in

‘-the payment of taxes due on lands as made by S. B. Miller, collector of

the county of Saline for the year 1846, as if such delinquent list had’
been certified and reported according to law.

§ 2. The auditor of public accounts shall draw a warrant on the State
treasurer in favor of S. B. Miller, collector of Saline county for the year
1846, as being the amount of his delinquent list for that year, less the
per centum a ready received on that sum by said Miller.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

\A/\.'/\./\./\/\./\/\/\./\./\J\4 \.z\/\/\.¢\../\2\.. \J\/\4 \/\./\/-.

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas M. Barnett.

Be it enacted by the General Hssembly  the State of Missouri‘, as follows:
§ 1. The sum of twenty-one dollars be, and the same is hereby appro-

' riated out of any money in the treasury, not otherwise appropriated, to

homas M. Barnett, as compensation in full for his services as an oflicer
in the Mormon war.

§ 2. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant on the State treasury, in favor of said Barnett, for
the above sum.

6 3. A. B. Tinsley is hereby made agent for said Barnett to draw the
above sum, and shall as such receipt for the same.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of D. C. Hubbard, late collector of Macon county.

Be it enacted by the General ."ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

- § 1. If D. C. Hubbard, late collector of Macon county, or any person
for him, shall on or before the first day of June next pay int0‘thc State trea-
sury the balance of the revenue due the State from said collector, the auditor
of public accounts is authorized and required to settle with said collector
and make him the same allowances, and release him from all penalties in the
‘same manner as if said payment had been made according to law.

This act to take eflect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

   

I'\/‘\r\/\ r\r\ rxfxrs r\/\r-\/I

AN ACT for the relief of John s. Allen and others.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State If .Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is required to draw his warranton the
treasury, in favor of L. D. Thompson, for the use of the following named

522 nnnrnr.

persons: For the use of John S. Allen, six dollars; for the use of Thomas
Flint, six dollars; and for the use of Henry Fuller, four dollars and forty
cents.

' This act to take effect and he in force from and after its passage.
.' Approved March 9, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas Robertson, late collector of Knox
county.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly oft/ze State of .7|liss0urz', as follows:

§ 1. That if Thomas Robertson, late collector of the county of Knox,
or any person for him, shall, on or before the fifteenth day of May next,
pay into the State treasury the balance of the revenue due the State
from said collector, the Auditor of Public Accounts is authorized and
required to settle with said collector, and allow him the same commis-
sion and mileage, and all other proper credits, and release him from all
liabilities and penalties, in the same manner as if said payment had been
made according to law.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

s/\/-\

   

/'\  /V\r~

AN ACT for the relief of Alfred Detherage. '
Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The Auditor is hereby authorized and required to draw his war-

rant on the Treasurer in favor of Alfred Detherage for the sum of forty-,

five dollars, which is due said Detherage for his services as elisor in the
case of the State of Missouri against John Stevens and William Ste-
vens, indicted in the county of Shannon for murder; and the sum of
forty-live dollars shall be in full discharge of all claims and demands

said Detherage has or may have against the State for any thing done or
furnished in said case.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March Q, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the Register of Lands to receive the delin-

quent list for 1848.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The Register of Lands is hereby authorized and required to re-
ceive the delinquent list of lands in Henry county for the year 1848, in
the same manner as if said list had been presented within the time pro-
vided by law, notwithstanding said list is not dated as it should be.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

BELIEF. 1523

AN ACT to authorize John G. Flournoy, administrator of’ Howard:

Williams, deceased, to sell certain lands. \

Be it enacted by the General /Qssembly of the State of ./Missouri’, as follows:

§ 1. That John G. Floumoy, administrator of the estate of Howard
Williams, deceased, late of Sullivan county, in this State, is hereby au-
thorized and empowered to sell the lands belonging to said estate, lying
in the county aforesaid.

§2. The sale of the aforesaid lands shall be made in all respects
agreeably to the provisions of the third article of “An act respecting
executors and administrators,” approved 26th of March, 1845, in rela-

tion to the sale of the lands of deceased persons for the payment of .

their debts; provided, however, that the administrator aforesaid may
re ort his proceedings to the county court of Linn county.

his act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Elijah W. Smith, Hiram B. -Cahill and .
John Masters.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State tf Missouri, asjbllozos:

§ 1. That the Register of Lands of the State of Missouri is hereby
authorized and required to make out and issue a patent in the name of
Elijah‘ W. Smith, also a patent in the name of Hiram B Cahill, and also
a patent in the name of John Masters, thereby conveying to them such
real estate situate in the county of Holt as the county clerk of said
county shall describe and certify them entitled to, (it being school land)
and to have the like effect as is now provided by law in relation to school
lands.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

   

»/'--./‘N

AN ACT for the benefit of James Lillard.

Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State of Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. It shall be lawful for James Chiles, uardian of James Lillard, to
sell one of the negro slaves of said J ames illard, named Jim, and with
the proceeds of such sale, shall furnish said James Lillard with an e¢%uip-
ment and outfit to enable him to undertake an expedition contemp ated
by him to California, with a view to make money and improve his con-
dition. And said James Chiles shall take care to have such equipment
and outfit furnished judiciously and economically, and shall preserve
proper vouchers showing the nature and cost of the articles forminp such
equipment and outfit, and tile the same in the settlement of his accounts
as such guardian.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

, 524 RELIEF.

AN ACT for the relief of Absalom Keithly and others.

Wnsnnxs, it is represented to this General Assembly, that Absalom Keith-
ly, William McE. Keithly, Hiram Keithly, John M. Keithly, Jacob
Keithly, and Carty Keithly, having joined the Saint Charles com-
pany of first troops, commanded by Captain Orrick, of the county
of Saint Charles; the said company was furnished with State arms:
and whereas, the above named volunteers deposited their arms-
being six stands of pistols, and swords—in their workshop, being
all coopers—and in their absence to dinner, the shop caught fire

and consumed the whole building and the said arms deposited there-
in,—therefore,

Be it enacted by the General Assenzbly of the State qf .Mz'sssurz°, as follows:

§ 1. That said Absalom Keithly, William McE. Keithly, Hiram Keith-
ly, John M. Keithly, Jacob Keithly and Carty Keithly, be and the same
are hereby released from any damage or liability in consequence of the
burning of the said arms, and are not held responsible to the State for
the amount of the same.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

 f\§

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas G. Smith.

Wnsnsxs, it is represented to this General Assembly that Thomas G.
Smith, of the county of Lafayette, became the purchaser of four
warrants on the treasury of this State, amounting in all to the sum
five hundred and twenty-nine dollars and sixty-five cents; one of
said warrants was drawn in favor of John F. Ryland, for the sum of
two hundred and fifty dollars, and numbered three hundred and sev-
enty, and dated about the 12th day of July, 1847, and by said Ry-
land assigned to said Smith; also, two of said warrants were drawn
in favor of William Spratt, one for the sum of eighty-one dollars
and fifty-two cents, and numbered three hundred and sixty-eight,
and dated about the 12th day of July, A. D. 1847; the other for the
sum of one hundred and eighty-eight dollars and thirteen cents, and
numbered three hundred and sixty-nine, and dated about the 12th
day of July, A. D. 1847, both warrants were by said Spratt assigned
to said Smith; and also, one of said warrants was drawn in favor of
Samuel B. Garrett, editor of the Lexington Appeal, for the sum of
ten dollars, and numbered four hundred and forty-one, and dated on
the 3d day of August, A. D. 1847, and assigned by said Garrett to
said Smith; and also, one other warrant drawn in favor of said Smith,
for the sum of seventy-eight dollars and seventy cents, and number-
ed thrce hundred and sixty-seven, and dated July 12th, A. D. 1847;
all of the above named warrants, amounting in the aggregate to the
sum of six hundred and eight dollars and thirty-live cents; and
whereas, the said Thomas G. Smith has lost said warrants, in conse-

quence of which he cannot obtain payment of said warrants; there-
fore:

RIELIEF. ~ .525

Be it enacted by the"Generalu9ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public ‘accounts is hereby directed to draw a
warrant on the State treasury, in favor of Thomas G. Smith, for the sum
of six hundred and eight dollars and thirty-five cents, and the treasurer
is hereby directed to pay the same out of any money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated; provided that the said Thomas G. Smith shall
enter into bond, with security to be approved by the auditor of public
accounts, in double the amount of said warrants, conditioned to indem-
nify the State against the warrants lost as aforesaid.

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the benefit of Benjamin O’Fallon’s heirs.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows.-

§ 1. The probate court of St. Louis county shall have full power and
authority to appoint John\O’Fallon as guardian cf the six minor heirs of
Benjamin O’Fallon, his brother, in like mannerand with the like effect
as if they were residents of St. Louis county; and he shall give security
and discharge the duties of guardian of said minor children as other
guardians, with like rights and powers, and subject to similar penalties
and liabilities.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Jesse Johns.

- Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly of the Stale of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Jesse Johns, clerk of the circuit and county courts of Knox
county, is hereby permitted to reside with his family out of the county
of Knox, any thing contained in an act entitled “An act regulating
clerks,” or any other law, to the contrary notwithstanding.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of John Kelley.
Be itenacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as fbllozas:

§ 1. That John Kelley, foi-mer collector of the county of Pulaski, be
and he is hereby empowered and authorized to collect the revenue of
said county not heretofore collected for the years 1846 apd 1847, and
due from said citizens for the time he was collector for said county in
said years, in the same manner as if he had not paid the same into the
‘State treasury; and that all the benefits of the laws authorizing the col-
lector of the same, for said time, be extended to him to enable him to
collect the same... _

This act to take efect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

526 RELIEF.

AN ACT to pay William R. Taylor certain costs.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssemblg/‘Hof the State q/'.Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and requi-
red to draw his warrant on the State treasury, in favor of William R.
Taylor of Henry county, for the sum of twenty dollars, which sum shall
be in full for all his fees and expenses incurred in arresting a fugitive
from justice, charged with stealing a saddle in Lafayette county, and
carrying said fugitive back to his said county and delivering him to the
pro er authorities.

his act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

‘Z\l\Z

 

,§./\./\/'\./'\./‘../‘./‘“ -/‘./'\/‘ /'\’

AN ACT for the benefit of Jesse Morin and James Martin.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Jesse Morin and James Martin, proprietors of the dam and
mills constructed by Zadoc Martin, on Platte river, be and they are here-
by relieved from the construction of an apron required by an act enti-
tled “An act respecting Zadoc Martin,” approved Jan. 29, 1841, until
they, their heirs or assigns shall be notified by the county court of Platte
county, to construct the apron required by the above recited act, which
notice may be given by said court at any time said court may deem the
construction or said apron necessary, allowing the proprietors of said

property a reasonable time to complete the construction of the apron
aforesaid.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 \I\/ s/\/\/\/\/ \’‘-I‘-/\/ ~.I\l\/'\.>‘\./‘.f\./\/'\/‘J\/\/

 

AN ACT for the relief of Ambrose Callaway, James B. Shriver, and

Preston Gains.

Wnansns, At the session of the Missouri Legislature for the year 1842
and 1843, a special act was passed, establishing a State road from
Brunswick, in Chariton county, to Trenton, in Grundy county; and
whereas, under the re uirements of said act, Ambrose Callaway,
James B. Shriver, and reston Gains acted as commissioners tor the
survey of said road, and did perform all the duties by said act re-
quired, and in the form and manner prescribed thereby; and whereas,
the county courts of Grundy and Livingston counties refused to
receive the report and audit the accounts of said commissioners, as
by that act required, therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Mz'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. That the county courts of Livingston and Grundy counties be,
and they are hereby severally required to audit the accounts of Ambrose
Callaway, James B. Shriver, and Preston Gains, for surveying _a State

t .
,RELIEF. 527«

road from Bruirswiblr, in Chariton county, to Trenton, in Grundy county,
via Chilicothe, as required by anact approved January 26, 1843, and to
cause the same to be paid out of the three per cent. fund belonging to
said counties, in the proportions required by the aforesaid act.

3- § 2. Nothing in this act shall be construed as requiring the county of
Grundy to pay the said commissioners any money, if the said county court
of Grundy has heretofore audited and paid the aforesaid accounts, ac-
cording to the provisions of the aforesaid act.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

‘AN ACT for the relief of the heirs of Pete Daniels, deceased.
_ ,'
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate of Missouri, as follows :_

§ 1. Martin Rice, administrator of the estate of Peter Daniels, del
ceased, is hereby authorized to sell all the real estate owned b said
Peter Daniels at the time of his death, situated in the counties of J o nsorf
and Cass, being about one hundred and seventy acres; and also to sell

‘_the tract of about one hundred and sixty acres, which was conveyed by

James Gibson and his wife, at the instance and procurement of said
administrator to the heirs of said decedent, and the sale of said last
mentioned tract is hereby legalized anddeclared valid and binding that
as the sale by said Gibson to said heirs.

' § 2. Said administrator shall sell each of said tracts of land on such
terms and under such regulations as may be prescribed by the county
court of said county of Cass, which court is hereby em owered to.
prescribe such terms as it may deem necessary to secure t e rights of
those interested; the proceeds, after payment of debts, shall be assets in
the hands of said administrator, and distributed under order of the proper
court; said administrator is hereby empowered to make good deeds for
the lands sold by virtue of this act.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\/€\

 

B./\/\J

AN ACT for the benefrtof James H. Gideon, Sheriff of Taney
County, and others.

 

Be it enacted by the General Assrmbly of (he State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant upon the State treasurer in favor of James H. Gideon,
sheriff of Taney county, for the sum of thirty-six dollars and fifty'cents,
qtzbeirag the_amount expended by and due him for taking and conveying
_obert B. Perkins from Taney county to Green county jail, and other
costs, and the treasurer is hereby required to pay the same out of the
funds appropriated to pay costs in criminal cases.

This act to take effect fr 111 and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 49.

.528 nr.Lllé'r.- _

AN ACT for the relief of Overton H. Oldham, late Assessor for the
County of.Barry.

Be it enacted by the General Jqssemb/y of the Slate qf .Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant upon the treasury of the State, in favor of Overton
H. Oldham for the sum of thirty-two dollars and six cents to be paid
out of any’money not otherwise appropriated, for the services of said

Oldham in assessing the county of Barry in the year 1846, on the part of
the State.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849. ‘

_f\__ rxx ~’-xx-./\"\x-~./\.’\/“x/\_/‘-_"\./"-/'\"*"*

AN ACT for the benefit of Jeremiah aud Oliver P. Phillips. _
Be itenacted by the General afssembty of the State of .Mz'ssourz', as follows:

. § 1. The register of lands is hereby authorized and required to issue
a patellt to Jeremiah Phillips and Oliver P. Phillips, or to their legal

‘Q

representatives, for the east half of the south-east quarter of section‘
sixteen, in township fifty-eight, of Range twenty, whenever the county

court of Linn county shall certify to said register that full payment for
said lands has been made.

This act to take effect and be in force, from and after the passage

thereof. .
Approved March 8, 1849.

r\¢\J\./\./\/\/\./\./\.z\4 \/‘~.~ \_/\_.-\.‘\/\./\./\/\.---r

AN ACT for the relief of John Johnson.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Illissouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts he, and he is duly required to
draw his warrant on the State treasury, in favor of John Johnson, former
collector of Ozark county, for the sum of twelve dollars and ninety-two
cents. *-

' § 2. A. S. Harbin, of Barry county, is hereby authorized and empow-
ered to receive the amount of the aforesaid warrant, and his receipt for

the same shall be in all respects as valid as if given by the said John
Johnson.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
‘Approved March 12, 1849.

' -\I‘\ ‘K’ !\-'‘\r\«‘\ /\/\'\-'\'\/~ 'xr\» ~.~\/\/'\r~.r\.z\-\aNJ

AN ‘ACT for the relief _of Joshua Gilliam. i " ‘
Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw his
warrant on the State treasurer, in favor of Joshua Gilliam, for the sum

at-iLu:r. 52$;

of twenty dollhrs, it being the amount due said'Gilliam for'services

rendered in the Mormon war, as a soldier in Capt. George W. Squire’s
compan , and whose name was erroneously returned as John Gilliam.

 2. ohn W. Fitzhugh is hereby empoweredto draw said warrant for’

grid Gilliam, and receipt for the same; said amount to be paid out of any.

money not otherwise appropriated. '

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 13-19.

~/~/‘/

AN ACT for the relief of Eli Moore, of Platte'County.

Wnsanas, It has been shown to the Legislature, that on the 22nd day
of February, 1847, the Governor of this State did remit a fine of
twenty dollars, assessed against Eli Moore, at the October term,
A. D. 1846, of the circuit court of Platte county, for the offence of
selling liquor without license; and whereas, it appears that the
remission of the Governor, though forwarded to said Moore, never
was received by him, that thereby the said Moore has never enjoyed
the benefit of said act of the Governor, and that said Moore has
long since paid said line and costs; therefore, ‘

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly qf the State Q/' Missouri, asfollows;

§ 1. The county court of Platte county, upon being satisfied that the
circuit court of said county did impose or assess a fine of twenty dollarso
and costs against said Eli Moore, and that the same was paid by said
«Moore, and that said line was imposed or assessed for the offence men--
tioned in the preamble to this act, the said county court of Platte county
shall draw a warrant upon the treasurer of said county for the sum of
;twenty dollars in favor of the said Eli Moore.
This act to talre effect and be in forcefrom and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

~v"\ ~"‘ .1’ \.r"\,

 

/V‘J\l'\l\/Nf

AN ‘ACT to authorize Thomas H. Dawson to do certain things.

Be it enacted by the General Jlssemluy of the Scale of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Thomas H. Dawson, as guardian of George W. Dawson, is here-
by authorised to make sale of his said wards interest in all the lands in
the State of Missouri, to which George W. Dawson may be entitled to
as heir at law of Robert D. Dawson, deceased, upon such terms as the
said guardian may deem most conducive to the interest of his ward.
Every sale made under this act shall be reported to the court haying
'probate jurisdiction in New Madrid county for confirmation or rejection;
and act shall not in any manner -affect any right of the State of
Miss inor of any third person. '

 2. Thomas H. Dawson is further,authorized and empowered to malre
the purchaser or urchasers of such interest in said lands, a su$cient
and complete dee .for(passin the interest of his ward in said lands.

§ 3. It shall be the uty 0 the county court of New Madrid county

_, 37 '
'.

‘ for which she has a deed. And that the remain

r530 RELIEF.

I

to take from the said guardian, additional bond and security, in double
‘the amount of the value of said ward’s interest in the lands to be sold
under this act, conditioned as other bonds of guardians and curators.

This act to be in full force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

I

, 1’

 

,AN ACT concerning the heirs of James H. Wolf, an alien.

_Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qf the Stale of .Missuur-2', as follows:

§ 1. That all the title and interest the State of Missouri may have ac-
quired by escheat, by the decease of John H. Wolf, late of St. Francis-
" ville, in the State of Louisiana, an alien, to real estate of said decedent,
is hereby relinquished to the following persons, to wit: to Richard
Wolf, of Lewis county, the north-east quarter of south-west quarter of
section N6. 6, in township 61, in range No. 7 west; and the westhalf ‘bf
the south east quarter of section No. 31, township No. 62, range 7, west;
and the east half of the north-west quarter of section No. 8, township
"No. 61 , range No. 7, and to his heirs forever; and to Thompson Kenton
rAllen his heirs and assigns forever, 5 acres off of the extreme north-west
corner of section 7, township 61, range 7, west; being that part of said
.'tract, which lies immediately north of the State road leading from Mon-
-ticello to Smith’s Ford. And to Elizabeth Smith 160 acres of the said
real estate, being the same tract which she bought at sheriff ’s sale and
er of said real estate is
hereby relinquished to Louisa Ann Wolf, wife of John H. Wolf; and the
‘heirs of her body by the said John begotten. "
§ 2. That all disability of the said Richard Wolf, and Louisa Ann
Wolf, aliens, to hold real estate, is hereby removed.

This act to take effect from and after its passage. -
Approved March 12, 1849.

-s’\’\"\’\"\"\/'\/'\ ’\/'\'V"\I‘./‘\/’

AN ACT for the benefit of James C. Bernard and Susan F. Bernard.

B». it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz'. as follows:

. § 1. The act of sellin a negro slave, Milley, that was conveyed by
John S. Major to John . S. Major in trust for the use and benefit of his
daughter Susan F. Bernard and the investment of the proceeds of such
sale in a tract of land conveyed‘ to John N. S. Major in trust for the use
and benefit of said Susan F. Bernard, are hereby ratified and confirmed
and said land shall be held and kept for the use and benefit of said Susan
F. Bernard and her heirs, in the same manner and with the like effect,
as the said slave was held for her benefit under said trust.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

W .-'-'.».. .\... .. .u .w. 4-’4..m--.-.. t.'.‘. . .-a... .I\///1/\lHVs‘\‘d'\/‘\(V’V\’

nnnuzr. 531.

AN ACT'for the relief of Littleberry Hendrick and other securities of
James W. Smith late collector of Benton county.

Wnannas, Littleberry Hendrick,‘ John Smith and B. W. Keoun were the
securities of James W. Smith as collector of Benton county, and
whereas said collector is defaulter to the State to the amount of
about three hundred dollars, for which a warrant of distress hereto-
fore issued and was kturned not satislied, and whereas the said
James W. Smith and John James Smith executed to the said Hen-
dricks a deed of trust to lot No. three in block No. twenty-two in
the city of Warsaw with authority to sell the same u on certain con-
tingencies, to pay the liability of said collector to t e State. Now

I therefore, \

Be it Itacled by the General ..4ssembly qf the State of .Missourz', as follows:

§ 1. That if the said Littleberry Hendricks shall proceed and execute
said trust and ay into the State treasury on or before the first day of

November, A. ., 1849, all the money and proceeds of the sales of the '

property in said deed of trust mentioned or for which said property has
een Cold, then and in that event, said securities for said collector shall
be released from all further liability to the State on said collectors bond.
This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849

‘\I\/\,

AN ACT for the relief of A. D. Hudspeth.

Be it enacted by the General uissembly qf the State Q/' Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Andrew D. Hudspeth, late collector of the county of Dade
_be, and he is hereby authorized to make out and deliver a list of the de-
linquent lands for the years A. D., 1846 and 1847, on or before the first
day of June next; that said list when so made out, as aforesaid, accord-
irag to then existing laws, shall have the same power and elfect and as
e ectually release the said Hudspeth from responsibility, as if the said
list had been returned according to law.

? 2. That the said Hudspeth is hereby empowered and authorized to
co lect the revenue of said county of Dade, for the years A. D., 1846
and 1847, not heretofore collected, in the same manner as if he had not
paid the same into the State and county treasury; and that all the benefits
of the laws authorizing the collector, to collect the same, for said time,
be and they are hereby extended to him, to enable him to collect the
same.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

\.r\/\¢\.o\1\.~./\a\.z\a

 

r\t‘\/'\f\t'\f\f\/\/\/'\t‘\/‘x/‘\/‘\/\r’\—"\’\ -*~ -\ '\ '\"\ "x A .—..

AN ACT for the relief of John F. Long.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1..The auditor of public accounts shall draw his warrant -on the
treasurer in favor of John F. Long for the sum of one hundred and four-

 RELIEF.

teen dollars to be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise
appropriated; and said sum when paid shall be in full" satisfaction of the
o aim of said Long against the State for services in oing to New Or-
leans, on the order of the Governor in pursuit of Bill ones alias Samuel
Fanning, a fugitive from justice.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. .

\A AAArv\rvv\&«fv\«A-

AN ACT for the relief of the heirs and legal representatives of Gran-
ville P. Thomas.

Be itenacted by the General ./Ysseznbly of the State of Illissouri, as follows:\
§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw his

warrant on the treasury of the State of Missouri, in favor of the admin- \

listrator of Granville P. Thomas for the sum of five hundred dollars, it

' ‘being the value of work and labor done and materials furnished extra,

in erecting and tinishin for the State, the Governor’s house, in the life
time of the said Granvil e P. Thomas. '

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. ' .

.. \/\.;\..\z\, \.\z\.\_.-\, \_»..\~\./\a\« »» » \—»\« \-/\/\-I\-t\-/‘s

AN ACT for the relief of Benjamin Stickney and Leonard Scolly.
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssemblu qflhe State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant on the treasurer in favor of Benjamin Stickney and
Leonard Scolly for the sum of twelve dollars, to be paid out of any
money appropriated for criminal cbsts. '
This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

r"- /‘\.z’\ 4 “ / x /\J \ /\.g\/"‘\_/"\f\/‘\_» ~ _/\./‘\/\_/*./ s/‘

AN ACT for the relief of Stephen T. Wood and Gideon P. Wyatt.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and re uired
to draw his warrant in favor of Stephen P. Wood for the sum 0 sixty
dollars; also in favor of Gideon T. Wyatt for the sum of fifty-two dollars
for money expended by them in the arrest and safe keepirvig of certain
risoners in a case of the State of Missouri, against John est, James

Iasley and others.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

./\.’\ . \.z\J'\J\. \4«\_ ./x./\/\/\.J\.z\./\.«\4\J\J\.z\¢ \./\.«\.a\.4\a

AN ACT for the relief of George W. Andrews of Taney county.

Be itenacted by the General ./issembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:
§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw

names. 533

his warrant upon the 'State treasurer in favor of George W. Andrews for
the sum of forty-six dollars and ninety-five cents, to be paid out of the
fund appropriated to pay cost in criminal cases.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

  

AN ACT for the -relief of the widow of s. T. Portertield.

Wnrzasas, S. T. Porterfield served in the Mormon war under the com-
mand of Captain D. B. Mc'Spadden of Davis county, and that said
Portefield died shortly after his return home, and his widow nor any

person has ever received any (pay for his services, in said war, as
appears from the records in the au 1tor’s otiice. Therefore,

Be it enacted by the General uissembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw his
warrant on the treasurer for twenty dollars, in favor of H. B. Duncan,
of the county of Mercer, for the use and benefit of the widow of said

Porterfield, to he paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise
appropriated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849. t

 

AN ACT for the relief -of Hiram Nesbit.

_Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The Register of Lands is hereby authorized and required to ex-
ecute to Hiram Neshit, of the county of Livingston, a deed, conveying
to him all the right, title and interest of the State of Missouri in and to
lot,number four, in block number forty-eight, situated in the town of‘
Chiliccthe, in Livingston county, sold under the provisions of an act‘ of
the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled “An act to pro-

vide for levying, assessing and collecting the revenue,” approved March
27th, 1845.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.

[The approval of this bill was omitted through mistake. It is pub-

lished, although nota law, to show that it passed both houses of the
General Assembly.]

.A/\’‘.a\/\;\/‘_/\/\/\/\/\4”~J\/\/\/\/\J\J\/\/\J‘—’\J\-/\’\’‘*'
\

AN ACT for the relief of Gustavus A. Parsons.

Be it enacted by tbe General ./Zysembly of the State vf Mzhsozzri, as follows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby directed to issue his
warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of Gustavus A. Parsons, clerk
of the circuit court of Cole county, for the sum of twenty dollars and

O

534 ‘ RELIEF.

seventy cents, it being the amount due him for copies of papers furnish-
ed for the trial of the DeLisle claim. ‘

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

/‘u

AN ACT for the relief of Jacob Headrick, late collector of Howard
county.

Be it enacted by the General tdssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. ‘The Register of Lands is hereby authorized and required to re-
ceive from Jacob Headrick, late collector of Howard county, the delin-
quent land list for the year 1846, in the same manner as though said list

had been returned within the time prescribed by law, provided said list
shall be returned on or before the first day of April next.

This act to take effect from its passage.
' Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Peter Early and others.

Be it enacted by the General dssemb/y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and re-
quired to allow Peter Early, receiver of the land office in Edina, eleven
dollars, out of the internal improvement fund, the necessary ‘expenses
incurred forprinting for said oflice, and he is hereby directed to draw
his warrant on the Treasurer for that sum, in favor of said Early; and

also in favor of the other registers and receivers of the State land ollices

for the amount of money actually paid out by them respectively for
printing for their offices.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of James N. Bennett, former collector of
Cape Girardeau county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssemb/y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and
required to draw his warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of James
N. Bennett, former sheriff of Cape Girardeau, for the sum of twenty

dollars, to be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise ap-
propriated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

nnulzr. ‘ 53.5

AN ACT for the benefit of Cordell & Co.

3} ttenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby required to draw
his warrant on the Treasurer in favor of Cordell &. Co. for thirty-nine
dollars and nine cents, it being the amount in full for materials furnished
for the State House in the years 1841, 1842 -and 1843, to be paid out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to take efect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Benjamin Holmes, collector of Wayne
county. -

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Register of Lands is hereby authorized and required to
receive from Benjamin Holmes, collector of Wayne county, his delin-
quent list of lands for said county, in the same manner as though he had
made his return in the time prescribed by law.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

/\/\/\

AN ACT for the relief of Anson Dearmon, and other purposes.
Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of ‘Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Anson Dearmon, clerk of the county court of Ripley coun-
ty, is hereby relieved from any liability in consequence of his solemn-
izing the rights of matrimony between West Riley and Mary Allen, and
the rights of matrimony so solemnized between West Riley and Mary
Allen are hereby legalized, and shall be valid in all courts of law. "
This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849. .

\./\/\.d\.4\./\f\/\/\u\/\J'\a\/\/\l\/Na‘!

AN ACT for the relief of Robert L. Brown.

Wnmuzas, durin the month of November, A. D. 1838, the 14th Division
of the 2nd rigade of Missouri Militia was mustered into service
by Colonel C. H. Allen, commanding the detachment of Missouri
mounted volunteers, in the Mormon war, during which said service,
Robert L. Brown, one of the mounted volunteers, whilst on parade,
got his horse severely snagged, from which wound he died in a few

days; therefore,

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That the sum of one hundred and fifteen dollars is hereby appro-

533 nnnmr.

priated, out of any money in the treasury not otherivise appropriated, to
the said Robert L. Brown, for said horse, lost in said service, and the
Auditor is hereby authorized to draw his warrant on the Treasurer for
the same. '

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
- Approved March 10, 1849. -

M

AN ACT for the relief of Samuel B. Victor.
Be itenacted by the General .assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized to draw his
warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of Samuel B. Victor, of Boone
county, for the sum of seven dollars and sixty cents.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\

AN ACT for the relief. of Christopher Kolkmeir. ‘
Be it enacted by he Gen eralvfssembly Q/‘the State Qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is herebyauthorized and
required to draw his warrant on the State Treasury, for the relief of
Christopher Kolkmeir, for the sum of four hundred dollars, for making
flag-stone pavement in front of the Governor’s house, and grading alley,
&.c., to be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appro-
priated.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

I’

 

AN ACT for the relief of George W. Miller, late Auditor of Public
Accounts.

Be it enacted by the General aissembly qf the "State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and
required to draw his warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of George
W. Miller, late Auditor of Public Accounts, for the sum of one hundred
and twenty-five dollars, for his services in bringing up the books of the

former Auditor. .
§ 2. This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

I

at-.ms:r. 5B7

AN ACT ts, authol'ize the clerk of Oregdh to practice law in the
circuit court of Oregon county. ‘

Be it enacted by’ the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The clerk of Oregon county, John R. Wuodsides, is hereby au-
thorized to practice law in the circuit court of Oregon county, any law
to the contrary notwithstanding. ‘

This act to take etfect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Benjamin R. Albright, late collector of Perry
county.

Be it enacted by the General Hssentbly of the Statefqf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. If Benjamin R. Albright, late collector of Perry county, or any per-
son for him, shall, on or before the first day of June next, pay into the State
treasury the balance of the revenue due the State from said collector. the
auditor of public accounts and the register of lands are authorized and re-
quired to settle with said collector. and make him the same allowances, and
release him from all ‘penalties, in the same manner as if said payment had,
been made according to law.

This act shall talre etfect from its passage.

Approved March 10, I849.

 

 /V7

I’

AN ACT to authorize John B. Harrison, clerk of the Gasconade circuit
court, to receive and distribute certain money to ’ pay costs.

Be itenacted by the General uissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the sum of four hundred and seventy-five dollars and live cents
be allowed to pay the costs incurred in the case of the State of Missouri
against Barnet Reedenhonr, Redford M. Wyatt and others, on a charge of
perjury before Francis Sullivan, James A. Matthews and Thomas Keller.

§ 2. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant on the State treasurer, in favor of John B. Harrison,
clerk of the’ Gasconade circuit court, for the aforesaid sum, to be paid out
of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated. .

§ 3. That it shall be the duty of said clerk of said court, upon receiving
the aforesaid sum, to distribute the same, under the direction of the circuit
court of Gasconade county, to witnesses and others entitled thereto in the
same manner as clerks are now required to do by the existing law in dis-
tributing costs in criminal cases, and shall be liable on his ofiicial bond as
clerk, for failure to discharge the duties required by this net.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

b.’§8 RELIEF.

AN ACT for the relief of C. S. Jeffries, clerk oP the circuit court of
Franklin county.

Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts he, and he is hereby authorized
to draw his warrant on the State treasurer, in favor of C. S. Jeffries, clerk of
the Franklin circuit court, for the sum of eighty-one dollars and forty-six
cents, being the full amount of costs incurred and certified by the judge and
circuit attorney of said court in the case of the State of Missouri versus
Eli A. Slon, on indictment for assault with intent to kill.

This act to take etiect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12,1849.

   

AN ACT anthorizing the register of lands to receive of the collector of
Crawford county the delinquent list of said county for the year 1848.

Be it enacted by the General /Issembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The register of lands of this State is hereby authorized and required
to receive of the collector of Crawford county the delinquent tax list of said
county for the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, in like
manner, and with the same effect as if the said list had been returned within
the time prescribed by law.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

/\f\/'\‘3t‘\f\§/\/\/‘\/‘\/‘K /\/\K\I\/N

AN ACT for the relief of John Woods, former clerk of the county court
of Ripley county.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly Of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts he, and he is hereby authorized
and required to draw his warrant on the State treasurer, in favor of John
Woods, for the sum of four dollars, to be paid out of any money in the
treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849..

 

AN ACT for the relief of Amos Slone.

Wnnnms, It is represented to the General Assembly of the State of Mis-
‘ souri, by the county court of New Madrid county, that the south-west
quarter of the north-west quarter, and also the north-west quarter of
the south-west quarter of section number three, in township number
24 north, of range number 11 east, containing eighty acres, in New
Madrid county, was regularly purchased by Amos Slone from the com-
missioner of school lands, agreeably to law; and whereas, the patent
for said land was issued, describing it as the south-west quarter of the
north east quarter, and the north-west quarter of the south-west quar-

RELIEF. 539

ter of section number 3, in township number 24 north, ‘of range number
14 east; therefore, i

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly Q/” the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the register of lands of the State of Missouri is hereby authori-
zed and required to make out and issuea patent, in the name of Amos Slone,
thereby conveying the following real estate, being in New Madrid county,
to wit: The south-West quarter of the north-west quarter, and the northwest
quarter of the south-west quarter of section three, in township number 24
north, of range 14 east. containing eighty acres, in the same manner, and
with like eilect, as is now provided by law in relation to school lands. '

§2. The register of lands of the State of Missouri is authorized and
required to cancel the patent issued to said Amos Slone on the 20th day of
July, in the year 184l. '

This act to talre effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved February 27, I849.

 

AN ACT’ for the relief of John W. Williams.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ l. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required to
draw his warrant on the treasurer of the State, in favor of John W. Wil-
liams, of Henry county, for the sum of twenty-two ‘dollars, to be paid out
of the military fund.

This act shall he in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849. '

"\' \ "\/~./'\/\/-\/\/\_r\r\/-\/\ f\/\/\/\/'\/\I\/\r\r\/\/K/N/‘

AN ACT for the relief of Abel Cox. 4.

Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State of Missouri, as follow? -'

§ 1. That theauditor of public accounts be, and he is hereby required to
draw his warrant on the treasury, in favor of Abel Cox, for the sum of forty
dollars and eighty-eight cents, payable out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated. '

§2. Thomas J. Kirk be, and he is hereby authorized to receive the
amount of said warrant from the treasurer, and that the receipt of said
Thomas J. Kirk for said amount shall have the force and effect the same
would have if signed by the said Abel Cox.

This act to take eifect and be in forcefrom and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize Emanuel Roach and Isaac Thornton to maintain a
' dam across Platte river.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qf the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Emanuel Roach and Isaac Thornton, and their legal representatives:
are hereby authorized to keep and maintain a dam across Platte river, in
the county of Buchanan, for the purpose of propelling mills and other ma-

540 RELIEF.‘

chinery, at a point where said Rouch and Thornton have now erected a,
dam, and have the building of mills in progress at this time.

§ 2. If the land of any individual shall be overflowed so as to be injured
by the back-wate", in consequence of the existence of such dam, he may
apply to the circuit court, and obtain a writ of ad quad damnum to sum-
mon a jury to assess the damages by him sustained in consequence of such
dam, and the proceedings shall be had under the direction of the court; and
if any damages be assessed, judgment shall be rendered against the owners
of said dam for the amount thereof.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of William Peery and Samuel P. Fleshman.

Wnsanas, it appear that a patent was issued to John Harris, dated
‘February 1st, 1849, for the S. E. qr. and S. hf. of S. W. qr. of sec-
tion 16, town. 61, range 25, containing 240 acres; and, whereas, the
county court of Grundy county has certified to the register of lands
that the lands purchased by John Harris was assigned and sold to
William Peery, the present bona tide owner; therefore,

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssemblyi Q,’ the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The register of lands is hereby authorized and required to cancel
the aforesaid patent issued to John Harris, and to issue to William Peery
a patent for the S. E. qrr. and S. hf. of S. W. qr. of section 16, town. 61,
range 25, containing 240 acres as above described.

§ 2. The register of lands is also authorized and re uired toissue a

,,patent to Samuel P. Fleshman, for the N. W. qr. of . E. qr., and the

S. qr. of N. E. qr. of section 16, town. 61, range 23, who it appears
by the certificate of the Grundy county court is the present bona tide
owner, although the said land was first sold to Peter Matgen.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849. J

'“~—" 4"./'\Z\/'\/\/‘

AN‘ACT to authorize David B. Rice and Daniel D. Smith, administra-

tors, to convey lands, and to legalize the order of the county court
of Schuyler county.

Be itenacted by the General .dssembI;y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That David B. Rice, administrator of the estate of Mary Edwards,
deceased, of the county of Schuyler, and State of Missouri, and Daniel
D. Smith, administrator of the estate of Thomas Melvin, deceased, of
said county and State, be and they are hereby authorized to make con-
veyances, by deeds, of certain lands in manner and form as is provided
in an order of the county courtof the before named county, made at the

January term of said court, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
forty- nine;

nnmnr. ' '54]

§ 2. The above recited order of said court is hereby legalized for the
purposes therein contained and set forth, and the deed of conveyance of
the said Rice and Smith, as administrators as aforesaid, are hereby
authorized and made good in law and equity; provided, that they the said
Rice and Smith, administrators, are not hereby authorized to do any act
not contemplated in the order of court above referred to.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

\/x/%\1\./\.¢ \a\./\J\.4

AN ACT for the relief of Martin Bringley. '

 

Wnsnsas, one Jacob C. Richards became the purchaser at the sale of 

the sixteenth section, in township No. 57, in range No. 5, in the
county of Marion, of the N. W. qr. of the S.‘ E. qr. of said section,
and gave one Martin Bringley as his security for the payment there-
of, and soon after the said purchase the said Richard became'insol- |
vent and removed from the county, in consequence whereof the said
Martin Bringley had to ay the interest, taxes, and purchase money
as such security; there ore,

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the register of lands shall make out in the name of the State
a patent for the said N. W. qr. of the S. E. qr. of section No. 16, town-
ship No. 57, in range No. 5, to the said Martin Bringley, when he shall
produce a voucher showing that he has paid the purchase money and in-
terest. . .

§ 2. Said patent shall be made as other patents, and shall conform to
the laws in respect to school lands, except that it shall be made to the
security; nor shall be required to produce the sheriff’s certificate of sale?

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas B. Love.
Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows;

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant upon the State treasurer in favor of Thomas B. Love,
for the sum of six dollars and thirty cents; and the State treasurer is
hereby authorized and required to pay the same‘ out of any money in
the treasury not otherwise appropriated. ,

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize W. Robinson, :88 trustee, to do certain acts.
Be itenacted by the General .dssembZyof the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Monroe county is hereby empowered to make

542 names.

an order authorizing Walton Robinson, trustee for Mrs. Elizabeth Pool
and her children, tn sell certain shares left to the said Mrs. E. Pool and
children, by one Samuel Pool, late of Monroe county, Missouri.

§ 2. That said trustee, W. Robinson, is hereby authorized to transfer
and convey to one John Thompson, certain real estate purchased (from
the heirs of Joseph Thompson, deceased,) for the benefit of Mrs. E. Pool
and her children, but afterwards sold by said trustee to the said John

Thompson. ,
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of Martha Bunn, of Cass county.
Be it enacted by the General .ds.s-embly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court in and for the county of Cass, in the State of
Missouri, are hereby authorized and required to receive proof of, audit
and allow against theestate of Thomas J. Bunn, (late of said county,)
the amount equitably due said Martha Bunn, for schooling, boarding,
clothing, and for other necessary expenses incurred in supporting and
taking care of the three infant children of said decedent, namely: John,
Mary Hester, and Martha Bunn; and said court shall ascertain the sum
due said Martha Bunn, in relation to each of said infant children, and
enter the same of record; and on the final settlement and distribution of
said estate, each one of said three infant children shall be charged by
said court with the respective sums allowed said Martha Bunn, against

a said estate, by virtueof this act.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

4\./\/\/'\I‘./\.t\/uI‘\/Vv./\/‘\/-I\/ J\/v./\/ u\’  .‘\/JV

AN ACT for the relief of the securities of Benjamin F. Nunnally, late
sheriff of Crawford county.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant in favor of John B. Brinker, Silas B. Brickey, and
_Samuel Blain, for the sum of fifty-seven dollars and seventy-seven cents,
ll’. being the excess above the sum due the State from Benjamin F. Nun»-
nally, late sheriff of Crawford county, and being the amount paid by
said John B. Brinker, Silas B. Brickey, and Samuel Blain, securities of
said Nunnally, as penalties incurred by said Nunnally, in’ failing to pay
Into the State treasury, the full amount due the State from said N unnal- -
1)’, at_the time required by law".

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849. S

n‘i«:-Lu-zr. 543

AN ACT to authorise John C. Scott, of Washington county, to sell
certain property of his children, which he holds as their father and
guardian.

Wnmu.-ms, it is represented to this General Assembly that John C. Scott,
of Washington county, has in his hands a small amount of property
as guardian of his children, derived from their grand-father; and,
whereas, the said John C. Scott is desirous to remove his family to
California, and is unable to do so unless he can legally dispose of
the property in his hands belonging to his children; therefore,

Bic it enacted by the General dssembly qf the State Q/' Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. It shall be lawful for John C. Scott, of the county of Washing-
ton, father and guardian of Sarah J. Scott, Catharine F. Scott, George
W. F. Scott, Amanda F. Scott, Abigail Scott, Artimeasa A. Scott, Susan
M. Scott, and Drusilla Scott, all minors, residing in said county of Wash-
ington, to sell and dispose of all such property which he, the said John
C. Scott, may have received from their grand-father, John Scott, de-
ceased, for them and proper conveyance of the same to make, and to
do and perform all lawful acts in relation thereto.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its pasage..
Approved March 5, 1849. L .

 

AN ACT for the relief of Mathias H. Allison.
Be it enacted by the General vfssembly of the State Q/‘ Missouri, as follows:

\ § 1. That the county court of Dade county is hereby authorized and;
empowered to release Mathias H. Allison, and his securities, from the
payment of one-half of a note, together with its interest, due from the
said Allison to the county of Dade, for the sum of one hundred and one
dollars, for the use and benefit of the town fund of the town of Green-
field, the county seat of said county, which said note was executed to
said county for lot No. six, in block No. 2, in said town.

That act to take effect a-ndbe in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

-./‘u/\/‘

AN ACT for the relief of Robert Black’s heirs.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the order and proceedings of the county court of Perry
county, made at its November term, in the year eighteen hundred and
forty—eight, in regard to refunding certain sums of money in said order
and proceedings mentioned to Francis L.Jones,and the heirs and repre-
sentatives of Robert Black, be and the same are hereby legalized.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

544   n.EL-uh‘.

AN ‘ACT for the relief of Hugh G. Glenn, Sherif of Cass County.
Be itenacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Jllissouri, as follows :

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant on the State treasurer, in favor of Hugh G. Glenn,
sheriff of the county of Van Buren, now Cass, for the sum of fifty dollars,
to be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated,
which shall be in full discharge of all claims which said Hugh G. Glenn
holds against the State, on account of apprehension and removal of Oliver
P. McGee from the county of Van Buren aforesaid to the county of
Macon, Missouri; said McGee having escaped from the coroner of Macon
county about the 16th day of December, 1848, while under a charge of

- rnurd er.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved March '9, 1,849.

_ \/'\/\f\/\f\/‘\4 '\r\z\/\/'\."‘ \ f'\« r\»-x./\."\/\r

-AN ACT for the relief of James S. M. Gray, Collector for the County
a of St. Charles.

Be ttenacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows.

 1. The register of lands is hereby authorized and required to receive
from James S. M. Gray, collector for the county of St. Charles, the
delinquent land list of said county for the year 1848, in the same manner
as though said list had been returned within the time prescribed by law;
provided said list shall be returned on or before the first day of April
mext. -

This act to take effect from its passage.
~ Approved March 9, 1849.

 VV\AI%

AN ACT for the relief of Johnston Burrus, of Ozark County.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Johnston Burrus, of Ozark county, one of the securities of
William Stephenson, collector of the revenue of Ozark county, for the
year one thousand eight hundred and forty-two, be, and he is hereby
released from all liability and security for said Stephenson, and is released
from all further liability on said bond that has or may hereafter accrue.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849. '

H/'\/\/\/'\/‘K/\I\4"\/"\/'\/'\.z"./‘\J’\x" /'\./\. \/\/'

«AN ACT for the relief of the Collector of Putnam County.

Be itenacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of Missouri, asfoltows:

§ 1. That if Christopher Miller, collector of the county of Putnam,
shall pay into the State treasury the full amount of revenue due from him,

nearer. 545‘

on or before the 10th day of March, 1849, the auditor of public accounts
shall not impose any penalties, or exact any forfeiture from him, for
failing to pay in the revenue as required by the general law, but shall
settle with him and allow him the usual commission and mileage.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 8, 1849.

   

\/\

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas P. Clark.
Be it enacted by the General Jssembly cf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and
required to draw his warrant on the treasury for the sum of nine dollars
and eighty cents, in favor of Thomas P. Clark, for services rendered as
a member of a court martial, for the trial of Major James Parson.

This act to be in torce from and after its passage.
Approved March 8, 1849.

   

AN ACT authorizing the City of St. Louis to erect a City Hall.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The city council of the city of St. Louis is hereby authorized to
erect a building suitable for a City Hall, and oHices for the use of the
city government of said city, and for a convenient market house, which
building shall be erected on the square of land belongin to said city,
situate east of Main street, and between Market and Wa¥nut streets.

§ 2. For the pupose of erecting such building, and defraying the cost
thereof, the said city council is hereby authorized to borrow a sum of
money not exceeding seventy-five thousand dollars, and issue the bonds
of the city therefor; and the rents and revenue derived from such building
and market house, after deducting the expenses of collecting the same,
shall be set apart, and exclusively‘ appropriated for the payment of the
interest and principal of the money borrowed tor the purposes aforesaid.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 5, 1849.

-./\./\J\/\r\. \4\.4\./\/\.\/\.4\./\/\J\a‘

AN ACT to authorize Ralph Smith to sell the Real Estate of Robert
M. Easton, deceased.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Mz'ssouri, as follows:

§ 1. Ralph Smith, administrator of the, estate of Robert M. Easton,
late of the county of Lewis, deceased, is hereby authorized to sell the
real estate of the said decedent, lying in the counties of Lewis and

Marion, under the direction, and subject to the approval of the county
38

546 BELIEF.

court of Lewis county, at public or private sale, by giving four weeks
notice of the time, place, and terms of said sale, in some newspaper in
the county, if there be one.

§ 2. The said administrator shall cause said real estate to be appraised
by three disinterested householders in each county; nor shall any such
real estate be sold unless it brings at least three—fourths of its appraised
value. .

§ 3. The said administrator shall, upon the payment of the purchase
money, make, or cause to be made to said purchaser a deed, conveying
all the right, title, interest, and claim the said Robert M. Easton had in
and to the said real estate, and all others claiming by, through, or under
him, whether adult or minor heirs.

§j4. Said administrator shall make a report of his proceedings under
this act to the county court of Lewis county, and if the same be approved
by said court, an order shall be made by said court accordingly; if said
proceedings be not approved, the same shall be null and void.

§ 5. All the proceeds arising from the sales of such real estate shall
be considered as assets in the hands of said administrator (for which he
shall be held responsible on his official bond), and shall be distribute d
as other assets.

§ 6. The secretary of State, upon the passage of this act, shall make
out a copy of the same, and transmit it to the said administrator.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

- ! o-.,-'»¢~' . u .I.,‘..a‘ ‘0"\.'s.."./'

AN ACT concerning Costs.
Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the clerk of the Cedar circuit court he, and he is hereby
authorized to make out a fee bill in the case of the State of Missouri vs.
Absalom Baker and Loretta Baker (for a felonious assault) and that the
judge and circuit attorney for said court he, and they are hereby
authorized to examine, correct, and certify the same, as if no fee bill
had ever been made out in said case. ‘

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

-a;;.rv.¢4. .s.-o VA» ~’sA1.r.-.»-.r- ax ~;\.~- ~,,-zuu-~~~1~.x4«.»\p-~,-A.p.-A»

AN ACT to authorize Hannah Cundiff to enter certain Lands.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the register and receiver of the land otlice at Savannah are
authorized and required to permit Hannah Cundiif to enter (after paying
the full amount according to law), in her own name, the south-east
quarter of section number three, township number fifty-seven, of range
number thirty-five; and the north-east quarter of section number thirty-
five, in township number fifty-eight, of range-number thirty-live; and
that they issue a certificate and recept therefor, in her name, after the

. nmrnr. 547

entry thereof; provided, however, that such entry shall not interfere with
the right of any other individual to said land; and that said Hannah
Cundilf shall have all the beneht. of the pre-emption laws granted to
settlers on State land. _
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849. =

 

AN ACT to authorize the County Court of Cape Girardeau County
to order the sale of certain Real Etate belonging to the estate
of David Lang, deceased.

§ 1. County court may order sale of certain § 2. Sale, how conducted.
real estate. 3. Petition and affidavit required.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State Q/' Missouri, as/‘allows-'

§1. That the county court of Cape Girardeau county -is hereby
authorized and empowered to order the sale of certain real estate
belongin to the estate of Dr. David Lang, deceased; situated in the
town of %Vittenburg, in Perry county, to wit: all that house lot in said
town of Wittenburg, bounded and described as follows, to wit: lot No.
49 (forty-nine), fronting Water street, forty feet, and running back one
hundred feet, between lots N o. 48 and N o. 50, and fronting First street,

T forty feet, as will appear by referring to the plat of said town of Witten-

burg, rec nrded at e recorder’s otiice at Perryville; also, all that house
lot in said town of Wittenburg, bounded and described as follows, to wit:
lot N o. *4_4, tronting First street, forty feet, and running back ninety-nine
feet, between lots No. 45 and No. 43, and fronting Second street, forty
feet, as more fully will appear by referrincr to the said lat of the said
town of Wittenburg, recorded at the recorder’s office at erryville.

§ 2. The sale of said property shall be conducted in the manner pre-
scribed by law for the sale of real estate, for the payment of debts, ac-
cording to an act entitled “ an act respecting executors and administra-
tors,” approved March 26, 1845; provided, the county court is satisfied
that it would be beneficial to those entitled to the same, that the same
be sold.

§ 3. The sale of the property referred to shall be ordered upon the
petition of the administratix of said estate, verified by her atlidavit, setting
forth such facts as in the opinion of said court will warrant the sale

of the land aforesaid.
Approved February 5, 1849.

0\/\l\/\./N/‘/\’/\/4‘./‘ “f\‘/‘-.5 ’\/\’\/\E."-

   

'\.

AN ACT supplementary to an act entitled “An act to authorize the
county court of Cape Girardeau to order the sale of lands belonging
to the estate of David Lang, deceased,” approved February 5, 1849.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly Q/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Nothing in the act to which this is suplementary, shall be so
construed as to prevent the executrixeof Dav’ Lang, deceased, from

548 nurnr.

selling and disposing of the real estate“ mentioned in said aet;' and the
executrix of said estate shall have the same power to sell and dispose of
the same, and be governed by the provisions of said act, in the same
manner as the administratrix. .

§ 2. The act to which this is supplementary shall take effect from and
after the passage of this act.

This act to ‘take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

1‘./‘ '.'i.’\/K/x’ ~/5/‘J-I»’\f.r .‘./-’s/'W'\.A!./\

 

AN ACT to legalize the record of the marriage of John B. Gibson and
Jane Jones.

lie it enacted by the General Hssenzbly oft/ie Slate of Iltlissouri, as follows:

§ 1. The record of the certificate of marriage of John B. Gibson and
Jane Jones, made by the recorder of the county of Daviess, is hereby
made as legal and valid in- all respects as if said certilicate had been
recorded in Clinton county, in which said marriage was had.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved January 16, 1849.

''\/'\/'~./"\/‘‘\.«' \/‘\./N/~ /*.."‘./\./'~/‘

AN ACT to authorize the removal of the administration of the estate
of Edmond Lewis, late of Saline County, deceased, to the County
of Chariton,

§ 1. Removal of administration. 3 3. Jurisdiction of county court of Chariton.
2. Duties ofclerks. :

Be it enacted by the Generai Jfsscmbly qflhc Slaie Qf Jllissouri, as fir!/ozts:

§ 1. That the administration of the estate of Edmond Lewis, late of
Saline county, deceased, be removed from the county of Saline to the
county of Chariton. ,,

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the county court of Saline
county, on demand of the administrator of said estate, to transmit to the
clerk of the county court of Chariton county, a copy of the record of all
proceeding in said administration together with all the original papers
on tile in his office, relative to the a ministration of said estate, and it
shall be the duty of the clerk of the county court of Chariton county to
file the same in his oflice, and to record all papers relative to said
administration required by law to be recorded as though letters of
administration had been originally taken out in his oflice.

§ 3. That upon the filing of the papers in the otlice of the clerl: of the
county court of Chariton county, as is provided in this act; the county
court of said Chariton‘ county shall be as fully possessed of jurisdiction
in all matters relative to the administration of said estate, as though
administration had been originally granted in said Chariton county.

This act shall be in force from and after .its passage.

Approved January 27, I849.

nrzmrr. '   549

AN ACT to legalize the act of the county court of New Madrid county,
appointin Richard Barkley (clerk of said court) guardian of the
estate of is daughter, Margaret Barkley.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issnmbly of the State of Mz'ssour¢', asfullows:

§ 1. That the act of the county court of the county of New Madrid,
appointing Richard Barkley (the present clerk of said court) guardian
of the estate of his daughter, Margaret Barkley, shall be considered as

legal and valid, in law, to all intents and purposes, as though the said.

Richard Barkley were not the clerk of the said county court of the
county of New Madrid.
This act to take eEect from its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

 

,AN ACT to legalize the marriage of John R. Clinkinbeard.
Be it enacted by the General.’1ssenzbl3,- of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the bonds of matrimony heretofore contracted between John
R. Clinkinbeard and Diana Remer, in the county of Wright and State
of Missouri, be and the same is hereby legalized, to all intents and pur-
oses, and the children of the said marriage are hereby made legitimate
eirs of the parties. . I -
This act to take e&'ect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Buchanan county to issue a
warrant.

Be it enacted by the General Hssemblg of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Buchanan are hereby authorized and re-
quired to draw a warrant on the trsasurer of said county for one hun-
dred and twenty dollars, in favor of Henry S. Creel, John Patee and
Israel Landis, payable out of any moneys in his hands, or which may
come in his hands, belonging to the school fund of school township No.
eight in the county of Buchanan.

This act to take effect from nnd after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

."./‘ "f\l\/\I\/V

 

“Ix/vx,-.,\,~

AN ACT to authorize a settlement with Jesse ‘G. Lindell, Paymaster.

Be it enacted b y the General ./Issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. William Millburn is hereby appointed to make a settlement with
Jesse G. Lindell, the former paymaster of the first regiment of the second
division ofMissouri militia, with full power to adjust and close the accounts
of said paymaster, and to strike whatever balance may be due from him,

550 nectar.

and to collect, receive and recover from said Lindell w'hatever sum may
be in his hands or for which he may be liable as such paymaster,
and especially to collect, receive and recover a balance that was
found to be due from said Lindell as such paymaster, according to an
account rendered by him in the year eighteen hundred and twenty-six,
and which was marked “settled and approved” by Col.rR. P. Farris and
Lieutentant Col. James Loper; and said Millburn shall have full ower
and authority ‘to make a final settlement of said business with sai Lin-
dell, and to give him a receipt, which shall be a‘ full and’ complete ac-

‘quittance and discharge; and said Millburn shall have power to do such

other acts as may be nebessary and proper in order to carry this act into
effect.

§ 2. The money that may be received by said Millburn under this act,
shall constitute a military fund for the use of volunteer companies of the
city of St. Louis, and shall be by him applied and paid over to the pay-
masters or treasurers of said companies, for the purpose of defrayin
the necessary and proper expenses which said companies may incur, an
he shall take a receipt for the money thus paid by him.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved February 17, 1849.

 

3/ \l\/\l\/\l\I\/\f\J\/‘J J\/\/ '~/\/N/\"‘~/‘\

AN ACT to legalize an order of the county court of Camden county.
Be it enacted by the Camera! sqssemblg, qf the Slate of Missouri, asfollou-is:

§ 1. The order of the county court of Camden county, made at the
December term, on the 18th day of the month, 1846, in relation to bor-
rowing money for the purpose of paying for the building of a court house
in said county, is hereby declared to be legal and binding on said county,
to the same extent and as fully as if the same had been made in pursu-
ance of an act of the General Assembly, except so much as applies to
the payment of the interest, which shall be at the rate of six per cent.,
instead of ten, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

/\/'\f\r\/\/‘x/'\I ./ \x'\ "'\f\ "‘\(\’-\/‘\/.\/‘\r-X"\/‘V

AN ACT to authorize Jesse Wilcox to sell the real and personal
estate of William M. Ellis, deceased.

Br it enacted by the. General Assembly of the State of .Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Jesse Wilcox, administrator of William M. Ellis, deceased,
of Madison county, is hereby authorized to sell all the real and personal
estate belonging to said deceased, either at public or private sale, at

sugh time and on such terms as the county court of Madison county may
or er.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

map. 551

AN ACT for the benefit of Bennett C. Clark.

Be 2? enacted by the General .dssen§bly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized to draw
his warrant on the treasury of this State, in favor of Bennett C. Clark,
for the sum of five dollars and twelve cents, for making‘ out abstract of
deeds recorded in the otiice of Cooper circuit court, during the year
1846.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

‘/\./€\./\/\/\/\./\/\.’

 

AN ACT for the relief of Isaac Matlock.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and
re nested to draw his warrant on the Treasurer, in favor of Isaac Mat-
loc , for the sum of twelve dollars, for ervices rendered in removing
the Indians from within the borders of this State, under the command of
Col. Charles S. Yancy, to be paid out of any money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated.

This act to take effecthand be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

AN ACT for the relief of Eli Carter, former clerk of the circuit court
of Warren county.

Wnsanas, it appears that in a prosecution originating in Warren county,.
against Sarah, (a woman of color) indicted for murder, in the year
eighteen hundred and forty-six, the costs of said prosecution were
adjudged against the State; and whereas, the sum of forty-one dol-
lars and seventy-five cents (being the amount to which the jailer of
said county was entitled) was unintentionally omitted in the ori i-
nal bill of costs, and was never certified to the Auditor of Pubic
Accounts; and whereas, the said sum of forty-one dollars and
seventy-five cents was paid to the said jailer by the said Eli Carter;
therefore,

Be itenacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. The Auditor of Public Accounts be and he is hereby authorized
and required to draw his warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of
Eli Carter, for the sum of forty- one dollars and seventy-five cents, to be
paid out of any money appropriated to pay costs in criminal cases.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849.

552 namnr.

—

AN ACT for the relief of . Ross Wilkerson and Noah Curtis.
Be it emitted by the General ./issemblg of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Buchanan county are empowered, and it is
hereby made their duty, to ascertain what amount of money Ross Wi]-
kerson and Noah Curtis would have been entitled to, upon relinquishing
lot No. 2, in block No. 18, in the old seat of justice of said county, if
the original purchaser had paid the full amount of his bid for said lot,
and to draw a warrant on the treasurer of said county, in favor of said
Ross Wilkerson and Noah Curtis, for the amount-—deducting the amount
heretofore allowed on said lot, and including six per cent. interest up to
the time of drawing the warrant, as was done in the case of other lot-
holders in said seat of justice. ,

§ 2. Said warrant shall be drawn upon and made payable out of any
moneys in the county treasury appropriated for county expenditures.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.‘

 

AN ACT to enable William N. Shotten to act as administrator of the
estate of Robert G. Fresh, deceased, late of Knox county.

Wnanms, William N. Shotten ltal taken out letters and been the legal

administrator of Robert G. Fresh, deceased, late of Knox county. for

. the period of about two years or more; and whereas, the said William

N. Shotten has. been recently appointed a justice of the county court

of Knox county by the executive of the State; and whereas, it is the

opinion of those interested in the said estate that it will be to the ad-

vantage of said estate that the said ‘William N. Shotten continue as

administrator until said estate be fully administered according to law;
therefore,

Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State Qflllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That William N. Shotten, administrator of the estate of Robert G.
Fresh. deceasv d, late of Knox county, be..anl he is hereby authorized to
continue as administrator of said estate, with the same powers. and subject
to the same laws that govern other administrators, as far as practicable, and
a’lmiuister the said estate as-legally and etfectually as though he was not a
justice of the county court of Knox county, any law to the contrary not-
withstanding.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of the heirs of James Lucas, deceased, late of
Carroll county, Missouri.

Be it enacted by the General .«9ssemb’g/ of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ I. That B. D. Lucas, administrator of the estate of James Lucas, de-
ceased. late of the county of Carroll, in this State, is hereby authorized to

Sell the lands helonging to said estate, in the county aforesaid, under the
dll'(:Cl!On of the county court of said county.

Renter. 553

' § ‘2. The county court of the county of Carroll, is hereby authorized and
required to make an or..'er for the sale of the lands aforesaid, and prescribe
the mode of appraising and selling the same, having due regard to the
rights and interest of the minor heirs of said estate. _

§ 3. The lands aforesaid shall not be sold for less than three-fourths of the
amount at which the same shall be appraised.

§ 4. Upon payment being made in full for the said lands, the administra-
tor, B. D. Lucas, is hereby authorized and empowered to make a deed to
the purchaser conveving all the right and title of the heirs of said estate in
and to the lands sold as aforesaid.

§ 5. The administrator aforesaid shall make a report of his proceedings to
the county court, and if the court approve of the appraisemcnt and sale of
the lands aforesaid. the court shall make an order accordingly; but if such
proceedings be not approved by the court aforesaid, the same shall be null
and void.

This act to take ellfect and be in force from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to legalize the acts of Pleasant M. Cox, Avery B. Howard and
Gabriel P. Nash, in erecting a Mill-dam across Sac river.

Be it enacted by the Generrl ./fssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The acts of Pleasant M. Cox, Avery B Howard and Gabriel 1’.
Nash, in erecting a mill-dam across Sac river, in section number twelve in
township number thirty-six, and range number twenty-six west. in St. Clair
county, is hereby legalized; and the said Cox, Howard and Nash, and their
legal representatives, are hereby authorized to keep and maintain said dam
across said river for the purpose of propelling mills and machinery. They
are required by the first of January, eirrhteen hundred and fifty. to construct
a slope to said dam thirty feet wide, and four feet below said dam, for every

foot the dam is high. ,
§ 2. If the land of any individual should be overllowed by the back-water,

in consequence of said dam, he or she may apply to the circuit court, and
obtain a writ of ad quad damnum to summons a jury to assess the dama-
ges by him or her sustained in consequence of such claim, and the proceed-
ing shall be had under the direction of the circuit court; and if any damages
be assessed, judgment may be rendered against said Cox, Howard and Nash
for the amount thereof. ‘
This act to take effect from and after the passage thereof.

Approved March ‘.3, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the relief of James Ball.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly o/‘the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts he required to draw his warran1_
on the treasurer for the sum of sixtv-one dollars and fifty cents, in favor of
James Ball, and that the treasurer be required to pay the same out of any
money in the. treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 3, I849.

554 BELIEF.

AN ACT to legalizelthe acts of James M. Edgar, as dtputy clerk of the
county court of Cooper county. ~

VVHERI-IAS, James M. Edgar was temporarily appointed deputy clerk of the
county court of Cooper county at the February term of said county
court. in the year 1847,10 discharge the duties of said office during
the indisposition of B. Emmons Ferry, the clerk of said court; and said
Edgar being inelligihle to perform the functions of said otiice at the time,
in consequence of his being an acting justice of the peacetin the said
county of Cooper; therefore,

Be itenacted by the General .9ssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows;

§ I. That all the acts and proceedings ofsaid James M. Edgar. as deputy .

clerk of said Cooper county court, done and performed during said February
term of said court, in 1847, whether in or out of court, by virtue of said
appointment. be, and the same are hereby declared to be as legal and bind-
ing to rll intents and purposes as if the same had been performed by the
principal clerk cf said court.

This act to takeeiiect from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, I849.

.a"‘/\/\/\/-/

 

‘./9'--".0 1‘-

AN ACT for the relief of the widow and heirs of Walker G. Meri-
wether, deceased.

§ 1. Appointing commissioners to assign dower 4. Colmrptissioners to make report; duty of
&.c. ‘ c er .
2. Duties of commissioners. 5. Further duties of commissioners.
3. Surveyor to be appointed; his duties. 6. Effect of judgment of the court.
, 7. Proceedings to be recorded.

WHEREAS, It is represented to the General Assembly that Walker G.
Meriwether, deceased, late of the county of Pike, died intestate,
seized and possessed of certain real estate lying in the counties of
Pike and Lincoln, and that his widow and heirs, two of whom are
minors, desire to have an assignment of dower and partition of the
said real estate and that the same cannot be done by any law now in
force, without great prejudice to the rights of said heirs. There-
fore,

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That James Clark and James Ried of the county of Lincoln and
Thomas R. Vaughan of the county of Pike or any two of them be and
they are hereby appointed to assign, set a part and admeasure to Jane
W. Meriwether, widow of said Walker G. Meriwether, one-third part of
all the real estate in said counties, claimed to be owned by said heirs
either by right of inheritance from the deceased parent or by purchase
with the funds of his estate, since his death, for and during her natural
life, to include the mansion house of her deceased husband. If the said
widow should be willing to take as her dower the said mansion house
and farm thereto attached known as “Aberdeen” the commissioners
shall take a deed of relinquishment of her interest in the residue of said

réeal estate and shall assign her dower altogether in said farm of “Aber-
teen.

RELIEF. 555

§ 2. The commissioners after admeasuring and assigning the dower of
the said widow shall proceed to view and examine the lands included in
the first section, remaining after said assignment, and shall divide them
into four equal parts, taking into consideration the quantity, quality and
value of said lands and shall allot and set apart to George D. Meri-
wether, to Elizabeth Mary Wilson (wife of George Wilson), to Franklin
M. Meriwether and to alice O. Meriwether, each, one equal fourth part
of said real estate.
§ 3. The commissioners shall take to their assistance a competent sur-
veyor (who may be one of their own number) who shall execute such
surveys and make such plats and diagrams as they shall direct. Before
proceeding to the discharge of their duties, under this act, the commis-
sioners and the surveyor (if he be not a county surveyor of Pike or
Lincoln counties) shall take and subscribe an oath before a (justice of
the peace in one of said counties, faithfully and impartially to ischarge
the duties prescribed by this act accordin to the best of their abilities
which shall be certified by the officer an filed with the report of the
commissioners as hereinafter directed.
§ 4. Within twenty days after said allotment and partition has been
completed, the commissioners shall file a report of their proceedings
together with a correct lat and field notes of each share, as well as of
the tract assigned to said) widow in the ofiice of the clerk of the Lincoln
or Pike circuit court, which report shall be docketed by the clerk of
said court as a cause of the next ensuing term. Said report shall be
acknowledged before some oflicer of either county authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds and said commissioners shall give notice to
the parties in interest or to the guardian of the two minors within ten
days after said report is filed, where the same is filed.
§5. The commissioners are hereby authorized in order to make an-
equal partition of said real estate, to order that either party shall ay to
the others a sum of money not to exceed the sum of two thousan dol-
lars, which if approved by the court shall be a lien in favor of the party
to whom the same shall be awarded upon the share or shares of those
against whom the said sum of money shall be adjudged. -
§ 6. After the filing of the report the court shall proceed to act upon
said report in the same manner, objections may be made, other commis-
sioners appointed, and like proceedings in all respects had and the judg-
ment of the court shall have the same effect as if the partition had been
made on petition to the circuit court in pursuance of the act entitled
“An act to provide for the partition of land and personal property.”
§ 7. In reasonable time after the confirmation of the report by the cir-
cuit court, the recorder of the county in which said confirmation is had,
shall record the same in the records of deeds and shall also forward to
the recorder of the county of Lincoln or Pike, as the case may be, a
certified copy of the report and proceedings thereon, which shall also be
by him recorded in like manner. '
This act to take efect from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

\/\/\l‘\J\/\r \/\/\a\./\.« \'d\t\./\J\/\/x/\/\.a'\/\/\./\-\.«’\/s

556 auras.

AN ACT to authorize the sale of real estate in the county of Carroll.

§ 1. C. Winfree may sell real estate; conditionsg 3. County courtto order sale; conditions, &.c.
2. Bond to be given. ’

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State qf .Missouri, as follows:

 1. Charles Winfree is hereby authorized to petition the county court
of Carroll county for the sale of the following real estate belonging to
the estate of William Hall, deceased, to wit: the whole of lots three and
six, and the one-third part of lot two in block seven in the town of
Dewit in the county of Carroll in the State of Missouri.

§ 2. That upon such petition being filed, the said court shall require
and take of the said Charles Winfree a bond to the State, in a sum sufli-
cient to secure the estate, conditipned fortthe faithful discharge of his
duties under this act. -

§ 3. The court shall thereupon order the sale and conveyance by said
Charles .Winfree of the real estate named in the first section of this act
in the manner and upon the terms and conditions in all respects, as is
now required by law in the cases of sale of land by administrators for
the payment of the debts of deceased persons.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved February 14, 1849. i

I

rvvsz A/\A/V ~.*./‘/\/‘/‘JVVV

 

'£f\I‘u/f/\/\ ‘N/N/*1‘!

AN ACT to authorize the sale of certain real estate, and for other
i -purposes.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That Mrs. Isabella Holt, widow of the Hon. David Rice Holt,
deceased and guardian of the children of the said deceased, is hereby
authorized and empowered to sell and legally convey a certain tract or
parcel of land, situate in township fifty-thrree, of range thirty-five, in the
county of Platte and State of Missouri, containing one hundred and
sixty acres; which land was entered at the land otlice in Plattsburg, in
the name of the heirs of the said David Rice Holt, deceased.

§» 2. That the proceeds of the sale of said land, shall be applied to the
purchase of other land by the said Isabella Holt, in the name and for the
benefit of the said heirs. '

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

J‘ /\/\/K/‘/‘/\J'\/‘4"J‘J‘ /‘IN; '~

 

IN/k/‘

AN ACT to authorize the/‘sale of the real estate belonging to the leirs
of William Long, deceased.

Wnaanas, William Long, late of the county of St. Louis, deceased, did
by will duly executed and recorded, give and bequeath unto his
wife Polly M. Long, all of his property for and during her natural
life, with power to sell the whole or any portion thereof; and at her
death to be divided equally between her surviving children, should
they be able to agree upon the division of the same, and whereas the
said Polly M. Long having died, leaving the following named chil-

KELIEI‘. 557

«Iron, Nicholas J. T., Sarah A. E. and Mary M. Long and William
and McCullough, and William Long, her grandchildren, who are
minors. Therefore,

Br. it enacted by the General Assembly of the State ef .Mt'ssouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. '1‘ hat the probate court within and for the county of Saint Louis,
shall be and is hereby authorized to nominate and a point guardians for
such of the minor children and heirs of the said \ illiam, as have no
guardians and said guardians shall have power to act in connection with
the heirs of the said William Long who are of age; to sell and convey
all and singular the said property real and persona], of the said estate at
private sale or at public auction, as the said guardians, now acting or
those appointed as aforesaid may think lit and proper by and with the
consent and agreement of the said heirs. Such guardians shall report
every such sale made by him to the dprobate court of said county for ap-
proval or rejection and if approve by said court, such sale shall be
valid to convey to the urchaser, all the right, title and interest of such
minors, if rejected saici) guardian or guardians may roceed to sell again
and in like manner report to said court until such sa e shall be approved.

§ 2. The proceeds of all such sales shall be a propriated, managed and
controlled by said guardian or guardians for t e benefit of said minor,
heirs as other money under the superintending control of the said probate
court.

This act to take efect from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1899.

. \/'\"\/\"\’ ~-./'\“\"\"\’\’\’\'\/\f\“\’\/\/{\/"\A

 

AN ACT empowering William M. Sims of Boone county, co-executor
of Elias Sims, deceased, to make a deed.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly Qf the State of Zllisssztri, u.~‘_folIuws:

§ 1. William M. Sims of Boon county in this State, co-executor of the
last will and testament of Elias Sims, late of said county, deceased, is
hereb authorized and empowered to execute and deliver to Jacob J.
Moseiey of said county, a deed conveying to him all the right, title and
interest, possessed by the said Elias Sims at the time of his death, in and
to the west half of the south-west quarter, of section four, township
forty-seven, range eleven; also the north-west fractional quarter of the
same section, township and range, containing two hundred and six acres,
more or less situated in Boone county; reciting in said deed the adver-
tisement of sale and the consideration paid; and such deed, thus execu-
ted and delivered, shall be legal to all intents and purposes, conveying
to Jacob J. Moseley the right to the land aforesaid.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved January 24, 1849.

s«\ \-\-\.‘~.a\—\»»‘-4‘- ., - *..1‘~.‘..-‘- ~..\1\4\-‘-\/“./xJ\/

AN ACT ‘tor the relief of William c. Young.
Ba itcnmstccl by the General Assembly qf the State of Missouri, as jbllowr:
§' 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and re-

558 n.I:Lu:r,..

quired to draw his warrant on the State treasurer in favor of — William
C. Young for the sum of one hundred and fourteen dollars to be paid
out of any monoy in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

,-\,/\_/\/\/\./\r‘-/’ 2‘-.4"a' _é“ /*./~.,»._ '\.

AN ACT for the relief of Edward C. Cunningham.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly Qf ' the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

1. The register of lands is authorized and required to receive from
E ward C. Cunningham, late collector of St. Charles county, the delin-
quent list of lands and town lots of said county for the year eighteen
hundred and forty seven; as the same has been examined, corrected and
approved by the county court of said county, and certified by the clerk
of said court, and to file said list in his office, and to certily the amount
of State tax appearing due on the same, to the auditor of public ac-
counts, in the same manner as if said delinquent list had been presented
within the time limited by law. And the auditor of public accounts
shall give credit to said Cunningham for the amount of said delinquent
land list, and allow the usual lawful commissions in the settlement of his
accounts, and draw his warrant accordingly.

This act shall take efect from its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

NF .Ab£A&&/lb/‘ W

AN ACT for the benefit of the children of Robert Smith, deceased, of
Putnam county.

Be it enacted by the General .£ssemb/_y of the State of Missnatri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Putnam county is authorized and required, on
a settlement of the accounts of Permelia Smith, administratrix of the estate
of Robert Smith, deceased, late of said county, to credit said administratrix
with the nrrmuut of the money belonging to said estate. which has been ap-
plied by said aalmiuistratrix to the purchase of land in the name and for the
benclit of the children of said Robert Smith; and the acts of said adminis-
tratrix in thus applying the money of said estate are hereby legalized.
' §2. The county court of Putnam county is hereby authorized to order
and permit the said administratrix. or any succeeding administrator of said
estate, to sell the lands of said Robert Smith. deceased, lying in Chariton
county, in this State, upon such terms as should seem most to the interest of
said estate, and to apply the proceeds of such sale to the purchase of lands

' situated in Putnam county, In the name and for the use of said children of

said R-vbert Smith, deceased. .
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
/tpprovrd January 2-1, l8l‘.l.

lusninr. 559

AN AC1‘ for the relief of Abraham Dillon, Young L. Hughes, Frederick
Arrant, Isaac N. Jones, administrator of the estate of Stephen W.
Kibby, deceased, and John Corby and Elizabeth Kibby, executors of
Charles Kibby, deceased.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollozvs;

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts be, and he is hereby authorized
and required to draw his warrant on the treasurer of this State, in favor of
Abraham Dillon, for the sum of twelve dollars and thirty-three and one-third
cents; and also, a warrant.'in favor of Young L. Hughes, for the sum of
eleven dollars and ten and two-third cents; and aiso, a warrant, in favor of
Isaac N. Jones, administrator of the estate of Stephen W. Kihby, deceased,
for the sum of eight dollars and thirty three and one-third cents; and also,
a warrant in favor of John Corby and Elizabeth Kihby,executors ofCharles
Kibby, deceased, for the sum of seven dollars and fifty cents; and a warrant
in favor of Frederick Arrant, for the sum of thirteen dollars and thirty-three
and one-third cents, and the treasurer of this State is hereby authorized and
required to pay the same out of any money in the trea-=ur_v not otherwise
appropriated.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after it: pas.-‘age.

Approved February 19, 1849.

'\x"./\.,z"-./‘x r‘.x~ /*./~./~ /‘./\J\1\.r\/\/\/‘\./\.,v\./\_/

AN ACT for the relief of J. C. Burch and  B. Starke.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly Q/‘the Stats qf Missouri, as follows.-

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required to
draw his warrant on the State treasurer. for the sum of one hundred and
eighty-eight dollars, in favor of John C. Burch; and also, for one hundred
and fifty-four dollars, in favor of W. B. Starke, for services rendered as mili-
tary secretaries. to be paid out of the military fund.

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 24, 1819.

 

‘-r~.AA.\/~-\/~.‘n\r~/v-. av‘; -~.\4v\/‘.*«'~.r.o\.-\/v-.a\/\/-

AN ACT for the relief of Josiah Riggs.

Wnannas, It appears to this General Assembly that underthe law regulating
costs in criminal cases, the sum of one hundred and ninety-two dollars
was allowed by the circuit court of Perry county to Josiah Rigsrs for his
fees as a witness on the part of the State, in the case of the State of
Missouri against George Overby, being the amount of his mileage for
attendance: during two terms of the court, from his place of residence
in the State of Virginia. which sum of one hundred and ninety-two
dollars was rejected by the auditor of public accounts, and has not been

paid to said witness as appears from the fee bill on file in the auditor’s
oliicc; therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ./§ssrmbl_y of the State of .’l[isso-cri, as follows:

51. The auditor of public accounts is authorized and required to draw
his warrant on the State treasurer for the sum of one hundred and tour
dollars in favor of the clerk of the circuit court of Perry county, for the

560 RELIEF.

mileage of said Josiah Riggs as a witness in the case of the State of Missouri
against George Overby, to be paid out of any money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated.
This act to take etfect from its passage.
Approved February 19, 1849.

\./\/V \/\r\I\f‘u'V\-/\l\/s/\/'\r'v\'\I\/\/\r-Ief»/w\/\ J\/V «NI-/.r~/v

AN ACT for the relief of Brigadier Genera‘. A. W. Jeiiiries.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembl_t/ cf the State ‘of Missouri, as follows:

§l. That the auditor of public accounts he, and he is hereby authorized
to draw his warrant on the [State] treasurer, in. favor of General A. W.
Jelfties. for the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars for his services rendered
and expenses incurred in raising two companies of infantry. one in Gaseo-
nade cotmty, and the other in Franklin county, and one company of mounted
rifle-men for the Mexican war, under orders received by him from the com-
mander-in-chief of this.State,.

Thisact to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1349.

 

r~/\¢- -.—-.»'\"\ "v\/\-xr-\'s "\I‘\'\"\’\ ‘\'\*v‘J\«"-4"» "f x’‘»

AN ACT for the relief of Lewis Keedy, of Pulaski county.

WllBREAS, By an act of the General Assembly of this State, approved Jan-
uary 22nd, 1847, the securities of Robert Wood, who was collector of
the revenue for the county of Pulaski, for the year 1840, ‘wy_ paying
into the State treasury the balance due the State from the county of
Pulaski, for the year l840, with intetest thereon at eight per centom
per annum, were to he discliarged from certain penalties as stated in
said act; and whereas, Lewis Keedy, of said county, paid up said
balance with eight per centum per annum, and, as he allctges, compound
interest in addition, which the provisions of said act did not require;
now, therefore, in consideration of the premises,

Be it enacted by the General Assembly If the State of Missouri, as jollozrs:

§ I. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and re-
quired to ascertain the actual amount that the said Robert. Wood was in-
debted as such collector, after deducting his commissions and mileage, and
without adding any penalties or forlettttres; and to the amount ot such
indebtedness, said auditor shall add interest at the rate of eight per centum
per annum up to the time said amount was paid by the said Lewis Kcedy,
and sh all in no case: compound the interest; and it’ said auditor, after ascer-
taining the amount due by said VVOod. computed as herein slat: d, shall find
that the said Lewis Kecdy lms overpaid such amount, the attditor of public
accounts is ht-rehy required to draw his warrant on the State treastiter for
the nverplus in favor of said Keedy, and the State tre:tsut't.-r shall pay said
V~':tt‘t'attl out oi’ any money in the State lt‘t.'tlsUl_V, not 0illBl’Wl~L? ."tt)ptOpl’i&t-
lml.

'I‘hi_.- act shall take effect from its pass-ag--.

Approved January 27, lS1:).

names. 561

AN ‘ACT for the benetit of John Carter’s heirs.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stale of Missouri, as follows:

{} 1.‘ It shall be lawful for the county court of Holt county, Missouri, to
order the administrator of the estate of John Carter, deceased, to sell any
portion of the real estate belonging to said Carter’s estate, at public auction
to the highest bidder, at such time and upon such terms as the court may
think will best suit the interest of the heirs.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

/-/\f\/\f\/\f\f\/\f\

 

\f\./"/‘\ “-/\.I

AN ACT for the relief of Hardy Holman and his securities.

Wrmnms, It appears that a distress warrant has been issued ‘by the auditor
of public accounts against Hardy Holman. former sherilf and collector
of Ray county, and his securities, for a balance of the revenue due for
the year -1846; therefore, '

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ I. That if said Hardy Holman, or his securities, shall, on or before the
tirst day of March next. pay into the State treasury the amount of said
warrant, the auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required to

have said warrant returned and to settle with said Holman and securities, l

and make the same allowances. and release said Holman and securities from

all penalties, in the same manner in all respects as if said payment had been

made at the time required by law. '
This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved January 29, 1849.

WJN/\f|/v\/‘J\

AN ACT for the relief of Isaac Fleetwood, collector of the 000017 Of

Ozark, in the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven.

Be it enacted by the General ./Rssembly ofthe Slate qfdlzlssouri, asfollows__.

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required to
settle with the said Isaac Fleetwood, late collector as aforesaid, and allow
him his commission and mileage, and to malte his settlement, in all respects,
and in the same manner as if the revenue from the said county had been

paid in according to law, for the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven.

’ This act to take ellect from its passage.
Approved January 26, I849.

-3/v\,-g/vvvv‘qvv‘\1 .r./vvv uv\A/-zx/vvvvvvs/Vvvvux.

AN ACT forthe relief of Andrew H. Skidmore, administrator.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ I. That the acts of Andrew H. Slsidmore, administrator of the” estate
of Bailey Hudson, deceased, in the sale and conveyance of the north-west
quarter of section twenty-three in township fifty-mne,ot range tl‘ur‘ry, shall
be as effectual to pass the title to the same, to the purchaser, as if the‘ said

39 .

562 ' nzarnr.

administrator had included the said land in his original inventory of the
said estate. a
This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved January 16, I849. '

'-f\4‘//\/\/x/./ /\.‘g/.."s/ 4* - 1.’./,"./‘.A.a' ‘ ' -«-.'.".r'!\/./\/.r\/\'-..~.r~.~I‘-"‘-

AN ACT for the benefit of the heirs of Lee M. Dade, late of Montgom-r
ery county, Missouri.

Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State of .Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the county court for Mont omery county is hereby author-
ized and empowered to order the sale 0 the estate of Lee M. Dade, de-
ceased, both real and personal, at either public or private sale, as said
court may deem best for the interest of the heirs, and upon such terms

as the said court may prescribe. _
§ 2. After full and tinale settlement of the estate of the said Lee M.

Dade, by his administrator, it shall be the duty of the said county court’
for Montgomery county to order the balance of the money in the hands of
the administrator to be transferred and paid over to such guardian or guar-
dians as have been or may be appointed for the infant heirs of Lee M. Dade,.
by the orphan’s court for Montgomery county, and State of Maryland,.
upon the production of legal proof of their appointment and qualifica-
tion as such guardian or guardians aforesaid.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage-
Approved February 5, 1849.

/'~..‘\r\./...n\-* _r ./\ . ‘_r\; x. \.a‘\a‘\a’»4\/\.a\./\./\¢\.‘

AN ACT for the benelit of Absalom Hughes.

WHEREAS, it is represented to this General Assembly that Absalom:
Hughes is an invalid and cripple, from wounds received while a sol-
, dier in the service of the United States, at the battle of Sacramento,
_ which render him totally unable to make a support for himself and
a helpless family by labor; therefore,

86 it enacted by the Gmcral "ssrmbly of the State of .Mis.<-ouri, asfollozcs:

§ 1. That Absalom Hughes be and he is hereby granted the privilege
of keeping a grocery or dram-shop in Callaway county without license;
provided, that this act shall not be so construed as to authorize the said
Hughes to keep a grocery or dram-shop for any other person, or to
authorize any other person to keep a grocery or dram-shop by virtue of
this act; provided, also, that the amount of stock on hand in said groce-
ry or,dram-shop shall not at any time exceed the sum of two hundred
dollars.

This act to take etfect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 6, I849.

BELIEF. - 563

AN ACT for the relief of James Cude, sheriff of Dunklir. county.

WHEREAS, it is represented to this General Assembly that one John ‘

Dougherty was elected sherifiof Dunklin county, at the late August
election, and failed or refused to give bond according to law; and,
Whereas, James Cude, the present sheriff, was appointed by the

governor as sheriff of said county, to fill the vacancy occasioned by
said refusal; therefore, '

be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That James Cude, sheriif of Dunklin county, be and he is hereby
exempted from the penalties which, by law, he has or may incur, by fail-
ing as collector of the revenue to make settlement with the auditor of
public accounts within the time prescribed by law.

§2. The said James Cude shall have until the first day of April to ,
make collection and settle; and the auditor is required to make such al-

lowance to him as though such settlement had been made within the time
prescribed by law.

This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

J‘-"\i‘ -«£5/X/‘\/‘ -"‘~.I"‘L’\./"' ./"\."\."~z \z"\-"at ‘

AN ACT for the relief of Abraham McClelland.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Abraham McClelland and his securities are released and discharg-
ed from the bonds executed to the State, under “An act for the relief of

Abraham McClelland,” a proved January the second, eighteen hundred
and forty seven, and whic are still unpaid.

This act shall take effect from its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

p‘,/\.I\/\/\a\./\./\4\/\4\/\./\J\r\.1\.a\/\;

 

v'a

AN ACT for the benefit of Joshua Davis, clerk of the circuit court of
Greene county.

Be itenactecl by the General ./2.5-sembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw
his warrant upon the treasurer for the sum of twenty-three dollars and
five cents, in favor of Joshua Davis, clerk of the circuit court of Greene
county, which is the amount of fees due the sheriff, witnesses, &c., in‘
the case of the State against Le uvis A. Wltitsee, to be paid out of the
money appropriated to pay costs in criminal cases.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

564 . nnuar.

AN ACT for the benefit of J olm W. Hancock.
Be it cnactcrl by the General Assembly of the State qf Missouri’. as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw his
warrant on the treasurer for the sum of six dollars, in favor of John W.
Hancock, to be paid out of the fund appropriated for criminal offences.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

'.-Xpproved February 24, 1849.

V.-‘\V\l\/\/\/XKKIK \’\ ’ \l'\ ' \1"\"\/\’\A’\’\"-

AN ACT for the relief of James Newton Trotter.
Be it cnaclcil by the General xlssembly of the Stale of Jllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. James Newton Trotter, of the county of Carroll,is hereby author-
ized and empowered to deal as a pedlar within the limits of the counties of
Carroll, Ray, and Lafayette, without paying any tax or procuring any
license therefor; provided, that the said Trotter shall never peddle with
more than three hundred dollars worth of goods at any one time.

§ 2. Nothin in this act shall be so construed as to authorize said
Trotter to deagl as aforesaid in the name of or for any other person.

This act to take eE'ect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 23, 1849.

"-./\/\//\/\ r r\,t\n/'/\./‘/\.~,/\/‘Jxr./‘It/K. I‘ /v\/./‘ I‘./‘/\.’ ."-/‘J’

AN ACT to pay John Brockman for surveying and draughting maps of
certain State roads in Gasconade county. '

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required
to draw his warrant on the treasurer of the State in favor of John Brock-
man, for the sum of fifty-five dollars, to be paid out of the road and ca-
nal fund helonging to the county of Gasconade; the said sum,when paid,
is in full for his services for surveying and draughting maps of two cer-
tain State roads, according to the provisions of two acts, one
approved February 25th, 1843, and the other approved February
27th, 1843, both roads passing through the said county of Gas-
conade; this being the aggregate amount coming from said county in pro-
portion to the distance which said road passes through said county.

This act shall take effect from its passage. C

Approved February 17, 1849.

g\: u\. \/-\.4\ \/‘.r J\." .1‘. (‘IX ‘-4 z\/\4\r‘4 ‘4 ‘~— . ‘."

AN ACT for the relief of Pleasant M. Wear.
Be it enacted by the General ./is-sembl_y Q/’ the State Q/‘ Mz'ssourz', as folfows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby required to draw his war-
rant upon the treasurer of Jthis] State, in favor of Pleasant M. Wear, for
for the sum of one hundre and nineteen dollars and fifteen cents, 10.1‘?

paid out of the fund appropriated to pay costs in criminal cases.
This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approu-d January 16, 1849. ' .

menu-:r. 565

AN ACT for the relief of Thomas C. Cattron. _
Be itenacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State 0/ Missouri, as follows:

3 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and requi-
re to draw his warrant on the State treasurer, for the sum of three dol-
lars and eighty-one cents, to be paid out of any money unappropriated in
the treasury. '
This act to take e3'ect from its passage.
Approved January 24, 1849.

   

-/VV\I\/‘

 

um/~.r\/V ‘v

AN ACT to enable William Ellis to act as ‘administrator.
Be it enacted by the Generaluissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Nothing contained in the fifth section of the first article of an act
entitled ‘An act respecting executors and administrators,’ approved March
26, 1845, shall disqualify or prevent William Ellis, one of the justices of
the county court of Lewis county, from continuing to act as administra-
tor of the estate of William S. Pemberton, deceased, until‘ said estate
shall be fully administered according to law.

§ 2. The said William Ellis shall be and remain in all respects as ad-
ministrator as aforesaid, subject to all the provisions of the above men-
tioned act respecting executors and administrators, as far as practicable,
in the same manner as if he was not one of the justices of the county
court of Lewis county as aforesaid.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

“’\"\’\"\ ‘xv \’~‘\""\’\ \.v“\"\’\I\I\r \ \"\/'\/\/‘\‘\'\I‘

AN ACT for the relief of a part of the heirs of Benjamin S. Ely,

deceased.
§ 1. Powers and duty of curator. 1 3. Notice, &.c., how governed.
2. Duty of the county court. ’\ 4. Court may take additional bond.

Be it enacted by the General .«9ssemblz/ Q/’ the State of Missour2', as follows:

§ 1. That the curator of the estates of Benjamin Underwood, John
Underwood, Willis Underwood, and William Underwood, infant heirs of
Benjamin S. Ely, deceased, late of Ralls county, is hereby authorized to
file his petition in the county court of Ralls county, praying said court
to order the sale of the interest and right of said infant heirs in and to
the following real estate, to-wit: The south half of section three, in
township No. fifty-three, of range No. seven, west; and the west half of
the south-west quarter of section No. twelve, and the west half of the
north-west quarter of section No. eleven; the north-east quarter of the
north-west quarter of section No. eleven; the west half of the south-
east quarter of section four, and the south-east quarter of the south-
west quarter of section No. four, all in township No. 53, of range No.
7, west; and the west half of the north-west quarter of section No. 10,
of township No. 54, of range No. 7, west; also, ten acres, being a part

I

566 ’ RELIEF.

of the north end of the east half of the north-east quarter of section
No. 26, township No. 51, of range nine, west, adjoining the town of Mex-
ico, in Audrain county; and also block No. 22 in the town of Mexico
aforesaid.

§ 2. It’ said court shall be satisfied that the permanent interest of said
heirs will be promoted by the sale of s‘aid land, said court shall make an
order for the sale of all the undivided right, title and interest of said
heirs in and to the said lands, at such time and place, and on such terms,
as to said court shall seem meet and expedient.

§ 3. The notice, manner and terms of sale shall conform to the law
regulating the sale of the real estate of deceased persons for the pay-
ment of debts. '

§ 4. Said court shall have power to take additional bond and security
of said curator for the security of the money arising from said sale, and
for the due application thereof required by law.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved February 17, 1849.

r‘-v\I\./\v\.r‘./‘\/“./\/‘4 /'\-/‘

 

AN ACT for the relief of Willis Curd.
Be itenacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missozzri, as follows:

[§ 1.] The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and re-
quired to allow four several accounts for costs incurred in criminal cases
in Clark county, amounting, altogether, to fifty dollars and seven cents,
to Willis Curd, clerk of the circuit court of said county, provided the
same shall be found justly owing him, notwithstanding they were not
presented for allowance within two years.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 24, 1849.

/“ /'\/“x/\/\/‘ ./\ /\/\/\/‘y ‘ /‘\/ .."\-"-/“ /- er»/'*

AN ACT for the relief of the heirs of Edward Prather.

1. Administrator ma sell real estate- condi- 3. Reasonable rice must be aid.
. Y 9 P P
ditions. 4. If sale on credit, bond to be taken.
2. Sale may be private of public. ,- 5. Deed to be made, when.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. James Harris, administrator of the estate of Edward Prather, of
Clay county, (late deceased) is hereby authorized and empowered to
sell and convey all or any part of the real estate to which said Edward
Prather was entitled at the time of his death, without being compelled
to obtain any order from the county court of said county for that pur-

ose.

P § 2. Such sale may be either private or at public auction, upon a
credit or for cash, as shall to such administrator seem best.

§ 3. Should such administrator offer all or ‘any part of such land for
sale at public auction, he shall not be compelled to sell such land unless

the same shall bring, in the opinion of such administrator, a fair and
reasonable price.

nun. 667

§ '4. If such sale be upon a credit, the purchaser shall give bond with
security, to'be approved by such administrator, to secure the payment
of the purchase money.

 5. Upon the payment of the purchase money and all interest due
thereon, said administrator shall make a deed conveying to the purchaser
all the right and title which the said Edward Prather had to such land
at the time of his death, and such deed shall be acknowledged and re-
corded as other deeds for the conveyance of land.

This act to take effect from and after its passage. _

Approved February 13, 1849. .

 

\J\l\/\/\.J\/\J\J\/\J

AN ACT -for the relief of John E. Davis, of Crawford county.
-Be it enacted by the Generalvissembly dine State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts be required to draw his
warrant upon the State Treasurer for the sum of ten dollars, in favor of
John E. Davis, of Crawford county, for services rendered the State, to
be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Appreved February 5, 1849.

 

/WK/\

_ AN ACT for the relief of Samuel Hadley.
Be itenacted by the General ./Yssembly Q/‘ the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized and
required to draw his warrant on the State Treasurer, in favor of Sam-
uel Hadley, late collector of Clay county, for the sum of two hundred
and twenty-six dollars and sixty-eight cents, to be paid out of any money
in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

   

"\/\/'\/‘N./\f\f\I

 

/\"\/’\./\/“/‘._f~1‘

AN ACT for the relief of Elizabeth Williams and her heirs.

Be it enacted by the General .:9ssembly qfthe State qf Missouri, as follows.

§ 1. That Alvin P. Williams and Elizabeth, his wife, he and they are
hereby empowered and authorized to sell the N. E. qr. of S. E. qr. of
section 4, T. 51, R. 28, and the N. W. qr. of S. E. qr. of section 4, T.
51, R. 28, in Ray county, Missouri, and to convey the same by a good
and sufficient deed to the purchaser thereof, conveying all the title of
the said Elizabeth and ‘her children.

§ 2. That before said sale is made, the clerk of the county court of
Ray county shall appoint three appraisers to appraise said land, at its
value for cash in hand, and that said appraisers shall report the appraise-
ment thereof to said clerk.

§ 3. That said land shall not be sold for less than three-fourths of its

appraised value, and that the proceeds of said land shall be invested in_

568 nun.

the purchase of _a negro woman and child or children, for the use of said

Elizabeth and her children, and that the title thereto shall be taken in

their names.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

VsI‘\f‘-I

   

AN ACT for the benefit of the heirs of Daniel Hoy, late of Morgan

‘ county.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That John D. Hoy, administrator of the estate of Daniel Hoy,
deceased, be and he is hereby authorized to sell the real estate of the
heirs of said estate, situated in the county of Morgan, in this State, un-
der the direction and subject to the approval of the county court of said

county of Morgan.
§ 2. The county court of said county of Morgan is hereby authorized

and required to make an order for the sale of said real estate, and to
prescribe the mode of appraising and selling said estate.

§3. Such real estate shall not be sold for less than the amount at
which the same shall be appraised.

§ 4. Upon ayment of the purl-ichasedmoneykfor saidd real estate, the
said John D. oy is hereby aut orize to ma e a dee or deeds to the
purchaser or purchasers, conlveying all the right and title of the heirs of
said estate in and to said rea estate.

§ 5. Said administrator shall make report of his proceedings as to the
appraisement and sale of said real estate, to said county court, and if
the same be approved by said court, an order shall be made by said
court accordingly; if such proceedings be not approved by said court,
the same shall be null and void.

§ 6. Said John D. Hoy shall hold the proceeds arising from such sale
sub'ect to the order of said county court.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

ar\/\"\ fx/\/\’\/-xp-xrxr-\/-\ I-\~\r\r\,r\/\ \r\/\ ’\ "

AN ACT for the relief of William P. Burney, late collector of Van

Buren county.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of the county of Van Buren are hereby au-
thorized to release W. P. Burney from the payment of the sum of fifty
dollars, which he became liable to pay to the county of Van Buren as a
penalty by reason of his failure to pay into the treasury of said county
the full amount of the county revenue for the year 1845.

This act shall be in force from its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

mruu. -$9

AN ACT ‘for the relief of William J. Girdner, former collector of H
Mercer county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That William J. Girdner, former collector of the county of Mer-
cer, be and he is hereby empowered and authorized to collect the reve-
nue of said county not heretofore collected and due from the citizens,

for the time he was collector for said county, in the ‘same manner as -if ~

he had not paid the same into the State and county treasury, and that all
the benefit of the law authorizing ‘the collection of the same for said
time be extended to him to enable him to collect the same.
This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

 

:\/\/\_I\/\J\/s/\.z x.-~/x./\./‘ \_.\.

 

\/\./

AN ACT for the relief of the Securities of Samuel M. Gilmore.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. William Flannery, Richard Fulton, and Harlow Hinkston, secu-
rities of Samuel M. Gilmore, collector of 'the revenue in the county of
Buchanan, in the year 1840, are hereby released and forever discharged
from the payment of a judgment now pending against them and the said
Samuel M. Gilmore, in the Clinton circuit court; provided, however,
that they shall still be liable for one hundred dollars of said judgment,
together with all the costs which may have accrued in said suit, and
remaining unpaid.

§ 2. The county court of said county of Buchanan shall have no ower
to direct, and the clerk of the Clinton circuit court shall have no aut ority
to issue an execution on said judgment, except for one hundred dollars and
costs aforesaid; and the payment of these shall amount to a full satisfac-
tion of said jud ment, so far as the securities aforesaid are concerned.

This act shal talre effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1849.

 

AN ACT. for the relief of Julia Chenie an others. .
Be it enacted by the General A./Zssembly of the State 0_/'1l!z'ssa§urz°, as follows:

§ 1. All the right, title, intelest, claim, or pro erty of the State of
Missouri, acquired by escheat, in and unto the following described real
estate, viz: a certain piece, parcel, or lot of ‘land, situated in the town
of Carondelet, in the county of St. Louis, and- State of Missouri, and
designated on the plat of survey of said town of Carondelet, as the block
or square number eighty-eight, and containing three hundred feet square,
and bounded south by D street, east by Third street, west by Fourth
street, and north by C street. Also, another lot or parcel of land in said
town of Carondelet, known and designated on the plat of said town as the
north-east and north-west quarters of block number forty-three, contain-
ing a front of one hundred and fifty feet, by a depth of two hundred

570 ‘ BILIII.

eighty.-four and one-eigblth feet, (French measure), and bounded as
follows to wit: east by ain street west by second street north by B
street, bnd south by balance of saidlblock. Also, another lot or piece
of land in said town of Carondelet, known and designated on the plat of
said town as the north-west and south-west quarters of block H, contain-
ing a front of three hundred feet, by a depth of one hundred and fifty
feet (French measure) bounded north by W Street south by G ‘street,
west by Second Water’street, and east by the balande of said block——is
hereby relinquished, and conveyed unto John R. Shepley, and his legal
representatives, or purchasers under him, and to their heirs and assigns
forever. _

§ 2. No right, title, interest, claim, or property, which the State of
Missouri may have acquired in and unto the foregoing described real
estate, otherwise than by escheat, is conveyed or relinquished, by force
of this act.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 10, 1849.

  J\4

AN ACT for the relief of William H. Killebrew, late Sheriff er Pettis
County.

Be it enacted by the General ./issembly Q/' the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the register of lands be, and he is hereby authorized and
required to receive the delinquent list of lands of William H. Killebrew,
late collector of Pettis county, for the year 1847; and allow the same
credits as if it had been returned in the time prescribed by law.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and alter its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

 

 

./‘J\J‘Al\’

AN ACT for the relief of Reuben Robinson.

Wm-mans, It is re resented to this General Assembly, that the certificate
to the register of ands for the sale of certain school lands in St. Clair
county is incorrect, and that in accordance to said report, a patent was
issued to Reuben Robinson, of said county, for the south-east quarter of
the south--east quarter, the south-west quarter of the south-east quarter,
the north-east quarter of the north-west quarter, and the north-west
qrparter of the north-west quarter of section No. 16, in township No.
t irty-eightt [38], and range No. twenty--four [24], and this General
Assembly being satisfied that the purchases, as made by the said Reuben
Robinson, were the north--east quarter of the south-west quarter, the
the north-west quarter of the south-west quarter, the south-east quarter
of the south-east quarter, and the south-west quarter of the southeast
quarter, of section No. sixteen [16], in township No. thirty-eight [38],

of range No. twenty-four [21], in the county of St. Clair, and State of
Missouri; therefore,

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missoiuri, as follouws
§ 1.. That the register of lands is hereby authorized and required to

RI-JLIIIF.--ROAD AND camu. mum). 571

take ‘in and cancel the patent that has been issued to the said Reuben
Robinson, and that he issue to him a patent for the north-east quarter of
the south-west quarter, the north-west quarter of the south-west quarter,
the south-east quarter of the south-east quarter, and the south-west
quarter of the south-east quarter, of section No. sixteen [16], township

No. thirty-eight [38], and range No.twenty-four [24], in St. Clair
county, Missouri.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March_3, 1849.

r\J\z"~/\./~J'*_.z\- ~/ \:'\J"~./ ./\/‘../\/‘./‘

, AN ACT for the relief of A. W. Jeffries, Collector of Franklin County.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State vf Mtssozzri, as follows:

§ 1. That the register of lands be, and he is hereby authorized to
receive the non-resident delinquent list of the collector of Franklin
county, in the same manner and to the like effect as if the same had
been returned to the register within the term prescribed by law. ‘

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.

' Approved March 2, 1849.

“\"‘\/\.z"~.a\./'-z\.»“\"\/\ ,' .I\/ /s/xz’ -’..-I‘./‘\

AN ACT for the relief of William D. Kerr, late Sherif of Cole County.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The auditor of public accounts is hereby authorized and required .
to draw his warrant on the State treasury in favor of William D. Kerr,
late sheriff of Cole county, for the sum of one hundred and nineteen
dollars and fifty cents, in full, for his services for taking one Reading, a
convict in the penitentiary, under an attachment, from’ the Platte circuit
court, from the city of J eiferson, to Platte city, to be paid out of the
appropriation for costs in criminal cases.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 24, 1849.

 

ROAD AND CANAL FUND.

AN ACT to authorize the County Court of Holt County to box row the
Road and Canal Fund. .

§ 1. County court to borrow money. % 3. Bonds to bear interest; duty of county
2. Bonds to be executed. court.

Be it enacted by the General ./issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Holt county is hereby authorized to borrow,
in the name and for the use of said county, the road and canal fund
belonging to said county, if, in their opinion, the interest of the county
requires it.

§ 2. The county court of said county, upon the borrowing the funds

0
I

572 ROAD AND camu. FUND.

of said county, shall cause the bonds of said county to be executed,
payble to the State of Missouri, for the use of the road and canal fund
belonging to said county, which bonds shall state the time, terms, and
the amount of the loans, and shall be signed by the presiding justice of
the county court of said county, and attested by the seal ot said court.
§ 3. Such bonds shall bear interest at the rate of six per cent. per
annum, and shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county, who shall
be charged therewith; and the clerk of the county court shall keep full
and fair accounts of such bonds, and the said county court shall, once in
each year, adjust said accounts, liquidate the same, and pay the interest

thereon, or isssue new bonds therefor. _
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

'\'v\/vvxrxr-\rv~

u/\/‘.5./'\/‘u/\/\£/Nu"/\I

 

AN ACT to authorize the County Court of De Kalb County to borrow

certain money.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qf the State of Missouri, as foHq2os:

§ 1. The county court of De Kalb county is hereby authorized to
borrow, in the name of said county, the distributive share of the proceeds
of the sale of the five hundred thousand acre grant of land, donated to
this State by the Congress of the United States, belonging to said county,
as well that which may accrue to said county,‘ as _ that already in
her possession, to be appropriated to the erecting public buildings in

,, said county, if, in their opinion, the interest of the county may require
it.

§ 2. The county court of said county, upon the borrowing said fund,
shall cause the bonds of said county to be executed, payable to the State
of Missouri, for the use of said fund belonging to said county, which
bonds shall state the time, terms, and amount of the loans, and shall be

signed by the presiding justice of the county court of said county, and

attested by the seal of said ccurt.

§ 3. Such bonds shall bear interest‘ at the rate of six per cent. per
annum, and shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county, who shall
be charged therewith, and the clerk of the county court shall keep full
and fair accounts of such bonds, and the county court of said county
shall, once in each year, adjust said accounts, liquidate the same, and
pay the interest thereon, or issue new bond therefor.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

/\/N '\/‘./ /\-¥'-z s/"»" ‘\/\/'\/\./” /\./\/\/\_/-

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Wright county to borrow the
Internal Improvement Fund belonging to said County.

§ 1. County court authorized to borrow moneyg 3. Bonds to bear interest; to be delivered to

for certain purposes. 3 the county treasurer; interest to be paid
2. County court shall cause the bonds of yearly.

said county to be executed; how payable. 1

5

aoan AND canu. ruun. 573

Be it enacted by the General dssembly qfllie State qf Missouri, as follows.-

§ 1. That the county court of Wright county is hereby authorized to
borrow, in the name of said county, the internal improvement fund_be-
longing thereto, and her distributive share of the proceeds of the sales
of the live hundred thousand acre grant of land, donated to this State by
the Congress of the United States, belonging thereto, as well as that
which may hereafter accrue to said county, as that already in her pos-
session; to be appropriated to the erection of a court house, or other

public buildings, as, in their opinion, the interest of said county may.

require.
§ 2. The county court of said county, upon the borrowing of said fund,
shall cause the bonds of the county to be executed, payable to the State
of Missouri, for the use of said fund; which bonds shall state the times,
terms, and amount of the loan, and shall be signed by the presidin
justice of the county court of said county, and attested by the seal of said
court.
§ 3. Such bonds shall bear interest at the rate of six per cent. per
annum, and shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county, who shall
be charged therewith; and the clerk shall keep a full and fair account of
such bonds; and, once in each year, the said county court shall adjust
said accounts, liquidate the same, and pay the interest thereon, or issue
new bonds therefor.

.§4. If a majority of the taxable inhabitants of said-county should
remonstrate against the borrowin of said fund, as provided in this act,
the county court shall be governed by said remonstrance, and not borrow
the fund. ,

This act to take effect and be in force, from and after its passage;
Approved March 6, 1849.

~"-r\/‘t\/v\1\/ ‘4\/v 4“./\.« /\/\/‘aux .A4v\f\/vv

AN ACT authorizing Sullivan county to borrow certain funds.
§ 1. County court authorizedtoborrow certain ( account of such bonds; bondstobe ad-

moneys under certain provisions.  'usted once in each year; county court to
2. County court shall cause the bonds of said 3 . ave power to levy a special tax’ for the
gounty to be executed; how payable; to 5 puzpose ofi pfayipg inteaestl on loantaa-I
ear interest. nu ly an or e gra ua paymen o
3. Bonds to be delivered to the treasurer of E the principal.
the county; county clerk shall keep an

Be it enacted by the General ./Isscmbty of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Sullivan county is hereby authorized‘ ‘to
borrow, in the name ol said county, the road and canal fund, and ‘the
distributive share of the 500,000 acre grant belonging to said county,
for the purpose of building a jail in said county; provided, the amount
thus borrowed shall not exceed one thousand dollars.

§ 2. The county court of said county of Sullivan shall cause the bonds
of said county to be executed (upon the borrowing of said funds) payable
to the State of Missouri, for the use of said funds, bearing interest-'at'asi.1‘
per cent. per annum; which ‘bonds shall state the amount of such loan,
and the time of payment, and shall be signed by the presiding justice of
said county court, and attested by the seal of said court.

574 ROAD AND CANAL rum).

§3. Such bonds shall be delivered to ‘the treasurer of said county,
who shall be charged therewith; and the clerk of said county shall keep
a full and fair account of such bonds; and, once in each year, the county
court shall adjust said accounts, and liquidate the same, and pay the
interest thereon, or issue new bonds therefor; and said court shall have
power to levy a special tax for the purpose of paying the interest on said
loan annually, and for the gradual payment of the principal; which tax
shall not exceed one half the amount of the State tax for the time being.

§ 4. This act shall take effect and be in force as soon as a majority of
the taxable inhabitants of said county shall signify their assent to the

same by petition or by vote at any election.
Approved March 7, 1849.

\/‘\f\/'\

 

r\r\_#\/\"

 

AN ACT to authorize the County of Oregon to borrow money.
Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollo-ws:

§ 1. That the county ‘court of Oregon county is hereby authorized and
em owered to borrow so much of the road and canal fund, belonging to
said county, as shall be necessary for the com letion of their county
of said county, whenever a majority of the qua ilied voters of said county
shall petition the county court for that purpose.

This act to take effect from the passage thereof.
Approved March 8, 1849.

 

./\I\/\/\f\t\AI\.l' JN/\.’

 

J‘.

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Livingston county to borrow

the distributive share of the internal improvement fund accruing to
the said county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly qf the State of Missouri’, as follows:

1. The county court of the county of Livin ston is hereby authorized
to orrow the distributive share of the proceells of the sales of the five
hundred thousand acres of land heretofore accruing to said county, and

apply the same to the erection of public buildings at the county seat of
said county.

§ 2. The said county court shall cause the bonds of said county to be
executed, bearing six per cent. interest, and deposit the same with the
treasurer, payable to the internal improvement fund, for the amount
borrowed under the provisions of this act.

This act to be in force from and afier its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849. .

Wk‘ -I\/\/\/\f~/‘v’ --*‘~ ‘\ uruv /./'\.I\.«*/xix/‘..‘./‘u/Vrxfx

AN ACT to loan money.
Be it enacted by the General ./zvsembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1.. The county court of Carroll county is hereby authorized to loan
the distributive share of the proceeds of the sale of the five hundred

 

I‘

noun AND CANAL FUND. ~ 215

thousand acres of land heretofore or that may hereafter accrue to said
count .

§2.y The said county court shall cause and require of any person
borrowing said funds to executive their bond, payable one year after date,
drawing six per cent. interest‘ per annum to _-the internal improvement
fund; which bond shall be well secured by endorsers, to be approved by
said county court, and deposited with the treasurer of said county.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

'~J\I\r

 

\f\Iu/\4'—»‘

 

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Dade county to borrow the
internal improvement fund of said county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the county court of Dade county is hereby authorized and
empowered to borrow the internal improvement fund belonging to said
county, for the purpose of building a court house in said county.

§ 2. That said court is hereby required, on the receipt of said fund,
to execute the bond of said county to the State of Missouri for the use
and benefit of the internal improvement fund of said county for the
amount of the sum or sums of money so borrowed, bearing an interest
at the rate of six per centum per annum. .

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Texas county to borrow money.

is} 1. County court authorized to borrow money; 3. Bonds to bear interest; duty of clerk and .

2. Bonds to be given. county court.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. T h'c county court of Texas county is hereby authorized to borrow
in the name, and for the use of said county. the r ad and canal fund be- .
longing to said county, if in their opinion the interest of the county requires
it. tor the purpose of building ajail in said county.

§‘2. The county court of said county, upon borrowine said funds, shall
cause the bonds of said county to be executed and payable to the State of
Missouri. for the use of the road and canal fund belonging to said county,
which bonds shall state the time. terms, and the amount of the loan, and
shall be signed by the presiding justice of the county court of said county,
and attested by the clerk, under sealof the court. _

§3. Such bonds shall bear interest at the rate of six per centum per
annum, and shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county,’ who shall be
charged therewith. and the clerk of the county court- of sand county shall
keep full and perfect accounts of said bonds; and the said r.-mnty court
shall, once in each year, adjust said accounts and liquidate the same, and
pay the interest thereon or issue new bonds therefor.

‘This act Shall take effect and be in force from and after the first day _of
July, IS49.

Approved February ‘27, 1849.

576 mean AND emu. FUND.

AN ACT to authorize Caldwell county to borrow her share of the Internal
Improvement fund.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Mz'ssom'z', asfollows:

§ 1. The county court of -Caldwell county is hereby authorized to borrow
in the name of said county the portion of the internal improvement fund
now due, and that may hereafter become due to said county.

§ 2. The county court of said county, upon borrowing said fund shall
cause the bonds of said county to lie executed, payable to the State of Mis-
souri,'for the use of the internal improvement fund of said county, which
bonds shall state the time, terms and amount of the loan, and shall be signed
by the presiding judge of said county court, and be attested by the seal of
said court.

§ 3. Said bonds shall bear interest at the rate of six per centum per annum,
and Shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county, who shall be charged
therewith; and the clerk shall keep full and fair accounts of all such bonds;
and once in each year the said county court shall adjust said accounts. liqui-
date thc same, and pay the interest thereon, and also, at the same time in
each year pay one-fifth part of the amount borrowed, so that the whole
amount borrowed shall be refunded in five years; provided, that the whole
amount may be paid sooner than five years if the interest of the county
shall require it. -

This act to take etfect from and after its passage.

Approved March l0, 1849. -

~\/\/\.I\/ \/\/\/\J\J\J \..' \/\/‘_/\/\/\/\.a s

AN ACT to authorize the county court of St. Francois county to borrow
the road and canal fund of said county.

§ The county court of St. Francois county au- 9 2. Method of executing .the bonds of the

thorized to borrow the road and canal A coun prescribed.
fund of said county. 3‘ 3. Rate 0 interest on county bonds.

\

._ 4. Special tax to be levied by county court.
Be it enacted by the General afssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

‘ § 1. The county court of St. Francois is hereby authorized to borrow, in
the name of the county, the road and canal fund belonging thereto, as well
as that which may hereafter accrue to said county, as that already in her
possession, to be appropriated and applied in erecting a court-house and 
or either,as in their opinion the interest of the county may require.

§ 2. The county court of said county, upon borrowing said fund, shall
cause the bonds of the county to be executed, payable to the State of Mis-
souri, for the use of the road and canal fund of said county, which bonds
shall stair the time, terms and amount of the loan, and shall be signed by
the presiding justice of the county court of said county, and attested by
the seal of said court.

§ 3. Sue‘: bonds shall bear interest at the rate of six per centum per am-
num, and shall be delivered to the treasurer of said county, who Shall bcv
charged therewith, and the clerk shall keep full and fair accounts of all su- h
bonds; and once in each year, the said county court shall adjust said a:-
eounts, liquidate the ame, and pay the interest thereon or issue new bonds
therefor, and said county court shall have power to levy a special tax tor

. aosn‘ sun onset. rain). 57 7

C .
‘the purpose of refunding said loans, whenever they shall thiuli that the inter-
est of the-county shall require the same to be done.
_ Tnis act shall take effet t_and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 3, I849. - -

 

l , I

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Knox countyito borrow the
distributive shareof the Internal Improvement Fund accruing-to said
count)‘. " ' ' . . i

Be it enacted by the General dssembly Q/‘the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The county court of Knox.county is hereby. authorized to borrow
the distributive share of the-proceeds of the sales of thefive hundred thou-

'sand acres of land granted to.this State. by actof Congress, approved Sep-

tember the fourth, eighteen hundred and fortyeone, heretofore accruing to
said county,-and-‘apply the s:tme~to the: erection of a courthouse.-at the
county snatol said county.' . 7 ‘ ' ._ i ‘ '

§ 2. The said‘ county court shall cause ‘the bonds'ol' said county to be
executed ,. bearing six_ per cemum interest, and deposit the samesvith the
treasure-r,'payable one year after date topthe internal improvement {und,fot'
the amount borrowed under the provisions of this act. . '

This act to take eH'ect'afrom and after its "passage. ._ - t
. 'Approved March 3, I849. ' - - i ‘ ’ ~

“ 0

AN, ACT toauthorize the county ‘cou'rt'of Oregon county to borrow the
distributive ‘share of the Internal~lmp,rovement Fund accruing to said

county. . t_  _
Be itenacted I53/the General .«9sscm_bl'yqf the §'tbteqf' Missouri, asfollosvs:

§ 1. Thecount y court of the county of Oregon is hereby authorized to bor-

row the distributive share of the proceeds of thesales of the live hundred thou-_

sand acres of land. granted to this State by an a’ct_of Congress. approved Sepé
tenber 4th, one thousand eightihundred and forty-one, to which it is entitled
by an act of the General Ass‘emb|y,of this State, ’appro‘v,ed March twenty-
seventh, one_thousand_ eight hundred and forty-tive, dividing’-' said proceeds

share and share alike.’

§"2.’S:.id county court__shall be authorized to apply said distribué
live share of the proceeds of the sales of said lands to the purposes of edu-

cation. ‘ 4 ' . .

§ 3. And the county court of said county shall cause the bonds of said
countyto be executed, bearing’ six per centinn interest, and deposit the same
with the treasurer of said county. payable one year after date, to the inter-
nal improvement fund for the-amount borrowed under the provisions of‘this
act. r . ’ ’ '
1‘ This act to he in force‘ from its passage.  9

Approved March 2, 1849. :

6 ‘.-

40

593 new nu) CANAL FUND. .

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Holt county to borrow‘the Inc.
ternal Improvement Fund.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollowa:

§ 1. The court of Holt county is hereby authorized, in their discretion, to
borrow the distributive share of the proceeds_of the sales-ofthe five hundred
thousand acres of land that have accrued or my hereafter accrue to said
county, and apply the same to the erection of 4 court-house at the county
seat ot said county. *

§‘J.UI‘he county court of said county, upon borrowing said fund, shall
cause the bonds of said county to be executed. payable to the State of Mis-
souri. for the‘ use of the internal improvement fund belonging to said county,
which bonds shall state the time, terms and the amount of the loans, and

shall be signed by the presid‘ng justice of the county court of said county,-

and attested by the seal ofsaid court. Such bonds shall bear interest at
[the] rate of six per centum pcraunum, and shall be delivered to the trea-
surer of said countsgwho shall be charged therewith; and the clerk of the
county court shall keep full and fair accounts of such bonds; and the said
county court shall, once in each year, adjust said accounts, liquidate the
same. and pay the’ interest thereon or issue new bonds therefor.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

- Approved March 2, 1849.

 

‘ AN ACT to authorize the county court of Cole county to borrow the
Internal Improvement Fund. ’

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly q/‘lilac State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ l. The (‘minty court" of Cole county is-hereby authorized and empowered
if to their opinion the the into-resgot their county ‘require it,to borrow the
interoal.itnpto\-emt-nt funds which late accrued, or may hereafter accrue
to saitl counts’ under and hy virtue of an act entitled “An act for the dis-
tribution of the proceeds ot the-. sale" of the live hundred thousand acres of
land donated to'this State by the Cnngre.-s.of the United States; approved
27th March, I345.

§ '2. it shall he the duty of said court. upon borrowing said fund, or any
part ttiereof, to make out and execute the bond or bonds of said county,
for the sum or sums horrowed. payable to the use of said fund at such time
or times as said court may think most advantageous to the interests. of said
county; said bond or bonds.to hear six per centum per annum. he signed by
the presiding justice of said court, and attested by ithe clerk of said count,
with the _.~eal thereof.

5 3. The said court shall have power to make all needful orders for the
tiling and sale keeping of such bond or bonds, the payment of interest
thereon, die. ‘ 

This act to take o_Fl'ect and be in force from its passage-

Approied Match 2 1849. '

. non: um cum. runs. 5759
AN ACT to amend the tint section of an act to authg-in-the ‘county court
' rof Ozark county to borrow theltoad and Canal Fund} approved. 1347. .

Be‘ it enacted by the ' General Hsscmbly of the State of .Mz'ssou"z', asfollazbs:

§ 1. The county court of Ozirkcnunty is hereby authorized to ‘borrow,

in the name of saidscoumy, the road a_nd_cana| fund lwlungiug l,l.:t_’el'(.‘lO, to

be appropriated and applied in erecting a cciurt-lio-use orjsll in saiJ county,

. if in their opinion the interest of said county may require it. ' ,

 Thesfirst section of the act to which this is ameudatorybe, and the
same is hereby repealed.” ' , , _ _ . 4, .' , i

This act to take effect and be in -force from and after its’ passage.

Approved February 27, l849._ - . ’ - ‘ ‘ i

I .

  

AN ACT authorizing the county courtof Hickory county to money.
Be itenacted by tlie General dssenzbly of the. State tJ1|:Iis.sou2\fi,.c_;s,/allows:

§ 1. That the county court of Hickory county is hereby authorized to
loan the distributive share of the proceeds of the sales of the five hun-
dred thousand acres of land granted to this State by an act of Congress,
approved September 4, one ‘thousand eight hundred and forty-one, to
which. it is entitled by an act of the General Assembly of this State, ap-
proved March"27th, 1845, dividing-said proceeds; share and share alike.

§ 2. Said county ‘court shall be authorized and required to loan said
distributive share according‘ to the law authorizing the loan of the ‘road
and canal fund, and'shall‘keep it separate and apart from all other, funds.

This act to take eB'ect from and after itszpasstage. _
Approved February 13, 1849,

 

- \/\.‘'\./\/u'/\II/ ‘'
. ~. -.

‘AN ACT to authorize. the county 'co_urt'of’lIeynolds county to boxrpw
’ . - ..-t certain moneys. - ~ ‘ ~. _ '
Be z'l‘_enacied by the General Assembly" of the Stand q"Jl1iesafu-1', as /bllomz _
§ 1. The county court of Reynolds county is hereby authorized to

I

borrow suc'h part.of theroad and canal fund and of the funds arising‘

from the distribution of the_proceed_s of- the sales of the five hundre I
' thousand‘ acres, of ' land granted to this State by the United States, among

-’the:several counties of this State, as may be necessary to be‘. applied to
such,purposes,' as,to‘suc_h court shall see_m- tit. ‘ - ' -
§ 2. Said courtshall cause the bondsof such county, to be executed
and si ned.by-the ‘presiding justice of said court, and attested by the clerl’:
of sai court under the seal thereof, for the ayment of the several sums,
so borrowed; and said bondsshall betiled’ with the treasurer of said
county,_and shall be made.pay'able to the State for the use of such funds,
and shall bear interest at the rate of six per. cent. per annum. ' .

' § 3. Said county court is hereby authorized and required to levy a’
‘tax upon property in said county, which may be subjeutte tax, for State’

purposes, to repay the sums so borrowed, whenever said funda_sha_ll ,be

580 moan AND CANAL rum).

needed for the purposes for which said funds were originally granted to
said county.
This'act to take eifect and be in forcefrom its passage.

Approved February 6, 1849.

I

§  V

   

‘AN ACT to authorize the county court of Ripley county,‘t.o borrow the
Road and Canal fund and other funds belonging to said county.

Be it epacted by t/ie’Gene’ra_l.dssembly.of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of, Ripley county, is hereby authorized, to bor-
row the distributiveshare of the proceeds of the sales of the Eve hun-
dred thousand acres ofland,‘heretoforeaccruing. to said county and such
part as is now due said‘c_ounty_;~and the roa‘d,and_,_canal fund, and apply
the same to the erection of a court house, at the county seat of said
county- ,' -" - ‘ ' .  -  -.

§ 2. The said county court shall cause the hoods of said county to be
executed, bearing six per cent. 'interest,"an’d‘deposit the -same with the
treasurer, payable one year after’ date, to the‘ fundtfrom which it is bor-
rowed, for the amount borrowed ‘under the provisions of this act.

§ 3. This act shall not be in force 'until.a majority of the tax payers
petition to the county court of said'county to borrow said funds, and if
not the same shall remain void. ' ‘ ‘ -

., Approved January 24, 1849.

 

AN ACT to’ authorize the county court of Atchison county to lend the
Internal Improvement fund. '

Be it enacted. by the General ./9ssemb_/yhq/‘the State qf.Missou'1_'_z', as follows:

§ 1. The co'unty‘co'urt of‘Atchisbn co’unty,is—hereby authorized tolend
to individuals the_distributive.share of theinternal improvement fund
which has accrued or may hereafter accrue to said county, in sums not
exceeding. two hundred ‘dollars to any one "individual, and at‘ a rate of
interest not exceeding the legal interest of the State. ‘ ‘ “

§ 2. It shall be‘the duty'of-said county court to ‘cause-individuals bor-
rowing any portion of said fund to give such personal security as said
court may approve, and by a mortgage on«real estate for the full amount
of the sum so borrowed. .» - T

This act to take effect from and alter its passage. .

Approved February 5, I849.

     

so

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Dunlrlin county to borrow a
portion of the distributive share of the internal improvement fund
accruingto said county. - . '

§ 1. County&court authorized to borrow; its du- § 2. Bonds of the county to be executed.
ties, c. ’ ‘ '

' ‘Be it enacted by the General Jlseembly qftlie State qf Missouri, asfallatu:

§ 1. The county courtof the county of‘ Dunklin is hereby authorized

noan AND CANAL FUND.—-—-ROADS srarn: AND COUNTY. 58]

to borrow five hundred dollars, a portion of the dist:-ibutive’share of the
proceeds of the sale of the five hundred thousandacres of land accrningtto
county, and apply the same to the payment of the debt owing. by the S?‘lCl
county for eighty acres of land (the purchase made by the county or
the location_ .of the public buldings) and in discharge of the 'debt'for
building the court house, &c., and_'for such other purposes as the county
court of said county may direct. , '_ p ,
§ 2. The said county court shall causepthe bonds of said county to be
executed, bearingsix per ce_nt., interest, and .‘de_p<_isit the same with the
treasurer of the county, payable one year after date‘to ‘he internal im-
provent fund, for the amount borrowed under the proirisions of this act.
This act to take efl'ect'from and after its passage." ._ ‘
Approved January 26, ‘I849. ’ ' "

_

' —\¢\4\,\_,\, \.a\.4\./N; -

A ~ . RO5,tD$_.S'TA_'I;E.'A'NI5‘ oonN‘r.Y. _ A
AN ACT to change a certain portion of a State road.

Be it enacted by the General ./9.’s'sembl3].’Q/' the State Q/'.1l{z'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1;. That “so much ofithe State rpad leading from Saint Joseph in
Buchanan county,_ to‘ Linden in Atchison county as "lies between’
Isaac Wilson’s residence, andsthe town of -Linden in Atchisoncounty is
hereby altered, to wit: Beginning at th.e\house_- of_ said Wilson and run-
ning thence-welst of the residence of‘John Hayes in'a_ direction’ to Lin-
den; thence in a straight line as near as -prac_tic;able.to. the town of Lin-
den.. -' . *, - , ". 7  ‘. _ - -.

§'2. John Hayes; Isaac Wilson and John Mg,-'.l‘ow-ns'end are hereby ap-
pointed commissioner to survev and mark out the alteration of said road;

 

' I

and the field notes together virith aiplatof the same shallbe filed in‘ the ‘

otlice of the clerk of said county, and said commissio_ners.shall each re-
ceive one dollar per day. for their services, to bepaid out of the road and
canal fund of said county.’ _ ' '

§.3. All that portion of the present rend that lies between the-point of

Q

beginning and intersection, of the alteration according to the provisions _

of this act is ‘hereby repealed. _

at

This act to take effect and bein ‘force frnm, andnafter its passage.
Approved February 5, 1§4_9. _, ' ' _ o

Ix

 

“-

. AN ACT to change a portion-‘of a State ‘road.

§ 1.‘ Fixingdirection andlimits of road. _ T 3. Duty ofcountv-court}
2. Commissioners appointed; their duties and: 4. Portion vacated. . ,
pay. . , e ' . 5. Commissioners to meet, &.c.

Be itenaeted by the .Gene‘rala/Qssernrbly of the »_S'tate cf Missouri, as follows.

§ 1. That so much of ‘a State road leading from Milan in Sullivan
county to the northern boundary line of Missouri in Putnam county is
hereby altered, to wit: Beginning at the county line between Sullivan
and Putnam counties; ‘thence to \Vinchester in Putnam county; thence
to the northern boundary line, in the direction to Centreville, Iowa.

§82 nosns, swarm: AND_ comrrr.

§ 2. Jamerviaiuiams, SOIL, John M. Douglas and Tarlton Taylor, all
ofgthe county of Putnam, are hereby appointed commissioners, to View
and marlrout the alteration of said road, and a plat of the same shall be
filed in the otlice of the clerk of‘ the county court of Putnam coui ty and
said commissioners shall each receive two dollars per day for their ser-v
vices, to be paid out of the road and canallfund of said county of Put-
nam. -
§ 3.‘ It shall be the duty of the county court of Putnam county as soon
as the plat of said re_view_ shall be‘ filed in the office of the clerk afore-
said, to caust? Said road to be opened and kept open as other State rosds.

§ 4. All that portion‘ of the present State road which lies between the
points of beginnin_g° and intersecting of the alteration, according to the
provisions of this act is .hereby-Vacated. - ° -

§ 5. Said commissioners‘ shall meet at"the line dividing Sullivan and
Putnam on said road»,‘oti or before the first Monday in May next, as the
time may’ suittbeir convenience and proceed to view and mark out said
road according-to'this act. - , . - . -  ; »:' e ‘ v

This act to take el'l'ect‘and be in ,_force.from and after its passage.
Approued January 24, 1849. . - ‘ ’

 

AN AC1‘ to establish a State road from ‘Paris, ini= Monroe county, to
t " ’ Mexico, in Audrain county. S -
I i 5. Duties of itcouhtycourt.

6. Secretary of State'to furnish copy of Idle
one of the commissioners. -

§ 1. Road declared a State road.
2. Commissioners appointed. ‘
3. Commissioners to la'k_e‘oatb.
4. Fees of commissioners..

Be it enacted I2yL‘lhe' Gen'eral;L/Issembly qf the State of J'lIz'ssouri, as fall was:

§ 1. That so much of the county road running from Paris, in Monro!
county, to Mexico, in Audrain county, as lies in the county of Monroe,
be and the same is hereby declaredra State r_o'ad. ' I

§ 2. That John C._Canterbury, Martin Oslin, and Robert.C..Manslield, of
Audrain_county, be, and they are hereby appointed road ‘commissioners,
whose duty itshall ‘be to meet in the town of Mexico, in Audrain county,

'on the fourth Monday in May, A. D. 1849, and from thence proceed to

view_ and mark out a State road, running the nearest and ‘best route, to
intersect the southern terminus of the'roa_d, specified ' in the jirst section
of this act, having due regard to private as well as public interest.

§ 3. The above. commissioners, before entering on the duties assigned
them by this act, shall take- an_ oath before some oflicer authorized by
law to administer the same, faithfully-to discharge such duties.

§ 4. The commissioners shall each receive two dollars per day for ev-
ery day they may be necessarily employed in discharging the duties,.¢as-
signed them by this act, to be paid as provided by the laws now in force.

§ 5. It shall be the duty of the county-court’ of Audrain county, so
soon as said route is viewed and marked out, to cause the same to be
opened at least thirty_ feet. wide; the commissioners and county court
shall, in the discharge of the dutiescontemplated by this act, be govern-

ed ‘by. the general road laws now in force.
§ 6. It is hereby made the duty of the secretary of State to furnish the

I -
nosns, srrrn AND COUNTY. 583

W

irst named commissioner with a certified copy of this act, on or before
the hrst day of May, A. D. 1849. ‘ “
This act to take effect and be in force from its passage. ,_ 7

Approved March 3, 1849. '

 

_ , AN ACT.to change a State road.
Be it enacted by the General ./issemblg) _ofthe State of ‘Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. 'I'he State road runningfrom the town of Saint Charles to the
town of Mexico, in. Audrain county, be changed as follows: To leave the
present road at the ,west side of the town of Flint Hill, in Saint Charles
ceunty,'and to run over the old county road through the land of George
Myers, and to intersect said State road at McCays creek. '

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 2, 1849. , ~

1 ' \.

 

AN ACT ‘to vacate a State road in the counties of Ste). Genevieve and
. . , St. Francois.

Be it enacted by the Gen eraI_‘./Zssembly of the Stategf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That so much of an act entitled f,‘An act,to establish a State road
from Ste. Genevieve to Caledonia, and from Caledonia to Curtois mines,”
approved February -3, .1837, as establishes a State road from the—_to\vn of
Ste. Genevieve, in the county of Ste. Genevieve, leading to the town of
Farlmiington, in the county of _St. Francois, be and the same is hereby re-

ea e . . - _ , .

P § 2. That the road lmown as the American iron inountain road, lead-
ing from the-town of S e. Genevieve, in the county of Ste, Genevieve,
to the town of Farmihgton, in the county of St. Francois, be and the
sameis hereh declared a'State road. '

§ 3. It shal be the duty of the county courts of the respective coun- _,

ties through which thisroad passes, to cause the said read to bekept
open and in good repair according to law. _ _ ‘
This a t tu take effect from its passage. _ - . ,
Approved March 3, 1849. - ‘ '

 

1.

AN ACT for a change of a. State road. ' .
Bé itenacted by the General dssemblyqf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§*l. That the State road leading from -the-City of Jetferson tn George-
town is hereby changed ‘as’ follows: To leave the presen't‘State road

about one fourth of a mile east of Old California; running thence through-

A. R. Nelson’s lane, keeping the county roadto the.county seat of M on-
itealt county; and‘ 318366 West with the county road so as to intersect the
Georgetown road near Philip D. Stephen’: farm; and the same is hereby
declared to be a State road, and kept in repair agreeable to the provi-
sions of the general law on the subject of State roads. ' -

584 soaps, srarr. AND‘ cousrrv.

§ 2. All that part of'the road leading from where the chaiige in this
anti contemplates, to the place of intersection is hereby declared to be
1' ' ated.
This act to take effect from and after passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

 AN AC1‘. to declare 7a_-certain county road a State road.
Be it enaclcd by the General ./Hssemblg of the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the county :road leading from the town _of Weston, by
Henry Myers; thence by Iatan;tl1eri_ce by Maj. Benjamin Bean’s; thence
by the town of'Columb’us, in Buchanan county; thence by the Narrows;
thence to Henson Devorses;_intersécting the Bloomington road at the
point last aforesaid; thence along the said Blootnington road _to the
tow; of St. Joseph, shall be and the san_1e is hereby declared to be a State
roa . ' - - -‘

§ 2. It shallbe the duty of. the county courts of the counties of Platte
and Buchanan, to cause said road to be opened, by the hands subject to
vvork on roads, not less than forty feet wide; said road shall be regulated
and kept in repair in all respects as other State~'roads are now kept in
reair.-  - .*  *- - ~

[This act to~take effect from and after its passage. '

Approved February 13, 1849.-

- o..-

 

, "AN ACT concerning certain State roads.
Be itenacted by the General./fssemb/y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

‘ § 1. An act entitled “An _act declaring certain county roads a State
road,‘ leading from Jackson, in the county of Cape Girardeau, by the
Wy pfEred,erickto\i;p, in Madisdo¥‘c<1>)unty, and H8u:p9ts\Lille to Cgleidonia, it;

as ungton county approve e ruary 11 1 e amen e so as
require the county-‘<’:ourt_ of‘St.' Francois county to cause to be kept open
that portion ofsaid road that lies in the county of St. Francois, under the
provisions of an act for opening rtate roads, approved March 26, 1835.

§ 2. An act entitled “An act d,e_c'laring certain county roads, leading
from Huntsville, in Washington county, through Van Buren in RtplPy
county, to the State line, a State road,” approved December 11, 1840,
be so amended as to require the county courts of the several counties to

cause to be kept open and in repair all of that portion of said road that

lies or runs through theirrespective counties, under the provisions of
“An act for opening State roads in this State,” approved Marci: 26,
1845. ,
This act shall take efect and be in force from and after its passage-
Approved February 17, 1849. '

nouns, sure AND counrv. 585

AN ACT to vacate a certain State road, and to declare a certain road
a State road.

Be 2‘! enacted by the Generai Jfssembly cf the Slate qf .M[ssoun', as fellows:

§ 1. That so much of the State road leading from St. Joseph to Ore-
§on, in Holt county, as lies between the mouth of N odaway river and

odaway city, be and the same is hereby vacated; and that the county
road leading from N odaway City to Elizabethtown, in Andrew county,
thence to the mouth of the Nodaway river through the Missouri bottom,
be and the same is hereby declared a State road; and the county courts
are hereby authorized and required to order the overseers on said road
to open the same according to law, and if any such-overseer shall fail to
comply with any such order he shall be fined in the sum of ten dollars.

This act shall take etfect from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

~4—~/'\r‘..r ~./ ./\./'\.’\/\/\/\/x/\/\/\/'\/'\.

AN ACT to extend a certain State road in Buchanan county.
Be it enacted by the General ..4ssembly of the State qf Missoizri, as follows:

§ 1. Robert Duncan, Matthias Cline, and Isaac Ferris, of the county
of Buchanan, be and they are hereby appointed road commissioners,
whose duty it shall be to meet at the house of Benjamin McCrary, in
Buchanan county, on the second Monday in March next, and after being
duly qualified shall proceed to view and mark out a State road, begin-
ning at a point where the State road leading from Liberty, in Clay coun-
ty, in the direction of Sparta, in Buchanan county, now ends near the
county line between Platte and Buchanan counties, the best and nearest
route to the south-west corner of section No. seven (7), township No.
fifty-five ('55), of range No. thirty-four  thence the best route to
Sparta and St. Joseph, in Buchanan county, due regard being had to the
interest of individuals over whose land said road may pass.

§ 2. Should said commissioners fail to meet on the second Monday in
March next, then they may meet at any time thereafter before the second
Monday in July next, and proceed as in the foregoing section prescribed;
should a vacancy occur in said _board of commissioners, the remainder
shall fill such vacancy by appointing some suitable person or persons
from the county of Buchanan.

§ 3. Said commissioners may employ a surveyor and two chain car-
riers, and said commissioners and surveyor shall each receive two dol-
lars for _each day they shall necessarily be employed in locating and re-
porting said road, to be paid out of the three per cent. fund which may
hereafter became dueto the county of Buchanan; and the chain carries
shall each receiue one dollar per day, and be paid out of the fund afore-
said. - '

This act to, take eE'ect from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849. -

41

P

086 noans, sure AND COUNTY.

AN ACT to declare a certain road a -State road.

Be it enacted by the General ufssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of the county road leading from the town of Sa-
vannah to St. Joseph, commencing at the south-west corner of the quar-
ter section of land on which the said town of Savannah is situated, and
running by and past the residence of Ezekiel W. Smith, William Sitton
and Jeremiah Burnes, and . intersecting the State road that leads to St.
Joseph, be and the same is hereby declared a State road. ,

§ 2. That it is hereby made the duty of the county courts to order the
overseers on said road to open the same thirty-five feet wide, and no
widerrprovided, that nothing in this act shall be so construed as to au-
thorize or requirethe removing of the fence of Edwin Tool, that runs
along the side of said road.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

-\/-\r\'\,

 

'\r~.r\w\/\/"x -’\/'\

AN ACT declaring a certain county road a State road.
Be it enacted by the General ufssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the county road leading from,Georgetown, in Pettis county,
by Thomas Owen’s, in said county of Pettis, and John Thomton’s ferry,
on Grand river, in Henry county, to Osceola, in St. Clair county, shall

‘ be and the same is hereby declared a State road.

§ 2. Said road shall be subject to all the laws and regulations that now
govern the opening and kee ing in re air of State roads within this
State, and to this end, it shal be and ereby is made the duty of the
county courts of the several counties through which said road runs, to
cause the same to be opened, of the same width, and kept in repair in
like manner, as other State roads are now required by law to be opened
and kept in repair.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

~r~4\.A x \ -r-z-.A.- v~.-.- A - s.A¢s;»-A.-xn./-A,-u-.a«AAaV\na\»4v\;\,.z Am: \ . -

AN ACT to establish a State road in the counties of Marion and
' Shelby.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; their duty. 3- 3. Compensation allowed to certain otlicerc.
2. Governed by general road law. I

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly qftlze State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. William C. Mitchell and Jonathan Rogers, of the county of Shelby,
and James D. Kincaid, of the county of Marion, are hereby appointed
commissioners, who shall meet at the house known as the “Dobbins
house,” in Shelby county, on the first Monday in April next, or at any
time thereafter which may be agreed upon, for the purpose of_ viewing
and marking out a State road from a point commencing in the State road

noans, srarn AND COUNTY. A 587

running from Bloomin ton to Palmyra, within at least one mile of the .

“Dobbins house,’f att e most suitable point, running so as to intersect
the State road from Centreville to Hannibal, upon the most suitable and

direct route to Hannibal.
§ 2. Said commissioners shall be governed by the provisions of the

second article of “an act for opening and repairing public roads and

highways,” approved March 26, 1845. I
§ 3 The commissioners and surveyor shall receive the sum of two

dollars per day, and the chain carriers the sum of one dollar per day, to
be paid out of the road and canal fund belonging to said counties, in
pro ortion to the distance that said road runs in each county.

his act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 13, 1249.

 

AN ACT to discontinue a State road within the limits -of the city
of Warsaw.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly oftlze State of Missouri, asfollows:
§ 1. That all that part of a State road running across block No. ifty-

one, in the south-east ciuarter of section No. 17, in township No. 40, in '

range 22, within the
tinned and annulled.
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its ‘passage.

Approved January 16, 1849. -

imits of the city of Warsaw, is hereby discon-

o/‘A./\/‘/\/‘ /\/\/‘ /\/'.f~/\/‘/\/‘.a'\/‘/\/\l‘J‘/'

AN ACT to change a portion ‘of a State road leading from Spririglield,
in Greene county, to Bolivar, in Polk county.

Be itenacted by the General ufssembly Q/“the State q/' Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That so much of a State road leading from Springlield, in Greene
county, to Bolivar, in Polk county, as lies between the follow ng des-
cribed points, is hereby changed, viz: Beginning at a point where the
present road makes an angle opposite the arsonage known as the end
of Boonville street, continue thence nort wardly in the direction of
the said Boonville street, to a oint wihin thirty feet of a tract of land
lately sold by John P. Cam bell) to Joseph Gott, which tract has been
lately occupied by E. D. cKinney; thence to the south-east corner of
a tract of land now occupied by L. Hendrick, which route is already
opened out and hereby declared a State road.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county court of Greene county to
cause said road to be opened at least thirty and not more than sixty feet
wide, and to be kept up as other State roads.

§ 3. All that portion of the present State road lying between the points
above mentioned, is hereby vacated.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

588 aoans, swarm. AND? couurr.

AN ACT to repeal “An act establishing and keeping in repair roads

' and highways in the counties of Lincoln, Pike and Montgomery,”

approved January 31st, 1845, and an act amendatory thereto, ap-
proved February llth, 1845.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfollows;

§ 1. The above recited acts are hereby repealed, so far as Lincoln and‘
Montgomery counties are concerned.

§ 2. “An act for opening and repairing public roads and highways,”
approved March 24th, 1845, shall be and remain in» full force and effect
in said counties of Lincoln and Montgomery.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 5, 1849.

--"m/' ~/"'\.;"~.“\f . ’-/\_z‘ /'x..-’\.’ \.J'

 

\..’\/‘

AN ACT to declare a certain road a State road.
Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Mz'ssouri, as follows:

§ 1. The road leading from Columbia, in Boone county, to Paris, in
Monroe county, in this State, by the way of William Maupin’s, Joshua
Lampton’s and E. P. Cunningham’s, in Boone, Thomas Buckley’s, in
Audrain, and Granville Snell’s, in Monroe county, be and the same is
hereby declared a State road. 4

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved January 16, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize the county court of St. Charles county to
appoint commissioners.

§ 1. County court to audit and allow accounts 5 3. Court and commissioners to be governed by
of Benjamin A. Alderson and others. a certain act.

‘2. Court to appoint commissioners. 3 4. Court may order a re-survey of State road.

Be it enacted by the General .dssembIy of the State (f.Mi880u?i, asfollows:

§ 1. The county court of St. Charles county is hereby authorized and
required to audit and allow the accounts of Benjamin A. Alderson and
others, appointed as commissioners by said court, at the May term" in the
year 1846, to view and mark out a State road, and also the accounts of
the surveyor and other assistants employed by them.

§ 2. Said court is hereby authorized, as soon as convenient after the
passage of this act, to appoint three suitable persons as commissioners,
to view, mark out and locate a State road, upon the best and most prac-
ticable route, from the house of William Van Burkloe’s, in said county,
to the bridge across Big creek, near its mouth into the river Cuivre.

§ 3. The court and commissioners shall be governed, in all things not
provided for in this act, by an act entitled “An act to view and mark
out a State road,” approved February 6th, 1843, and the “act for open-
ing and repairing roads and highways,” approved_March 26th, 1845.

§ 4. The county court may, if they think proper, order a re-survey of

nosns, srrs-rs AND COUNTY. 589

‘the State road, or any part thereof, leading from the town of St. Charles
to the mouth of said Big creek, as surveys and marked out by the com-
missioners, appointed under the act of February 6th, 1843, and may
order said commissioners to have proper plats and field notes of said
road to be made out for the use of said court.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\.t

AN ACT to change a portion of a State road in Scotland county.

Be itenacted by the General dssembty of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of a State road leading from Sand Hill, in Scotland
county, to Fort Clark, as lies between the following described points, is
hereby changed, viz: Be 'nning at a point where the present road crosses
the county road leadin gem Hilbrant’s mill to the town of Memphis,
thence south alon sai county road, to the east end of a lane north of
John C. Collins’ welling house; thence west, through the lane passing
north of said dwelling, so as to intersect the said State road at the near-
est and best point.

§ 2. All that portion of the present State road that lies between the
:points above named, is hereby vacated. '

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

\J\I\J\4\/\.I\./\r \/\I\/\J\/\."

 

AN ACT to establish a State road from the residence of Peter Boyer, in
Buchanan county. to intersect the State road leading from Weston, in
Platte county, to Plattsburg, in Clinton county.

Be it enacted by the General Jfssembly Q/' the State of Illissouri, as follows:

§ 1. ‘Lance VVoodworth, of Platte county, Edward Snyder and Ransom
Ridge, of Buchanan county, are hereby appointed road c\ommissioners,
whose duty it shall be to meet on the second Monday of April next, aththc
residence of Peter Boyer in Marion township, in the county of Buchanan,
"and after being duly qualified, shall proceed to View and marlcout a State
road from the residence of Peter Boyer aforesaid, the most practicable
route, to intersect the State road leading from Weston, in Platte county, to
Plattsburg, in Clinton county‘. at or near where a certain branch, known by
the name of Hollnnd’s branch. crosses said road in Platte county, doing as
little damage as may be to individuals over whose land the proposed road
may run. '

§ 2. Should said commissioners fail to meet on the second Monday of April»

next, then they may meet at any time thereafter, before the second Monday
in July next. and proceed as in the first section provided.

§ 3. Should a vacancy occur in said board of commissioners, the remain-
der shall lill the same by appointing some suitable person from the county
in which such vacancy may occur.

§ 4. Said commissioners may employ a surveyor and two chain-carriers,
who shall perform the duty as provided for in an act entitled “An act for open-

590 _ROAD8, sure AND COUNTY.

ing and repairing public roads and highways; approved March 26, 1845.”
The commissioners and surveyor shall each receive two dollars per day,and
the chain-carriers each one dollar per day they shall necessarily be employed
in locating and reporting said road, as provided in the act aforesaid.

This act to take etiect from and after its passage.
Approved February 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change a certain portion of a State road.

§ 1. Location of a State road leading from Lib— 2. County court of Clay county required to
erty, in Clay county, to Richmond, in take certain ste sin relation to said road.
Ray county; location defined. 3. Part of said roa vacated.

Be it enacted by the General yfssembly of the State of Missouri, asfallows:

§ 1. That so much of a State road leading from Liberty, in Clay county,
to Richmond, in Ray county, is hereby changed, to wit: Beginning at the
corporation boundary of. said town of Liberty. near the north-west corner
of Valentine Peyton’s enclosed lands; and from thence to run with the
county road, as now travelled, to the crossing of Rush creek; from thence
east with the neighborhood road, as the same now runs, so as to intersect

.the State mad aforesaid at one Joseph Henshaw’s.

§ 2. That the county court of Clay county be required to take such steps
in relation to said road as are required in section 34 of article two of “An

act for opening and repairing public roads and highways; approved March.

26th, 1845.”

§ 3. That so much of said road as lies between the Richtield road and the
point where the above d('SCl‘ll)ed road intersects the old State road is hereby
vacated.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 3, I849.

 

AN ACT to change a part of a certain State road established by an act to
establish a State road from Waterloo to the northern boundary line of
‘ the State of Missouri; approved February 15, 1841.

Be it enacted by the General .6153:-mbly qf the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the county court of the county of Clark is hereby authorized
to change so much of said road as lies between the farm of Mary Mont-
gomery and Cedar creek.

§2. The alteration authorized by this act is upon this condition, that a
county road is established between the farm and creek aforesaid upon other
and different ground, and that the said county of Clark shall have no dama-
ges to pay in consequence of the location of the same.

§ 3. When a change shall be made as af0rcs:tid,all that part of said State
road between the said farm and creek aforesaid shall be vacated.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March '2, I849. '

loans, sure AND COUNTY. 591

AN ACT to establish a State road from Bethany, in Harrison county, to
. Rochester, in Andrew county.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; duties of. 4. Commissioners; how governed.
2. Compensation. 5. Public and private interest consulted by
3. Expenses, how paid. ; commissioners.

_Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of 1lIz'sssurz', as follows:

§ I. William Rainds and Jesse Martin, of Gentry county, and James
Brown, of liarrisou county, be, and they are hereby appointed road com-
missiouers, whose duty it shall be to meet at the town of Bethany, in Har-
rison county, on the lirst Monday in May next, or within sixty days there-
after, to be agreed upon by said commissioners; and from thence view and
mark out a State road by way of Athens, in Gentry county; thence to inter-
sect the State road running from Pattensburg, in D iviess county, to Roches-
ter, in Andrew county, at or near Rochester. '

§ '3. The commissioners and surveyor shall be allowed two dollars per day
each, and the chain-carriers one dollar per day each, to be paid out of the
three per cent. fund belonging to said counties. .

§ 3. The counties through which said read may run, shall pay in propor-
tion to the length of said road, which may be laid in each county, respec-
tively.

§4. The commissioners shall be governed, and the road be opened in
pursuance of the general law governing State roads.

§ 5. The cnmmisv-'ioners,in laying _out said road, shall takeinto considera- ~

tion both public and private interest.

This act to be in force from and alter its passage.
Approved March 2, I849.

i/-r/\/\/~/\/\r‘-'v'~.t.z\/\/\."\.‘~/\.«~.z -/V wuvvvvwvvvvvvv a‘. /./x/\J\r\/‘V

AN ACT about Roads in St. Louis County.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly If the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of St. Louis county shall be authorized, in the
manner provided in this section, to borrow, for a period not exceeding
twenty years, at a rate of interest not exceeding seven per cent. any
sum of money not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars in any one
year, as the same may be needed for the purpose of improving the leading
roads of said county. For said money the court shall issue the bonds of
the county, under the seal of the court, signed by the presiding justice,
and countersigned by the clerk of the court; which bonds snail state
when and where the same are payable, and may have coupons attached

_ for the interest. jdefore ‘any such loan shall be contracted, the county court

shall cause an election to be held, to test the sense of the qualified voters
of said county, as to the propriety of making said loan. Such election
shall be advertised for fifteen days in at least two public newspapers,
and by fifty printed handbills set up in public places in said county, and
such advertisement shall state the object of the loan, the amount proposed
to be borrowed, and the time of the election. Every such election: shall
be conducted and returned as other elections. 'l'he poll books shall
have two columns: one headed “for the loan,” and the other headed
“ against the loan.” If a majority of the qualified voters at such election

592 ' ROADS, sure AND country.

shall cast their votes “for the loan,” then the county court shall have
full power to make the loan, issue the bonds, and take all steps to carry
the object of the loan into effect. No such election shall be held during
the present year, but the county court may make the loan for the present
year, without such election. .
§ 2. The money borrowed, under this act, shall be expended under
the order of said court, in improving the following roads: 1. The St.
Charles road, from the oint to which the same has been ‘McAdamized
to a point opposite to the town of St. Charles. 2. The Market street
road, from a point near the Rockspring to the western line of the county.
3. The Gravois road, from the point to which it has been McAdamized
to the southern line of the county. 4. The Carondelet road, from the
Boint to which it has been McAdamized to the Meramac river. 5. The
ellfontaine road, from the point to which it has been McAdamized to
the Missouri ri/ver.
§ 3. The live roads, located under this act, shall be permanent State
roads; and the county court shall cause the same to be improved and put
in good order. The county court shall pay the necessary and proper
expenses of such location, and shall cause the plats and field notes to be
filed and carefully preserved in the oflice of the clerk of the county.
§ 4. The county court shall cause the said five roads to be surveyed
and located, and to be altered when the same may be necessary, and to
be laid out at least sixty feet wide, as nearly on a straight line as the
ground will admit of, a good road being advantageously constructed, and
on the ground where the said roads ought to be permanently established.
§ 5. The money to be borrowed under this act shall be expended under
the order of said court in locating, grading, embanking, and draining
said five leading roads, and in making bridges and culverts thereon, an
McAdamizing such portions of said road as are most liable to become wet,
muddy, and out of repair, and those parts that would be most benefltted by
being McAdamized. Said grading, embanlcments, and other improve-
ments shall be made with the view to the same being hereafter McAdam-
ized, when the interest and means of the county may warrant such further
improvement, said court shall cause the greatest part of the money
borrowed to be expended in such of those roads as_ are most necessary
and important.
§ 6. Said county court may cause plank roads to be constructed on
any of said public roads, if they shall be satisfied that such roads would be
cheaper and more advantageous than other modes of improvement.
§ 7. The county court may appropriate from the county treasury every
year a sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars, to be applied to keeping
said five roads in repair, and to the making of bridges, culverts, an
embankments in other leading roads that are permanently established in
said county.
§ 8. All public roads hereafter «established in said county shall be at
least sixty feet wide, and any portion of the public road of said county
may be laid out eighty feet wide, when the county court shall make an
order to that effect.
§ 9. When any road shall be changed, altered, extended, or widened,
and any owner of any ground, needed for the use of the road, shall
demand pay for the same, the court shall appoint three disinterested

noans, swarm AND oourrrv. ~ 593

householders of the county, who, having been duly sworn, shall view the
ground thus required for the public use,- and taking into consideration
the advantages as well as the disadvantages of the improvement to the
person claiming damages, shall assess the same, and make report to the
county_,court; and if, inlthe opinion of the court, the damages assessed
be not exorbitant, the same shall be paid out of the treasury, otherwise,
the court may set aside the award, and appoint other commissioners; and
upon the amount of such damages being paid or tendered to the person
entitled thereto, or to their legal representatives, the land thus taken
shall be thereafter dedicated to the public use; and where damages are
assessed to persons not applying for the same, or when the person to
receive the same is unknown, the amount assessed shall remain in the
county treasury, payable on demand to the person entitled thereto, and
the same shall operate as a tender of the money.

§ 10. It shall be the duty of the county court and of all oflicers acting
under it to cause the money of the county to be appropriated and ex-
pended economically, faithfully, and judiciously, and to use all proper
effort to make said money go as far as possible in the construction of good,
permanent roads, on suitable ground, and with a view to further improve-
ments to be thereafter made.

§ 11. The Qiird, fifth, and sixth sections of “a supplementary act
respecting roads in St. Louis county,” approved January 20, A. D. 1847,
are continued in full force and e&'ect; and “ an act to] amend ‘ an act
to incorporate the St. Charles and St. Louis turnp' e company,’ ” ap-
proved January 20, A. D. 1847, is also continued in full force. The fourth
section of “ a sup lementary act respecting roads in St. Louis county,”
is hereby repealed. .

§ 12. Whenever as much as ten miles of any one of said roads shall be
completed and ke tin good repair, the county court shall be authorized tos
erect and keep to -gates, and lix the rate of tolls to be collected thereat;

and the nett proceeds of the tolls collected at any such gate shall be,
i faithfully and economically applied to the repair and improvement of the

road on which such gate may be erected. .

§ 13. If, in the construction of any of the public roads of ‘the -county,
it shall become necessary to use stone, timber, or earth belonging to
individuals, and no private bargain can be made on fair terms for the
purchase of the same, it shall be lawful for the said county court to
order the marshal of the county to summon a jury of six citizens, not
owning property on the road to be improved, who, being duly sworn by
the marshal to render a true verdict between the parties, shall examine
the premises, and assess the damages to the freehold, and the value of
the material thus wanted for public use; and if, u on the return of said
verdict, the county court shall assume to pay the dhmages, and the value
of the material thus to be taken, then it shall be lawful for said county
court, by her servants, agents, or contractors, to take and carry away,
for the use of the public,such stone,timber, and earth as maybe wanted.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

594 aoans, sure AND counrv.

AN ACT to establish a State Road.
Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly q/' the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Thomas Allison, of Cooper county, Gideon B. Miller, of Pettis
county, Miller W. Easley, of the county of Johnson, are hereby appointed
commissioners, whose duty it shall be to meet at the house of Eli E.
Hammons, on the first Monday in April next, or at such time as may be
agreed on by them, and proceed to survey and mark out a State road, com-
mencing on the State road leading from Boonville to Lexington, at the
most practicable point near said Hammons, thence by the way of Chouteau
Springs and the mouth of Black water in Cooper county to Davis’ mills
in Johnson county, thence to Warrensburg in said county of Johnson.

§ 2. The commissioners hereby appointed shall be governed by the
general law now in force on the subject of State roads; and the road
shall be opened in accordance with the same; provided, that no damages
shall be allowed to any erson through whose land said road shall run,
when the same shall follow the line of any county or State road now
established by law, unless, in the opinion of said commissioners, the
additional width which may be given to said road may do injury to those
through whose land said road pass.

§ 3. Said commissioners sha leach receive a compensation not exceed-
ing one dollar and fifty cents per day, to be paid out of the county trea-
sury of those counties through which the road may run, in proportion to
the length of said road in each county.

§ 4. A majority of said commissioners may act, or they may till vacan-
cies, if any failure may take place in said body, or failure to attend at
the time and place above named.

This act to be in force from and after the passage thereof.

Approved March 12, 1849.

   

AN ACT declaring a certain County Road a State Road.
Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the present county road, leadin from Arthur G. Youn ’s,
S 8
in Lafayette county, by way of Fisher’s ford, to William Roberts’ in
Pettis county, be, and the same is hereby declared to be a State road.
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county, through which said road passes,
to cause said road to be opened and improved, as other State roads are
re uired to be opened and improved.
% 3. That part of the State road, lying between, William S. Roberts’
and the county line of Pettis county, is hereby declared vacated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

f 4’JJffffJ\\

moans, swan: AND comrrv. . 595

AN ACT to establish a State Road in Gentry County.
Be it enacted by the General Hssembly Qf the State qf .M'z'ssourz', as follows:

§ 1. Joshua Cox, Astifus Brown, and Peter Ha: men, of Gentry county,
be, and they are hereby appointed road commissioners, whose duty it
shall be to meet at Esqr. Allen’s, in Lott’s grove, in Gentry county, on
the third Monday in May next, or within sixty days thereafter, to be
agreed upon by said commissioners; whose duty it shall be to view and
mark out a State road, commencing at some central point in said grove,
from thence in the direction of St. Joseph, in Buchanan county, so as to
intersect the State road from Athens, in Gentry, to Rochester, in Andrew
county, at or near the fork of Platte river.

? 2. The commissioners and surveyors shall each be allowed two
do lars per day, and the chain-carriers one dollar per day each, to be
paid out of the three per cent. fund belonging to said county.

§ 3. The commissioners shall be governe , and the road be opened,
in pursuance of the general law governing State roads.

4. The commissioners, in laying out said road, shall take into con-
si eration both public and private interest.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved. March 10, 1849.

 

 é\J\/\/ 

g AN ACT to declare a certain Road a State Road.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slaleqf Mz'ssou_rz', as follows:

§ 1. The present county road, leading from the Chariton bridge (near
the old town of Chariton) to the town of Brunswick, all in Chariton
county, be, and the same is hereby declared a State road.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county court of said county of Chariton

to cause said road to he opened and kept in good repair as other State.

roads.
This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

(\/-\r\,»~_;\r\_r\/\/\f\/'\f\ '\/‘\."\/‘\’\/\.f\f\f\/\/'\

 

AN ACT to establish a State Road in Cape Girardeau and Scott
Counties.

Be it ecacled by the General .Hssembly of the State of Missouri ,7 as follows:

§ 1. Hiram L. Sloan and Thomas Johnson, of Cape Girardeau county,
and Archibald A. Price and George Petit, of Scott county, are appointed
commissioners to survey and mark out a State road from Cape Girardeau
city, to intersect the State road leading from the Iron Banks in Mississippi
county, to Benton, in Scott county, at or near-the line dividing Scott
and Mississippi counties, by the way of Commerce and Price’s Landing,
in Scott county.

§ 2. Said commissioners shall meet in Cape Girardeau city on the

twenty-second day of April, eighteen and forty-nine, for the purpose

\

596 some, sure Ann COUNTY.

of carrying into effect the objects of this act. They may employ a sur-
veyor, chain carriers, and other assistants necessary to the accomplish-
ment of the objects of this act; and they shall, as soon as practicable
after their meeting, proceed to survey and mark out said road.

§ 3. Said commissioners, in their action, shall have due regard to the
public utility of said road.

§ 4. Should said commissioners not meet on the day above appointed,
they shall meet on a day not more than forty days thereafter, to be desig-
nated by a majority of them.

§ 5. For all the purposes of this law, a majority of said commissioners
may act and fill vacancies that may occur in the commission.

§ 6. The expenses of surveying, marking, and opening said road shall
be borne and paid by the counties of Cape Girardeau and Scott, in pro-
portion to the amount of labor in each county respecting said road.

§ 7. Said commissioners shall make full reports to the county courts
of Cape Girardeau and Scott counties, of their proceeding under this
law; and at their first term, after the filing of such reports, said courts
respectively shall cause said road to be opened, within their respective
counties, to the width of at least thirty-feet.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849. .

 

AN ACT to vacate part of a State Road.

Be it enacted by the General Jssembly of the State qf Missoluri, asjbllozos:

? 1. That so much of the State road leading from E. M. Campbell’s
mi ls, in Polk county, to Mount Vernon, in Lawrence county, as lies
within the county of Dade, is hereby vacated.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT establishing a State road from Weston to Saint Joseph, by
way of Linnville. '

Wnnnms, by an act of the Legislature, passed at the fourteenth Gene-
ral Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled “An act to locate a
State road from Weston to St. Joseph, by way of Linnville,” a
State road was marked, viewed and located by commissioners act-

L ing under the authority of said act above recited, commencing at
the town of Weston, running thence to St. Joseph, by way of Linn-
ville; and whereas, that portion of said road which lies in Platte
county has never been legally established and opened, owing to the
refusal of the county court of Platte county to receive the report
of said commissioners, on account of some alledged informality or
irregularity in the proceedings; and whereas, that part of said road
which lies in the county of Buchanan has been regularly established
and opened; and whereas, it has been shown to this Legislature that

I

some, sun AND counrv. 597.

great public inconvenience has resulted from the non-establishing
of sai road, or so much thereof as lies in Platte county:

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. It shall be the duty of the county court of Platte county to re-
ceive the report of the commissioners alluded to in the preamble to this
act, and to waive all objections to any informalities or irregularities at-
tending the same, and to establish the said road according to the survey
and location made by said commissioners, as if their report were in due

form and entirely regular in all respects; and said county court shall —

provide for the payment of said commissioners for their services in lo-
cating said road, and other expenses attending the same, according to

law.
§ 2. This act shall notbe construed to afect the rights of any party

to the recovery of costs in the county or circuit court of Platte county,

or the supreme court of this State, in the matter of difference heretofore ‘

existing between the said county court of Platte county and the com-
missioners aforesaid; nor shall this act affect the right of any person to
to the recovery of the damages assessed by said commissioners in favor
of such persons as refused to grant the right of way for said road, and
over whose land said road was laid out.

§ 3. The county court of Platte county, in receiving the report of said
commissioners, shall establish the said road, and cause the same to be
opened, agreeably to the provisions of the act recited in the preamble
to this act, and the act entitled “An act for o ening and repairing pub-
lic roads and hi hways,” approved March 26 , 1845.

This act to tales effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

&A,&AfJJ\ u&AAI

 

AN ACT to change a portion of a State road leading from Springfield,
in Greene county, to Forsyth, in Taney county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State If Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of the State road leading from Springfield, in
Greene county, to Forsyth, in Taney county, as hes between the follow-
ing described points, is. hereby changed, viz: Leaving the present road
at or near John Weaver’s blacksmith shop and following the ridge in the
directiomof Ozark, leaving Morrow’s field on the right, cross Finley
where the: present road now crosses, thence through ‘Ozark, along Main

street fl'0YlI1ll0t'tl'l to south, thence to the top of the ridge, intersecting

the old road about one mile and a half south of Ozark. .
§ 2. N. A: Davis, John Nash and A. N. Former, of Greene rcnunty,
are hereby appointedcommissioners to survey and mark out the.-altera-
tion of said road, and the field notes of the same shall be liled in the
omce ol thsweierlc of the county court of Greene county; and said com-
missioners shall each receive one dollar per day for their services , for
each day they may be so employed, to be paid out of the road and canal
fund" belonging to Greene county. .

598 adans, sure awn COUNTY.

§3. It shall be the duty of the county court of Greene county, as
soon as the plat and field notes of said survey shall be filed in the otlice
of the clerk aforesaid, to cause said road to be opened at least thirty
and not more_than sixty feet wide, to be opened and kept up as other

State roads. ,_
§ 4. All that portion of the present State road that lies between the

points above named, is hereby vacated.
§ 5. Should a vacancy occur in the board of commissioners, the two
remaining commissioners may perform the duties required of them by

this act.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 2, 1849.

0
/‘~ '\.J\f~..r~ I / .-'‘‘./‘-./'\/_/'~/\v‘\./~/'~—

AN ACT to establish a State road from Trenton, in Grundy county, to
Medicine Bridge, in Livingston county.

Be it encicted by the General afssembly qfthc State Q/' Missouri, asfollows:
§ 1. -That Thomas W. Jacobs, of the county of Grundy, and Francis

~ Preston and Andrew Craig, of the county of Livingston, be and they

are hereby appointed road commissioners, whose duty it shall be to meet
in the town of Trenton, in Grundy county, on the first Monday in April
next, for the purpose of viewing’! and Marking out a State road from
Trenton, in Grundy county, to edicine Bridge, near Gregory’s, in Liv-
ington county, on the nearest and best route, havin due regard to pri-
vate property, as well as the ground over which sai road shall pass.

§ 2. The above named commissioners, res ectively, before entering
upon the duties assigned them by this act, sha 1 severally take an oath,
before some judge or justice of the peace, for the faithful performance
of the duties required of them by this act.

§ 3. Should the board of commissioners appointed by this act fail to
meet on the day herein designated, then they shall meet on some other
day prior to the first day of October, eighteen hundred and forty-nine,

to be a reed upon by the members of the board.
§ 4. hould a vacancy or vacancies occur in said board of commis-

sioners, by any cause whatever, the remaining commissioner or commis-
sioners shall fill such vacancy or vacancies, by theappointment of some
other suitable person or persons.
§5. Said board of commissioners shall appoint a surveyor and two
chain carriers to accompany them, and cause their surveyor to make out
one complete plat of the ‘road, for the use of the county courts of the
‘counties throu h which said road passes, and one for the Secretary of
State, noting t ereon the several courses and distances thereof.
§ 6. It shall be the duty of the county courts of the counties through
which said road passes, so soon as (practicable after the receipt of said
plats, to cause the road to he opens at least thirty feet wide, by the
ands subject to work on roads and highways in the respective counties,

and be kept in good repair.
§ 7. The commissioners shall each receive for their services, one dol-

noans, srarn AND COUNTY. . 599

lar and fifty cents; the surveyor, two dollars, and the chain carriers,
each, one dollar per day, for their services.

§ 8. The county courts of the several counties through which said
road may pass, shall pay the expenses accruing under this act, out of
any funds in the county treasury, proportionate to the extent of the road
to be made in each county through which the same may pass, the amount
to be certified by afiidavit of the commissioners: provided, that no ex-
penses incurred under the provisions of this section shall be chargeable
to or paid by the county of Livingston, nor shall the county of Livings-
ton be compelled to pay any damage that may be demanded by reason of
laying out said road; provided also, that if, in the opinion of the county
court of Grundy county, the establishment of said road is inexpedient
and improper, (on the aforesaid conditions) they may give notice to the
commissioners of that fact, in which case, the commissioners shall‘ not
establish the road aforesaid-

§ 9. The county courts of the counties through which said read pass-
es, shall cause the same to be kept in good repair, in the same manner
and under the same regulations that county roads are required to be re-

aired.
P This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

/v\Ab AAfV‘

 

J‘

 

AN ACT to view and mark out a State road in Sullivan and Mercer
counties. T .

Be it enacted by the General ./2ssemb’y of the Statepf Missouri, as follows:

1. Arkelson Keith and John Barnes, of Mercer county, and John_
Jo nson, of the county of Sullivan, are hereby appointed road commis-
sinners, whose duty it shall be to meet on the divide between Locust and
Medicine creeks, at a point where the State road leading from Trenton,
in Grundy county, to Alexandria, on the Mississippi, crosses said divide,
on the iii-st Monday in May next, or as soon thereafter as said commis-
sioners may agree in on, within three months thereafter, for the purpose
of viewing and mar ing out a State road from thence to Princeton, in
Mercer county, on the nearest and most practicable route, due regard
bein had to the ground over which said road shall pass, and the least
poss§>le damage to the individuals living on said route.
§ 2. The commissioners shall each receive for their services, one dol-
lar and {if cent for each day they may be necessarily employed in lay-
in out an marking said road. The expenses incurred in laying out
an marking said road, shall be apportioned between the counties of
Mercer and Sullivan, in proportion to the distance and time s ent in lay-
ing out said road, to be paid out of the three per cent. fun belonging
to said counties named in this act, the amount to be certified by said
commissioners upon affidavit.
§ 3. It shall be the duty of the county courts of Mercer an Sullivan
counties, as soon as practicable after the receipt of the plats of said
road, to cause that portion of said road within their respective counties
to be opened at least thirty feet wide, by hands subject to work on roads

600 Bonus, srarr. AND counrr.

and highways in the bounds of said road, and to keep the same in good
repair.

§ 4. The commissioners shall not have power to employ a surveyor or
chain carriers.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

\J\a\. \./\/\J\4\a\/\.4\./\/\/ ~J\/\/\/\z \/\/\

AN ACT to view and mark out a State road from Shipley’s ferry on the
Osage river, in the county of Osage, by way of Rollins’ ferry, to in-
tersect a State road in Crawford county.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qf the State of Missouri, as/‘allows:

§ 1. That Anthony Burtman, Thomas Do ett of .Os e county and

Thomas Kinsey of Crawford county are here y appointe road commis-
sioners for the purpose of viewing and marking out a State road from

Shipley’s ferry on the Osage river by the way of Rollins’ ferry on the
Gasconade river, the nearest and best route, so as to intersects State
road now leading from J etferson Cityto Massey’s iron works at or near
the widow Geesley’s in Crawford county, having due regard to private
property, as well as the round over which said road passes.

§ 2. The above namedg commissioners res ectively before entering up-
on the duties assigned them by this act, sha l severally take an oath be-
fore some judge or justice of the peace, for the faithful performance of

the duties required of them by this act.
§ 3. The commissioners appointed by the provisions of this act shall

meet at Shipley’s ferry n the Osage river, on the first Monday in April-,
1849, or on any other day in said month of April, to be agreed on by
themselves, and proceed to view and mark out said road from thence to
its termination in Crawford county.

§ 4. If a vacancy shall occur in said board of commissioners the re-
maining commissioner or commissioners, shall have power to fill said va-

cancy.

 5. The said commissioners as soon as they shall have completed the
duties required of them by this act, shall report the same to their respec-
tive county courts, through which said road passes and the said court!
shall immediately cause said road to be opened out under the provisions
of “An act for opening and keeping in repair State roads,” approved
March 26th, 1845. * a

§ 6. Said commissioners shall be allowed the sum of one dollar‘ perday

for every day they may be necessarily employed in the duties assigned
them by this act, to be paid out of the road and canal fund belonging to
said counties; each county payingits own commissioner or commissioners.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

.\_/‘ _r~./\r\/\.a~_/~- “xx xfx" .r~ -a'~..»-up

AN ACT to establish a State road.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Jllissouri, as follows:
§ 1. J. J. McDaniel, Charles Huber and T. H. Schlimback of Osage

norms, STATE AND COUNTY. 601

county, are hereby appointed commissioners, for the purpose of viewing
and marking out a State road from Lisletown, in Osage county throug
said county, in the most practicable and direct way to the county line
between said county and the county of Crawford, in the direction of
Masse ’s iron works. .

§ 2.ySaid commissioners shall meet at the town of Lisletown on the
first Monday in May next, or on some day to be agreed upon by them and
proceed to view and mark out said read on the nearest and best route
practicable. _ . _

§ 3. Said commissioners and all others engaged in opening said road,
shall have and possess all the power; and be overned in all respects, by
the law now in force in relation to tate roar s.

§ 4. Said commissioners shall each receive a compensation of one dollar
per day and the surveyor (if one-be appointed by them) one dollar and
tift cents er da ,to be aid out of the county treasury of the county
of 5;) P Y P

sage.
This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

  

AN ACT respecting a certain State road.

Be it enacted by the General uissembly qftlie State of Missouri, asfollows: ‘

§ 1. That an act entitled “An act to change a portion of a State road
leading from St. Louis to Springfield, in Green county, approved March
24th, 1845,” be and the same is hereby repealed.
This act to take effect from its passage. - "
Approved March 10, 1849.

 

/‘.I\/\»/\J*v

A BILL [AN ACT] to locate a State road from,Parkville to Weston.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That Huston McFarland, Charles Wells and Luke P. Stiles of

Platte county, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to mark,
view and locate a State road from the town of Parlrville in Platte coun-
ty to Weston in said county by way of Porrels’ point, the ‘nearest and
best route. .

§2. The said commissioners shall meet at the town of Parkville in
Platte county, on the first Monday of July, 1849, and severally take an
oath before some person authorized to administer the same faithfully to
perform the duties assigned them by this act, any two of whom shall con-
stitute a quorum and be competent to discharge the duties by this act
assigned to the three commissioners aforesaid.

§ 3. Said commissioners may appoint a surveyor and chain carriers, if
in their opinion the same be necessary to accompany them and aid them
in the discharge of their duties, and said commissioners shall cause said
surveyor to make out two plats of said road, one for filing in the county
court of Platte county and one for filing in the oflice of the Secretary of.
State.

 

42

602 * norms, srars AND covwrr.

§ 4. It shall be the duty of said commissioners to make report of their
proceedings and return with said report, the plat of said road required
by the third section of this act, to the county court of Platte-county, at
the term of said court next after the same shall be located and surveyed
as provided by this act, or as soon thereafter as practicable.

§ 5. And it shall be the duty of the county court of Platte county,
after the receipt of the report of said commissioners and the plat of survey
as aforesaid, as soon as practicable to cause said road to be opened un-
der the provisions of the second article of the act entitled “An act for
opening and repairing public roads and highways,” approved March
26, 1845.

§ 6. The said commissioners and the surveyor by them employed, shall
each receive two dollars per day for each day employed in reviewing,
locating and surveying said road, and the_ chain carriers one dollar per
day each, and it shall be the duty of the county court of Platte county
to make allowances out of the road and canal fund of said county for
the same, upon filing of the report and plat of survey required by the
4th and 5th sections of this act.

§ 7. Upon failure of said commissioners or a majority of them to meet
as required‘ by the second section of this act,‘ they shall perform the du-
ties required of them by this act, agreeably to the provisions of the
second article of an act entitled “An act for opening and repairing pub-
lic roads and highways,” approved March 26, 1845. - ‘

§ 8. So much of said road as may be laid out entire upon any State or
county road, shall not be surveyed but viewed, marked, located and re-
ported, as provided in the 3rd and 4th sections of this act.

This act to take effect’ from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 

s’\/\I'\/\"\e"\/\/'\I\r\ *\,~\r'\r\/\ '\4\'\"\

AN'AdT to view and survey a State road from Putnam county through
Schuyler to Scotland county. "

§ 1. Commissioners; duty of. 3 5. Road to be opened.
2. Surveyor and chain carriers to be up 6. Fees and how paid.
pointed. % 7. Commissioners and others; how governed.

3. Vacancies how tilled. 8. Secretary of State; his duty.

4. Report and plats to be made.

Be it enacted by the General ufssenibly _0f the State of Missouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. Josiah W. Hargus and Henry Davis of the county of Schuyler
and Thomas Hope of the county of Scotland, be, and they are hereby
appointed commissioners, whose duty it shall be to meet at or near Har-
grave’s mill in Putnam county on the first Monday in May next, or on
some subsequent day agreed upon by them thence proceed to view, sur-
vey and mark out a route for a State road on the nearest and best direc-
tion to Lancaster in Schuyler county, thence to intersect the present
State road from Tippecanoe to Ho es mill at such place, between the
last ahovementioned place-, as will conduce the most to the public in-
terest, and upon which the best road can most easily be made and at the
said point of intersection the said review and survey shall terminate.

§ 2. The commissioners shall employ a competent surveyor and chain

ROADS, s'r.u'1-3 AND COUNTY. . 603

carriers, who together with the commissioners shall take an oath to exe-
cute faithfully the duties required of them by law.

§ 3. Should a vacancy occur in the board of commissioners, the re-
mainder shall fill such vacancy.

§ 4. The commissioners shall as soon as the survey is completed, make
out or cause to be made out a report accompanied by lats of said road,
and return them to the county courts of the county t rough which said
road runs respectively and shall forward one complete copy to the Sec-
retary of State. ' -

§ 5. The county courts of the respective counties through which said
road shall pass, as soon as practicable after the receipt of said plats,
shall cause so much of said road as lies in their respective counties, to
be opened and kept in repair as other State roads, are opened and re-
paired by law.

§ 6. The commissioners shall receive one dollar and twenty-five cents
per day, each, for their services; the surveyor two dollars, and the chain
carriers such sum as may be agreed upon by the commissioners, not to
exceed one dollar per day, which amount shall be certified by the commis-
sioners and paid out of the road and canal fund of each county in its proper
proportion.

§ 7. In all things not herein provided, the said commissioners and
others employed, shall be governed by the general road laws, now in
force in this State.

§ 8. The secretary of State shall immediately after the passage of this
act, notify the herein named commissioners of their appointment, and at
.the same time certify to the first named commissioners a copy of this
not.

This act shall take eEect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

’\..\z\f\I\/\%I

AN ACT for a State road.

§ 1. Commissioners, duty of. 5. Fees.
2. Vacancies, bow tilled. E 6. Fees aid by county court.
3. Surveyor, &.c., appointed; plats made. Q 7. Oath ken.
4. Road to be opene . § 8. Secretary of State; duties of.

Be it enacted by the General Asmnbly of the State of Missouri, as jbllozns:

1. That Isam Matlock, of Crawford county, Marshal Smith, of Pu-
las icounty, and John Davis, of Osage county, are hereby a pointed

 

— commissioners, whose duty it shall be on the third Monday of ay next,

or as soon thereafter as shall suit their convenience, to meet at the house
of Israel Thompson, on the State road leading from Tongues to Little
Piney, and where said road crosses the line divndin said county ofOs::ge
and Gasconade, thence passing Riney’s steam—mi to Martin Mille s,
on Spring creek, Pulaski county.

§ 2. Should any vacancy occur in said board of commissioners, the
remaining commissioner or commissioners shall till the same by appoint-
ing some suitable person from the county in which such vacancy may

000111’-
§ 3. Said commissioners shall appoint a competent surveyor and two

604 aoans, srarr. AND comrrv.

chain carriers, whose duty it shall be to accompany them; and said sur-
veyor shall make out complete plats of said road, and leave a copy
thereof with the county courts through which said road runs.

§ 4. Said county courts shall, at their first term after said plats shall
be received, make an order to cause said road to be opened within a rea-

' sonably short time, at least thirty feet wide, by hands subject to work

on roads in said counties, and shall keep the same in ood repair.

§ 5. The commissioners each, and the surveyor, sha lreceive the sum
of one dollar and fifty cents, and the chain carriers each one dollar per
day, for every day necessarily employed about said road.

§ 6. The counties through which said road shall pass, shall pay the
above and all other expenses accruing under this act, in proportion to
the distance said road shall pass through the respective counties, out of
their road and canal fund.

§ 7. Said commissioners shall, before entering upon their duties, take
an oath faithfully to perform the duties enjoined upon them by this act.

§ 8. The Secretary of State is hereby required, immediately after the
passage of this act, to forward a copy of the same to each of the above
name commissioners.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 7, 1849.

»\r\r\/\f\I\/'\/\/\

 

AN ACT to establish a State road from Palmyra, in Marion county, to
Alexandria, in Clark county.

§ 1. Commissioners; duty of. g 6. Fees.
2. Failure to meet- bow proceed. K 7. Fees, how paid‘.
3. Vacancy; how tilled.  8. County court, duty of.
4. Surveyor, &c.; duties of. D 9. Secretary of State, duty of;
5. Oath to be taken. . ,‘» 16. Road extended and declared State road.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf lhe State of Missouri, asfollozos:

§ 1. That James McPike, of Marion county, Harrison Munday, of
Lewis county,‘and Willard Church, of Clark county, are hereby appoint-
ed road commissioners, whose duty it shall be to meet at the town of
Palmyra, in Marion county, on the first Monday in May, A. D. 1849,
and from thence proceed to survey and mark out a State road from the
aforesaid town of Palmyra, in Marion county, to Alexandria, in Clark

- county, via the lower bridge on North river, and the bridges beirgg built

on the North and South Fabius, Lagrange, Smoote’s landing, anton,
Tully, Gregory’s landing, to Alexandria, keeping on the bank of the Mis-
sissippi, from the aforesait: town of Lagrange to the said town of Alex-—
andria, as near as practicable, crossing the slough above Tully, at or
near its mouth.
~ § 2. Should the board of commissioners, appointed under this act, fail
to meet on the day designated in the preceding section, then they shall
meet on some subsequent day prior to the first Monday in August, A. D.
1849, to be agreed upon by the members of said board. _
§ 3. Should any vacancy occur in said board of commissioners, such

vacancy shall be filled by the county court, within the county where
such vacancy occurred. "

norms, sun: AND covnrrv. 605

§ 4. Said commissioners may appoint a surveyor, two chain carriers,
and a marker, to accom any them in said survey; and they shall cause
to be made out a comp ete plat of the survey for the county court of
each county wherein said road .shall be surveyed, noting the several
courses and distances of said road; and also a complete plat of said road,
which shall be sent to the Secretary of State, to be disposed of as plats
of other State roads. '

§ 5. Said commissioners, surveyor, chain carrier, and marker, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties under this act, shall e'ach take
an oath before the clerk of the Marion county court, for the faithful per-
formance of their several duties, which oath shall be filed in the oiiice of
said clerk. ,

§ 6. Said commissioners and surveyors shall each receive two dollars
per day, and the chain carriers and marker one dollar per day, each, for
every day necessarily employed about said road.

67. The counties through which said road shall pass shall pay the
above and all other expenses accruing under this act, in proportion to
the distance said road shall ass through the respective counties, (which
fact shall be determined by t ereport of the commissioners,) out of their
road and canal fund if there be any, and if not then the persons herein
employed, together with the commissioners, shall be paid out of the con-
tingent fund.

§ 8. Said county courts shall, at the first term after such plats shall
be received, make an order causing said road to- be opened within a rea-
sonable time, at least forty-live feet wide; and the county court may or-
der it to be opened to the width of eighty feet. ‘

§ 9. The secretary of State is hereby required, immediately after the
passage of this act, to forward a copy of the same to the county court
clerk of each of the above counties, for the use of said counties.

§ 10. The said commissioners may also extend said road from the
north end of Mulberry street, in said town of Alexandria, to Mott’s fer-
ry on the Des Moines river, which said addition is hereby declared a
State road when so run, and shall in all respects conform to the provi-
sions of this act.

This act to take etlect from and after its passage.

Approved March 8,1849.

 

AN ACT to view and mark out ‘a State Road from Mexico, in Audrain
County, to New London, in the county of Ralls.

§ 1. Commissioners, duty of. , 0. Fees; how paid.
2. Oath to be taken. i 7. Failure to meet.
3. Surveyor and chain carriers.  8. Act repealed.
4. Plats to be made, and filed.  9. Duty of secretary of State.

Q. Duties of county courts. _ .
Be itenacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of Misso'zzri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Caleb Williams and James McFadden, of the county 0 '
Audrain, and Allen Rouse, of the county of Ralls, be, and they are hereby
appointed road commissioners; whose duty it shall be to meet in the town
of Mexico, in Audrain county, on the fourth Monday in May, A. D. 1849,

606 ' ROADS, STATE AND couxrv.

and from thence proceed to view and mark out a State road, running the
nearest and most practicable route to the town of New London, in the

county of Ralls, having due regard to private property as well as to the

ground over which said road passes.

§ 2. The above named commissioners, before enterin on the duties
assigned them by this act, shall severally take an oat , before some
otlicer authorized by law to administer the same, faithfully to perform
the duties assigned them by this act.

§3. The commissioners aforesaid shall appoint a surveyor and two
chainhcarrielrs to accompany them in surveying, designating, and marking
out t e roa contem lated b this act.

§ 4. It shall be ml; duty ol‘ the commissioners appointed by this act
to cause to be made out a plat for each county through which said road
may pass, or so much of the surveyed route for said road as passes
through such county; which plat shall be filed in the oflice of the clerk
of the county court of said county; and the said commissioners shall also
cause a plat of the whole route of said road to be made opt an; trans-
mitted to the secretar of State, who shall file the same in is o ce.

§ 5. It shall be the duty of the county courts of thehcounties thpouglii
which said road ma ass, so soon as racticable after t e recei t o sai
plats, to cause saidyrldad to be openliad, at least forty feet widpe, by the
hand: subjehct to work on rgads and highways, in their respective counties,
and ee t e same in oo re air.

§ 6. he commissiogers and surveyor appointed by this act shall each
receive two dollars for each day they may be necessarily employed in
viewing and laying out the route for said road; and the chain carriers
each the sum of one dollar per day as compensation for their services,
to be by them made out and sworn to, to be paid as provided by the laws
now in force.

§ 7. Should said commissioners fail to meet on the day herein desig-
I_lal’X(l, thiiy flslzlgl meet on some subsequent day, prior to the first Monday
in u us , .

§ 8.g The eighth section of an act entitled “ an act to view and mark
out a State road from Mexico to New London,” approved February
11th, 1847, be, and the same is hereby repealed. .

§ 9. It is hereby made the duty of the secretary of State to furnish the
first named commissioner in this act with a certified copy of this act on
or before the first of April, 1849.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 24, 1849.

‘V3/\w /V ~ /\/‘'~./‘-/ /\./\/‘r ./--_,-\/\r

 

‘x/'2‘./V

AN ACT for opening and repairing roads and highways in the counties of
Pike. Marion, Shelby. Knox, Monroe, ifwloritgomeu-_v, Rails, Lincoln,
Lewis, (jlinriton, and I.iviii;_rston.

§ 1. S‘pm,-7:11 nr‘t5 rcpmiicrl. ( 6. Plat to be made out.
2. l.UlnlIi|s5iul1e1'slippollltml. ; 7. Relinquislnnents to be taken and aclin w]-
3. Silrvi-.yor, clmin cm'rim's, &c,, regard be. ‘. edgud_
inn; had to individual rights. S  8. DRlTillg88 to be assesserl and report made.
-l. (“miiniissioriersio make omh. ; 9. Objections-io be filed, jury summoned, as-

.3. L7ompen.satiou to surveyors, &.c., how paid. »’ scssmem made and filed.

nosns, sum AND COUNTY. 607

10. Costs to be paid, and how in certain cases. g 2]. In relation to not-residents.
ll. Duty of county court, and road considered j ‘.22. Duties, power and authority of county
public highway only.» i court.

12. Road districts tobe laid -elf, anlaltered ‘.23. Courts, overseen, &.c., controlled by.
when. overseer appointed. 34.‘ Compensation of otlicers, how paid.

13. Copy of road district furnished overseer, 2.3. Overseer, it‘ refuses or fails to act, penalty
assessment made and tax.  of.

14. Persons liable to pay tax, additional tax. 26. Citaion issued.
15. Clerk of county courts, duty of. 27. Court compel appearance of overseer.
16. Duty of overseer. 28. Cause tried, '

17. Overseer to collect the taxes, and expendi, 29 Jury may be demanded and judgment ren-

.1
>
)
2
r

the same. 4 dared. costs paid.

18. Overseer to employ hands.  30. Duty of grand juries, citation issue.

19. Overseer to keep accounts, and duties on . 3|. Provisions of this act suspended.
resignation. 5 32. Personsin county of St. Louis released from

20. Roatltaid on the division line of two  tax.
tricts, what to be done. 3

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Zllissouri, asfollozos:

§ 1. All special acts on the subject of roads and highways, in the above
counties, are hereby repealed. ‘

§ 2. When it becomes necessary in order to make a new road, or to
establish an existing road, which has not been lawfully established, or the
plat whereof has been lost, or is imperfect or uncertain in any important
particular, the county court of the proper county shall appoint notless than
three, nor more than live commissioners, and assigna day and place for them
to meet. a copy of whose appointment under the hand of the clerk shall be
served on them by the sheriff, as soon as practicable after the eihpiration of
the term at which it is made. 0

§ 3. The said commissioners or a majority of them, if so ordered by the
county court. shall thereupon call to their aid- a surveyor, chain carriers,
and such other assistants as may be necessary, and proceed to view,
survey, locate and mark out the road proposed or indicated- in their order of
appointment. and shall locate the same on the most direct and practicable
route, having due regard to the ground over which the road may run, and
as great regard to the convenience of individuals as may be consistent with
the public interests.

§ 4. The said commissioners or a majority of them. before entering up-
on the duties of their oflice, shall make and subscribe before somecompe-
tent otlicer an aliidavit, faithfully and diligently to perform without favor or
partiality, the duties enjoined upon them by this act, and the order of their
appointment, which atlidavit shall be drawn inblank by the clerk of the
county court, and sent attached to the copy of their order of appointment.

§ 5. The commissioners, surveyors, (and) chain carriers employed under the
authority of this act. Shall receive such suitable compensation as the county
court may think proper to allow, to be paid out of the county treasury or
the three per cent, fund of the county.

§ 6. The surveyor shall cause the route fixed upon by the commission-
ers to be correctly surveyed and measured, and shall make out under the
direction of the cornmissioners a correct plat of the route surveyed, togeth-
er with such topographical information as, may be deemed important, which
nlat together with a full report of their proceedings shall he filed by the
commissioners in the ollice of the clerk of the county court, on or before
the first day of the next term atierlheir appointment.

9 7. The eoimmssioners appointed under this act, for locating roads
and highways, are authorized and required to take relinquishments in writing -

W"i.H

608 norms, swam AND oouurir.

from all owners of land over which the road may run, and such relinquish-
ment shall be acknowledged or witnessed as deeds for the conveyance of
land are by law required to be, and shall include a quantity of ground suf-
ficient to make the road of the width required by the order of the court,
and all such relinqnishments shall be taken to the county.

§ 8. In every case where a relinquishment of the right of way is refus-
ed,crthe owneris aminor, or non-resident of the county, or cannot be
found therein by the commissioners at the time of review, they shall assess
the damages, if any, which they may think will resultto any such proprie-
tor of land through which said road may run, taking into consideration the
advantages as well as disadvantages of said road. and report to the county
court, at their next term, the quantity and location of land relinquished for
public use and the amount of damages assessed and for what land and to
whom assessed.

§ 9. Any person owning lands over which the route for a road is located,
who may consider themselves aggrieved by the assessment of damages made

by the commissioners, may by themselves or their agent, or the guardians of~

such as are minors, at the term of the court at which the report of the com-
missioners is made, or at the next term thereafter, tile objections in writing
to such assessment, and the court shall _thereupon order the sheriff to sum-
mon a jury of twelve disinterested householders of the county, composed of
citizens over whose land the route for said read does not run, who being
duly sworn to perform the duties required of them by this act, and without
favor or pa’rtiality to assess the damages sustained by said objector, or ob-
jectors(which oath rmy be administered by the sheriff) shall proceed to ex-
amine the ground and make such assessment, and make and deliver to the
sheriff a report thereof in writing, under their hands, which shall be tiled
with the clerk on or before the next term of the county court.

§ 10. If the amount of damages assessed by the jury aforesaid, be the
same or less than the amount assessed by the commissioners, the person or
persons objecting to the assessment of the commissioners, shall be adjudged
to pay the costs; and it more, the costs shall be paid by the county, and the
damages assessed, and all costs incurred in behalf of the county under this
act, shall be paid either out of the county treasury or out of the road and
canal fund. and the county court shall draw their warrant for the same.

§ 11. Upon the report of the commissioners, and the assessment of dam-
ages as above provided; if the county court shall deem the road of sufiicient,
public utility to justify the payment of damages,‘ assessed as aforesaid, the
said court shall order the said read to be opened, and the lands relinquished
or condemned as aforesaid, shall forever be considered a public highway,
unless altered. changed or annulled by authority of law.

§ 12. lt shall be the duty of the county courts to lay off the counties in-
to convenient road districts, numbering the same, and to .alter and change
the same as often as they may deem necessary; and also. to appoint an
overseer for each district, and prescribe and award the amount of his com-
pensation; said overseer shall bea person subject to work on roads in his
district. and shallserve one year, and until he shall satisly the court that he
has dischgnrged his duties, and signifies to them his wish to resign his appoint-
tnent, unless the court shall appoint some other in his stead.

Q I3. A copy of the road districts, as laid off by the county
court, shall be furnished to the assessor before he makes his assess-

'm.-nt, and the said assessor shall make out an assessment list in such

‘ROADS, STATE AND eounrv. 609

manner as will show separately, the whole amount of taxable property
in each road district, and the names of the persons in each district sub-
ject to pay a road tax. ‘ V

6 14. Every able bodied male person over the age of eighteen and un-
der the age of fortyfive years, shall pay a poll tax equal to two days work
in the year, according to a tariff of prices to be annually established by the
county court; and in addition to the above poll tax, the county court may
impose a tax upon all property in each road district,subject to taxation as may
in addition to the above poll tax be suflicient to keep the roads in repair,
not to exceed one hundred per cent. on the amount of the State tax: Pro-
vided, that the court in making the assessment of the above road tax shall
not include any property subject to the poll tax provided for in the forego-
ing part of this section. ,

§ 15. The clerk of the county court shall furnish each oyerseer witha
list of the names of the persons subject to pay a road tax, and the amount
thereof, includingthe poll and the property tax, and the persons subject to
pay such taxes, may pay the same in needful labor u on the roads, at such
prices per day as may be established by the tariff 0 prices to be fixed by
the county court.

§ 16. It shall bethe duty of every overseer, so soon as he shall receive the
list of names provided for in the foregoing section of this act, to examine
the same minutely, and if he find that the name of any inhabitant of his
district shall have been omitted in said list, or that the list contains the
names of persons not residing within his district, or who are inhabitants of
adjoining districts. he shall report such facts to the county court, at any sub-
sequent term thereof, and the court may then rectify said list, and make
such orders as to them shall seem right and proper.

{} 17. The Overseers shall collect the taxes of their respective districts,
having first given to every person charged with a road tax, a suflicient op-
portunity to pay the same in labor on the roads; and whene r any person
shall have failed to pay the same in labor, the overseer shall power to
collect the tax; and for that purpose shall possess the same power with
which collectors of the State and county revenue are by law invested, and
shall be under the same restrictions; and the overseer may expend the
amount of taxes thus collected by him in employing other persons to per-
form such nece~sary labors as may be required to" repair the road in his dis-
trict; provided that such overseer, shall not have power to pay hands thus
employed by him, agreater sum per day than that allowed by the tariff pri-
ces to those who may pay the amount of their taxes in labor.

§ 18. If at any time, the taxes in any district shall become entirely ex-
hausted, and the condition of the roads shall be such as to require repair be-
fore the next annual assessment of the road taxes, the overseer shall have
power to employ a suflicient number of hands to put the roads in his dis-
trict in repair, at a reasonable price, to be agreed on by the parties; and he
shall be required to keep a correct account of the names of all persons thus
employed by him, and the amount due each one for such extra labor, and
immediately upon receiving from the clerk the list for the following year,
as is provided for in the 15th section of this act, he shall enter thereon
the proper credits due for such extra labor.

§ 19. Each overseer shall be required to keep an account of all things
done by him under this act, and in case of resignation or removal from
ofiice, he shall, under the direction and regulations of the county court, ren-

mm

610 noses, sure AND couurv.

der to his successor a plain and proper statement, showing the amount of
road tax, remaining unpaid by each inhabitant ofthe district under any pre-
vious assessment, and also the amount of credits due for any extra labor that
may have been performed.

§ 20. In cases where any road has been laid on the line which divides
two districts, or may hereafter be so laid, the said road shall be cut out,
and amended or repaired as the case may require, at the joint expense of
both of the districts on whose division line the road is laid; and in case the
overseers of one of said districts, shall neglect or refuse to join with and as-
sist the overseer of the other district, in opening or repairing any such road,
such overseer so ne lecting or refusing, shall be liable to the same penal-
ties asif he had neglected or refused to cutout, open or repair, any pub-
lic road or highway, within his district.

§ 21. Whenever any tax upon the lands of non-residents shall not be
paid during the year, a list thereof shall be returned to the county court,
and a copy thereof shall be furnished by the clerk of said court to the coun-
ty collector, and the taxes due on such lands shall be collected as other
State and county revenue is collected.

§ 22. The county court shall have power and authority to establish such
rules and regulations as they may find necessary and proper to carry out
the provisions of this act; all such rules and regulations, the tariff of prices
and such other provisions as said court may establish, shall be annually
published in such manner. as will afford the people of the county the best
information thereof. _

§ 23. In all other things connected with roads, the court, overseer and
the officers, shall be controlled by the act entitled “an act for opening and
repairing public roads and highways,” approved March 26th 1845, except
where it may conflict with the provisions of this act.

§ 24. The clerk of the county court, and the overseers appointvd, shall
receive such compensation for their services required by this act to be per-
formed, as may be allowed by the court, to be paid out of the road and
canal fund, or the county treasury. -

§ 25. Every road overseer after having been duly notified of his ap-
pointment and served with the list of names provided for in this act, who
shall refuse to serve as such overseer, without a reasonable excuse, to be
made known at the next term of the county court after he has been no-
tified, or wilfully fails to keep his roads in good repair, or faithfully to
appropriate or account for any monies which may come to his hands, for
the use of his road district, or to comply with any other duty as overseer
required of him by law, or by order of the county court, shall forfeit and
pay for every such offence, to the county, for the use of his particular
road or district, not less than five, nor more than one hundred dollars.

§ 26. The county court may at any time, on their own motion, or the
atiidavit of any credible person, filed in court during term time, or in the
clerk’s oflice during vacation, charging that any road is not in good repair
or has not been cut out or opened, and the case may he; shall cause a cita-
tion to be issued against the overseer of the district in which said road
may be, briefly reciting the fault or delinquency charged or existing
against him, and requiring him to appear in court on some day ofthe next
term (to be named in such citation) and answer the same, which citation
shall be served in like manner as an ordinary writ of summons, atleast
ten days before the appearance day, therein named.

norms, srwrr: AND COUNTT. 611

§ 27. If any overseer after having been duly served with such citation,
shall fail to appear according to the requirement thereof, the court may
compel his appearance by attachment.

§ 28. On the appearance of the overseer, the cause shall be tried on its
merits in a summary manner and without the form of pleading, unless for
good cause shown, the case shall be postponed or continuet by the court.

§ ‘29. Before proceeding to trial,either the road overseers or the county
attorney, may demand ajury of twelve men to try the case, but if neither
party demand ajury, the cause shall be tried by the court. If the overseer
shall be found guilty, judgment shall be rendered _ against him for the
amount of the tine, together with all costs incurred in the cause; if acquit-
ted, the costs shall be paid by the county or the individual (upon) whose af-
tidavit the citation issued, at the discretion of the court.

§ 30. It shall also be the duty of the grand juries in the several coun-
ties, to inquire into the condition of the roads in their respective counties,
and if the overseer of any district has failed to perform the duties required
of him by this act, and the act to which this is amcndatory, the grand ju-
ry shall certify that fact to the clerk of the county court, and thereupon a
citation shall be issued by the county court against such overseer, and be
proceeded on in like manner and with like effect as is provided in the fore-
going sections of this act. -

§ 31. If at any time the county court of any county shall be of opinion,
that the provisions of this act should not be enforced, they may suspend, {or
any length of time, the operation of the same, and order the roads to be
opened and repaired under the provisions of the act to which this is amen-
datory.

§ 32. Whenever the county court of the county of Lewis, shall be sat-
isfied that any residentof said county, charged with a tax under or by, this
act. is a male over the age of fifty years, or is infirm, or so crippled. as not
to be able to perform manual labor, or is a female of any age, said court
shall order that such person shall be released from the judgment of the
tax with which he or she is charged by virtue of this law.

This act to be in force, from and afterits passage.

Approved March 9, 1849.

 

AN ACT to establish a State Road connecting Bolivar and St. Louis.

5. Reports to be made.

6. Fees; how paid.

7. Duty of county courts.
8. Surveyor not employed.

§ 1. Commissioners, duty of. <
2. Oath to be taken.
3. Failure to meet. g

4. Vacancies; how 6lled.

Be it enacted by the General .195-sembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That William Latimore, of Dallas county,A. S. Chery, of Camden
county, and Henry Scaggs, of Osage county, are hereby appointed road
commissioners; whose duty it shall be to meet at the residence of said
Scaggs, on the present State road leading from St. Louis to Springfield,
on the second Monday in May, 1849, an from thence proceed to view
and mark out a State road on the nearest and most practicable route to
Wiota, in Camden county, thence to Buffalo, in Dallas county.

_6 2. The above named commissioners, before entering on the duties

\

6.12 ROADS, sun: AND COUNTY.

assi ned [them], shall severally take an oath, before some oflicer authorized
to a minister the same, faithfully to discharge the duties assigned by this
act.

§ 3. Should said commissioners fail to meet at the time appointed,
they shall meet on some subequent day, to be agreed on by said commis-
sioners.

§ 4. Should a vacancy occur in the board of commissioners, by any
cause whatever, the remaining commissioner or commissioners shall
supply such vacancy by the appointment of some suitable person or
persons to act as such.

§ 5. Said commissioners shall, so soon as they have completed their
labors, make report of the same to the county court of the respective
counties through which the same shall pass, and the distance in each as
near as practicable. "

§ 6. Said commissioners shall receive two dollars each for each day
they shall be necessarily employed in the discharge of the duties hereby
required, to be paid by the counties through which said road shall pass,
in proportion to the length of said road in the respective counties, out of
their road and canal fund, the amount being certified to by said commis-
sioners. _

§ 7. It shall be the duty of the county courts of the counties through
which the road shall pass, immediately after receiving the report of said
commissioners, to cause the same to be opened as required by the second
article of an act entitled " an act for opening and repairing public high-
ways,” approved March 26, 1845.

§ 8. Nothing herein shall be so construed as to authorize said commis-
sioners to employ a surveyor and chain carrier.

This act to take effect from its passage.

Approved March 8, 1849

 

—/\/\/\/\/\/ t‘.I\/\J\/s.-‘\.P\I\/\A,—~

AN ACT to establish a State Road from Boonville, in Cooper county,
by the way of Gooch’s mills, to intersect the road leadin from
J efferson City to Boonville, by midway, at or near Judge l\§oore’s
in Moniteau county.

§ 1. Commissioners, duty of. 5 3. Commissioners to be governed by.
2. Commissioners to meet. 4. Fees; surveyor; how fees to be paid.

Be itenacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§.l. R. H. Howard, John R. Rayland, and Peter Miller, of the county
of Cooper, and Carter M. D. Carlos, and Robert Moore, of the county
of Moniteau, are hereby appointed commissioners to view and mark out
a State road from Boonville, in Cooper county, by the way of Gooch’s
mills, to intersect the road leading from J eiferson city to Boonville, by
midway, at or near Judge Robert Moore’s, in Moniteau county.

§ 2. Said commissioners shall meet at Gooch’s mills, in Coopef county,
on the first Monday of April next, or on some other day to be agreed
upon by them; and proceed to view and mark out said road on the nearest
and best route practicable.

§ 3. Said commissioners and all others engaged in opening said road

scans, srarn AND covurr. 613

shall have and possess all the powers, and be governed in all respects by
the law now in force in relation to State roads.

§4. Said commissioners shall each receive a compensation of one
dollar per day, and the surveyor (if one be appointed by them) two
dollars per day, to be paid out of the county treasuries of the counties
through which said road passes, in proportion to the distance of said
road in each of said counties.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 8, 1849.

’\/\/\/~ ,/-\/~ /V  ' -./\/\r'\/sf‘/\./‘s./-._/\.

AN ACT to establish a State Road from Weston, in Platte county, to
St. Joseph, in Buchanan county.‘

§ 1. Commissioners; duty of; individual rights 4. Vacancies; how tilled.
regarded. 5. Failure to meet; may meet.
2. What to be governed by. 6. County road declared State road.
3. Fees; how paid. .

Be is enacted by the General Hssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. James King Kuykendall, of Platte county, William R. Jones and
David Lee, of Buchanan county, are hereby appointed road commis-
-sioners; whose duty it shall be to meet at Weston, in Platte county, on
.*the first Monday of April next, and, after being duly qualified, proceed
«to make [mark] out such alterations to the county road (usually called
the Bear creel: road), leading from Weston, in Platte county, by the way
of Bloomington, to St. Jose h, in Buchanan county, as will most improve
said road, without material y increasing its length, paying due. regard to
the rights of individuals.

§ 2. Said commissioners, the county courts, and those who shall be
liable to work on the road so altered shall, in all respects, be governed
by the road law now in force prescribing the mode of opening State
roads, approved March twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and forty-five.

§ 3. Said commissioners shall receive each two dollars per day for
each day they shall be necessarily employed in locating said road, and
reporting to their respective county courts, 'to be paid out of the three
per cent. fund which shall hereafter become due to said counties, each
county paying in proportion to the length ofsaid road in each county.

§ 4. Should a vacancy occur in said board of commissioners, the
remainder shall till the same by the appointment of some suitable person
of the county in which such vacancy may occur.

§ 5. If said commissioners shall fail to meet on the first Monday of
April next, they may meet at any time thereafter before the second
Monday in July next, and proceed as in the first section prescribed.

§6. Said county road, with such alterations as may be made under
the provisions of the first section of this act, is hereby declared to be a
State road. '

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

614 nosns, swarm AND COUNTY.

AN ACT to view and locate part of a State road.

§ Commissioners; their duty, to meet. 3 5. Fees, how paid.
2. Atlidavit made. 6. Relinquishments to be taken.
3. Surveyor and chain-carriers. 5 7. Damages assessed; when.
4. Plat to be made and tiled.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf1llz's.s-ours’, as follows,

§ 1. James Clark, Thadeus D. Sanford and Henry T. Pollard, be, and
they are hereby appointed road commissioners, whose duty it shall be to
meet in the town of Auburn, in Lincoln county, on the third Monday ofApril
next, or any day subsequent thereto; and from thence to view, locate and
mark out a State road leading, on the most practicable route, by the town of
Prairieville. in Pike county, and intersecting the old State road at some suita-
ble point west of said town, and in the direction of Bowling Green.

()2. Said commissioners, before entering’ on the discharge of the duties

‘required by this act, shall make atiitlavit, before some competent otiicer,

faithfully and diligently to perform the duties required by the same.

§ 3. It shall be the duty of said commissioners to call to their aid a sur-
veyor and chain-carriers to view out and locate said road.

§ 4. The commissioners aforesaid shall cause their ‘surveyor to make out
acomplete plat of so much of said road as may lie _in each of the counties
of Pike and Lincoln, together with such notes and information as may be
deemed important, which plat shall be filed with the report of the commis-
sioners in the otiice of the clerk of the county court of the county in which
said road may run.

§ 5. The commissioners and surveyoi employed under this act, shall each
be entitled to two dollars per day for the time spent in viewing said road.
and the chain-carriers each one dollar per day, to be audited and allowed
by the court of that county in which the services.may be rendered.

§ 6. It shall be the duty of the commissioners appointed under this act to
take relinquishments in writing from the owners of lands over which the
route for such road may run; and such relinquishments shall be acknow-
ledged or witnessed as other deeds of conveyance of land.

5-7. If the right of way be refused by any owner of land, the commis-
sioners shall assess damages and make reports of the same to the court of
the county interested therein,_ and the same proceedings shall be had as are
now required b ' the act for opening and repairing roads and highways;
approved Marcli 26, 1845.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

\-"' “./'\ x./‘K. ‘ ,/‘J’ ,:"~.4“"u/‘xv’. «NJ ./

AN ACT to establish a State road from Chariton Mills, in Putnam county,
to intersect the surveyed road leading from Tippecanoe to Princeton‘, in
Mercer county.

§ 1. Commissioners; duty of; public utility  3. Report to be made out.

regarded. f 4. Road to be 0 ned.
2. Two commissioners; how paid. T P‘!

Be it enacted by the General ./1sscmbl_t,' of the State of .Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Jeremiah Brower, of the county of Putnam, Samuel Hearing, of the
county of Dodge, and Ambrose Day, of the county of Mercer, are hereby

Roans, swarm AND COUNTY.‘ 615

appointed road commissioners whose duty it shall be to meet at Chariton
Mills. in Putnam county. on the first Monday of July next, or some other
day thereafter agreed upon by said commissioners; thence to proceed to
view and mark out a route for a State road, by the nearest and most practi-
cable rlirection, to Winchester, in Putnum county; thence the nearest and
most practicable direction to the county seat of Dodge county; thence to
the intersection of said surveyed road leading to Princeton, as herein named,
having due regard to the public utility of said road.

§ 2. Said commissioners shall receive two dollars per day for their services
as commissioners, to be paid out of the road and canal fund of said counties.

{} 3. It shall be the duty of the comismsioners, immediately after they view
and mark out said read, to make a report of the same to the clerks of the
said counties that said read runs through.

§ 4. And it shall be the duty of the county courts above named to cause
said read to be opened and kept up as other State roads.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to establish a State road from Eric, in Camden county, to Tus-
c_umbia, in Miller county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Illissouri, as follows:

§ 1. William D. Murphy, of Camden county, and Allen Henderson and
John Brockman, of Miller county, are hereby appointed road commission-
ers, whose duty it shall be to meet at the town of Erie, in Camden county,
on the fourth Monday of April. 1849, and from thence proceed to view and
mark out a State road from Erie to Tuscumbia, in Miller county, on the
most practicable route, due regard being bad to public utility.

The said commissioners shal
of the duties assigned them by this act, by the second article of an act enti-
tled -‘An act for opening and repairing public roads and highways; approved
March 17, 1835,” except the appointment of a surveyor and chain-carriers,
and the filing of field notes of survey. The county courts through which
the road passes shall have it opened according to the, second artic e of the
act entitled “An act for opening and repairing public roads and highways;
approved March 17, 1335.”

9' 3. Said commissianers shall receive two dollars per day for every day
necessarily spent in reviewing and marking out said read, to be paid out of
the road and canal fund of each county, in proportion to the distance through
each county through which it may pass.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 9, 1849.

.r\/Kfxrx '\/\'\r\r'\ r'\’-\/'\'\'\.’\/'\ "\f'\/\/‘\/‘\"\/"

AN ACT to work roads in St. Louis.

1. 00 't d - ‘ t- 4. 01! ball all thends.
§ ed: axaigsiiedf utywverueu ‘ppom i 5. Gediearzlorlsaiv reuiain force,except county

2. Funds to be appropriated. \ court have power.
3. 0veneere;the,u-duty; persons may work. i

Be it enacted by the General afssembly qf the State of Missouri, asfoltows:

be governed in all respects in the discharge.

616 aoans, sratra AND COUNTY.

§ I. The county court of St. Louis county shall divide the county outside
of the city of St. Louis into convenient road districts, and shall appoint a
road overscer in each district, under whose direction the roads in such dis-
trict shall he worked and kept in repair; and in order to raise a fund for
that purpose, a poll tax of seventy live cents shall be imposed on each able-
bodicd male person over eighteen and under forty-live years, and a tax shall
be imposed on all taxable property in said county not exceeding fifty per
cent. on the amount of the State tax; said taxes shall be assessed and col-
lected as other county taxes, and shall be paid into the county treasury, sub-
ject to the order of the county court; but taxes under this act shall not
extend to poll taxes in the city of St. Louis.

§ 2. The county court shall cause the funds thus collected to be appro-
priated among the several road districts in such sums as [may] be deemed best
calculated to benefit the people, and the Overseers shall cause the same to be
faithfully and economically applied to the repair and improvement of the
roads.

5 3. Twice in each year the road overseer shall put up three notices in
public places in his district, stating the time and place at which he will work
the public roads of his district; and at such time and place the persons sub-
ject to poll tax. or other road tax, in such district, may attend and do work
to the amount of their tax, according to a tariff of prices to be fixed by the
county court; the whole amount to [be _] worked outnot to exceed the amount
apportioned to such district.

§ 4 if the funds thus raised shall he insuliicient to keep the roads in
repair, the overseer shall have power to proceed under the general law, and
call out all the hands in his district subject to work on roads, and to put the
roads in proper repair. _

§5. The general law of the State in relation to roads shall remain in
force in said county, except so far as the same is repugnant to this act, or
some other special act still in force. The county court shall have power to
make all needfnl rules and orders to carry this act into elfect.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 1?, 1849.

u/" ’./'\r.\.f‘»/‘\.z'\’-.’x/\./‘x/‘\_x\1'-\ .'\’~?~-——

AN ACT to vacate a part ofa certain State road.

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qf the State of Illissouri, as follows:

i} I. That so much of the State road leading from Parkville, in Platte
county, to Pl:utl'Shurg, in Clinton county, as lies in the county of Clinton,
be. and the same is hereby vacated.

This act to take rllect Irom and after its passage.
Approved March 6, I849.

l'\/'\4-\/-\/'\I\'\/K/\f\'\ "\’\ P\"\r-c/-crx;-\-n, --.,r\/\./ \f‘ »'‘\’‘\4'\

AN ACT providing for a road tax in Clark county.

Be z't enacted by the General ./tssembly qft/ze State of Missouri, as follows.-

S l. The county court of Clark is hereby nuthnrizcclto levy a tax upon
real estate H1 said county. not exceeding one hundred per ccntum upon the

State revenue of said county, for the purpose of improving roads and
blllldlng bridges.

ROADS, sm-rs: AND coum-v. ' 617

§ 2. The assessor of saidcounty shall make an additional column in his
tax-book, in which he shall put the amount chargeable. to each individual
under this act opposite his name and under suitable caption.

§ 3. Said tax shall be collected as the State and county revenue by the
collector of said county; and said collector shall settle with the said county
court at the regular February term of said court, and shall be governed in
the collection of said road tax by the general revenue laws.

§4. The county court of said county shall so arrange the road tdistricts,
and the improvements on the roads in the same insaid county, so as to afford
all persons who wish an opportunity to work out their road tax, at the rate
of twenty-five cents for each day’s work; and it is hereby made the duty of
each supervisor in said county, to give to each person who shall work on
the road or roads in their respective road districts, in payment of road tax,
a certiticate stating the day or days that each worked, which. certificate
shall be received by the said collector, and applied to the credit of the per-
son to ‘W-homiit was given in part or fhll payment, as the case may bet-of
the road tax charged against him. The said collector shall give to each
person a receipt that delivers to him a certificate in payment of road tax,
stating the amount of said road tax. ‘ ' '

§ 5. The said county court is hereby authorized to fix the number of days
that each person shall work onroads, who are liatle under the general road
law, and to allow road supervisors reasonable pay ‘for the discharge of their
duties as such out of the road tax. -- ' '  V ' ' '

This act to be in force from and after its’ passage." '

Approved March 12, 1849. ‘ "

 

._1

. ' ’ AN ACT to establish a‘ State road.

Be it enastedibgi the General vfssembly of the S601: qf Missouri, asfolleam 7» '

§ 1. That all that portion of the county road leading from’ Bethany‘, in
Harrison county, to Gay's Mills, in Gentry county, by way of William al-
ters’, in Gentry county, and by Drury 0‘Brine’s, in Harrison county, shall
be declared a State road, and shall be‘ cleared out and kept in order in such
a manner as prescribed in the law clearing out and keeping in repair of

State roads. ,
This act shall take efect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

\/\/\t‘\f\f\I\f\,r\i'\’\/\/\l'

 

. AN ACT to change a’ State road. ‘ 7
Be it enacted by the General aissembly qf the State qf Missouri, as follows;

§ 1. So much of the State road leading from Columbia to Rocheport
in Boone county, as lies between the top of the hill east of Rocheport
and the residence of John Stemmons, is hereby so changed as to run
down the ravine north of the present road, or on the best route near it;
the new road to be 'n and end at the points of intersection above named.
:§ 2. Thomas C.‘ appin,‘Willi*am Dogs and Georgesmith are hereby
43

618 ' noses, surn AND COUNTY.

appointed commissioners to mark out the road as above indicated, and’
to open the same, pursuant to the general laws in force on the subject
of opening State roads.

This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

l\"\rufJ\/\J‘/\}‘fi/\/\//\/\"

 

"\

AN ACT to establish a State road from Harrisonville, in Cass county,
to Platte City, in Platte county.

§ 1. Commissioners, duty of. 5. Fees, how paid.
2. Commissioners, to meet; oath to be taken. 6. Failure to meet.

3. Surveyor and chain carriers; plats to be 7. Commissioners to meet.
made and filed. 8. County court may make an order; road not

4. Duty of county courts. to be established.

Be it enacted by the General .&ssemb1y of the State qf lllissouri, asfoiows:

§ 1. That John Cummins of Cass county, and Edward Price of Jackson
county, and James Kuykendall of Platte county, be and they are hereby
appointed commissioners to view and mark out and locate a State road,
eommencin at Harrisonville, in Cass county, thence passing near
Brown’s M513, in Cass county, to Westport, thence to Kansas, in ack-
son county, thence to Parkville, thence to Platte City, in Platte county.

§ 2. Said commissioners, or a majority of them, shall meetin the town
of Harrisonville aforesaid, on the first Monday in April, 1849, and shall
severally take an oath, before some judge or justice of the peace, faith-
fully to perform the duties assigned by this act.

§ 3. Said commissioners may employ a surveyor and chain carriers
(if, in their judgment, it is necessary) to accompany them, and cause
said surveyor to make out four plats of said road, one to be filed in each

of the county courts of the counties aforesaid, and one to be filed in the -

otlice of the Secretary of State. __ ,

§ 4. It shall be the duty of said commissioners to make report of their
proceedings to the several county courts aforesaid, at their first terms
after said road sh_all have been located, or as soon thereafter as prac-
ticable. '

§  It shallbe the duty of the county courts of the counties afore-
said, upon the receipt of said report, or as soon thereafter as practicable,
to cause said read to be opened under the provisions of the second arti-
cle of an act entitled “An act for opening and repairing public roads

and highways,” approved March 26th, 1845.

§ 6. The said commissioners and surveyor (if one be employed) shall
each receive two dollars per day for each day necessarily employed in
the discharge of their respective duties; and the chain carriers, if there
be any, shall each be allowed one dollar each per day; and it shall be the
duty of the county courts of said counties to cause said compensation
to be paid out of the road and canal funds of their respectivercounties,
in proportion to the distance said read may run‘ in said counties.

6 7. If, from any cause, there shall be a failure on the part of the
commissioners to meet at the time above specihed, it shall be lawful for
them, or a majority of them, to. meet at any subsequent time, to perform

_ aosns, s'rA.'.r1'. AND COUNTY. 619

the duties required of them by this act, provided said subsequent meet- ‘

ing shall be before the first day of September, 1849.

§ 8. Said commissioners are hereby instructed to follow the present
county road from the Cass county line to West ort, so far as it runs on
or about a straight line from Harrisonville to Vlllestport, and on practi-
cable ground. They are furthermore instructed, to run said road so as
to do as little injury to the owners of land on the ropte as possible.

§ 9. If the county courts of either Jackson or Cass county shall be of
opinion that the road provided for in this act is not necessary, such court
mayzmake an order setting forth that fact, and shall notify saidlcommis-
sioners thereof; and in that event, the road shall not be laid out or es-
tablishedwithin the limits of the county making such order.

This act shall be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

AN ACT to change a portion of a State road from Liberty to Sparta.

§ 1. State road changed, how; portion of State 3. Commissioner, his duty; reports to be made.
road vacated. 4. Allowance made.
2.- Certain portion of State road vacated. ‘5. Surveyor, if necessary, to employ.

Be it enacted by the General dsscmbly of the State of Jlfissouri, as follows:

‘ § 1. The State road leading from Liberty, in Clay county, to Sparta»
in Buchanan county, is hereby changed as follows: so as to intersect, in
the most Ppracticable manner, the county road leading from Hamilton’s
ferry to ew Market at the south-west corner of the quarter section of
land u on which Mrs. Mary Ann Duncan resides, thence north, upon a
direct‘ ine, to the point at which said line strikes said State road as at
present located; and that so much of said State road as lies between the
State road leading from Weston to Plattsburgh and the said oint of in-
tersection by said north line and road, be and the same is herehy vacated.

§ 2. So much of said State road as lies between the State road leading
from Weston to Plattsburgh and the point upon the Liberty and Sparta

State road mentioned in the first section of this act as the ultimate ter-
mination of the change mentioned in said section, is hereby vacated.

§ 3. Edward P. Duncan is hereby ap ointed a commissioner to carry
into effect the provisions of this act, w ose duty it shall be, assoon as
practicable and within the year 1849, to mark, view and locate said
change. as near as may be practicable to the intent and meaning of this
act,~and report a plat of said change to the courts of both Platte and

Buchanan counties, and one to the Secretary of State, as soon as prac-
ticahle after making said location.

§ 4. The county courts of said counties shall allow to said Duncan
two cl»-llars per day for each day necessarily employed in the discharge
of his duty-—each county in proportion to the distance said change may
be embraced within the same. '

§ 5. Said commissioner -may, if he deem it necessary, employ a sur-
veyor to aid him in the location of said change, who shall be. paid as is

620 nouns, sure AND counrv.

provided in the third section of this act for the payment of the commis-
sioner.

This act to be in force and effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

J\I

AN ACT to vacate a part of a State road.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the Slate o_f1‘|Iz's.sourz', asfollowsz.

§ 1-. That so much of the State road as lies within the limits of the
county of_ Dade, leading from Greenfield, in Dade county, to Cartha ,
in Jasper county, laid oil’ pursuant to an act of the General Assembde,
approved 6th of February, 1840, be and the same is hereby vacated.

This act to take effect and be in forcefrom and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

*'V'v‘.Ar./v~.4xAr/

AN ACT to repeal an act entitled “An act to declare a certain road
a State road.”

Be it enacted by the General afssembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. The act entitled “An act to declare a certain road a State road,”
which provides “that the present public road leading from Hughes’ mill,
in Andrew county, to"Jamestown, in thesame county, is hereby declared
a State road,” approved February 16, 1847, be and the same is hereby
repealed. ‘ ’ '

This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

   

A AN ACT to locate a State road from Platte City to Woodville.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; duties of.  5. Duplicate copies of plat to be filed.
2- Commissioners to meet; powers of. 6. Commissioners, &c., fees of.
3. Vacancies, how filled. 7. Plat to be recorded, &c., road to be opened.

4. Duty of commissioners when organized. «

Be it enacted by the General afssembly ofthe State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. Charles Wells, Luke P. Stiles, and Robert Mitchell, of Platte
county, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to mark, view,
and locate a State road from Platte City, in Platte county, to a point on
the State road, leading from Liberty to Saint Joseph at ornear Wood-
ville, by way of Buena Vista.

§ 2. The said commissioners or a majority of them shall ircct at Platte
City on the first Monday in May, 1849, and shall severally take an oath
to discharge the duties assigned them by this act, and they shall have
power to employ a surveyor, and if necessary chain carriers, to aid them
in the discharge of their duties.

§ 3. Should a vacancy or vacancies occur in said board of commission-
ers, the remaining commissioner or commissioners shall fill said vacancy
or vacancies; and should said commissioners fail to meet on the day men-
*.l01°d in‘ the second section of this act, they shall at any subsequent day

news, srara AND comcrr. 621

in the year 1849, meet at said town of Platte City, and proceed to dis-
charge the duties assigned them -by this act.

§4. Saidgcommissioners when organized and sworn into oflice shall
proceed to mark, view, and locate said road on the nearest and bestroute

as mentioned in the first section of this act, having as much regard as

practicable to the least damage which the location of said road may oc-
casion, and as far as practicable said- commissioners may locate said road
upon any other road or roads running pretty nearly in the route of said
road or roads. '

§ 5. As soon as practicable after locating said road, said commission-
ers shall file with the county court of Platte county duplicate copies of
the plat of said road, and make full report of their proceedings to said
county court. .
. § 6. The said commissioners and surveyor shall each receive -two dol-
lars per day for each day by them employed in the discharge of their du-
ties, out of the road and canal fund of Platte county. .

§ 7. Said county court shall cause one of the plats of said road to be
recorded upon the records of said court, and the other to be forwarded
to the secretary of State; and shall cause said road to be opened and

lcept in repair under the general law now in force, for opening public
roads and highways.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 12, 1849.

   

/ J\/./V‘-I

AN’ ACT to establish a State road in Bentongcounty.
§ 1. Commissioners; for what purpose appoint-  4. Vacancy, how tilled.
l
)

   

ed. 5. Penalties prescribed for obstructing.

2. Duty of commissioners -: 6. Persons exempted from opening said road.
3. Commissioners, &c., how governed; fees. \

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly of the State of .Mz'ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. David Humes,Jacob Byler, and Stephen A_. Howser, of the coun-
ty of Benton, are hereby appointed commissioners for the purpose of
viewing and marking out a State road from Warsaw, in said county, on
the nearest and best route via Jacob By1er’s mill, on Cole Camp creek,
and from thence on the nearest and best route to intersect the new State
road at or near Alfred Byler’s mill, in Morgan county, which leads from
Versailles to Bolivar, in Polk county. _

§ 2. Said commissioners shall meet at the court house in Warsaw, on
the third Monday in April next, or some other subsequent day to be by
them or a majority of them agreed upon, and proceed to view and marl:
out said road, as specified in this act. _

§ 3. Said commissioners and all others engaged in laying out and open-
ing said road, shall have and possess all the powers, and be governed in
all respects by the law in relation to State roads; butsaid commissioners
shall not employ a surveyor or chain carriers unless they shall deem it
absolutely necessary, nor shall a map be made out of said road for the
use of the State, but said commissioners may have a map of said road
made out for the use of Benton county, if they shall deem it necessary;
said commissioners shall each receive one dollar and fifty cents per day;

622 norms, sure sun courrrv.

the surveyor and other persons employed shall be paid such sums for
their per diem services as the commissioners shall deem reasonable, but
the whole expense of laying out said road shall not exceed seventy dollars.

§ 4. If any vacancy or vacancies shall occur in said board of commis-
sioners, the remaining commissioners shall fill the same by the appoint-
ment of some other suitable erson or persons.

§ 5. After said road shall e ordered to be opened by the county court
if any person or persons shall obstruct the same by fencing along or
across said road, or otherwise obstruct said road so as to hinder or pre-
vent in any manner the free passage of any team, Waggon, or passengers
along in said road, such person or persons shall forfeit and pay to the
county of Benton, a sum not less than five nor exceeding fifty dollars for
every offence, and the further sum of one dollar for every day he or they
shall suffer such obstruction to remain in or across said road, the for-
feiture to be recovered by indictment in the county in which obstruc-
tion is made or located, and shall be paid into the county treasury of
Benton county, and shall be expended by the county court in making
improvements on or repairing said road. ‘

§ 6. N 0 person who is a resident of Williams township, in the county
of Benton, shall be compelled to assist in cutting out or opening the State
road established under the provisions of this act.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

£l\.J\./\I\J\/\/\J\./\/\/’\/\./ \§J\/\J\/

AN ACT to view and work [marking] out a State road from Madison-
ville to New London, in Ralls county.

 

§ 1. Commissionersgthcirduties. 3. Commissions,how governed.
2. Commissioners, &c., employed; fees. § 4. Road not to be changed.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qfthe Slafe QfMz'ssom~z', as follows:

§ 1. That Wilkinson Crawford, James D. Watson, and Samuel C.
Wood, of the county of Ralls, be and they are hereby appointed road
commissioners, whose duty it shall be to meet at Madisonville, on the
first Monday in June next, or some subsequent day by them agreed upon,
and from thence proceed to view and mark out a State road from said
point, on the nearest and most practicable route, to New London in said
county. having due regard to private rights and public utility.

§ 2. Said c ‘mmissioners shall each receive the sum ofone dollar and fifty
cents per day for each day engaged in reviewing and [marking] out said
road; and shall, employ some competent person to survey said road, who
shall receive the sum of two dollars per day for his services in surveying
said road; and also two chain carriers, who shall receive the sum of one dol-
lir per day for their services; and all expenses incurred in laying out the
above named road shall be paid out of the road and canal fund belonging
to the aforesaid county.

§ 3. The said commissioners, and all who may be liable to work on
said road, shall in all respects be governed by the general law now in
force, prescribing the mode of opening and laying out State roads.

§ 4. That when the aforesaid road shall be laid out and established,
that it shall not be changed in any manner, unless a majority of all the

neans, smrn wn COUNTY. 623

citizens, subject to work on‘said road, shall petition the county court to
make such change.

This act to be in force from and after its passage. A
Approved March 12, 1849.

MN IS"/\./'\"/\/‘.I‘/'J‘X‘-"‘

 

AN ACT to change a portion of the State road leading from Paris in
Monroe county to Hannibal in Marion county, Missouri.

§ 1. Commissioners; their duty. ‘ 4. Commissioners; how governed.
2. Plat of road to be filed; compensation of 5. Road to be permanent and cannot be
commissioners and others; how paid. changed only. ' '

3. County court; duty of.
Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Thomas Nelson, Henry Glasscock and George Glenn of the
county of Monroe, are hereby appointed commissioners, whose duty it
shall be to meet on the first Monday in April next, or as soon thereafter
as will suit their convenience, and proceed to view and resurvey that
portion of said road, which lies between Paris in Monroe county and
Robert Hagers in the county of Ralls. ’ .

§ 2. The commissioners after surveying and marking .out such altera-
tions as they may deem necessary, (having a due regard to the best and
shortest route) shall tile the field notes and plat of the same in the

’ oflice of the clerk of the county court of Monroe county and said com-

missioners and all necessary hands that they may employ, shall receive
such compensation for their services as the county court may, deem rea-
sonable, to be paid out of the road and canal fund of Monroe county.

§ 3. It shall be the duty of the county'court of Monroe county, as
soon as the plat and field notes of said survey, shall be filed in the office
of the clerk aforesaid, to cause said road to be opened, at least forty and
not more than sixty feet wide, to be opened and kept up as other State
roads. Nothing in this act shall be so construed, as to authorize the
road from said Hagers, to where the Hannibal and Paris road crosses
the Florida and Palmyra road, to be abolished; but the same shall remain
a ublic hi hwa as it now is. - '

p§ 4. Saig conyimissioners in the discharge of‘ all theiryduties shall-be
govgrneccli by the provisions of an act for opening and repairing public
roa s an hi hwa s. .
_ § 5. This goad ivhen located and established, shall be permanent, and
cannot be chan ed or altered‘, only by an act of the Legislature.

This act to taie effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved March 8,’ 1849.

_\I\/\/\/\/-\/\/\/\. \/\x\/y~_/\.‘J JV‘. ‘J -/‘4'\/'\/‘-/“-'\./\t\.

AN ACT for the establishment of a State road in Cole county.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; their duties; 4. County court; duty of; fees of commis'
how governed. sioners.

2. Surveyor &.c., not employed; report to be
made. §

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State qf Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That Allen Ramsey, Michael D. Clarke and John Farmer of Colo-

624 maps, s1:-ATE sun. conrrrr.

county, be and they are hereby appointed road commissioners whose
duty it shall be to meet at the residence of James Keer in Clark town-
ship in Cole county on the first Monday of May next, (1849,) or at any
time within one month thereafter and having first taken an oath to fairly,
faithfully and without prejudicegor partiality,. dispharge the duties
herein enjoined upon them, as also the duties enjoined by the gen-
eral law, upon the subject of State road (roads) shall thence proceed
to view and mark out a State road from the residence of James Keer
aforesaid to the mouth of the Osage river, by the Way of VVarren Dixons’
in said county; the width of the road and manner of opening the same,
shall be in accordance with the general law concerning State roads.

§ 2. And the said commissioners shall not be required to employ asur-
veyor and chain carriers in viewing and marking out said road, but shall
dispense with the same; and in their report, they shall make out a defi-
nitely descriptive account of the location of such road and such report,
thus made out shall be taken as a suiiicient discharge of their duties as
fair (far) as concerns a report of their proceedings.

§ 3. Upon the tiling of a report by said commissioners in the otiice of
the cllerk of the county court of Cole county; the county court of said
county, shall order the same to be opened according to the law concern-
ing State roads ‘and it shall be lawful for the said court, and they are
hereby required to allow said commissioners such compensation as to
them shall seem reasonable, not to exceed two dollars per day, for every
day necessarily employed, in the discharge of the duties herein imposed.

This act to take effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849. '

~ J‘--"_‘s-‘.-‘ /‘*\.I'\/'\/-/‘\/\n'

AN ACT to establish a State road.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; their duty, &.c. ‘ 4. Said road to be opened. V
‘.2. Surveyor- chain carriers to be employed; E 5. Fees of commissioners, surveyor and chain

oath to taken. carriers; how paid.
3. Platof road to be made; copies sent and E 6. Vacancy; how tilted.‘
to whom.

Be it enacted by the General ./issembly qf the J State of Missouri, asfollaws:

§ 1. That Nathaniel A. Newbill of thebcounty of Pettis, William Thom-
ton, of the county of Johnson, and William Parker of the county of
Lafayette shall be and they are hereby appointed road commissioners,
whose duty it shall be to meet at the house of General David Thompson
in the county of Pettis, on the second Monday in April next, or some
subsequent day thereafter, to be by them agreed upon, and from thence
proceed to survey and mark out a State route for a State road; begin-
ning at the south-west corner of the aforesaid 'i‘hompson’s homestead
farm in Pettis county, from thence to some point at or near the head of
Brush Hills, contiguous to the county line between Pettis and Johnson
counties; from thence to Greers mill on Blackwater in Johnston county;
from thence t x Merriotts bridge, formerly “Merriott’s ford,” on Davis’
Creek in Lafayette county, following the nearest and most practicable
route from point to point as herein designated; due regard being had to
the ground over which said road runs, also the advantages to be derived
by the public, and with the least injury to individuals.

soaps, an-re AND coumv. 625

§ 2. The commissioners aforesaid shall employ a competent surveyor .
and two chain carriers, who together with said commissioners shall take
an oath before some ofiicer competent to administer the same, to exe-
cute faithfully the reguirements of this act.

§ 3. As soon as sai commissioners and surveyor shall have completed
said survey, they shall make out a plat of the route they have selected;
copies of which shall be forwarded to the Secretary of State, and the
county courts of the counties in which said road shall be located.

§ 4. The county courts of the counties through which said road shall
run, shall cause said road tp be opened at least thirty feet wide, and kept
in repair by the hands subject to work on roads.

§ 5. The commissioners and surveyor shall each receive as compensa-
tion for their services, the sum of two dollars, per day, and the chain
carriers, which they may employ shall each receive one dollar per day

for their services, during the time for which the said commissioners, sur- .

veyor and chain carriers may actually be engaged in discharging the du-
ties required by this act; which several amounts shall be ascertained
and certified by the said commissioners, and paid out of the road and
canal fund, of the counties through which said road shall run, in propor-
tion to the length of said road in said counties respectively.

§ 6. Any vacancy which may occur-in said commissioners, may be
filled by an appointment of some other suitable person or persons, by the
remaining commissioners or commissioner.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849. _ '

 

AN ACT declaring a certain county road a State road.

Be it enacted by the.G'eneraZ ufssembly of the Slate qf Missouri, asfollozas:

§ 1. The county road beginning at the State road leading from the
town of Georgetown in the county of Pettis to Boonville in the county
of Cooper at the plantation of General William Shields in said county
of Pettis and running thence by way of Carpenters Ford of Flat Creek
in said county to the point where ti State road leading from Jefferson
City via. Versailles to Warsaw in nton county intersects or joins the
same, to wit: at Hosea Powers in said county of Benton is hereby de-
clared a State road.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the several county courts througli which

the said road passes to cause said road to be opened and kept in repair
as other State roads. '

' This act to take effect and bein force from its passage. I
Approved March 8, 1849.

J's./\t'\/v*~/\/-..‘u‘.I~.x\» \J.\rJ rs; r.f4\.A_/\,A’~;\n.,\_,\/\,A‘A_f A; 1- KJ /\./\l\./\.J\

AN ACT to vacate a part of a State road from Alexandria in Clark
county to the northern boundary_ of the State of Missouri, establish-
ed by an act approved January 27th, 1841.

Be it enacted by the General ./Zssembly of the State of Missozzri, asfollows:

‘ § 1. That all that partlof said State road from the east line of section

626 norms, s-rarr: AND COUNTY.

seventeen in township sixty-six of range seven, west, to the northern
boundary line of said State, be and the same is hereby vacated.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.

    

‘ AN ACT to establish a State road from Tuscumbia, Miller county, to

Relfe, in Pulaski county.

;

§ 1. Commissioners appointed; duties of such; g 3. Compensation of commissioners; how to
public ability regarded. be paid.
2. Commissioners governed; how; surveyor
&.c., not employed.

Be it enacted by the General /Issemblg of the State of Missouri, asfullows:

§ 1. That John Leeke, of Pulaski county and Abraham Castleman and
William Wilson.of Miller county, are hereby appointed road commis-
sioners, whose duty it shall be to meet at the town of Tuscumbia in Mil-
ler county on the second Monday in April, 1849, and from thence pro-
ceed to view and mark out a State road to Relfe in Pulaski county on
the most practicable route due regard being had to the public utility.

§ 2. The said commissioners shall be governed in all respects, in the
discharge of the duties imposed by this act by the second article of an
act entitled an act for opening and repairing roads and highways, ap-
provedMarch 17, 1835, except that they shall not employ a surveyor nor
chain carriers.

§ 3. Upon the report of the commissioners they shall each be entitled
to the sum,of two dollars per day, for every day necessarily spent in
laying out said road, to be paid out of the road and canal fund, in a ratio
proportionate to the extent of the road in each county.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to vacag a State road, &c.
Be it enacted by the General ./Qssemibly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. All that portion of a State road established by an act entitled an
act to establish a State road from Parkville in Platte county to Platte-
burg in Clinton county north of where said road leaves the county road
leading from Platte city in Platte county to Smithville in Clay county is
hereby vacated.

-§ 2. The road as now travelled to Smithville in Clay county from the
point mentioned in section first, where the above named State road leaves
the county road leading from Platte city to Smithville is hereby declared
to be a State road, and shall be kept in repair as other State roads are.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

.. - \_'\,' J x»; .. _.— .-*- -'  z’ .r‘._/' /\..' ./'./t/\

I

norms, swarm AND counrr. 627

AN ACT to branch the State road from Boonville to Independence so as
t_o run through the City of Lexington.

§ 1. State road established, 3. Said road to be o ened.
‘ 2. County conrt appoint commissioners, and 4. County court to e governed.
duties of same. 5.. Said road opened so far.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the Statelqf lllissouri, asfollows:

§ 1. There shall be established a State road from a point in the lane
between the lands of Elizabeth.Ewing, which said point shall be due
east from the eastern extremity of north street in the city of Lexington,
and running from said point west to the eastern extremity of said north
street in said city. .

§ 2. The county court of Lafayette county shall at its first term after
the passage and promulgatidn of this act appoint three commissioners to
view and mark out said road, as proposed by this act and said commis-
sioners shall be governed by the provisions of an act concerning roads
and highways, ap roved March 26th, 1845, so far as the same may be
applicable under t e provisions of this act.

§ 3. Upon the report of the commissioners the county court of La-
fayette county shall proceed forthwith to have said road opened between
the points above designated.

§ 4. The county court in the opening of said road shall be governed
by the aforesaid act approved March 26th, 1845, but so far only as shall
apply to securing the right of way and payment to persons over whose
land the road shall run, and as to the width and condition in which the
road shall be put anl the manner of opening the same.

§ 5. If any portion of the route of the proposed road shall fall within
the incorporate limits. of the city of Lexington then it shall be the duty
of the county court to cause said roadto be opened up to the line of said
corporate limits only, and no further.

This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 3, 1849.

‘\o’\4"\ot"

 

ax,--\,-\,f\¢‘\_/-\ /~_,/\_’\/\./\

AN ACT to change a portion of a State road.

§ 1. Direction road runs. 4. Rights of persons respected.
2. Commissioner appointed and duties. 5. Portions State road vacated.
3. Duty of county court.

Be it enacted by the General /’ssembl_y of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so much of a State road leading from Edinburg in Scotland
county to the town of Memphis in said county as lies between the fol-
lowing described points, is hereby chan ed, to wit: Beginning at a sign
post at or near the north-east corner of ichael Mire’s field, from thence
the nearest and best route to the south-east corner of John McPherson’s
field fence, from thence north along said fence on the east side thereof,
to the north east corner of the same, from thence to intersect the said

State road at the nearest and most practicable point.
§ 2. Andrew ‘G. Darby, P. F. Harris and John Hendricks of Scotland .
county are hereby appointed commissioners to survey and mark out the

alteration of said road, and the field notes together with a plat of the

\

1128

same shall be filed in the oilice of the clerk of the county court of said
count .

§ 3.y It shall be the duty of the county court of Scotland county as
soon as the plat and field notes of said survey, shall be filed in the otiice
as aforesaid, to cause said road to be opened at least thirty and not more
than sixty feet wide to be opened and kept up as other State roads.

§ 4. The commissioners in the performance of the duties assigned them
in this act, shall pay due regard to the rights of the persons owning the
land through which said road may run. _

§ 5. All that portion of the present State road that lies between the
points of beginning and intersection of the alteration according to the

name, sure AND counts.

‘ provisions of this act is hereby vacated.

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

AN ACT to declare a certain road a State road.
Be itenacted by the General ./Zssemblyof the Stateqf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. A certain road running through the counties of Crawford, Texas
and Wright, known as the old White river road, commencing at Peter
Brickeys in Crawford county, thence by way of Breckenridges mill in said
county, thence by way of the lick settlement in Texas county, thence
by way of mill No. one on Big Piney river, thence by way of G. B. Al-
len & Co., steam mill, thence by way of Joshua Burkhearts to Robert
Mont§omery’s old farm in Wright county, be and the same is hereby de-
clare a State road.

§ 2. The county court of the county through which said road runs,
shall cause said road in their respective counties to be laid off into con-
venient road districts, and a point overseers on the same, and in all re-
spects cause said road to be lcept in good repair as other State and coun-
ty roads are re uired to be kept in repair by the existing laws.

' This act shal take effect from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849. .

I

\f'\/\/"\.f\/'\/\

AN ACT to change a State road.

Be it enacted by the General afssembly Qf the State of Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That Edward Butler, jr., Alford R. Link and Martin L. G. Crow

are hereby appointed commissioners whose duty it shall be to meet at the
house of A. ‘W. J effries in Franklin county on the first Saturday in May

   

F

~next, and after being duly ualiiied shall proceed to mark out a change

in the present St. Louis an Jefferson City State road commencing on
the top of the hill half a mile from the premises of the said Jeffries, and
thence proceed the nearest and most practicable route from said point
by the way of Benj. D. Ferry’s, intersecting a ain the present road as it
now runs, on the top of the ridge three and a iialf miles west of Union.

§ 2. That said commissioners shall make report of their proceedings
under this act, to the first term of the county court thereafter, and if in

ject to work on roads not less than forty feet wi

nosns.--scnoons AND SCHOOL LANDS. 629

the opinion of baid commissioners said change ought-in justice to be made
the ‘county court shall cause the same to be done accordingly, at the first
term after receiving the report of said commissioners, and cause the same
to be opened according to the ageneral law governing State roads.

§ 3. Said commissioners sh 1 not be required to employ a surveyor or
chain carriers in making said review; said commissioners shall each re-
ceive two dollars per day, to be paid out of the road and canalfund.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage;
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

rx

AN ACT  declare the county road from BuEalo,to Bolivar a State road.

Be itenaoted by the General ./Issembly qftlie State of Missouri, as follows:

§B1. The county road leading from the town of Bolivar in Polk county
to uffalo in Dallas county, crossing the Pomme de Perre river near the
widgw Wright’s shall be, and the same is hereby declared tobe a State
roa .
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county courts of the counties of Polk
and Dallas respectively to cause said road to be 0 ened by the hands sub-
dle. ’ Said road shall be
regulated and kept in repairpin all respects as other State roads are now
ke t in repair. '
his act to take efect from and after its passage.
Approved March 5, 1849.

   

"\a

   

SCHOdLS'AND SCHOOL LANDS.

AN -ACT relating to the taking of the census of the school children
in Harrison county.

Wnsnms, it has been represented to this General Assembly that the
census of the children between the ages of six and twenty years,
residing in Harrison county, were correctly taken in the years 1847
and 1848, as required by an act passed at the last General Assem-
bly, and that the same was forwarded by mail directed to the Su-
perintendent of Common Schools, but, from some unknown cause,
failed to be received at that oliice, consequentlysaid county has not
received her portion of the fund due by the provisions of said act;
therefore, .

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate qf Ilfissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That so soon as the clerk of the count court of Harrison county
shall make the returns above named to the uperintendent of Common
Schools, said county shall be entitled to receive the portion of said
school funds for the years 1847 and 1848, which would have been due if
said census had been received in due time, as provided by an act entitled

“An act to apportion the State school moneys equally among the chi!-

630 scnoons AND’ SCHOOL LANDS.

dren of the State, and to amend an act entitled ‘An act to provide for
the organization, support and governmentof common schools,’ approved
March 27, 1845,” which act was approved February 11, 1847, and that
the several oflicers therein named shall perform the duties therein men-
tioned, so far as the same will apply to the said county of Harrison for
the years 1847 and 1848..
This act to take effect from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Callaway county to autho-
rize the sale of a part of sixteenth section in township forty-six,
range eleven, in larger quantities than forty acres.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly qfthe State qf Missouri, as _/aIlows:_

§ 1. The county court of Callaway county may order the sale of the
south-east quarter and the east half of south-west quarter of section
sixteen, township forty-six, range eleven, in larger quantities than forty
acre lots, as provided for in the iifth section of “An act to regulate the
sale of the sixteenth sections.” Said sale to conform in all other res-
pects to the provisions of said act, approved March 27, 1845, entitled
“An act to regulate the sale of the sixteenth sections.”

This act to take effect from and after its passage. ‘

Approved March’ 5, 1849.

 

AN ACT for the benefit of school district No. 2, township No. 1,
in Polk county.

Wm-:31.-:».s, School district No. 2, in township No. 1, in Polk county, con-
tains thirty-nine children between the age of six and twenty years,
entitled to distribution of the school moneys, under the general laws
upon that subject; and whereas, by an omission in the report of the
enumeration of the children in said school district to the Superin-
tendent of Common Schools, for the year 1846, said district was
deprived of its distributive share of the school moneys; therefore,

Be: it enaczczl by the General ./Qssembly of the State of .Missouri, as jbllows:

§ 1. The Superintendent of Common Schools is hereby authorized and
required. todistribute to school district N o. 2,_in township No. l, in Polk
county, the sum of thirty-four dollars and thirty-two cents, the amount
due said school district in the year 1846; and in making said distribu-
tion, said Superintendent shall be governed by the general laws appli-
cable to the distribution of the State school moneys.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved March 10, 1849.

._- . -,_. \/\/\> \/s.-*\,‘~.“J‘.’\.\J\/\.\/'

scnoons sun sonoox. mums. - 63!

AN ACT to sell the sixteenth section of school lands in the county of
- Barry. '

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. Whenever a majority of the citizens of any congressional town-
ship in the county of Barry shall petition the county court of said county
to sell the sixteenth sections of their respective townships, the court, if
it think proper, may order the sales of the sixteenth sections, although
there may not be fifteen householders in said township, any law to the

_contra1_-y notwithstanding.

§ 2. All sales of lands made under the provisions of this act, shall be
considered in every respect in accordance with the law now regulating
the sales of the sixteenth sections.

This act to take effect and be_in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849.

 

 J'€\J\£g

AN ACT to divide certain school townships in Cole and Osage
counties. -

Be it enacted by the General yfssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That hereafter, such parts df school townships forty-three and’

forty-four, both of rangeten, as lies in Osage county, shall each res ec-
tively form one school townshi in said county of Osage, and, to a in-
tents and purposes, be under tlie jurisdiction of the county court of said
county; and further, that such parts of said school townshipsforty-three
and forty-four, of range ten, aforesaid, as-lie in Cole county, shall each,
respectively, form one school township in said county of Cole, and, to
all intents and purposes, be under the jurisdiction of the county court
of said county.

§ 2. And be it further enacted, that in the further organization of any
one of the school townships hereby created, it shall not be necessary
(unless the taxable inhabitants of such townshipprefer it) that there
shall be selected township school directors by‘ the inhabitants thereof,
but it shall be competent for the taxable inhabitants to designate the
number of districts and’ the bounds thereof, and the trustees of districts
shall, in all cases, make their reports directly to the county court of their
counties respectively, and in addition -thereto, do and erform all» and
every duty, matter and thin whatsoever that would be awful fortown-
ship directors to do under t e general school law; provided, neverthe-
less, that said trustees shall in no case receive any school moneys until
they, or one of them, shall have given bond, in such penalty, with such
conditionsand securities as the county court of their county shall ap-

rove. -

P § 3. The county court of Cole county is hereby authorized and re-
(1-Illired to apportion) and divide the township school fund appertaining to
t e said townships fnrty—threc and forty-four of range ten, respectively,
between the school townships formed out of either of the aforesaid town-
ships forty-three and forty.-four of range ten, by virtue of this act, in

632 sermons: AND scnoor. Lanna.

proportion, as nearas may be, to the number of children residing in each
between the ages of six and twenty years; and when they shall have as-
certained the quotas of township school funds to which the school town-
ships hereby formed and being in Osage county are respectively. entitled
to, they shall notify the county court of the county of Osage, or the
clerk thereof, of the amount coming to. each, and that the same will be
paid to such county upon the draft of the county court thereof.
This act shall take effect and be in force from its passage.
Approved March 6, 1849. .

r\_dH_/-.f g’\" -._/-x_,\_, \A’\ /xvi‘,- 

AN ‘ACT respecting township l'orty.tive_ north, in range seven east.

§ 1. Commissioners appointed. ) 8. Shall cause land to be advertised and ‘sold;
2. Commissioners required togive bond and 8, terms of sale prescribed,-
take an oath. ~ '~; 9. Commissioners shall keep record of their-
3. Provides for filling vacancies. 5g proceedings.
4. Duties of commissioners. 3' IO. Shall hold proceeds when collected for
 Commissioners may negotiate with con- ; school purposes.
tiicting claimants. A Q: 10. Two commmissioners shall form a que-
6. Further powers cf commissioners in suits 3 rum. '
at law. ) 12. Further provisions for disposition of funds.

7. Commissioners may cause the land to be § 13. Commissioners may execute deeds.
laid off into lots or blocks; shall cause K 14. Commissioners may receive donations and
plat and field notes to be tiled. 2 contributions; may erect schoolvhouses.

‘Be it enacted by the Generai ./Issembly of the Stale of Missouri, as follows:

‘§ I. William Milburn, Wm. C.‘ Taylor and J. Richard Barnett. are hereby
appointed commissioners tohold,-manage, control, secure and dispose of
section number sixteezrin township forty-Eve north, in range seven east, of
the tifth principal meredian in St. Louis county, and to act for the benefit of
the inhabitants of said township; and so far as practicable to render said six-
teenth available and productive for, the support of schools in said township.

l § 2. Said commissioners shall enterinto bond with good security for the
faithful performance of their duties, the sum. to be prescribed and the
bond and security approved by the circuit court of St. Louis county or
the judge thereof in vacation,-and they shall also take an oath that they
will honestly and impartially discharge the duties imposed on them as such
commissioners. ,

{}3. If any or all of said commissioners fail or refuse to act, or if any
vacancy shall at any time occur in said board of commissioners, other com-
missioners shall be appointed by the circuit court of St. Louis county or the
judge thereof, in vacation, who shall give bond and be qualified in like'man-
ear, and shall in all respects have the rights, and powers, and perform the
duties imposed on the original commissioners.

§4. Said commissioners shall cause the title of the school section of said
township to be carefully investigated, so as to ascertain in a satisfactory
manner how much and what parts thereof are free from dispute, how much
and what parts have conflicting .claims against them, and what parts are
held by valid adverse titles; and they shall cause the titles of said conflict-
ing claims to be investigated, and shall procure the necessary documents,
papers and other evidence to defend and sustain the title of the inhabitants
of said township to said section as shcool lands, and shall take all other
necessary and precautionary steps to defend the claim of said inhabitants.
They may adopt measures, if necessary, to obtain a re~survey of said land

633

under the authority of the United States, so as to ascertain the true location
of the same, and also, of the adjacent and conflicting‘claims, and may adopt
measures to obtain and keep the actual possession of said premises. .
§5. Said commissioners may,-ingtheir discretion’, enter into negotiations
with the conflicting claimants of saitfpremises; and may make compromises
and adjustments with them, or any of th'e_m, if compromises can be made
that will be advantageous and profitable to the inhabitants of.sa'gl’townstrip;

SCHOOL?» AND SCHOOL LANDS.

and may adjust questions of boundary, and finally, determine the_same;and ‘

may make conveyances by quit claim deed in conformity to such ;c.d)I:pro-
miscs, and may receive deeds of release or conveyance from the ¢verse
claimants; but in all such adjustments and compromises they- shall be‘ gov-
erned by a strict regard to the true interests of the inhabitants of said town-
ships, and shall adopt that course that will‘ best promote the_ sucdss. of
schools in said townships. . 2 ‘ , i -
§ 6. Said commissioners shall have full power to institute stilts and other
legal proceedings against any conflicting claimants of or trespasses on said
premises, and general authority to. perfect, assert and maintain the «title of
inhabitants of said township thereto. ' ’ ' '
§7. Said commissioners shall have full power and authority to have so
much of said land as is free from coniiicting claims, and‘ so much as they
may obtain the possession of by suit or compromise, to be laid off into lots’
or blocks of such size as they deem most advantageous, and set apart por-
tions of the same for roads or alleys for the accommodation of ‘said lots ‘and
of the public; and may set apart such lots as they may deem proper to «be
permanently reserved as lots for school-houses and institutions of learning;
and they shall cause aocorrect copy of the plat and field-notes thereolito be
tiled in the recorder’s oflice of said county, with proper’ certificates and ack-
nowledgments annexed. ‘

' §8. Said commissioners shall have power to cause all or ‘any ortioh of

I 5

said school lands to be duly advertised in newspapersand by h ndbills, so‘

as to give ample notice to the public, and may cause all or any of the blocks
or lots of ground in the same to be sold to the highest bidder at such times
and places as they may appoint and advertise; at every such saleat least
ten per cent. of the purchase money shall be paid in advance, and the residue
may be on such credit and in such instalments as the commissioners shall
deem best calculated to promote therinterests of the inhabitants of the town-
ship; but the purchase money not paid in advance shall bear interest at six
per cent. per year from the time of sale till paid, and shall.be secured by
bond and good security; and-when the purchase money shall‘ be paid; the
commissioners shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title. claim and
interest of the inhabitants of said township in and to 'the'la'n,d thus gold.
Such deed shall be signed by said commissioners, or two of -them,-sealed
with their private seals-and acknowledged as deeds usually are. ‘

. § 9. Said commissioners shall keep a record of their proceedings, and,_t_rue
booksand accounts [and] shall carefully preserve all documents and ~ pelt’.-.
relating to the business of said township, which shall be‘subject"ti) the’i pee‘
tion of the inhabitants of -the township. '  3- "
..§ 10. Said commissioners shall collect and safely keep the ._m‘oney"fo¥

which said land may be sold, and may take all propersteps to-secure fad

_recovei° the same, and shall hold the same for the use of the inhabitantsitof

said township .-for school purposes. They shall .pay.‘-‘.' the, prlop

sequ-
sary expenses ‘atonding the di1chq;rge,ot thé'ir.dutieg.'und‘er*t

_ i§E€é!*Itnd

634 scnoons AND SCHOOL LANDS.

shall account. for and pay over the money remaining to the trustees of- said
towhship when organized, or to such other persons as may be by law autho-

rized to receive the same.

§ 11. Any two of said commissioners shall be a .quorum to do business,
and they may adopt convenient and proper rules for their own government.

§ 12. Until otherwise provided, said commissioners may lend any money
that they may receive for said lands, for a term not exceeding one year, and
shall galte undoubted security for the repayment of the same, together with
intpit-st thereon, not exceeding the rate at which other school funds are by
lawpermittcd to he leaned.

§ I3. It’ the purchaser of any of the lands sold by said commissioners shall
pref r that course the commissioners may in their discretion execute a deed
to s eh pttrcliaser and‘ take a'deed of trust on the premises to secure the
balance of tire purchase money.

§ 14. The commissioners shall have full power and authority do all acts
that may be tiecr3ss'al‘y and proper to carry this actlinto successful operation,

and to accomplish the objects thereof.
§l5. Said commissioners may receive donations and contributions, and with
the proceeds thereof may cause one or more school-houses to be erected,and
permit or cause schools to be taught therein.

‘* This act to take effect from its passage.
Approyed March 8, 1849. '

O

4* _‘ _“

.~ 1. _ ,.. /. ‘A /-.‘,5_/-. _,-\_,\_;\_,/\_/x,’-xi/~./‘x/"

AN ACT concerning school township number two in Camden county.

Be it enacted. by the General .4ssembZ_y qf the State of Illissouri, as follows:

p 5‘) 1. The trustees of district number one, of school township number two.
in Czunden county, are hereby authorized to apply the school fund now on
hand, to the erection of a school-house.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Approved February 5, H549.

 A~V”

.. AN ACT respecting schools in Portage des Sioux.
B e it enacted by the General a/Qssembly Q/‘the State Qf Missouri, as follows:

’ § 1. An act entitled “An act to apportion the State school moneys equally
amot*t,r._,r the children ‘in the State, and to amend an act entitled ‘An act to pro-
vide ltor the organization, support and government of common SC'n00lS.=
‘hpproved March '27, 1845;’ approved February 11, 1847,” shall not prevent
the"‘directdrs of the organized schools in the village of Portage des Siuox,
i'n\-the county of St. Charles, from receiving dividends of the State school
‘fund for the support of common schools, in proportion to the number of
children entitled to distribution in said village, as other school districts in the
Cotttity. ” I
This act shall take etfect from its passage.
v A‘pp;-axed‘ F<.'l.)t‘ht}'a§'y 17, 1549.‘

SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL LANDS. 635

-AN ACT to authorize the county. court of Moittgomery county to loan
' ".

certain school funds. .

‘vV11nn1s.ts. Charles Hinton, late of the county of Montgomery, in his last
will and testament,'dated thirtio'th ol"Septemher, one thousand eight:
hundred and forty-l'our, among other provisions, betptcathcd to the dis-
trict school, in the town of l‘)am~'i_lle, and county aforesaid, Cetiillll funds
therein spccified,_a'td inst1‘u_ctr:d, in his said last will his executor to
pay over to the county courtfor said County said fund, to be constituted
:1 fund for the use of said di<trict,with the provision that the interest
accruing the-reor_1 should only be usedifor the purposes at'ort.-said;.there-
fore, ‘ -

)

Be it enacted by the General_./fssemblyoftize State of M£s.9oztrz', ai.sfuIiin:v.s: .

§ I. That the judges of the county court for Montgomerycounty, acting
in their fiduciary character, he, and are hereby authorized and empowered
to loan said fund, amounting to tiltvon huhdred dollars, according to the
tenor of said will, at a rate of inter: at not exceeding ten per cent.

This act to pike c~<‘,?.:(-t nod l:'~ in three: from and utter its p:.:ssage.
T , , , . C '. ,
Apptuyed FLl)ru.uy ‘J~1,L>i..‘. . , _‘ p ,, 9;
, _ ' ,‘
‘ - 9»/\/\ ' ' x Kr - A. 2. ». \. .'\./\_"‘\1’\r'\.—"\/ I *

'\

AN ACT for the reliet of the school children or District number chem
township sixty, in Lewis county. ' -7‘

I

Be it enactedb the General Bsscmbly of the State of Mz'ssourz',_as follows:

§ I. It shall be lawful for the trustees of school district number one in
township sixty, in Lewis county, at any time prior to the first ‘—Monday in
May, I849, to make such report to the directors of townshio number six as
is required by law thcyshould have made on or by the first Monday in August,
1848; and the county court of said county. and the several school otiicc-rs
of said township are hercbyrequircd totnake suclrdistrihution of the public
school money for saiddistrict as the law required them to make in case the
report had been made-on or before the first Monday in August, 1843.

This act.-shall takeleflect from its passage. '

Approved March 12, 1849.

‘J’./u/\4-av /J./‘ff/‘I»"d\J/if-‘1 I4 «'1/0 1'/*4‘-J"I.I‘u“a‘—

D

AN ACT to authorize the county court of Dude county to sell a part of
the sixteenth sectir n of land in less quantities than fnrtfv acres.

Be it enacted by the’ General Bssembly of the State of Mz'.s'.s-om~‘z', asfollows‘-

§l. That the county court of Dade_'_county is hereby uuihorized to sell
the south-cast quarter of the south-cast quarter of section nmnher sixteen,
in township number thirty, of range number twenty-five, in ins of tire and‘
ten acres. . - ' ‘
J This act to take client and be intoree from and after its ; 1»-~a

Approved March 12, 18-19. »

" .¢ .. - '
W’ ‘ »\J\/\t‘~«\./\.a \..'\J \..'\a~ohv—x,nJ\/\J\g\,N _"\ , -I * ,-

‘*1;

636 SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL LANDS.

AN, ACT forthe benctiti of Congresssional townships numher lifty-one and
‘ fifty-two, in Carroll county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Missouri; asfollows:

§ 1. That fractional Congressional townships number fifty-one and titty-
two, in the county of Carroll, are hereby attached, and they s.hall'form one
township foo/school purposes; and the fund belonging to each shall be regu-
lated and controlled, and schools shall heestablishecl and conducted therein,
as it‘: said townships originally constituted but one Congressional township.
This act to be in force from and alter its passage.

‘Approved March l2, 1849.

WV‘/‘. '\.c" ./\f\/\I\/\l / /\/\l\f\f\/\/‘af-/-J\f

 

/‘~/\Iv\/\4\,

AN ACT for the benefit of schools in Bridgeton.

Be itenacted 123/‘ they General ./Zssembly of the State of lllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. In conformity to a-petition 'from the inhabitants of the town of Bridge-
ton, in St; Louis count), all _the proceeds of the rents and sales of the com-
mons attached and belonging to said town are set apart and constituted a
Jpermanént fund for the support and encouragement of common schools in
Quid town, and the board of trustees of said town shall provide byordinancc
. for theyfaithful and economical management of that fund and its application
to the object above specified. ' . - ‘ '
-u  2. ‘The trustees of said town shall causean enumeration of the children
in said town, between six and twenty years old, to be made and reported to
the superintendent of comm_on schools every year at the time when a similar
enumeration is made by the several townships; and the superintendent of
common schools shall apportion to said" town a share of the State school
money, in proportion to the number of such "children in said town, and the
same shat] be received and faithfully applied to the object of encouraging
common "schools in the town.

This act shall take cllect from its passa_ge.
Approved March 12, 1849.

la
\

*4‘. I 4' ‘Ids/"J~ .\/\/./'g”J\‘~J :‘ ,’\¢‘.I\.fu/\/-4*,‘—‘-“.3././\/‘v'\/\

AN ACT for the benefit of the school directors of school township number
' seven, in the county of Montgomery.»

Be it enacted by the General «issembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ .1. The superintendent .of.com_mon schools is hereby authorized and re-
quired to apportion and pay over to school township number seven, in Mont-
gomery cou.nt_v,‘their due proportion of the common school fund for the
year eighteen hundred and forty-six in like ‘manner as if their report had
been agreeable to the requirements of the common school law.

This act to he in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 10, 1849.

’\f\*.‘\"\/\“.\‘./\/\ N ‘J‘a‘» \l\t\-P‘./\/\r"\/\/\/'

AN ACT to legalize the taking of the census of the school children in the
' county of Shannon, for the year 1845. -

:_13e- 2't.eI_zacterl by the General ./Qsse-mbly _of the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That the numberrof school children in the 'coig1ty of Shannon, as

SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL LANns.—'rowNs. 637

taken in the year 1848 by the proper justices of the peace, in their respec-
tive townships, according to an act to apportion the school money equally
among the children in the State, is hereby declared as valid to all intents
and purposes as though the same had been certified to the auditor in ‘due
time, as required by law, and the auditor is hereby required ‘to issue his
warrant for the same, as provided by law. * -

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

\f\/IA/i/\/\/\/N/V‘

AN ACT explanatory of the act entitled “An act to legalize the taking of

the ‘census of the school children of the county of Shannon, for! the
year 1848. I ‘

Be it enacted by the ‘General ufssemblu Q/‘the State of .Vz‘ssourz', asfollows:

§ 1. The word “auditor” where it first occurs in said act is an error, and
should be superintendent of common schools instead of auditor; and said
act shall be construed as though the same read superintendent instead of

  

auditor. II‘;
This act shall be in force from its passage. ‘ ', , ' i‘ _
Approved March 10, 1849. i ,
' ...n‘
_ . 0.3 ' I
TOWNS.

AN ACT to change the name of Westport, in ‘Lincoln county.
Be it enacted by the Generalvfssembly of the State of Missouri, asfollaw-S‘-‘

§ 1. The name of the town of Westport, in the county of Lincoln, is
hereby changed to that of Falmouth; and said town shall- from henceforth

be called and known by the name of Falmoute, instead of Westport.
This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

'x./\/\/‘\/\/”\ r‘\./\/\/\.P\

 

AN ACT to athorize the trustees of the town of Arrow Rock to make
deeds to certain lots in said town.

Be it enacted by the General dssembly of the State of Missozzri, as folloids:

§ 1. The trustees of the town of Arrow Rock are hereby authorized
and empowered to make good and sufficient deeds to such persons as
have purchased any lots included in the acre of land originallv reserved
by the grantors of said town site’ for a public square, or to any other per-
sons to whomthe original purchasers may have conveyed the same, or to

whom the original purchasers may desire such deeds to be made.
'. This act to take effect from and after its passage.

Approved March 6, 1849.
Q . F. . ~ ' y. «M J, .1.‘ ‘_. s .,,p~.

our ‘ V I‘ -
‘I *1‘ ‘ ‘ 3 ‘}

6d8 TOWNS.

AN ACT for the benefit of the inhabitants of the town of Union, in
‘ Franklin county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly qf the State of Jllissouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the chairman of the board of trustees of the town of Union,
incorporated under the name and style of the inhabitants of the town of
Union, shall”be authorized to cause the by-laws and ordinances of the
aforesaid board to be published for the inhabitants thereof, either by
causing them to be printed, according to the sixteenth section of an act
concerning towns, approved March 7, 1845, or by written handbills, put
up in three of the most public places in said town, and cause the same
to be» carried into effect, as required in said sixteenth section. '

§ 2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions fore-
going are hereby repealed.

This act to take diiect from and after its passage.

Approved March 12, 1849.

rv--um\. ,!\/v'\/\.’ 4 IV‘/v \./\r-/xrcrx/J‘-/\/~'~/~

J‘: ACT for the re-survey of the town of Bloomfield, in Stoddard

_ .. _ county.
§ 1. County court employ some person to re-  4. Map of survey to be made out.
survey- Bloomfield. \ 5. Duty of surveyor.
.; .: Duty of person so employed, § 6. Survey to be recorded, provided..
«Tc; ‘survey town lots and streets. 7. Expenses to be paid.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as fellows:

§ 1. The county court of Stoddard county may, so soon after the passa e
of this act as it may be practicable, employ or appoint some suitab e
person to re-survey the town of Bloomfield, the county seat of said
county.

§ 2. The person so employed or appointed shall, so soon as convenient
after his appointment, proceed to make said survey, in the manner fol-
lowing: commence at the north-east corner of said town, the place of
beginning of the original survey, as reference to the record of said town
location and survey will more fully show.‘ _

§  And then proceed to survey said‘ town lots and streets in said
town, in accordance with the old survey as near as possible, so as not to
injure the lots or improvements of individuals on the said town lots.

§ 4. It shall be the duty of the surveyor, so employ ed, to make out a
complete map of said survey, and plot of the same, showing the width of
each street, and the name of. the same, agreeable to the former survey
{and plot; also, to give the number of-rods in length and breadth of each

ot.

i 5. It shall be the duty of said surveyor to have settled in the ground,
at east six inches deep, a rock, not less than six inches in diameter; also,
at the same corner, as near as practicable, a stake drove down not less
than ten inches into the ground; said stake to be at least three inches in
diaaneter, of mulberry wood, or some other durable timber.

§ 6. VVhen said survey and work are done, the surveyor shall present
the same to the county court, for their inspection; and if the county court
thinks said survey and corners as established by said sxxryvey, are lawful

‘Q

TOWNS. ( 639

and just, they shall order the clerk of the record'er’s office to record the

same agreeable to law. ‘
§ 7. All the expenses of surveying and establishing the corners of said

town shall be paid out of the county treasury of Stoddard county.
This act to take effect from its passage.
Apppved February 27, 1849.

v-\/\«".f'\f‘\l’\/‘\/’\f‘,f\.$_,/\ ’.‘\I _-\/-\, -\:\ -\r , ~. ’ . ‘N, ~. »\ -x, —

AN ACT to provide for recording the plat of the town of Farmington,
in St. Francois county.

§ 1. County court, duty of. _‘ 4. Survey received and approved; platfiled
2. Survey obtained; survey made on report. — and recorded. - ‘ . .
3. Deposition taken. .- 5. Fees allowed; how paid.

, 5.’Certain land included.
Be it enacted by the General Aesenzbly of the State of Jllisburi, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of the county of St. Francois shall, so soon after
the passage of this act as itmay be practicable, cause the tract or parcel of, '
land selected for the seat of justice forsaid county, on which the tow '
Farmington now stands, and also.the lots and streets of said town, to ,e
surveyed, and for this purpose the said court shall appoint some suitable.‘
and competent person to make said survey. ‘ =

§ 2. The person, so appointed, shall, so soon as convenient, after bei *"
informed of his appointment, proceed to collect the best evidence_*th%
can be obtained of the original survey and corners to said tract of land,
and the true situation and numbers of the lots in said town; and, after
having so done, he shall proceed to survey said tract of land, and the
lots and streets in said town, in accordance with such‘ evidence, and
make report to the next term of the county court, of his proceedings,
accompanied with all the evidence by him collected, together with a new

plat of said town. _ . ‘
§ 3. If, in ascertaining and establishing any corner or corners to said

tract, or to the said lots and situation of the streets in said town, it should
be thought necessary by such person, sogappointed by said court, to take
the depositions of any person or persons for thatppurpose, he shall be
governed by, and proceed to take such depositions, in pursuance of the
law entitled “ an act concerning perpetuating testimony,” approved
February 19th, 1845, having himself given ten days notice to any person
interested, previous to the time of taking the same. 1

§ 4. If said court shall be satisfied that said survey is_ correct, they-
shall order that the same be received and approved, and cause the
report made, the evidence taken, and the plat so returned, to be filed
and recorded in the otlice of the recorder of said county; and said court
shall order that stones or posts be planted at such corners of said tract '
of land, and to the corners of such block or blocks of lots in said town”-d
as they may deem necessary to preserve said survey. .

§ 5. The county court of said county shall audit, adjust, and allow the
person making such survey, and the recorder of said county for their
services*in this behalf, the same fees as are now provided by law for like
services, to be paid out of the county treasury. ‘ ’

II ‘V I

{-1 'i' . » ’
'0 . 1* .‘ ‘ 3 \
; }

I‘

64O J 'nowNs.

§ 6. The county court may, at their option, order the person making
said survey to include in his survey and plat of said town of Farmington
that tract of land lying south of, and adjoining said town, and known as

Boyces additionyin the town of Farmington, and the streets and alleys
contained threin.

This act she'll take effect from its passage.. I 9
Approved February 27, 1849.

 

AN ACT to authorize a survey and plat of the town of Commerce to
be made, and for other purposes.

‘ 0

§ 1. Acts of commissioners ratified and legal- 5. Map and certificate shall be filed in the .

ized. recorder’s ofliceg when so tiled shall be
2. Commissioners appointed to make map o sutiicient conveyance in certain cases.
town. - A 4. Powers of trustees of town.

‘ 3. Commissioners shall take an oath.

- Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State Qf Missouri, asfolloms:

.. § 1. That the acts and proceedings of Wilson Abell, James Pirtle, Thomas
Roberts, Joseph Smith, and James Wilburn, acting as commissioners under
an order of the circuit court of Scott county, made at the February term of
' said conrt, in the vear eighteen hundred and twenty-three, in the case of

--J hn Waters, Sudell R. Davis and Emily his wife, Ignatius Walthen and

ary,_Ann his wife, Nancy Miiili-n, Alfred P. Ellis and Fanny his wife,
against Henry Wait and Eleanor his wife, John Lark and Precious his wife,
William Shah and Mary his wife; all heirs and legal representatives of
Thomas W. Waters, deceased, on petition for partition of two several tracts
of land lying and being in Scott county, on which Thomas W. Waters,
aforesaid, resided at the time of his death, in Tywappity Bottom, being
about six«hundred and fifty acres, be, andthe same are hereby ratified and
legaliscd, and all sales and conveyances of said land, or any part thereof,
made by said commissioners, shall be as good andevalid. to all intents and
purposes, as though said commissioners had fully reported all their proceed-
ings in said case to said court, and the same had been approved by said
court. -
§ -2. That James Wilburn, Senior, George Petit, William G-racy, Moses
Baker, and Nathaniel Reid, or any one or more of them, shall have power.
at the expense of the owners of lots in the town of Commerce. heretofore
laid elf on the land mentioned in the preceding section, to make out an
accurate map of the said town of Commerce, designating therein, all lots
by their numbers, length, and breadth, and describing therein all parcels of
land in said town, set apart for public uses, by their boundaries, course, and
extent, whether they be intended for avenues, streets, alleys, lanes, commons,
or other public uses, which map shall be made as near as ‘may be in con-
‘formity with the first plan or plat of said town. _
~‘I {) 3. That before said commissioners, or any of them, shall enter upon the
duties designated by this act, they shall take an oath before some person
authorized to administer an oath, that they will truly and impartially make
a survey and map of said town, in conformity with the provisions of this
act, arcrtificate of such oath shall be annexed to the map of said town, and
when said‘map is completed, it shall be deposited, together with the certifi-

-rowns. T 641

cate of the oath of any of said commissioners,in the recorder’s odice of Scott
county; and the recorder of said county shall preserve said map and certifi-
cate in his ofiice, among the records thereof.

§ 4. That when said map and eertilicate, so made and tiled in the recorder’s
otiice, as is required by this act, they shall be a suflicient conveyance to
vest the right in such parcels of land as are herein -expressed, named, or
intended for public uses in the said county of Scott, in trust for the uses
therein named or intended and for no other use or purpose.

(3 5. That the trustees of the said town of Commerce shall have power to
assess and collect such tax of the ownersof the lots in said town as may be
necessary to make a survey and plat of said town.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1849.

 

AN -ACT to extend the limits of the town of New Madrid.

Wnanms, It appears, by the memorial of the county court of New Madrid
county, that from the falling in of the banks of the Mississippi river.
and the encroaehments of the same upon the public buildings and other
public property of the county, it became necessary to remove said build-
ings beyond danger; and whereas, the present limits of the town of
New Madrid extend» back only one hundred and fifty yards from the
location ot said public buildings; therefore, *" '

Be it enacted by the Generrl .dssembly of the Slate q/ Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The tract of land known as the Bartholemew Tardevour and Co.’s
grant, containing twenty-four [24] acres, also the Peter Deroche headright,
containing seventy acres and fifty-six hundredths [70 56-100] of an acre;
both of which tracts of land lie in the county of New Madrid, and adjoining
Itgiie present town of New Manrid, are hereby annexed to the town of New

adrid.

§ 2. The county court is authorized to receive and hold, by donation or
purchase, such number of lots, or such amount of ground, as will be sufficient
for the erection of a court house and other public buildings thereon.

§ 3. The county court shall have full power to sell or otherwise dispose
of the public square, town lots, public buildings, and all other property-
belonging to said county, in said town, and apply the proceeds to the erection
of new and permanent public buildings: provided, that nothing in this act
shall authorize the removal of the court house and other public buildings
more than half a mile from their present location. ,

I This act to take effect and be in full force from and after its passage.«

Approved February 23, 1849.

I

 

AN ‘ ACT to change the name of Chilliticaux, the county seat of Dunklin
~ - county, Missouri, to that of Butler.

Be itenacted by the General dssembly Qf the State of Missouri, as follows:
§ 1. That the name of Chilliticaux, Dunklin county, Missouri, is hereby

‘changed. to that of Butler.

» This act to be in force from its passage.
Approved January‘ 26, 1849.. .

642 ‘ TOWNS.

AN ACT to abolish the alleys in the town of Charleston.

Be it enacted by the General ./Issembly of the State of Jllissouri, asfoIlow:s

§ 1. The alleys passing through the several blocks in the town of
Charleston, in the county of Mississippi, according to the plat of survey
of said town, are hereby abolished.

§ 2. The ground included in said alleys shall belong to the owners of
the lots adjoining the same; and when the lotg on either of said alleys
shall be owned by different persons, the ground included in said alleys
shall be equally divided between said owners, according to the extent
of the lots ‘bordering on the same. A

This act to take effect from and after its passage.
' Approved February 27, 1849.

 

\/\/\J\/\/\/\/

 

\./\./\-/\/\

AN ACT to authorize Samuel D. Sanders and Andrew Wilson to record
the town plat of the town Sarcoxie, and to legalize the same.

§ 1 Sanders and Wilson authorized to record 3. Aflidavit not to be dispensed with.
lat. 4. Acts repugnant to this, repealed.
2. P at may be recorded, when;',its effect. .

Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly qf the State of Ivltssouri, asfoltows:

".§ 1. That Samuel D. Sanders and Andrew Wilson be, and they, or
either of them, are hereby authorized and empowered to record the

town plat of the town of Sarcoxie, formerly known as the town of Cen-.

treville, in the county of Jasper.

§ 2. It is further provided, that it shall be lawful, to all intents and
purposes, for the said plat to be recorded at any time Within sixty days
from and after the passage of this act; and the plat, so recorded, shall
have the same effect, force, and validity in law, as if the same had been
recorded as required by law, prior to the passage of this act, and as fully
and effectually as if the same had been recorded prior to the sale or
disposition of any lot or lots in said town.

§ 3. Nothing in this act shall be construed so as to dispense with the
usual ailidavit required in such cases. '

§ 4. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.

Approved February 5, 1849.

I‘.

   

\/\.v‘ \.«\/\.\/\./\/\..v\J\

AN ACT to authorize the county court of St. Charles county to obtain
a loan of money.

Be it enacted by the General ./Qssembly of the State of Missouri, as follotas:

§ 1. The county court of St. Charles county is authorized to borrow,
on behalf of said county, a sum of money not exceeding ten thousand
dollars, at a rate of interest not exceeding eight per cent. per year, for
the purpose of paying the cost of. building and completing the court
house, recently erected for the use of said county.

TOWNS. 643

§ 2. In order to obtain a loan of said sum of money, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, it shall be lawful for said court to cause the bonds
of said county to be issued, signed by the presiding justice of said court,
countersigned by the clerk, and sealed with the seal of said court, for
such amounts, payable at such times and places, and hearing such rate
of interest as said court shall by order direct; and said court may, in its
discretion. cause said bonds to be drawn with coupons, for the interest
annexed thereto, in the manner usual in such transactions.

§ 3. It shall be lawful for said court to cause such bonds to be nego-

tiated and sold at such times and places, and in such manner, as may be -

deemed most advantageous to- said county; and an agent may be appointed
to etfect such sale, if that course shall be considered proper, but no sale
of said bonds shall be made under par.

§ 4. In fixing the amount of county tax in each year, said court shall
provide the means for the ayment of the interest on such bonds, and ‘for
the redemption of the hon when they shall become due; and shall adopt
the measures necessary and proper to preserve the faith and credit of
said county inviolate; and said court shall have power to adopt the
measures necessary to carry this law into operation.

§ 5. Saig court shall have power to borrow the township school funds
within sai county, for the purpose aforesaid; and if the court shall
borrow any such funds, the bonds of the county shall be executed to the
State of Missouri, for the use of the congressional township to which the
funds borrowed may belong, specifying the amount borrowed, the rate
of interest, and when and where payable. An entry shall be made on
the records of said court, specifyin the terms of the loan, and the original
shall be kept by the treasurer of t e county.

This act shall take effect from its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849. '

\

   

AN ACT to change the name of the town of Middleton.
Be it enacted by llze General aissembly of the State qf Missouri, asfollows:

§ 1. That the town heretofore called and known by the name of Middle-
ton, in the county of Lafayette, shall hereafter be called Waverly; and
by that name shall be known and called.

This act shall take effect and be in force, from and after its passage.
Approved. March 2, 1849. A

‘I

 

\/\/

 

\-1 \l\o

AN ACT to abolish the town of Hartford, in the county of J etfer son.
Be it enacted by the General .dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows

 That the town of Hartford, situated on the Mississippi river, in the
county of ,Tefl'erson, and State of Missouri, be, and the same is hereby
abolished and vacated, and that all the streets and alleys, or other privi-

leges ingsaid town of Hartford, the title to which is invested in the public .

be re-ingeséted in the private owners of said lands.
‘This act tQ take efi'ect,and be in force from its passage. . , .
Approved February 24,_184Q. ‘- ‘ , . _ 3 . ‘
. g i . - . .1‘ O- ' B: e . ' I.

‘I

644 TOWNS.

AN ACT concerning the town of Wiota.
Be it enacted by the General Jissembly of the State of .Mz'ssouri, as follows:

§ 1. The county court of Camden county is hereby authorized and
required, on application of Benjamin B. Harrison, to order the recorder
of said county to deliver to said Harrison the plat of the town of Wiota,
heretofore filed by said Harrison in the oilice of said recorder, and, on
the delivery of said plat, all the title to lots in said town, vested in said
county, shall revest in said Harrison, as fully as if said plat had never
been filed.

This act to talre effect and be in force from its passage.

Approved February 5, 1849.

     

AN ACT to abolish the town of West Philadelphia,in the county of
' Marion.‘

Be it enacted ly the General Assembly of the Slate qf Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. The town of West«PhiladelEhia,situated in the north-west quarter
of section number twelve, towns ip number fifty-ei ht, in rlnge eight
west, be, and the same is hereby abolished, and that a l streets and alleys
in said town, the title to which is in the public be revested in the private
owners of said lands.

This act to be in force from its passage.

Approved February 10, 1849.

 

AN ACT to abolish the town of Wyaconda, in Lewis county.

Be it enacted by the General ./Yssembly qf the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That the town of Wyaconda, situated on the Mississippi river,
at the mouth of the Wyaconda river, in the county of Lewis, be, and
the same is hereby abolished and vacated, and that all the streets and
alleys, or other privileges in said town,the title to which is in the public
be reinvested in the private owners of said lands.

This act to be in force from and after its passage.
Approved February 13, 1849.

MEMORIALS

 

MEMORIAL to Congress of the United States 9n the subject‘of the
Central Pacific Railroad. - ‘- ' '

To the Congress qf the United States:

Your memorialists, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri,
have witnessed with a lively interest the introduction into the Senate of x
the United States of a bill “To provide for the location and construction
of a central national railroad from the Pacific ocean to the Mississippi
river, with a branch road to the Columbia river.” Situated as we are,
on the route over which it is presumed this road will necessarily pass,
bein one of the nearest frontier States of the Union to the shores of the
Paci c, and closely connected with the territory of Oregon and Califor-
nia by associations resulting from the numerous Missourians who, in past
years, have explored and settled those distant lands, this scheme is one
which has afforded to your memorialists the utmost pleasure, and in the
successful completion thereof their hopes are warmly enlisted. It is due
to the character of our government—to .the- practical usefulness of our
institutions—and to the wants of our people, that such a work should be
carried into effect at the earliest practicable period. The vast and fer-
tile country now belonging to us on the shores of the Pacific, character-
ized by varied and salubrious climate, the richest deposits of the precious
metals, extensive fisheries, with iron and timber for all the purposes of
ship building, adaptation for all the demands of agriculture, and extraor-
dinary facilities for commerce, must and ever will continue to invite to
its borders much of the capital, industry, and enterprise of the country.
To render the advantages of that land available to the whole people of
of the Union, it is requisite that an easy, cheap, and safe avenue of inter-
course should be opened to it. Good roads are not only necessary in. .
time of peace, but are doubly demanded in war. They constitute one .of by
the strongest chains in binding together our glorious Union of sovereign "
States, wedding industry to trade, enterprise to capital, and cementin
not only political but social institutions. Without them the beautiful lang Q
laved by th.e_.Paciiic is, in a great measure, inaccessible to our citizens,’
with them, it opens its fertile valleys and rich mines to all. The inves-
tigations which have been made, not only by the press of the country,
but by scientific and practical men, show that the present routes to the,
bay of _,,San Erancisco,,whether by Cape Horn, across the isthmus of Pan-_
ama, or across the isthmus. of Tehuante ec, are all fraught with serious_
'di$culties. :_ Many months are consumed’ in that most perilous and st‘ormi:- Q
est ofgall vtiyages, th_e'r.vpyage around Cape Horn, and the risk is great.

4____‘- as ' 4:’. ,“ , M-r'.,.1, ‘av

.Y": '5":

..r‘. 0'
S 4"

O

P

I

'5"

646 MEMORIALS.

A railroad across the isthmus, between Chagres and Panama, would not
be on our own soil, Our right to its use would be controlled by the
treaty made with the republic of New Grenada, in the year 1846, to
which the isthmus belongs. By that treaty it is guarantied to the United
States, that “the right of way or transit across the isthmus of Panama,
upon any modes of communication that now exist, or that may be here-
after constructed, shall be open and free to the citizens of the United
States, for the transportation of any article of produce, manufactures, or
merchandize of lawful commerce, belonging to the citizens of the United
States, subject to the same tolls as may be levied upon and collected from
Grenadian citizens.” Although in a foreign land, and subject to the im-
position of uncertain tolls, the enterprise of our citizens has been direct-
ed to this point of -communication, and in one of our Atlantic cities a
company is now zealously soliciting subscriptions for the purpose-of con-
structing a railroad from Chagres to Panama. The passage by railroad
across the isthmus of Tehuantepec would be more than two hundred
miles, and would also be in a foreign country.
mulch delay and expense, and would be liable to the same cbjections
which would attend the travel across the isthmus of Panama. Both these
points, the one between Chagres and Panama, and the other across the
isthmus of Tehuantepec, would render the passage tedious and expen-
sive, requiring shipments and re-shipments of produice and merchandize.
Panama is many degrees of latitude south of San Francisco, and the lat-
ter, although somewhat nearer north, would require a long distance to
be traversed by sea ere the bay of San Francisco could be reached. "A
glance at the map will shew their relative distance, and the area of sea
to be navigated. To any candid mind, there is but one inference in the
selection of either of these rotites, and that is onerous expense, difficulty,
and uncertainty. Let either of them be adopted, and our nationality
would, to a great extent, be impaired. A traffic of tolls and disputes
thereon, invasions of the rights of our citizens, confiscation of their
goods, and oppression over them, under color of revenue laws, would
spring up, producing dissension between us and these foreign govern-
ments, and with one of whom, at least, treaties have been regarded and
the laws of nations respected, only when taught to her by our own sword.

Your memorialists are satisfied that this great enterprise should not be
entrusted to private individuals, nor to a'ssociations of men, how large
soever might be their capital. Its objects are national, and its execution
hould be exclusively national, and we do not hesitate to recommend and

‘urge upon your honorable body such legislation, by appropriations of

land and money, as may be necessary to carry it into operation. Starting
from the Atlantic, following the latitude of the bay of San Francisco,

‘this great road would sweep through the States of Illinois, Indiana, Ohio,

a part ot Virginia, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania. St. Louis, now the at-
tractive centre ofavast and increasing trade, and the pulsations of whose
commercial energy are felt throughout the mighty valley of the Missis-

I sippi, naturally presents the proper point at which this road would cross

the Mississippi river. Reaching there, it is at once in direct communi-

; cation with the great valley, with the commerce of the lalcrs, the Atlan-

tic eities, New Orleans, and the ‘West Indies. From St. Louis the course
of ,the goat}, onieitligr sideiof the Missouri.-eriver,-in this, State, would be

1
or,-3 ._‘

I

This route would cause _

MEMORIAIS. 647

through a country admirably adapted to its location, cheapness, facility,
and durability of construction. Leaving the borders of this State, its
course would be over a country which, although uninhabited, by no
means presents that howling wilderness and sterile waste which eredu-
lity believe to exist there. The truthful and brilliant explorations of
Fremont, and the experience of our own mountaineersand trappers,
shew that the mountains between us and the Pacific are, at numerous
points, crossed with case, while the vast plains which they wall in, offer
the best locations for roads. The terms of sterility and barrenness,
which have been applied to that intermediate country, are alike false
and unjust. Thatland has never felt the redeeming hand of the pioneer,
nor has any rill from the mighty stream of emigration remained in it.

Let this road be commenced, and donations of lands be made to active
settlers on or near its course, and soon a thriving population will fill
those plains and valleys. Your memorialists beg leave to adopt, as their
views of this great question, the arguments, deductions, and illustrations
used by their faithful senator,- Hon. Thomas H. Benton, in his speech
delivered in the Senate of the United States, on the 7th February, 1849,
on the introduction by him of a bill to provide for the location and chu-
struetion of this read. And as the representatives of the people of Mis-
.souri, to pledge all proper State legislation, whether by guaranteein a
right of way or otherwise, to protect and secure the progress of is
work through our borders. The apparent greatness of this undertaking
sinks into insigniiicance when we consider the elastic energy and indom-
itable perseverance of our people. rfhe recent war in w ich we have
been engaged, clearly proved that there were no difficulties which we
could not surmount, no toilsome marches which we could not overcome,
and no territory how distant soever which we could not conquer and
hold. Peace has its victories, too! And where can there be a more
glorious one than the commencement, progress, and completion of such
a work as this! From the earliest eriod of the history of civilization,
the trade of the east has ever been t e dazzling object of mercantile de-
sire, and from it have sprun those cities whose names, familiar as house-
hold words, stand forth brig texamples of prosperity, opulence, and lit-
erature, amid the ruins of forgotten empires and decayed States. From
the period when the placid waters of the great south sea first met the
ardent gaze of Balboa, all Europe has looked to it as offering the best
communication with the markets of the east.

‘ England, true to her commercial instincts, has of late years encour- 
aged the construction of a ship canal across the isthmus of Panama, and‘ an?
is adopting every measure to secure to her great mart,.London, that
trade which has built up that gigantic city. We need not refer‘ to the
commodious. harbors, the golden treasures, the delightful climate of Cal- ,
ifornia, and the capabilities of its, soil for the pursuits of ’ agriculture.‘
Nor need we allude to the‘ influence, by these means upon the nations of ‘
the earth, of our free institutions, and of the gradual yet eertain-revolu-
tionswhieh an acquaintance with them must and will work in the social 9
condition of ‘man, teaching him that the people are capableof governing
themselves, and: this enables them to rescue themselves and their poster: ’
ity from the curse? of monarchy and irresponsible power. _* A . 4

_ ‘ 54 'l '‘h_
1,‘ as‘ r ' ‘ : 1'1‘!  g 4 '3 h
‘_ 0 _ 1;. I .
' ' t I‘ 3 0 4"

- 648 MEMORIALS.

To your honorable body these facts are well known, and these infer-
ences properly estimated.

For facility of access and safety, the harbor of San Francisco is not
surpassed by any in the world, and it will form a point on one side for
Asiatic commerce, and by means of this road, on the other, for American.
The spices and luxurious commodities of the East Indies, will be readi-
ly and easily exchan ed for the manufactures, _metals, and agricultural
products of our own land, while a new impulse will be given to our ship-
.ping interest in the Pacific. The whole course and character of
the Asiatic trade will, by means of this road, be changed, and what
monarchs and potentates’ have failed to achieve, the energy of republican
America will perform.

This result is in our own hands. Our flag, unfolded on the shores of
the Atlantic, streams from the summits -of the Alleghany and Rocky
mountains, and only meets the setting sun on the shores of the Pacific.
From sea to sea, the broad domain is our own, and there is no foreign power
near to intrude or molest us. Shall we not now seize the golden opportuni-
ty, and by a liberal expenditure of money and means secure the harvest '
which will am ly repay us, and will not only policy, but sound economy,
justify this ougay of national capital. _

In the language of our senator, Col. Benton, “an American road to India,
through the heart of our country, will revive upon its line all the won-
ders of which we ‘have read, and eclipse them. The western, wilder- .
ness, from the Pacific to the Mississippi, will start into life under its
touch. A long line of cities will grow up. Existing cities will take a
new start. The state of the new world calls for a new road to India,
and it is our destiny to give it—the last and the greatest. Let us act
up to the greatness of the occasion, and show ourselves ‘worthy of the
extraordinary circumstances in which we are placed, by securing while
we can an American road to India-—central and national—for ourselves
and posterity, now and hereafter, for thousands of years to come!”

I Approved March 12, 1849.

   

MEMORIAL to the Congress of the United States, on the subject of a
Geological Survey of the State of Missouri. '

To the Congress of the United States:

 Your memorialists, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri,

would respectfully represent, that said State is possessed of vast agri-
cultural, mineral and commercial resources, in the developement of
which, her own citizens, and those of the United States, are deeply in-
terested. No species of valuable mineral is found in any portion of the
Union that does not abound in Missouri, with the exceptions, probably,
of gold and silver. pres of iron, lead, tin, copper, zinc, mercury, co-
a halt, antimony and nickel—mineral‘coal, and porcelain and other clays,
fit for the manufacture of every class of stoneware, have been discovered
of fine quality, and several of them in greater quantityithan in an other
1. partof America; while the fertility of her soil is, not inferior to a best
kn°Wn.- Notwithstanding the mines 9_f,.Missour_i, save in the single in-

. Q

MEMORIALS. 649

stance of lead, have never added any considerable amount to the com-
monwealth of the State or Union—several causes have retarded the de-
velopement of her resources, to which your memorialists would respect-
fully invite the attention of Congress. The richness, extent and impor-
tance of these resources have never been made fully known to the
world; the mineral regions lie generally off of the navigable water
courses, and far removed from any present medium of transportation;
the State, owing to theypccuniary demands to which she has been sub-
jected'on other a‘c'ponnts, has never possessed the ability to remove these
obstacles by appropriations of the requisite amounts of money for that
purpose. Your memorialists are'of opinion that, at this time, nothing
would prove so valuable a means in opening the way to the full devel-
opement of the vast natural resources of Missouri as a thorough geologi-
cal survey and examination of her mines, soils, earths, rocks, water
courses and general surface. A memorial to this General Assemblyfrom
the members of the Historical and Philosophical Society of Missouri,
containing many valuable suggestions upon the subject, is herewith com-
municated. The General Assembly of Missouri, impressed with the
importarfce of the considerations therein mentioned, and others presented

to their minds, would, without further delay, proceed to execute a tho-
rough geological survey of the State, but for the want of means to ac-
complish it. They, therefore, respectfully solicit the Congress of the '2.
United States the grant of one township of land in each of the United ."‘*‘
States land districts within this State, to be applied, in conjunction with
such appropriation as the State of Missouri may provide for the same
object, to the expense of accomplishing such survey; and your memori-
alists would respectfully pray that the geologist appointed by the.State
of Missouri to carry out the object of the grant, be authorized to select’
the lands while executingthe work; and the said General Assemblypdo
agree, in the event of Congress making the grant so provided, carefully
to husband the fund, and, after defraying the expenses of the contems
plated survey, to apply the residue to the establishment and endowment
of a school of agriculture, mining, metallurgy, chemistry, &c., which
shall never be-abolished by the State or suffered to fall. The donation
of land now desired, would be of incalculable benefit to Missouri, with-
out imposing any burden 'upon the General Government which would he ,
felt by her. Indeed, your memorialists confidently believe that such a vs
donation, applied to such a purpose, would give to the General Govern-‘
ment, in the enhanced value and readier sale of her lands-—the increased .
population and enlarged commerce from which her revenues are .dnawn_
—the greater facilities which would be afforded to the military and naval ‘ -'
interests on the waters in the west, and the addition which might be ex-
pected to accrue to the general intelligence, resources, power and wealth

of the Union,—far greater advantages than could possibly be realized
from retaining the trifling amount which is desired. Your memorialists *3
would beg leave to refer to the fact, that Congress has frequently re
cognized the force of ,these_suggesti,pns as touching the promotion of her «
own interests, and Wilh that view, has been induced to expend, at dif-»,~
aferent times, large sums of money for geological surveys in the States
of Illinois,._ Iowa, Wiscopsinand Michigan, which have done so much to’

‘I

'  ii.‘ 5'  1‘ '73-' . ho.» .‘*.._ i‘

E. L r ‘I’. W ‘ ' ._', .- n.._

650 MEMORIALS.

stimulate, expand and dévelope the agricultural and commercial inter-
ests of the eople residing therein. It is now executing a thorough sur-
vey of the l‘:’linesota territory. The people of Missouri have seen and
felt the injury they have sustained by the superior attractions which have
been added to their neighbors in this particular by the muniticence of
Congress, and regretted that nothing of this character had been under-
taken in Missouri, as well on account of their own as the interest of the
General Government. On a kindred subject, a most enlightened policy
has hitherto characterized the action of Congress. Without referring
to the numerous instances, we beg leave to allude to the Atlantic and
Lake surveys-—the examination of some of the rivers and harbors on the
Pacific coast—the Exploring Expedition—the exploration of the route
across the Rocky Mountains, and an examination of the geographical
features of the country, on and connected with that route. Sustained
by the strong hand of your honorable body, these surveys and explora-
tions have been made, and have resulted not only in the developement
of our resources as a nation fostering agriculture, commerce and the
mechanic arts, but have laced our government on the most elevated
grounds. Your memorialists believe that the hidden mineral wealth-
the dormant agriculturaul power, and the capabilities of navigation, so
remarkable in‘ Missouri, would be fully develo‘ped by the execution of

_.. the survey now sou ht; andthe valuable lan s owned by the General
"Government in this tate would be rapidly settled—afi'ording a home of

plenty, comfort and health to that best of all population, the tillers of the
soil. It seems to your memorialists, that, after what has been done so
bountifully for others, without solicitation, so far as they are advised, the
General Assembly of Missouri may have reason to expect, as matter of
right, from the Congress of the United States, the appropriation now

mostxrespectfully desired.
. Approved February 5, 1849.

Resolved, by the Senate, (the House of Representatives concurring
therein,) That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to transmit
‘to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress, a copy of all
memorials and resolutions passed by the present General Assembly.

IN/\/\/\/\

MEMORIAL to Congress, praying a grant of land for the construc-
tion of the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad.

It To the Honorable, the Congress of the United States:

The memorial of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri res-
pectfully showeth: That the peo le of Missouri feel a deep and lively
interest on the subject of internal) improvement, and see the absolute
necessity of commencing some public works, in order more successfully
to avail themselves of the natural advantages by which they are sur-
rounded, in opening a way to market for the surplus products of their
labor and industry—in inducing a speedy settlement and cultivation of

the vast amount of rich and fertile lands which remain uninhabited in
' I ' , l u

MEMORIALS. ’ 651

the State, and in aiding in the deve1op.ement_,of the inexhaustable mines
of iron, coal, lead, copper, and other valuable minerals, which abound in

various parts of the State, and which need only to be explored and fully ‘

ppened to make them add incalculably to the wealth of Missouri and the
nion. Your memorialists state, that one object of internal improve-
ment, of great magnitude and importance, and in regard to which, the
people more immediately interested therein are manifesting much inte-
rest, is the construction of a railroad from the city of Hannibal, on the
Mississippi river, to Palmyra, and thence to St. Joseph, on the Missouri
river, thereby connecting these two great rivers, and furnishing the peo-
ple of northern Missouri a more convenient outlet to the markets near-
est them, and, at no distant day, by means of other improvements now
in contemplation and which will doubtless be made, connecting them
with the lakes of the north, and thus, with the markets of the eastern
cities. Hannibal and St. Joseph, the beginning and terminating.points
of the proposed road, are about one hundred and eighty-six miles apart,
each containing an enterprising opulation, which is increasing with al-
most incredible rapidity, and bet surrounded by a large extent of coun-
try as rich and as fertile as any in the world, and, from their favorable
situation, promising in a few years to become great and populous cities.
The road, by which it is proposed to unite these two places, will pass
through organized counties, and a country abounding in hvoodland and
prairie, with a soil along the whole line equal to any in the west,_ capable‘
of the reatest amount of productions and almost every species of a ri-
cultural staples, and every way susceptible of the highest state of cu ti-
vation. It is believed that a railroad may be constructed at an expense
much less than the usual cost of such improvements. The route passes
through a beautiful and level country, furnishing abundant material ne-
cessary to the construction of so important a work. Your memorialists
would further represent, that in conse uence of the remoteness bf the
country along the proposed road, and t e great amount of public land
remaining unsold in the State of Missouri, many years must elapse -be-
fore any considerable amount of said land along the line will be settled
and cultivated, without some such improvement is made. Your memo-
rialists would therefore ask that Congress donate to the Stateoaf Mis-
souri, for the purpose of constructing said read, alternate sections of the
public and unappropriated lands, of twenty-four miles in width, along
and near the line upon which it is proposed to establish the ’same.—
With the aid thus added to the means which the State of Missouri could
appropriate to this object, and which those interested. would cheerfully
invest in such a work, it is confidently believed that it might becom-
pleted in a few years, and thus greatly promote the interests of the State
and General Government. All the public lands contiguous to the route
would be at once enhanced in value, taken up and settled, and it would
be the means of bringing into market, government lands more remotely
situated, and which will remain,‘ otherwise, for many years to come, uh‘-
available and unproductive to the -General Government. Such a road
would lead ir_nme'&ia__tely to the construction of branches diverging the_re—
from in every direction—'-openin ‘for the farmer an easynway to market,
and making ‘the great State of Mllssouri what Nature designed her tube,

as‘. ‘~‘ -' J I ‘ !‘~. J‘
. r ‘ . I
—v. . _, b g-- " «t ..

652 ' MEMORIALS.

one of the most delightful abodes for man on this continent. Such a
road, also, would open an outlet to the territories of New Mexico, Cali-
fornia and Oregon, and would afford to the General Government means
of transportation at seasons of the year when the Missouri could not be
navigated. Your mcmorialists, in view of the importance of the object

aimed to be accomplished, and the fact that the lands owned by the Gen-_

eral Government, on or near the line, will be en_hanced in value to an
extent which will, in a short time, far more than remunerate the General
Government, cannot but hope that an early and favorable response will
be given to the prayer of this memorial, and, as in duty bound, your me-

morialists will ever pray, &c.
Approved February 5, 1849.

Resolved, by the Senate, (the House of Representatives concurring
therein,) That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to transmit
to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress, a copy of all
memorials and resolutions passed by the present General Assembly.

—«4\.r‘\a’\/K ./\/‘\

   

ME.\l()Rl_AL concerning the swamp lands in South-Eastern Missouri and
' - North-Eastern Arkansas.

To the Honorable Congress of the United States:

Your memorialists, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, would
respectfully again call the attention of your honorhhle body, and urge upon
you the propriety and necessity of immediate legislation on the subject of
making some disposition ofthe swamp and submerged lands. situated in south-
eastern Missouri and north-eastern Arkansas, with a view to theirspcedy re-
clamation. If your memorinlists appear to he importunate on this suhjert, it
is becanae of its vast importar-ce to a great extent of country, and a numer
ous and enterprising population whose interests are tlcepiy airCClDt_l by the
presence of an intolerable nuisance in their tnltlst. which only the action of
Congress can eiiectitally remove.

The subject .has bectt so often l)1‘O'.tgltt to the attention of Congress in
previous memorials h-orn your memorialists, that thaw deem it unnecessary
to go into a minute detail of the extent of country alllcti.-rl lay the presence
of these cxtensit-‘e swamps, and the evils, seriously atlecting the prosperity
and httppiness of at numeroes and enteresting popttlatitm, which they engen-
der and diliitse. Your memorialists would t‘espt.-e!.li2ll_t' te!'r~r you to these
previous memorials. Sutlice it to say that this exttrnsitie swamp region
embraces large portions of the cnun:ies of Cape _Girardeau, Stoddard,
Wayne, Dunklin, Scott, New Madrid and Mississippi. in the south-eastern
portion of Missouri, and, as they are inl'ortnetl, an e:~:t«~nt o."cou:ttry equally
great in the north-eastern portion of the Shit: of .-'\rkansa-; commencing
it_nmedi:ttely below the town of Cape Gll‘t|F(lG;ttl, in Cape G‘it'.'1:‘rlt:.’lU county,
and runnirrt: in a southwartlly direction, swine two or three hundred miles,
and connecting again directly with the Mississippi river at the mouth of St.
Francis river. a short tlistziucc above Hrleha, in Arl;ans',t~;"in the meantime,
throughout its whole Course, being COHl'l8Cit:'Ll by a chain of lakes, bayous,
glatles {Elli low lands, with extensive rztnges of swamps of variable width
and extent,‘ embracing the linest portions of the counties above named, some

MEMORIALS. t 653
r
of which form the head waters of bayous which flow into the Mississippi
and other streams. That through the heart of the main swamp flow the
Little river, St. Francis and Black rivers, which swollen by the annual rains
and the accession of numerous tributaries from the adjacent elevated cbuntry,

.tiood these swamps in consequence of obstructions in their channels from

rafts, fallen timber and other impediments occasioned by the gteat earth-
quakes in 1811 and l§l"2, and render the whole country impassable, and
destroy extensive districts of country, embracing’ the finest lands in the
world, which otherwise would be inhabited and cultivated by a dense and
thriving population, and by the fatal malaria which is exhaled from them in
the warm seasons, greatly affect the health of the adjacent country for hun-
dreds of miles around. Contrary to the general character pf the swamp
country adjacent to the Mississippi river, these swamps, as strange as it may
seem. with the exception of that portion of them in places, in the immediate
vicinity of the Mississippi river, are generally above the summit level of that
great stream, from which they are divided by intervening ranges of more
elevated lands, with the exception of their general course along the valley
of the St. Francis river, along which their tendency is that of a gently in-
clined plane, Actual observation by patriotic and enterprising gentlemen
has fully established these facts. The practicability, therefore. ob reclaim-
ing nearly the whole of this extensive and waste reginn to The plow, is at
once deduced. The removal of the rafts and other obstruction in the beds
of the St. Francis, Big Black and Little rivers, and main tributaries, and the
cutting of a few short lateral canals to the Mississippi river at certain points,
and through certain glady and low lands to the heads of Bayous. such as

the St. John’s, in New Madrid, James’ Bayou, in Mississippi counties,‘wQuld .

at once relieve this whole region of its immense surplus and redundapt
waters, and reclaim it to the arts of husbandry, reclaim the whole country
in its vicinity from pestilence and disease, and invite a numerous,’ \*?t.-althy
and industrious population to a country now a wilderness and a waste, and
must ever continue so, without the liberal and enlightened interposiltion vof
Congress. These, though of incalculable benefit, are not all the important
results flowing from this measure. The Little river, St. Francis and Black
rivers must necessarily be rendered navigable for small class boats !o,a con-
siderable extent in the interior, and thus open commercial communication
W'ltll the great l“ather of Waters. C0ngt'6.~S must at once see the great ad-
vantages of this result. Now they are locked up, and the unsnrpassable
Obstacles interposed by the swamp region in its present condition,the inhabi-
tants of a large district of country are almost literally cut elf from all com-
munication with the Mississippi for purposes of trade and commerce. Your
memorinlists embrace the entire swamp region, because, whenever reclaimed,
it must be done by a_plan or system extending through their whole length
and l)t‘e:tdth, through both States of Arkansas and Missouri. It is estimated
that some ninety odd townships of unsurveyed lands lie within this swamp
region, some liorty;-five of which are estimated to be within the limits of the
State of Missouri. All this public land belongs to the United States. In
their present condition‘, they are not only useless to the government, but
are the source of an intolerable nuisance to a large portion of the people-of
the Union. rod gC»\3et't1rnctt't and the pressing interests ofhutnanity demand
that it sltoulrl‘bé‘spe_r-dily removt.-d. Your metnorialists do not ask that the
federal go'.'ernmert't=sh‘all undertake the -work,. themselves. They may, as
they conceive, have‘ more importaiit and pressing subjects before them, com-

654 MEMORIALS.

A

. ‘a
manding their attention; we only ask that these lands shall be ceded to the
States within which they lie for the express purpose of their reclamation.
They are now useless and must ever remain so, unless reclaimed by artificial
means. It will, your memorialists are assured, not be too much to ask the
cession of these lands for the expense and trouble of rendering them valua-
ble, while they are persuaded that the patriotism, and liberal and enlightened
views of your honorable body cannot hesitate prom tly to contribute thus
much to the cause of humanity, when the extent of , e evil to be remedied
and the good to be done, at so little cost to government,are properly appre-

ciated. And as in duty bound your memorialists will ever pray, &c.
Approved 24th January, 1849.

Resolved, By the Senate, (the House of Representatives concurring
therein.) that the Secretary of State be required to forward a copy of the
memorial to Congress concerning the Swamp Lands in south-eastern Mis-
souri and north-eastern Arkansas, passed at the present session of the Legis-
lattt e, and to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress.

anuary 25th, 1849.

5*}/9%

' A MEMORIAL to Congress for the benefit of the Poor.

Your memorialist, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, most
respectfully submit to your Honorable body the following subjects for your
serious consideration:

1st. The quantity of unsold land.

2nd. The citizens resident on, and unable to buy the same.

, 3rd., In granting a patent to every person being the head of a family, or
hereafter may become such, to a quantity of land, not less than forty acres.
not being the owner of any land in any of the States or territories in the
Pnited States in such land or districts where the land has been once offered
or.sal”e.

4th. Also, the advantages to this government that every head of a family
should become a freeholder of the soil of this Union.

1i’eso7ued, That the Secretary of State be required to forward a copy of
thismemorial to the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Con-
gress of the United States.

Approved March 3, 1849.

 

 

«/\/\’~l\p-trs/K/‘

A ‘M'EMORIALlto Congress, asking a donation of land for the improvement
of Current river.

To the Honorable, the Congress of the Unites’ States:

The General Assembly of the State of Missouri respectfully calls the
attention ot your honorable bodies to the improvement of Current river.
The Current river takes its rise in the Ozark mountains, from whence it
runs through the south-east portion of the State of Missouri ; thence through
the north-east corner of the State of Arkansas,a distance of about one hundred
miles. through a rich and fertile country, combining‘.miner_ai resources and
advantages for furnishing lumber to other parts. whi ,1) cannot be exceeded
by =1n)'.porti,on of the globe; possessing the most extraordinary facilities for
propelling machinery by water power, and the shores are covered with

MEMORIALS. 655

almost interminable forests of the finest pine and. oak timber; for this reason,
and from the fact that the vicinity of its whole course abounds with mineral
wealth ; and for the reason that there is no other mode of carrying the pro-
ducts of this portion of country to the seats of navigation and commerce.
The development of the riches of this portion of our State depends entirely
on the connexion of this stream with the Mississippi river. Your memorial-
“ist would therefore ask that Congress donate to the State of Missouri, tor
the purpose of improving said river, alternate sections of the public and un-
appropriated lands within three miles on each side of said river, from the
mouth of said river to the mouth of Jack’s fork of the same, a distance of
one hundred miles. '

Resolved, That the Secretary of State be required tolfurnish each of the
Senators and Representatives in Congress from this State with a copy of the
above memorial.

Approved February ‘.24, 1849.

5

MEMORIAL to Congress, asking a Donation of Lands for the Improve-
. ment of the Osage River.

\l\.I

 

€

     

#

C

To the Honorable, the Congress of the United States: )-

The memorial of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri re-
spectfully showeth that the Osage river is of great importance, both to
the United States and to the State of Missouri. It takes itsrise in the
Indian country, west of the State of Missouri; and, after running tli'rough
a part of that country, and upwards of three hundred and tw_enty,miles
through the State of Missouri, enters the Missouri river one hundred
and twenty miles above its mouth. It has been examined and. surveyed,
by a competent engineer, from its mouth to Osceola, a distance gf two
hundred and thirty miles; in that whole distance there was found no
rock to injure its navigation, excepting a few loose rocks in a sp3'c_e f
only two hundred yards in length, where t'he fall was only foot and a‘ ha f,
and which rocks are easily removed, The banks being permanent, but
few objections to its navigation are found, these few consi§t_:_ o£_bars at
low water, and 10 s, and overhanging trees. It is a large and bedutiful
river, nearly equa to the Ohio immediately below Pittsburg;;'and afords
at a very low stage of water, by actual admeasurement, 13l,0O0_ cubic
feet of water per minute. It is also obstructed by ice, [only] six weeksor
two months in the year, when the Missouri and upper Mississippi rivers
are greatly obstructed. The whole expense of improving ..it from its
mouth to Osceola was estimated, by the engineer, at two‘hundred“ and
four thousand dollars. From the last mentioned place to Fort ,Scott,
situated upon the river in the Indian cqnntry, the distance is by the
river about eighty or ninety miles, by land about sixty miles. The river
from Osceola to Fort Scott is easily made navigable for stcamboiats, there
being no permanent or serious obstruction to overcome. The tragt of
country lying within the valley of the Osage rivq-, and within the State
of Missouri,«svas estimated, by the chief engineer of the State, to be
eighteen thgysapd square ‘miles: over one fourth part of the State; there
is, besides, a vast extent of Indian country, lying west of the State, on

‘E-: i ‘

6.56 MEMORIALS.

the Osage river and its tributaries, all of which would be benefitted to
an incalculable degree by the improvement of that river. Your memo-
rialist entertains the opinion that the United States are under obligations,
arising from duty and interest, to assist in the improvement of the navi-
gation of this river. The government of the United States has collected
on the frontiers of this State hords of restless and dangerous Indians;
the warriors of which, according to an estimate of the commissioner of
Indian affairs, amount to twenty thousand; these warriors, united to the
warriors of other tribes, amount, according, to the same estimate, to
sixty-six thousand. The United States are bound to defend the people
of this State against all interruptions from these tribes; and also bound,
by express treaty stipulations, to protect the immigrant Indians in their
new residence against all interruptions and disturbances from other tribes
or nations of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatsoever.
This defence cannot, either with justice or sound policy, be left to choose,
not only the means of defence, but certain and efficient means ought to be
provided; and no means can or will be more certain and etlicient than
the improvement of the navigation of this great river leading into the
Indian territory, by which. means steamboats with troops, munitions of
war, and provisions, can be taken to the scene of danger at almost any
season’of the year, excepting during the depths of winter. The United
States is owner of great uantities of public lands in the valley of the
Osagde river, but little oft e public lands, compared to the whole, being
yet ’ _ ispo's_éd of, these lands will be greatly enhanced in value by the
iinprinvenient of the river; and the United States ought therefore, on
principles of equity and justice, to aid in its improvement. The United
States have a military post, Fort Scott, in the Indian country, on this
river;*the expenses of supplying this post, even in time of peace, would
be greatly diminished by the improvement of the navigation of this river.

‘I.

‘ If war with the Indians should occur, the river would be the principal

1neat1'§ of access to the Indian country west of this State, and the saving
in the expense of transportation would be immense. The Congress of
the United States, in the act to authorize the people of the territory of
Missouri to form a constitution and State government, approved March
sixth;"eigliteen hundred and twenty; provided, that the Mississippi river
and the uaiyigable waters and rivers leading into the same shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said State as to
other citizens of the United States, without any tax, duty, impost, or
toll therefor imposed by the said State. The Osage is presumed to be
one of the. rivers included within the provisions of this act; and if so, and
the State should improve its navigation, it could lay no tolls to pay the
interest on the expenditures, or keep the improvement in repair. The
State is then in regard to this river, by the provisions of said act, deprived
of the right and privilege of most of the other States of this Union, of
improving the navigation of this river, and laying tolls to sustain the

expenses. Under these circumstances, your memorialist reiterates the

opinion, that the United States are bound to aid in“the improvement of
the navigation of the Osage river. This, indeed, was expressly recom-

mended in eighteen hundred and thirty—seven, by the United States chief
engineer. as necessary and proper to the defence of the Cvestern frontiers.

But your memorialist does mot ask Congress to beairall the expense of

MEMORIALS. ' 657
this improvement, although your memorialist believes it might be done
with more grace than has been shown in regard to improvements asked
for by other States, many of which Congress has assented to. Nor does
your memorialist ask Congress to grant money in aid of this improvement,
but to grant public lands, either in alternate sections, or otherwise, as
Congress may deem advisable for these cases. Less meritorious exam-
ples could be shown at nearlyevery session of Congress, and for the
benefit of nearly every .State and Territory in which there were ublic
lands, and embracing a great numberof cases in the same State or Terri-
tory. Missouri has never, either as a State or Territory, received any
grant of lands or money to aid in making any road or improving any
particular river. The United States have even withheld from this State
the two per cent. fund, which was tb be employed in making roads, or
a road, leading to this State; and yet, although twenty-nine years have
expired, no road is made by Congress leading -to this State; all the im-
provements within the State, which, although not including any one great
work, have yet been numerous and expensive, have been made by the
State and the people of the State, whilst the United States received, in
the enhanced value of the public lands, and is yet receiving great advans
tages from these improvements. Your memorialist therefore, respectfully
asks for a rant of alternate sections of land for tlle distance of ten miles
on each sige of the Osage river, from the western ,boundary line of this
State to the junction of said river with the Missouri, or such other grant
of land as may effect the desired object. ' . .

I?esolved, That the secretary of State be required to forward a copy
of this memorial to each of our delegates in Congress, before..the c6p1-

mcncement of the next session of the Congress of the United States.‘_
Approved March 2, 1849. " i

"am

/\.‘\./\/\/\r\/\ . \/-\/\’\¢\..

 

MEMORIAL to the Congress of the United States, praying a Donatibn
of Land for the Improvement of the Navigation of Wh1te‘River.

Ybur memorialists, the General Assembly of the State of _Missopri,

would respectfully represent to your honorable body, that alarge, fertile,’

and populous portion of Missouri, being the south-western par_t,.isvcom-
paratively destitute of all avenues to market. Theportion of ‘the State
which we bring directly to your consideration, embraces nearly one-
fourth of the surface thereof, the climate is salubrious, the ‘soil whried,
and well adapted to all the purposes of agriculture. ‘Rich mines of iron
and lead and vast deposits of coal are frequently met with. Independent
of the present active, enterprising opulatign, the tide of emigrption. is
rapidly pouring in an intelligent, in ustrious, and valuable.acquisition‘of
citizens from our sister States. .Navigation is wantin , to develope" the
resources of the State; our mines, which are numerous, t rough obstructed,
cannot be improved without means,‘ and we confidently look to the
General Government toiaiid us in the accomplishmeintjof our object.
White river is tlie most prominent object of improvement in southnwestern
Missouri. Entering the southern borders of our State,.fromithe moun-
tains of Arkansas, it crosses to the north’, and sweeps the base of the

658 MEMORIALS.

elevated table lands and prairies, which constitute the garden of the
south-west, and flows in a bold, broad, and beautiful stream, through a
country rich in agricultural and mineral productions, a distance of more
than one hundred miles, when it again enters the State of Arkansas. In
times of high water, it is now navigated in the whole of its course through
Missouri; and there are very few obstructions below the point where it
enters Arkansas. The obstructions chiefly consist in overhanging
branches, and shoals, which can readily be removed, and, by the construc-
tion of a few locks and dams, the river can be rendered navigable at all
seasons of the year, as it never freezes sufficiently to im ede navigation.
A grant of alternate sections of land, in the vicinity of e river, for the
purpose of its improvement, in connection with the amount which can

e raised by our citizens, will accomplish the desired object. Already
is the attention of the citizens of our State turned to it, and they are
zealously endeavoring, by all the means in their power, to render their
only outlet to market adequate to their wants. -But in this they cannot
succeed without aid from the liberal hand of the General Government.
Their mines must remain unproductive and neglected, agriculture must
-languish, and the fairest portion of the West will be checked in its
growth, unless sufiicient aid is furnished. The object is more national
than local in its ‘character. White river is one of the great tributaries
of the Mississippi, llpws through a large and rich portion of two States,
andthe navigation of that stream is in the most practical route to several
military posts on our western frontier, and must be of vast advantage to
the General Government, in the transportation of arms, munitions of war,
supplies, &c., to those posts and our national establishments west, and
wpiild greatly increase the value of ublic lands in the south-west.
Your inemorialists, therefore,in view of t e advantages which would result
to the General Government, and to the State, in the development of her
resources, agricultural and mineral, respectfully solicit your honorable
body to grant to this State, for the purpose of improving White river,
alternate sections of land for the distance of six miles on each bank of
the same, for the whole of the course of said stream through the State
of Missouri. , ~ *

,’ Approved March 2, 1849.

  

MEMORIAL to Congressirespecting school lands, and for other pur-
- poses.

To the honorable, the Senate and Houseof Representatives of the United
States, in Congress assembled.-

The memorial of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri show-
eth, that owing to causes incident to all new States and territories,
which (as your honorable body is familiar with them) it is not necessa-
ry*to enumerate, the.—State of Missouri is deplorably deficient in means
of education,.and particularly so in the department of _common schools.
VVe acknowledge and are grateful to the general government for the
hitherto liberal donations and bounties which we, with the rest of the
western States, have received through the generous policy early adopt-

mzmonuns. 659

ed by it, in grantin the sixteenth sections for educational purposes.
But liberal as these gonations have been, they have not been of equal
value and benefit to all sections of the State. Some townships, favored
by circumstances and locality, have derived from the sale of their school
lands a sum much higher than the minimum of public lands; others had
to wait many years, until at last the improved condition of the country
enabled them to realize the minimum rates; the lands of other townshi s
are so inferior in soil that theypossess but little value, and consequently
are unsaleable; again, in other townships the lands are entirely worth-
less. Therefore, your memorialist prays that your honorable body will
pass an act authorizing the relinquishment, by the townships, of all un-
saleable and worthless lands, and the selection of others in lieu thereof
from any lands remaining unsold within the limits of the State of Mis-
soun.

Your memorialist would also represent that these donations hove not
been so valuable to the citizens of Missouri as to those of the older
States for various reasons. Amongst others, for the following reasons:
When the olicy of ranting the sixteenth sections for school purposes
was first adbpted, an down to the year 1820, the minimum price of the
public domain was fixed at the rate of two dollars per acre; therefore,
the older States by receiving only the minimum price, as then fixed, re-
ceived $1280, whereas, those who now realize the reduced minimum
rate receive only $800. Again, the limited-quantity of public land then
in— market, enabled them readily to sell at the then rate, and much high-
er where circumstances and locality were favorable. It is therefore
presumable that the same quantity of school land, under these circum-
stances, brought almost if not quite double the amount that it does now
under the changed circumstances of redemption in price, and the almost
unlimited quantities of land since brought into market. Your memorial-
ist, from considerations of equity, as _well as the great purposes to be
subserved by it, pray that your honorable body will pass an act donating
a quantity of land equal in amount to the original grant of the sixteenth
sections to the State of Missouri, to be located by such agents as she
may appoint, and to be applied to the purpose of supporting common
schools within the limits of this State. ' L as , ,

Approved February 27, 1849. '

 

MEMORIAL. to the Congress of the United States in relation to the
pre-emption law. ' . .

To the honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives of the Uzzited
States of ./Ymerica in Congress assembled: ' ' ""

Your memorialists, the General Assembly of the State.‘ of Missouri,
respectfully represent, that in reference to the sale of the public lari~ds.by
pre-emption, they regard the system.as_being just and defensible, “mam-
y on the ground that it gives to the comparatively poor and industrious
pioneer a preference in the purchase of that which his labor or his en-
ergy has attracted attention to, or has rendered more valuable. _Entertg,in-
ing this view of a policy now settled and permanent, theyare unable to
perceive the consistency of withholding from the operation of that sys-

660 MEMORIALS.

tem the lowest subdivisions now recognized by law, as open to private
entry. On the contrary, it would seem that even stronger reasons ex-
isted in many cases, for allowing apre-emptor to select, and subsequent-
ly to enter a subdivision of forty acres than a larger one and especially
stronger reasons than ever existed in favor of extending that privilege
to the speculator or the citizens at large. To the members of Congress
from the new States, the reasons upon which such a conclusion is predi-
cated need not be repeated, nor is it deemed necessary to more than al-
lude to them when addressing ourselves 'to others. To many beginners
in life and to the mining portion of our population of all ages, the pro-
posed extension of the system would be of the greatest benefit; the latter
especially are generally poor and adventurous men, whose discoveries
are no sooner made (their “leads struck”) than they are covered by the
private entry of some neighborhood capitalists, who h'avj.ng money and
means, almost invariably reaches the land office in time to extend the
monopoly thus being made of all the mineral discoveries in many por-
tions of the State. For the reasons thus summarily glanced at, your
memorialists respectfully pray that the right to select and pre-empt tracts
of 40 acres or any of the public lands be conceded by an enactment of
your honorable body,,as one alike to consistency and to justice, to sound
policy and to the rights and interests of a large and meritorious class of
our fellow-citizens“

Approved March 12, 1849.

\/ \./-JR/\/‘V’ \/\-’ J\.I\./'\/‘v‘

MEMORIAL to Congress in favor of the Missouri and Mi-sissippi rail-

road company.

To t[z»e- Congress 0/' the United States:

_The General Assembly of the _ State of Missouri, respectfully repre-
sent, that a large portion of the citizens of this State are deeply inter-
ested in the construction of a rail road from Lexington on the Missouri
to some point on the Mississippi river, at which the navigation of said
river is never impeded by ice. This road would connect a very exten-
s_ive_‘_and productive agricultural region with the great river of the West
and'w6uld enable the citizens of this State to have constant access to
the city of New Orleans. It would also cross one of the richest miner-
al regions in the world, and pass in the immediate vicinity of inexhaus-
tible beds of coal, iron ore, lead and copper, and other valuable miner-
als, and through a country abounding in timber, rock and other building
materials; and near to many streams which afford. good sites for machine-
ry. - ;‘This road would soon form a connection with other rail roads ex-
tending towards the ' Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic cities and would
be useful to: the government of the United States in the transportation
of the mail and troops, arms, suppliesand munitions of war. The fact
that the navigation of the Missouri river is prevented by ice, during
several months in every year, renders such a rail road very desirable to
the people of this State, in order to carry out this enterprise successful:
1y. =1 company called “The Missouri and Mississippi Railroad company”
is about to be incorporated with full power to construct the proposed
improvement‘. The General'Assembly, therefore respectfully requests

 

/‘urv V \ ".f\/’\./'\/ vxrv J ./\/‘ J\4‘-/‘./\f:/\/ A’ \ /\ z

MEMORIALS. 661

that an act of Congress may be passed giving to said railroad company
the right of way through the public lands of the United States; and also
donating to said company alternate sections of the land on both sides of
said road to aid in constructing the work, by passing such an act the
Congress of the United States will promote the speedy construction of
a most important and valuable improvement.

Resolved, That the Secretary of State be required to forward a printed
copy of the foregoing memorial to each of our Senators and Represen- A

tatives in Congress.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\/\J’\./\./

To the Congress Q/' the United States:

The General Assembly of the State of Missouri, respectfully repre-
sents, that the attention of Congress has been frequently drawn to the
propriety of making appropriations of land to reclaim the immediate
region in the south-east part of Missouri, and in the north-east part of
Arkansas; and at the present session of the General Assembly a memo-
rial has been adopted requesting Congress to appropriate all the lands
of the inundated region to the work of draining, reclaiming and im-3
proving that portion of the country. The General Assembly still enter-
tains the same views as to this material object of improvement,’ and
would now call the attention of Congress more particularly to a portion
of the country proposed to be reclaimed; at the present session of the
General Assembly an act to incorporate the New Madrid and Stoddard
canal company has been passed the ob'ect of which is to construct.-a
canal from the Mississippi river near oint Pleasant in New Madrid
county to the great Swamp and to terminate near to Bloomfield in the
county of Stoddard. The construction of this canal would aid in drain-
ing and reclaiming the great Swamp, by drawing off the _water into the
Mississippi river; and would also form a navigable communication be-
tween the interior counties and the Mississip i river. The General As-
semble respectfully requests that the public lands for six miles on each
side of the contemplated canal in the counties of New Madrid and Stod-
dard, may be donated by Congress to said canal company to aid in the
construction of the improvement for which said company has been in-
corporated, and that such measures may be adopted as will best aid in
reclaiming and improveing that long neglected portion of the country.

Approved March 12, 1849. ~ "

 

"¥

MEMORlAL to Congress in favor of a grant of land to teamsters, who

served in-the Mexican war. , . 3

5*}

To the Cong-ressof the United Stqtes: ’ l . ii - ' S ,.

The General Assembly of the State of Missouri, respectfully repre-
sents, that during the recent wrar with Mexico a considerable number oi?
active and adventurous citizens ofgthis State‘, were engaged as teams-
ters, in driving wagons from Missouri to ‘the seat of war in New Mexi-

I

662 MEMORIALS.

co, and in that capacity su&'ered great hardship and much exposure, and
rendered meritorious services. The occupation of supplying the army
with provisions, arms, ammunitions and the means of transportation was
as useful and necessary as any other service in conducting the war, and
those who were thus engaged encountered great difliculties and perils,
and rendered important services. The labors and the dangers of the
teamsters, were as great as those of the volunteers; many of them erish-
ed by cold, fatigue and exposure and others returned with hea th im-
paired and constitution broken. On several occasions these teamsters
rendered important services in battle, and in active operations against
the enemy; and some of them losttheir lives by the hands of the enemy,
and by attacks from the Indians on the plains; many of these persons re-
paired to the frontier for the purpose of engaging actively in the volun-
teer service, and when their com anies were not received into service,
and their services not accepted, t iey engaged as teamsters and assisted
in the arduous business of trans ortation, in which they were necessari-
ly compelled to endure hard labor and to be exposed by night and by
day. In consideration of the perils, hardships and exposure encountered
and the meritorious services rendered by these bold and hardy men, we
respectfully request that provision may be made by law, that each teams-
ter who was engaged in that service during the Mexican war, and who
thus served as much as one campaign may be entitled to receive one
hundred and sixty acres cf land; and that the widow or children of those
who perished in that service, may also have the benefit of the law to be
passed for‘ that purpose. By grantin a tract of land to each of said la-
borious teamsters, the Congress of t e United States will perform and
act of just liberali-ty, such as ought to characterize the conduct of en-
lightened and patriotic statesmen.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

.%‘A/‘

MEMORIAL to the Congress of the United States, asking a pension for
the soldiers in the militia service in the war of 1812.

Your memorialists, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, re-
spectfully represent that there are many soldiers who served in the militia
arm of service during the last war with Great Britain, residing in this
State, many of whom served for a period of twelve months and longer.
They went forth, at their country’s call, to repel the invader, and encoun-
tered hardships, dangers and difficulties. Their services were equally as
valuable to the country as the soldiers of the regular army, and as a class of
citizens generally were meritorious; yet, when age and infirmity have come
upon them they are neglectedby that country which they so gallantly
served. The soldiers of the regular army received their bounty land and

_pensions. The citizen soldier reaps no reward from the gratitude of his

country. He left. his home and the endearments of life, when the storm of
war had [burs-t_| upon our country, and braved its hardships and terrors; and
often having destroyed his constitution in his country’s defence,'is left to die
neglected and unrewarded by that country. This should not be. We should
set a noble exam le, and show that republics are not ungrateful. The citi-
zen soldier shoul at least be placed on an equality with the soldiers of the

regular army. We ask your honorable body to place them on that equality

MEMOBIALS. 663

by granting a quarter section of land and pension to each militia soldier of
the last war, and if he be dead, to his wife, if she remain a widow. In this

we think’ we ask no m'ore.than what is demanded by justice and the spirit
of our free institutions. '

Approved _March 12, 1849.

C
I

A

MEMORIAL to Congress, asking an extention of the south-western boun-

dary of Missouri, and an extinguishment of the Indian title to certain
lands. '

Your-memoriahsts, the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, re-
spectfully’-represeut to your honorable body that there is a tract of cpuntry,
not large but exceedingly fertile, adjoining the south-western border of this
State, at pres_ent inhabited by the Seneca and Quapau Indians, ahd' which
from its peculiar position, should belong to this State. A large navigable
river dows through it, and forms the only natural outlet to market for the
citi2en'§.o_f that portion _of Missouri; and from’ the fact that it flows exclu-
sively through the Indian country, it affords but’ few advantages to them.
The country'is well watered, and abounds in rich prairies and rivefbottoms,
contains immense deposites of bituminous coal, and fine quarries of marble.
Its acquisition’ would be of iucalculable value to the State. The mqpth of‘
Spring river, about five miles west of our present boundary, is an excellent
point for a tovfm. and, in fact, the only point where a good shipping pipr-e
can be had. Should this country be attached to Missouri, its many and im-
portant advantages would be felt, a city would soon be built up where a
wilderness now stands The produce of the south-west would find a ready
outlet, and aquick return of the proceeds.‘ It would, also, furnish‘, ma 1y
conveniences to the general government in the transportations of troopsand
munitions of war, and would contribute much to aid _.bur froriticr service.
The Indians‘would be willing to cede this important tract oi‘ land for a
reasonable compensation; and if it was ceded the Neosho_or Grand river
would at once become a stream of great value, gindivvaould give an outlet for
the surplus produce of a large tract of country. In View of these important
advantages, we desire‘ your honorablerbody to authorize this State to extend
her boundary; providedythe lndinn title can be extinguished in the manner
following, to wit: To ‘commence lHI.hth6 south-west corner ot'_the-"State, and
run due west to tlie Neosho or Grand river; thence up"said stream to the
junction of Neosho with Spring river; thence up'the Neo,s__ho fiver twenty-
tive miles north to the boundary ,b£ the Quapaa lands; thence due east-to
the pregenfSt_ate line, distant aboubtwentystive miles.’ We also further ask
that a commissioner, or commissioners, be appointed to treat with the Indian
tribes inhabiting-said tract of country} on the part of the general govern meg t.
or give the State of Missouri ‘the power to treat with said Indians,and punghase

I

the country, in accordance with powers heretofore delegated to the State of
New Yorli on that subject. ‘ - ' * . ’ ‘

o ' "-‘S

Approved Mzi"rch lO,_l849. ' l  5 '

‘ I e ‘ 3

664 MEMORIALS.

MEMORIAL to Congress on the subject of New Madrid lands.

To the Congress of the United ‘States:

The General Assembly of the State of Missouri most respectfully rep-
resent to your honorable body, that an extensive and exceedingly fentile
section of country, embracing a large portion of the counties of New
Madrid, Scott and Mississippi, in this State, are seriously injured in con-
sequence of the high waters of the Mississippi river, whicl} has been the
case since l8ll—thereby injuring the health, pn'eventin_g its settlement,
and‘ destroying its agricultural and commercial facilities.‘ The country
thus injured is in the heart of the Mississippi val1ey——has _a mild and sa-
lubrious climate, united with unrivalled fertility of sgil, and needs no-
thing bub thefostering hand of the federal Government to makegit one
of the most desirable portions of the great valley of the Mississippi river.
In 1811., this oncefavored portion of the Mississippi valley was visited‘
by an eartliquaikc, the effects of which are still to be seen: ‘Prior to that
time,tth'e couritry was not subject to inundation, and was certainly one
of the highest and handsomest portions of the‘ Mississippi valley. _ But
it was the will of the Almighty that the finest portionof the valleyo of
the great “Father of Waters” was desolated by an earthquake, and hun-
dreds of.thousands of acres of the richest lands on the earth was ren-
dered unfit for civilized man. This once highly favored region is nearly
an uninhabited waste, caused by the earthquake and the consequent
ogerllow of the Mississippi river. By leveeing the bank of the river, it
would prevent inundation, and thereby reclaim and render {it for habita-
tion*'and cultivation this oncefavored country, and incalculable benefits
would be conferred upon the people of that portion of the State, and,
at the same time, benefit in'an eminent degree the government of the
United States, by bringing into immediate market large bodies of gov-
ernment land; ‘It would also confine the water in its proper channel,
thereby greatly impf_oving the navigation of the river. The condition of
this ..,country* has been ‘represented to Congress, and appropriations of
land have often been requested in aid of its improvement—but, as yet,
without any favoirable resul'l.;. The General Assembly most respectfully
request that an appropriation of two hundred thousand dollars may be
made by Congress to be expended in reclaiming the country above des-
cribed, by making'a suitable levee in the counties above named. By a
liberal ap r-opriation for the object above described, a very extensive and

remarkab y fertile "country; embracing some of the finest landsin the
west, would ‘be materially benefitted.

- Approved Ma}rch.12, 1849. «

Resolved, by the Senate, (the House of Representatives concurring
therein,) That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to transmit
to eac_h of our Senators and Representativesjn. Congress, a copy of all
memorials and resolutions passed by the present General Assembly.

E
' ‘I
I

, _ . u 9
II

JoiNr RESOLUTIONS.

C ' ‘-/\/\/\.z\/\/\/\/\/\.1~

JOINT R_EsoL1iT1oN for repairing the roof Jr the Capitol.
Resolved, by the General‘./fsskrrzbly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

' That'the Commissioner of the Permanent Seat of Go'vernme'nt be and
he is hereby required to have the roof of the Capitol ‘of this State re-
paired immediately, so as to turn rain and prevent further injury; to to

~_ same; and that the Auditor of Public Accounts be and lie 'isJ1ere fau-
thorizedto draw his warrant on the 'State treasury for the amount of
ezipenses incurred in such repairs, to be paid out of any money in the

‘ ‘tr ‘asury pot otherwise appropriated. '

‘ Approved February 23, 1849. ‘

‘V-

.
\.4\«\/\/g/\/\,q£.«\./\z\.I\.4§l\./\/\./x. “-

‘I\/"\-’\/\/\/

 

Resolved, by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri: It shall be
the duty of the Secretary of State to have erected .over_the remains of
the Hon. John Hunt, late a representative ‘from the county ‘of ~Pollr, a
_ suitable tomb, with appropriate inscriptions thereon; and the Auditor is
hereby authorized to draw his warrant on the State treasury for the sum

' of two hundred and lifty dollars-($250 )‘, or as much thereof as shall be

necessary, in favor of the Secretary of State, who shall pay all jiist and
proper claims which may accrue in carryinginto effect the foregoing

resolution. _ ,

‘ ‘Approved January 16, 1849. s T . -  ‘-

I. g- * 9
P ‘ .
rx/\9\»-xrxxvx/xrxvx/xrvxrxrx/5
’ K

II’

 

co. . .
I

. Resolved, by the‘Sen_ate, the House of Representatives concurring
therein,) That the Governor‘ e and is hereby authorized to receive, on
the part ofathe State, .the distributive share‘of the State of; Missouri of
the funds arising under the provisions of the act of Congress, approved
September the foprth, eighteen hundred and forty-one, entitled “An act
to distribute the proceeds of the sales of the public lands, and to grant
pre-emption rights to settlers2‘’.’.. . .

Approved.Jan_u_ar_y 2, 1849. ‘

I ‘ r .

 

"\’\/\I

r}/'\r;,\r\t\»\ \Q\/\*\r\/‘

. , , ‘
Resolved by the General .9ssembly of the State of Missouri.-

That the commissioner of the permanent seat of government he and
he is hereby required to make his report to this General Assembly, as in
and by the lothusection of an act entitled “An act providing for the elec-

46

666 JOINT RESOLUTIONS.

tion of a commissioner of the permanent seat of government, and for
other purposes,” approved Feb. 13, 1845, and also by the 5th section of
an act entitled .“An act further to define the duties of the commissioner

of the permanent seat of government,” approved March 25th, 1845, he
is required to do. ’

Approved J anuary 16, 1849.

‘J-J‘\/x.. v./\. \. ~4\./\/\./\4\/\. s./‘\r

A JOINT RESOLUPION requiring the Secretaiy of state to distribute

copies of the decisions of the supreme court. -
Resolved by the General .dssembl_y of the Stcite Q/i Missoztri, as follows:

That the Secretary of State cause to be furnished to the clerks of the
county courts of Macon and Shelby counties, such a number of the first,
second and third volumes of the reports of the supreme court-as may be

nec'essary'td' supply the oliicers of said county entitled to the same.
_ Approved March 2, 1849.

I

JOIN'1‘ --RESOL__UTI(')N respecting the State penitentiary. tr
Itesotixed by the General afsseinbly of the State of ./1/Iissouri, as follows: ‘

§ 1. The inspectors of the penitentiary are hereby authorized to con-
tract with the-lessees of said penitentiary for the removal of the eastern
block of o'ld cells in said prison, and for the erection of such blacksmith and
Waggon. maker’s shops out of the materials of said block of cells as said

inspectors may deem wise and expedient; provided, that the removal of .

said cells, and the erection ofsiid shops, &c., shall be at the expense of

said lessees, and not at the expense of the State in any manner whatever.
Approved l\’_Iarc.h 10, 1849, ‘

.-‘\.4 K- .. It. ., \._—".l, \, \/\./\. M. \u ‘-1

RESOLUTISNS of thanks" tip the officers and soldiers bf the Mexican

war.
Resolved by the General afssembly 'Qf the State Q/‘ ]l[z'ssom'z', as follows:

That the thanks of~the people of the State of Missouri are due to Brig-
adier General Sterling Price,‘ Col. Alexander W. Doniphan, and the
brave ofiicers and soldiers under their "command, for the glorious victo-
ries achieved hy them, which have shed such imperishable lustre on the
history of the State, for their unparallelled marches over the trackless
prairies, burning sands,‘ rugged mountains of Mexico, and for the forti-
tude, perseverance, bravery, and magnanimity e-xhibited by them in
whatever situation they were placed. .

Resolved, 2, That the thanks of the people of this State are also due
to Lieutenarit Col. William Glpin, and the ollicers and soldiers under his
command, for their brave and energetic conduct on the great plains and
prairies of the west, in repelling Indian agg;:'essions, and making the

military power of the nation felt by the wild and restless Pawnees and
Cumanches.

JOINT RESOLUTIONS. 667

Resolved, 3, That the thanks of the people of this State are also due
to Brevet Major N. B.‘ Holden, of the 12th regiment of infantry, and the
ofiicers and soldiers under his command, for so gallantly sustaining the

honor of the State on the bloody and glorious battle field of Cherubusco,
and before the gates of the city of Mexico.

Approved March 12, 18-19.

\-

f\/\/'\/‘\/\/’

 

I‘-\’\/\/'\/'\l‘

RESOLUTIONS on the subject of slayery.
Resolved by the General dssembly of the Stateiqf Missourji: ‘I

1. That the federal constitution was the result of a compromise be-
tween the conflicting interests of the States which formed it, and in no
part of that instrument is to be found any delegation of power to con-
gress to legislate on the subject of slavery, excepting some special'pro-
visions having in view the prospective abolition of the African 3 ave
trade, and for securing the recovery of fugitive slaves; any attempt,
therefore, on the part of congress to legislate on the subject, so as to af-
fect the institution of slavery in the States, in the District of Columbia,

 

,or in the territories, is, to say the least, a violation of the principle upon

wlich that instrument was founded. *

2. That the territories acquired by the blood and’ treasure of the whole
nation ought to be governed for the common benefit of the people of all
the States; and any organization of the territorial governments, exclu-
ding the citizens of any part of the Union from removing _to such terri-
tories with their property, would be an exercise of power, by congress,
inconsistent with the spirit upon which our federal couipact was based,
insulting to the sovereignty and dignity of the States,thus affected, cal-
culated to alienate one portion of the Union from another, and'ten'ding
ultimately to disunion. ‘ "‘ " ' t

3. That this General Assemblyregard the conduct of the‘ northern
States, on the subject of slavery, as releasing the slaveholding States
from all further adherence to the basis of compromise fixed on by the
act of congress of the 6th of March, 1820, even if such abt ever did im-
pose any obligation upon the slaveholding States; and authorizes them
to insist upon their rights under the constitution,but for the sake_of har-
mony, and for the preservation of our federal Uni‘on, they will still sanc-
tion the application of the principles of the “Missouri compromise,” to
the recent territorial acquisitions, if by such concessions, future aggres-
sions upon the equal rights of the States may be arrested, and the spirit

. of anti-slavery fanaticism be extinguished.

.4. The right to prohibit .slavery in any territory, belongs exclusive-
ly to the people thereof, and can only be exercised by them in forming
their constitution for a State goyernment, or in their sovereign capacity
as an independent_State. ', ’

5. _That in the event of the passa e of any act of congress conllicting
with the principles herein expresse , Missouri will be found in hearty
co—opera11on. with the slaveholdjng States, in such‘ measures as may be

deemed necessary for our mutual protection against the encroachmehts
of northern fanacism.

668 JOINT RESOLUTIONS.

6. That our senators in congress be instructedand our representatives
be requested to act in conformity to the foregoing resolutions.

Approved March 10, 1849.

H/\/‘J\f

 

7!» ’Ju/\.’\/

JOINT RESOLUTION respecting the arms taken at the battle of
. Sacramento.

 

./\&f\/"-I

Resolved by the .Gqneral.dssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

That the Qzuartermaster General is hereby authorized to cause the
arms takbn in the battle of Sacramento to be stacked in the rotunda of
the Capitol, in pyramidal form, so as to preserve them, and to cause the
proper prescription [inscription] to be engraved upon the same: exhibit-
ing -the time, place, and manner of their capture.

Resolved, That the expense of the same shall be paid out of the
treasury of the_ State, on the report of the Quartermaster General of
the cost of the same, and the auditor shall draw his warrant therefor;
provided, that the sum hereby a propriated for said purpose shall not

exceed the sum of twenty-five do lars.
Approved_March 12, 1849.

 \AAA/‘

RESOLUTION requiring the Secretary of State to forward the Slavery
resolutions to the Governors of diferent States, and the Members
in Congress from this State.

Resolved, By the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring
therein), That the Secretary of State be required to transmit a copy 0
the resolptions passed at this session of the General Assembly, on the
subje'ct o slavery, to the Executive of each of the States of the Union,
with the request that the same be laid before their respective Legisla-

tures; and also a copy to each of our Senators and Representatives in
Congress.

Approved March 10, 1849.

 s..-*\.r“\/ \./‘\/\./‘~/ ./\

JOINT RESOLUTION in relation to the Pacific Railroad.
Resolved, by the Grneral aissembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§ 1. That we, the representatives of the people of Missouri, view
with lively interest and the utmost pleasure the efforts of our distin-
guished Senator in Congress, the Honorable Thomas H. Benton, in
furtherance of the grand project of locating and constructing a national

central railroad from San Francisco, on the Pacific, to St. Louis on the .

Mississippi, with a branch to the Columbia river, ‘as, evidenced by the
notice given by him in the Senate of the United States, of his intention
to introduce into that body a bill pro_viding for the construction and
location of said road}

_ § 2. That we cordially approve the course of our distinguished Senator
in relation to this great and national object, and we heartily tender him

\

JOINT RESOLUTIONS. 669

our best wishes for his success inthe promotion of this great and laudable
national enterprise. ' _- ' ‘ ~r
Approved March.l0, 1849. .’

D Z‘

 

A JOINT RESOLUTION requiring the State librarian to perform

certain uties.

Resolved by the‘General ./Yssembly Q/' the State of Illissouri, asfollows:

That the librarian of the State of Missouri is’ hereby authorized and
re uired to loan to the commissioners of the‘St. Joseph -and Hannibal
rai road, the mathematical, leveling, and surveying instruments now in
the ‘State library, and which were used by the late engineer corps, as
soon as said commissioners are authorized to commence a survey of said
railroad, and the librarian is authorized to deliver said instruments to
any person authorized to receive the same by said board of commis-
simers, take his receipt for the same; said receipt shall require the safe
keeping of said instruments, and for their delivery and return to the
librarian on or before the first day of February, 1851.

This resolution shall not take effect until the 1st day of February, 1850.

Approved March 12, 1849. - "

I

 

Resolved, by the General ./Yssembly’ of the State cfl|Iz'ssourz', asfollows:-

§d1. 'I([}‘hat the thanks of the people of Missouri are due, and are hereby
ten ere , throu h their re resentatives, to each and all the oilicers and
men under theirgeveral conlimanders, and to each and all the gallant sons of
Missouri in other fields, under other commanders, for the gallantry and
devotion with which they sustained their country’s rights, and elevated
their country’s character, in the late war with Mexico-

§ 2. That the patriotic zeal with which the sons of Missouri answered
to their country’s call, and the heroic valor with which they sustained
their country’s honor, present conclusive evidence that freedom’s best
defence is in the’ citizen soldier. 4

§ 3. That we proffer the deep-felt sympathy of a grateful people to
the relations and friends of those who have fallen in defence of their
country’s rights, and their memory will live fresh in the heart! of their
countrymen forever. - '

Approved March 12, 1849.

I‘

.r"s.a‘\/“g'\¢/'\z\/~x /-\../\/x,/s p-- "

A RESOLUTION requiring the librarian to do certain duties.
Resolved by the General aissembly of the State_qf' Missoizri, as follows.

The librarian is hereby, authorized and required to loan to the county
courts of New Madrid, Mississippigand Scott counties*,’the mathematical
and surveying instruments now in possession of theucounty court of New
Madrid county. The librarian is authorized to cancel the guarantee
given by the Hon. J. H. Walker for the keeping of’ said instruments,

670 JOINT RESOLUTIONS.

when James Walker, ‘Wm. P._ Dames, and William Sayers, representa-
tives from said counties, shall give a sutiicient guarantee for the delivery

to the librarian of said instrurhents on the first of February, 1850.
Approved March 12, [£349.  I- -

I

 

A JOINT RESOLUTION respecting the commissioners of the per-

manent seat of government.

Resolved, by the General’./issembty of the State of Missouri:

That the accounts referred to this General Assembly, with the report
of the commissioner of the permanent seat of government, be returned
to.him to be presented to the auditor of public accounts, who is authorized
to allow said commissioner on his settlement for such accounts as may

be just and due.
Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\I\/\/\’£I\r\ I

RESOLUTIONS concerning the ‘Public Debt.
Revolved by the Genera? ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

§1. That the Governor of the State isphereby authorized and required to
cause auditor of Public Accounts and the State Treasurer to make up a full
a_nd‘perf'ect statement of the public accounts on the thirtieth day of Septem-
ber, l849, and a statement of the same kind on the thirtieth day of Septem-
ber, 1850; and whatever balance of money may be found on hand at each
period; after paying all ordinary expenditures, and providing for the payment
of the interest on the public debt, the Governor shall cause to be applied to
the extinguishment of the principal of said public debt, as far as said balan-
ces may go and can be applied.

§ 2. That the Governor be further required , immediatelv after the passage
of these resolutions, to open a correspondence with the holders of the State
bonds, now outstanding against the State, with a view to ascertain the best
terms upon which said bonds can be taken up, either by the payment of the
money or by the substitution of other bonds bearing a less rate of interest.
and that all information thus acquired be laid before the next General As-
sembly. , -

Approved March-12, 1849._

Px-\ ‘x "\"\J-. -\ -‘\~\r\/\"\/'\I\f\/\f\/ \.

 

I‘/'\*\ *'\/'\

RESOLUTION in commendation of the officers of the Regular Army.

Resolved, by the General ./fssembly of the State of Mzlssouri, (both houses ‘

concurrzng tIterez'n:)

That this General Assembly highly appreciate the valuable military ser-
vices l'el](l€l‘C(lrln the icceiit war with Mexico by Brevet Major Gabriel R.
Paul. Brevet Captain John G. VVall(.ei', Brevet Captain Leonidas \’Vetmorcr
Brevet Lieutenant Frederick L.,Dcnt, Lieutenant A. B. Dyer, and Captain
L. Easion, all ofvtlie regular army of the United States, and all of them
citizens of the State of Missouri; and that in the estimation of this body

JOINT nnsonurxous. 671

the promising young oiiicers above hamed are entitled to the admiration and

gratitude of the,citizen.3 of Mis§oirri'for the;:br:{ve'- and gallant manner in

which they sustained the credit oftlng Staté‘.‘1p the army of the nation, and
for their honorable conduct'througliouL.thé‘ war; and that the General As-

I

sembly entertains a lively andigzonhdmt hope’ that the meritorious conduct of
these oliicers will elevate the to‘ th'e_"}1_iglteq_t_hbnons of the army.
Approved March 12, 1849. "_‘..‘. J‘ ' ‘ l

 

RESOLUTION to pay Russcll.A. Murray,_acting Librarian.
. s r .
Resolved, by the General uflssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

The Auditor of Public Accounts is hereby authorized to draw his warrant
on the State treasury, in favor of Russell W. Murray, for one dollar per day

for his services as acting librarian during the present session of the General
Assembly.

Approved March 12, 1849.

 

\./\/'sJ\/\z\/\z\./K/\/\J\.l\/‘

Resolved, by the General ./Yssembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

That the Legislature do most cordially and heartily approve the ad minis
tratton of the Honorable James K. Polk, as President of the United States,
and that his firm adherence’ to the constitution of the United States, and the
principles of the great Democratic party, and the very able manner in which
he has administered the government entitles him to the highest iespect, and
to be ranked amongst the first class of patriots and statesmen.

Approved March 7, 1849.

/\.r‘\fsI\/'\./\/\/mrJs/\/\/\rs’\’\/\I‘.z\./«.r\.I\/ \/\/\/-
1
1'

Resolved, by the General ./Yssembly of the Statelof Missouri .-

Thatsix thousand copies of acts and joint resolutions of the present
session of the General Assembly shall be printed by the public printer.
Approved March 12, 1849. - ..

n-’\f\/\/'\/\/'\I'\/‘ '\’\/\/\/"\ ’\ "

RESOLUTIONS ion the subject of School Funds.
Resolved, Iiy the General vissembly of the State Q/‘Misdouri :

That our Senators in Congress be instructed and our Representatives re-
quested to endeavor to pass a law by which the nature of the grant of the
500,000 acres of land given by a law of the United States; approved 4th Sep-
tember 1841, to the State of Missouri for purposes of internal improvements.
be so changed that such portions of the proceeds of the sales of said land,
as has not yet been appropriated for that purpose, may be converted into a
common school fnnd. ' .

Resolved, that -the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of the fore-

going resolution to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress.
Approved March 12, I349. ‘

Q

STATE OF MISSOURI.

Ounce or Sncna-puny or Sum;
May 10, 1849.

I, Ernmum B. Ewme, Secretary of State for the State of Missouri, do
hereby certify that Ihave. collated the Laws, Memorials and Resolutions
contained invthe foregoing pages, with the original rolls in the office of
Secretary of State aforesaid, and have corrected the same therew.

EPHRAIM B. E ING,
Secretary qf State.

 1 *1‘. we

INDEX“ 
.o 1
..

-I I *’
. ‘D ' . "V
_ 1

" 5 Ir

J ' d
4. “ ' . ' C

I

. T0

\

THE AcTs, MEMORIALS, AND RESOLUTIONS, .PASSED AT
THE FIRST SESSION or THE FIFTEENTH GENERAL “'
ASSEMBLY or THE STATE or
MISSOURI.

 

A.
PAGE.

Abraham Benj. and Martha his wife, di-
vorced, 451
Academ in the town of St. Ferdinand in
St. uis county, an act to amend the
act to incorporate
Acock Rob. 13., a member of the Missouri
and White river railroad company
Acres Stephen, a member of Prairie lodge
No. 90
Adams Tho. M., a member Missouri and
Mississippi railroad company
Adjutant General, an act to ay the, for
certain services to per orm certain
duties in settlement of accounts with
Capt. Simon’s cavalry company
Administration, an act respecting surviving
partners .
administrators in Butler county, their
powers ‘ 26
Agnew John C. , a member of Prairie lodge
No. 90 212
Allbright Benj. R. , an act for the relief of 537
Alexandria and St. Francisville railroad
company, an act to inco orate 285
Alexander J. H. , a member 0 the tiremen’s
insurance company
Alimony and divorce, an act concerning,
amended
Allen Thomas, a member of St. Louis horti-
cultural society
a member of the acitic railroad company
a trustee of St. Louis educational society
Allen, squire G.,a member of Prairie lodge
No. 90
Allen, Saml. R.fa member of the Charles-
ton and Ohio ci plank road company 225
Allen, G. B., a mem er of rural cemetery
association 277
Allen, Felix G., a member of the Scott and
Cape Girardeau turnpike r_oad company 308

197
280
212
374

506
10

154
223
212

49 Anderson, T

I

PAGE‘.

member of Mis‘souri and Mississippi rail-
road company 374
Allen, ‘Wm. B., authorizdll to sell certain 51%
521

real estate
Allen, Jno. S., an act for the relief of
Allison, Matthias H., an act for the relief of 543
Allison, Thomas, appointed a road com’r _
Amend, John, a member of St. Louis horti-
cultural society , 139
Ament, John, a member of prairie lodge
No. 90 ' 212
Amoreaux, J. N ., trustee of Ste. Genevieve
academy 210
Aneel Pascal, member of Scott and Cape
G"irardeau turnpike company 308
Andrew county, a probate court established
in 428
an act concerning circusses and public
exhibitions in
an act to provide for election of county

386

treasurer 465
an act to regulate elections 468
Andrews, Geo. W., act for the relief of 532

Anderson, Tho., director of Missouri and
Mississippi railroad company 374
Mississippi railroad company 232
. . trustee to locate college 232
Anglerodt, Ernst, member of Pacific rail- .
road company 219

287 Anthony, Wm., director of Missouri and

219 Apportionment, act to apportion represen-

A tation t 13
ppropriation for expenses of governmen

for the years 1849 and 1850 12

pay of civil ofiicers 12

pay general assembly ' 12

costs in criminal cases 12

Contingent expenses of general assembly 12
pay of militia officers 12
Copying laws and journals .12

674

Distributing laws and jtirlrnals

. PAG '
' .‘v Fé ='Atiditor of pifblic accounts, joint resolution

innpx.

PAGE.

Contingent expenses of vernor it '~ 12 ’ . ' in relation _to office of 3
o 510, secretary of ate 12 appro riation for contingent expenses of 12
do do "auditor of pu lic autho zed to draw warrant in favor of
accounts ‘_ '. - ' - \,, 12 governor 53
do do State treasur‘er« . _ 12~ required to apportion the military fund 69
do do -Iattorney eneral ' 12 act further defining duties of 114
do do register 0 lands 12, 13- , ‘authorized to settle with the several col-
do do elections 12 lectors of this State for the year 1848, 114
do do militia 12 how
assessing and collecting the revenue 12 authorized to draw his warrant for money
printing laws and journals 12, 13 appropriated for improving the Des
publishing decisions of supreme court 12 Moines river ' 119
general contingent fund A 13, 13, 13 to draw warrant in favor of curators of
payment of State bonds interest on 13 State university, when 131
taking the census 13 to certify to treasurer of board of curators

act to approoriate money to furnish the
governor’s house and for other purposes 53

for constr ctin an asylum for the insane 59

improvem nt o Des moines river 119

emp|loying counsel to defend the De Lisle
c

aim . 134
to the funeral expenses of Hon. John
McHenry, late member from Bates
county 450
to ay funeral expenses of Hon. Theophi-
' us Bass, late member from Taney
county -450

to prdiride for the erection of tombs over

_ the remains of Hair. James R. McDear-
mon, late auditor, and Hon. John Mc-
Henr , late member from Bates county 450

for boo s for convicts 16

for Missouri and Mississippi railroad,
‘conditional

for use of Jefferson city fire company

Armtield, John, and Jemima his wife, di-
vorced‘

Arcadia high school, act to incorporate
Arnet Th. B. member of Missouri and
White river railroad company 279
Arrant, Fredlc. act for relief of 559
Assembly, general, appropriation for pay of 12

Assessors of Butler county how appointed
duties, 8-c. ’ ’ 26

211
07

45]
157

Pulaski, Wright, and Camden, duties 29
Asylum for the insane, act amendatory
of an act to establish 57

59

386
580

a propriation for construction of
Atc ison county, act concerning circusses,
&.c. in
may loan the road and canal fund
Atchison, Geo., Jr., member of boatmen’s
mutual insurance company
Athenian society of the university of Mis-
. _souri, act to incorporate
Atkinson, J as. , director of Missouri and
Mississi pi railroad company

361
158
374

Atterberry, eph, and Isabella his wife,
divorced 462
Attorney general, joint resolution concern-
ing 3

appnopriation for contingent expenses of 12

act to amend an act concerning 15
Attorneys, circuit and county, act to amend
an act concerning 15
And: F. L. , member of the Independence
lyceum 136

of State university, certain accounts &c. 132
to examine the claims of G. A. Parsons,

adjutant general, duty of 505
authorized to draw warrant in favor of
v chaplain of penitentiary 16
authorized to draw warrant in favor of
J as. Luslt . 66
to warrant in favor of agents of State
tobacco warehouse, when 126
required to draw warrant in favor of his-
torical society 400
to draw warrant in favor of agent ap-
pointed to settle claims for subsisting
troops 512
Auditor, see relief acts, &c.
Aul, Roht., member of Missouri and Mis-
sissippi railroad com any 374
proprietor of Macphela cemeter 345
Austin, Henry, superintendent of G asgow
Roanoke, Huntsville, &.c. graded roa
com an 230
Austin, iticlid, D., commissioner to open
books 341
Austermehl, Louis, member of association
Erholung in the town of Hermann 209
Ayres, L. P., member of White river navi-
gation company 259
B0
Bain Franz, a member of the Gasconade
grape growing society 24]
Baker John, a commissioner to open books 337
Baldwin James, a member of plane river
navigation company 329
Balinger Gabriel, :1 com_missioner for Grand
river, &.c. (95
Ball James, an act for the relief of 553
Barrett J . R., appointed a commiasoner m
Barton Wait. a member of the St. Louis
commercial insurance company 142
Battles Charles, a member of the Mammoth
mining company , 153
Bartlett Orson, a member of the New Madrid
and Stoddard canal company. 174
Barth Robert, a member of the Plimnix in-
surance company 368
Barry county, amendatory of an act to
establish a probate court in 445
an act concerning carcasses and other ex-
hibitions ‘ 386

rnnnx.

PAGE.
an act to regulate elections in 468
western boundaryline defined ‘ 34
Barnett Thomas J-, an act for the relief of 521
Barnett Hugh, a member of the Missouri and
White river rail road company . 280
Barr Robert 8.. a commissioner to locate the
Columbia and Missouri rivet turnpike
company
Barrett, Richard, a. member of the St. Louis
and Illinois wire suspension bridge com-
pany 3:28
Bartley, George, a commissioner to open
books 337
Barnes, John, appointed a road commissioner 591
Bass, Theophilus, a member of the White
river navigation company 259
223

J‘

291

Bates, Edward, a trustee of the St. Louis
educational society
Bates, Moses D., a. member of the Palmyra
and Mississippi rail rail road company 170
Bates. I-arkin, a member of the Missouri
and Mississippi railroad company 374
Bantu, John, a superintendent of the Glas-
gow Ronoke &c., graded road company 230
Bauer, John, a member of the Jefferson
City fire company 307
Bayne, Thomas, trustee of Cotton Wood fe-
male seminary 193
Beaver Creek, an act to declare a portion of
a navigable stream 120
Beck, Simpson, member of the mutual fire
and marine insurance company of Lex-
ington
Bedford, J elm, member of the White rirer
navigation company 259
Bedford, H. H., member of the New Madrid
and Stoddard canal company 174
Bell, James R., commissioner to open books 190
Belleville hydraulic company. an act to in-
corporate and for other purposes 190
Belt, Henry B., member of Carondelet and
St. Lottie railroad 224
Belknap Alex., authorized to build a mill ,
dam 498
Bennett, Oliver, member of Missouri State
mutual tire and marine insurance com-

234

puny 378
Bennett, J as. N., an act for the relief of 534
Bennett, William, member of rural ceme-

tery association 277

Beaoist, L. .-1... member of Pacific rail road
company 219
Benton county, an act concerning State read 625
Berryman, Josias, director of Missouri and
Mississippi rail road company 374
a member of Arcadia high school 364
Berryhill, John, commissioner to locate the
New Madrid and Stoddard plank road 294
Berry, DaVid D... member of White river
navigation company 259
a commissioner to open books _ 260
a member of Missouri and White river
rail road company 0 280
Berry, Ragon, member of White river navi-
gation company 259
Berry, Richard, sen., member of Prairie
Lodge No, 90 212
Berryman, Jerome C , member of Arcadia
high school 157

Bissell, Lewis, member of St. Louis Horti-

675

. Paar.
Berry. H., member of Missouri and Missis-

sippi rail road company 374

Bernard, James C., and Susan F.,an act for

the relief of e 530 '

Big Pjney Fork of Gasdonade river, an act
declaring tl'l‘c same a public highwu y
Billitgs, Albert, member of St. Louis wharf
boat company
Billingsley, Edwin commissioner to open
books 337
Billingsley, F. M., superintendent of Glas-
gow, &.c., graded road company 230
Bindin , an act to provide for binding jour-
nags 15, 110
an act to provide for binding books and
ma s in State library 66
Birch, . F., commissioner to open books 337
Bissell, Wm. H., member of mutual fire and
marine insurance company of Lexington 234

121
198

cultural society 154
a trustee of Fairmount academy 197
Blake James, member of St. Louis horticul-
tural society . 154
Blakey, Wm., member of Palmyra and Mis-
sissippi rail road company 170
Blain, J os. H., trustee of Cotton VVood fe-
male seminary . 193
Blain, Samuel, an act for the relief of ' 542
Blain John‘ L., memer oflboatmens mutual
insurance company 331

Black, Robert heirs, an act for the relief of 543
Blennerhassett, R. S., trustee of Franklin

medical literary college 214
Blind, an act amcndatory of an act to pro- ,
vide for the instruction of 48
Bqtmetvs mutual inscrance company an act
to incorporate 351
Boarman, John H., trustee of Franklin med-
ical literary college 214
Boatmens sav'nge institution, an act amen-
datory of an act to incorporate 216
Boats and vessels, an act respecting 16
an act to amend the steam boat law 17
Bobb, Charles, member of Laclede tire com-
pany 323
Bogy. Louis V., member of Phoenix insu-
rance company 368
a member of Pacific rail road company 219

Boggs William, appointed road commissioner 617
Boniils, Julius 0., member of Platte county
male and female institute 195
Bonfils, Gratia J. B., do, do, do, do, 195
Boon, W. B., commissioner to open books 337
Boone county, an act concerning circusses

and other exhibitions 386
authorizing a second precinct in Cedar
township - - 470
may choose curators for university I29
Booms Lick turnpike road company, an act
to incor orate 336

Booker, Pin D., trustee of Miamiacademy 152
Books for convicts in State penitentiary, an

act to provide for purchase of 16
Boswell, John J., member of Laclede fire

company 323
Boundaries, resolution in relation to extend-

ing and altering the boundary of

State 5

676

Pans.
between Jederson and Ste. Genevieve
counties altered

of Dodge county described ,» 28
of Butler “ 1 do., - 25
“ Lacledc “ do_ " 28
‘‘ McDonald “ do 3]

“ Jefferson and Ste. Genevic-ve‘ counties
altered

“ Wayne and Reynolds counties altered
“ Ripley county defined

“ New Madrid, Stoddard and Dunklin
counties defined

“ Taney county defined
“ Mississippi county defined
between Perry and Cape Girardeau coun-

32
35
35

36
36
33

ties defined 33
between Lincoln and Montgomery coun-

ties defined 34
between Madison and Wayne counties de-

fined . 34
of Barry county defined 34

“ town of Parltville described 244
“ “ °‘ Carrollton “ 247
"' “ “ Weston extended 306
“ “ “ Fulton “ 176
“ “ “ Columbia described 162
“ City of St. Charles “ 266
“ “ “ Ste. Genevieve “ 298
“ ‘,3 “ Independence “ 330
“ ‘ “ Louisiana “ 348
“ “ “ Lexingtori - H 148

I37
259

“ “ “ Hannibal part of detached
B0yds Marcus, member of White river navi-
gation company
Bfaswells James. member of lake bridge
company 325
Bran}. J. B., member of St. Louis general ,
insurance company 311
a member of Pacific rail road company 219
Bracken, Charles, member of Union copper
°°m PEDY 296, 297
Bray, John G., member of mutual fire and
marine insurance company of Lexington 234
Breckenridge, G. C., member of Missouri
and Mississippi rail road company
Brevard, A. H., director of Missouri and
Mississippi rail road company
of turnpike company
Brewster, Augustus, member of rural ceme-

tery association 2'7
BI‘i_ng‘ley, Martin, an act for the relief of 541
Brlnker, John B., an act for the relief of 542
Bnckey, Silas B., an act for the relief of 54:2

Bridges, an act supplemental to an act au-
thorizing R. A. Ewing and R. R. Jef-
ferson to build a bridge across the Mo-
reau

an act to authorize Fredrick Myers to

133

_ build toll bridges 133
Bricltey, Silas, member of Missouri and

Mississippi rail road company 374

Brown, Robert L.. an act for the relief of 535

Brown. James, appointed road commissioner 591
Brown, Astefus, “ “ “ 595

Brown, J3‘-pm_ L_, at 66 st 
Brown, James \V., director of Missouri and

Brovmississippi railroad company

Wm. F'., trustee of Miami academy 152 Butler county, an act to organize

INDEX.

PAGE.
152

206

Brown, J ohn, trustee of Miami academy

32 Brown, Wilson, t ustce of Washington fe-

male seminary of Cape Girardeau
Brown. John R... member of Union and Fort

Williams mining and smelting associa-

tion 242
Brooks, Phillip D., member of Prairie Lodge

No, 90 212
Brooks, Elias D., member of Prairie Lodge

N o. 90 ., 212
Brooks, Peter, member of St. Louis marine

railway and dock company 145
Brocltman, John, an act for the relief of 564
appointed road commissioner 616
Broughton, Edward, director of Missouri
and Mississippi rail road company 374
Bryan Bernard member of St. Louis temper-
ance company 137
Bryant’s fork of White river, an act declar-
ing same a public highway 121
Bryan, Bcnj. B., and Nancy his wife, di-
vorced 460
Bryan, Lewis, member of Palmyra and Mis-
sissippi rail road company 170
Buchanan county, an act concerning jurors
in 482
an act concerning circusscs, &.c., in 386
an act concerning State roads in - 584
an act authorizing the issue of a warnnt 619
Buckner, Stanson, president of Palmyra and
Mississippi rail read 170
Buckner, Edward, member of the Scott and
Cape Girardeau turnpike company 308
Buchanan. Geo. W., member of Indepen-
denco and Missouri river rail road com-
pany 316
Duckland, T. A., member of Laclede fire
company 323
Bunn, Martha, an act for the relief of 542
Burns. Johnson, an act for the relief of 544
Burch, J. C., an act for the relief of 559

Burney, Wm . R. an act for the relief of 520, 568

a member of Prairie Lodge N o. 90 212
But-chard, Samuel, member of Missouri and

374 Mississippi rail road company 374
Burtis, J. J ., member of Missouri and Mis-

374 sissippi rail road company 374
308 Barnes, Daniel D., authorized to erect a mill

dam 496

Burress, Luke W., an act for the relief of 520
Burkes, Charles, executor of, authorized to

sell real estate 516
Burkbardt. H., member of association “Er-
llolung” 909
Burkhardt, H ., trustee of German school of
Hermann 346
Burkhardt, H., member of grape growing
society 241
Burtmann, Anthony, appointed road com-
missioner 600
Burter, Edward, jr., appointed road commis-
sioner 628
Burris, David, member of Prairie Lodge
No. 90 ' 212
Burton, W. F., member of Prairie Lodge
No. 90 212
574 Burton John commissioner to open books 2::

INDEX. 

PAGE.
Carrollton, town of an act to incorporate 247

Carey, Levi, a mem er of White river navi-

C.
~ ' PAGE.
Cabaune, J. L. , a member of the St. Louis

   
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
 

. . . tion com any 259
Bonus commercial insurance com an 142 ga
Cabanng, J ulius C. , a member of the pstega Carggé, vzg; " a member of Laclede me 323
“'03 W°‘'k3 and mlnin8_ °°mP3nY , 254 Carter, li, an act for the relief of .551
G337: C. C., 3 member 0, the St Lam; Carter, John heirs of, an act for the relief
wharf boat compan 198 of I, -J 561
Cahill, Hiram B., an act or the relief of 523 catty, Joshua’ director of Missouri and
Caldwell: 13- J-2 3 méqlber °f I°d°P°nd°“°° Mississippi railroad company, 374
Calhbjiviiiiulta, trustee of chapel hill colle e  Carlo?’ Carter D" appointed mad comm“.

sioner- , 3 _ 612
Cassel, Abraham, member of Prairie lodge

No. 90 of free and accepted Masons 212
Case Calvin, trustee of St. Louis educa- ‘

fional society 223

Casey, Zadock, member of St. Louis and '
llinois wire suspension bridge comp’y 328

Caldwell, Thomas, a member of the is-
souri and White river railroad company 280

Caldwell, James, a member of . Laclede fire
company 323

Caldweli county, an act to provide for va-
cancies in 385

pay of urors in 482 t - -
authori edto borrow certain mgney, 576 C?£n$¥3i?% pagufei '3-$g:_: :3 
an act concerning circuses, &c., iin h 386 eoneemin gtete roads in - 618
Callaway county court of may or er t e - _
“.8 of a par; of the mm section 630 Castlemap, braham, appointed road com

missioners it 626
Cattron, Thomas C., an act 131- relief of 565
Cates, William and Mary Ann, his wife,

divorce established 456
Cayce, William, member of Farmington

libra association 204
Cayce Mi ton P., director of Missouri and

ississi pi railroad company 374
Cecil, John ., authorized to cell certain

Callaway Ambrose,an act for the relief 526
Calhoun William, a director of Missouri
and Mississippi railroad company 374
Campbell, Robert, a member of the Pacific
railroad 219
Cam bell, E. M., a member of Missouri
bite river railroad com any 280
Cam bell, J. R., a member o the Alexan-
ria and St. Francisville railroad com-

pany 285 - .
Camden, John B., a member of Phoenix in- Cedatle§l°i;l}:ltI,3;’e?,I;{‘ecf,,:,l,l::ni;1,1ng an act to as 445
5“'’‘'“°9 °°'“P3nY ' . 368 to regulate elections in 468
C“? be"?  C:-2 3 d"'°°t°" °f M'°"°°’i ‘md census appropriations for taking the 13

- i”i"'PB' ”i".'°ad °°mP°”.V 374 Central fire company- of St. Louis an act

0"” be": J’ '9 °'.d"'°°t°' °f M‘”°‘“'i Md amendatory of an act to incdrporate
ississippi railroad company 374 the - 206

Camdm °°““tY! “"3" 1' “P” ‘"3 “'9 °°“”‘ Cerre, M. 8., member of the St. Louis gen-
, W , , 387 era! insurance company, _ 371

*9 P3? J“1'°"' "3 . ‘}77 Chariton county, an act concerning circu-
an order of the court of legalized _ 050 see &,e_, in 386
concerning school township No. 2 in 634 pay 0’; jmere in 482

, "'7 471 may inves funds in Grand river associa-
Cuningo, A., a member of Independence. 136 hen 177

Y°°“"’» V . ha Ben'amin and others an act for relief
Cantqi-berry, John C., appointed road com- C l:,’f -' J ’ _ 520

mi-“9'°"°’ 532 Chaney, Richard F and Mary Ann, his wife,
Cape Girardeau county, an act more partic- - divorced 455

ularly to define the boundary line be- Chambers, Katherine name changed from
tween Perry “id 33 Katharine Hargrfs 452

‘“ “ct f°' the Teller °f ' 395 Chamblin Coleman F., member of Missouri
19 “'5 3PP1'°P"8t"‘3‘ certain fuuds i“ the and White river railroad company 279

'h‘“d9 °f “'9 t"°a3‘"°’ °f - 396 Charleston division Sons of Temperance,
an act concerning circuses, &c., in 386 an act to inee,pe,.ete_ 247

authorized to order the sale of certain Chadwick’ Hansen’ member of Lexington

'93‘ “'3” r 547 mutual marine and fire insurance com-
supplementary act to above 547 any 234

c“'°nd°l°t and St‘ L°“i9 “‘""°ad> 3" act Char ess Edward, member of the Merri-
amendatory of an act to incorporate 224 macif brie e eempeny . 137

c‘“°.u °°“t7’.m?‘y invest fund” 5" Grand Chambers, A. ., member of St. Louis hor-
"'9" ”‘°°"m°“ . . 177 ticultural society 154

P’°"‘}°. °°““i§"“b"‘h°d ‘“ :33 Charleston and Ohio City plank road com-

O lll'Ol'8 in '

3&0 ed to loan C I . mwey 574 pan , an act to incorporate 225

Cliappel Hill college, an act to incorpor-

Oarloli, William, a trustee to locate college 232 ete 150

real estate 4 514 ’

678

PAGE.
amendatory to act to incor orate
Chesnut William, member 0 White river
navi tion company
Chenie, ulia and others, act for relief of 569
Cherry, A. 8., appointed road commis-
sioner 611
Childs, D. P., member of tiremetfs insu-
rance company of St. Louis,‘ 287
Choteau s ring company, act to incoi’porate 168
Choteau ierre,jr., member of Pacific rail-
roa company 219
Chrisman, Wm. , member of Independence
lyceum .-v I- 136
Chute, Angus, trustee of Fairmount acade-
my in St. Louis 197
Church, William, appointed road commis-
sioner 604
Circuit courts, proposed constitutional a- '
mendments in regard to judges thereof 5
judges of, may be appointed, how 8
Judges of, may in certain cases hold court
in circuits other than their own
Circuit attorneys, act to amend an act con-
cerning ’ , 15
Circuit attorney of 2nd judicial court, his
duties under an act to establish an asy-
lum for the insane
Circuses and other public exhibitions, act
concerning

10

59
386

Cities—l-iannzbal, charter of amended 137
Lexington, charter of amended 156, 147
Glasgow, corporation;liin1ts,ot' extended 189
St: Charles, respecting certain streets 201
St. Louis, charter of amended 211, 229
St. Charles, act to incorporate 266
St. Genevieve, act to incorporate 298
Louisiana, organized into city of Loui-

sania, &.c. . ' 348

Civil oflicers, appropriation for pay of 12

Clark, Peter J., member of mammoth mi-
ning company
Clarkson,_ David, director of Missouri and

153

Mississippi railroad company 374
Clarke, James and Lavina, his wife, divor-

ced ' 460
Clarke county, to provide for election of

treasurer in 465

pay of petit jurors in 490

concerning State roads 590

providing for~road tax in 616

Clarke, James M., authorized to build a

dam 497
Clarke, Thomas P. , act for relief of 544
Clarke, Bennett C. , act for benefit of 551

Clarke, James, commissioner to assign dow-

er of Jane W. Merriweather 554
Clay county, act concerning State roads 619
and 590

Clarke, James, appointed road commission-

er 614

Clarke,'Michael D., appointed road com-
missioner _

Clarke, Bennett C., member of Choteau
spring company

Clements, B. B., member of White river
navigation company

Clemons, Martha, name changed from Mar-
tha Abrahams

623
168
259

451

mnnx.

PAC:
463
546

151 Cleveland, Juliet Maria,changed from Juliet

Maria Reynolds

259 Clerk of Cedar circuit court authorized to

make out a certain fee bill
of county court of Dodge county to re-
s

ceive certain documen 28

of county court of Putnam shall perform
certain duties 28

of counties to furnish their respective

treasurers with list of outstanding co.
warrants ' - 37

of supreme courts at St. Louis, judges to
appoint 38

of county courts to furnish election re-

turns for President to the Governor,
when __ 51

of circuit courts, their fees for certain
duties 5?.

of county courts, their fees for ‘certain
duties  52

of circuit'courts may sell copies of revi-
sed statutes of 1845, how_ 66

Clinton county, act concerning circuses,
&.c. . 386

Clinkinbeard, John R. and Diana Rerner,
act to legalize the marriage of 549

Cline, Mathias, appointed road commis-
sioner 585

Clock pedlars, act concerning clock pedlars
and dealers l8

Coalter, John D., member of the sectional
floating dock company 217

Coates, Thomas P., commissioner to open
books 341

Cobb, John, member of the Farmington li-
brary association 204

Coffee, Henry, heirs of, act for benefit of 515
Cogswell, Joseph A., member of Indepen-

dence lyceum 136
Collectors of the revenue their duties in
sales of lands returned delinquent 111

Collectors of Wayne and Butler counties,
duty and power
Columbia, town of, an act authorizing the
trustees of the inhabitants of thetawn '
of Columbia to license and tax owners
and mana ers of circuses one-half a
mile outsi e the limits of said town, as
well as within them, and for other pur-
poses
College in the State of Missouri, an act to
c arter
Collins, Charles, member of St. Louis and
_ Birmingham iron mining company
member of St. Louis and Il inois wireand
suspension bridge company
Collier, George, member of Pacific railroad
company 213
Columbia and Missouri river turnpike com-
pany, act to incorporate 290
Cole county, act concerning circuses, &c. 385

26

162
232
213
325

pay of petit jurors in 493
authorized to borrow certain money 578
concerning State roads in 624

required to divide certain school town-
ships in ,

re uired to_apportion township school
mid of

631
__63l

I

INDEX. 679
Pans. _ Paar:
Colvin, John, commissioner for Grand river 495 act to incorporate 141

Commissioners of lunatic asylums, their
duties ,, 57, 58
Commissioner of permame nt’seat ot.',govern-
.ment, act requiring‘the commissioner
to cause to be erected suitable tombs
over the remains of the late Hon. Jas-
R. McDearmon and Hon. John Mc-

Henry _ 450
to sell certain furniture belonging to the
Governor’s.house 53
proceeds of sale of furniture, how to be
disposed of 54
regpired to have repaired roof the capi-
l t . 665
Coipmercegteam mill company, act to in-
corporate 207
act to incorporate amended 202
Commercial college, act to incorporate 148
Constituioné, amendments to 3, 4, 5, 6
Convicts, ac to provide for moral and reli-
‘ gious instluction of 16

Conway; Simeon, member of Alexandria
and St. Francisville railroad company 285
Cook, John D. ,trustee of Washington sem-

inary of Cape Girardeau county 206
Cook,’ George T., member of western sun
~n_iutual insurance company 256
Cook, Abram, member of Scott and Cape
Girardcau turnpike road compan '308
Cooley, Horace S., member of St. ouis
' and Illinois wire bridge company 328

Cooper county, supplementary act to estab-J

lish probate court in 429
act amending an act to estabaish a probate
court in . 446
act co cerning circuses, &.c., in 386
Cooper, ohn, commissioner for Grand ri-
Ver 495
C_orl John H., member of St. Louis wharf ‘
boat compapty - 198
Cornelius Ro e , superintendent of Glas-
gow, Rdanoke, Bloomington and Kirk-
ville raded road company 230
Cordell, . B., member of Jefferson city
tire company 307
Cordell 8:. co., act for relief of 535
Corby, John, act l'or'relief of ' 559
Cor oratidhs—— _
o han’s home, act to amend the acts re-
specting . . ,_,‘l34
Independence lyceum, act to incorporate 135

Lexington fire company, act to amend an
act incorporating; approved Jan. 25,,
1847 136

city of Hannibal, act to amend an act en-
titled an act to incorporate the city of
Hannibal; approved February 21 , 1845 137

St. Louis temperance company, act to in-
corporate in the city of St."Louis 137

Fayette lodge No. 47, act to incor rate
Fayette lod e No. 47 of ancien , free
and accepte Masons

St. Louis German Roman catholic benev-.
olent society, act to incorporate

Liberty female academy ~p Clay county,
Missouri, act to incorp rate

St. Louis commercial insurz¥'ice‘sompany,

139
139
140

‘tr

h

St. Louis marine railway and dock com-
pany, act to incorporate
city of Lexington, act amendatory of an
act entitled an act to inco orate the
city of Lexington; approv March 8,
1845 156, 147
Jones’ cogimercial college, act to incor-
pordte 148
chapel hill college, act to incorporate 150
act to amend an act entitled an act to in-
corporate chapel,hill college 151
Miami -academy, act to incorporate 151
152
154

144

mammoth mining company, act to incor-
- porate
St. Louis horticultural society, act to in-
corporate -
home mutual insurance company of St.
Louis, act to amend an act to 1ncorpo--
rate
Arcadia high school, act to incorpgrate
Athenieum society of the university of
Missouri, act to incorporate
Ohio and Mississippi railgpad. company,
act to authorize the city of St. Louis to
subscribe stock in ,
St. Charles reading association, act to in-
corporate _
town of Columbia, act authorizing the
trustees of the inhabitants of the town
of Columbia to license and tax owners
and managers of circuses halt‘ a mile
outside the limits of said town, as well
as within them, and for certain other
purposes .
mercy and truth benevolent society, act
4 to incorporate
Roman Catholic male and Yemale orphan
_ asylums of St. Louis, act to incorporate
- the managers of
town of St, Joseph, act supplementary to
an act to incor orate the town of ; ap-
proved Feb. 2 , 1845
Chouteau spring company of Bponville,
act to incorporate
Palmyra and Mississippi railroad com-
pan , act to incorporate
New adrid and Stoddard canal comp’y.,
acuo incorporate 174
town of Fulton in the county of Calla-
way, ac't to extend the corporate limits
-' of, and for other purposes 176
177

155
157

158

159
161

162
164

165

166
158
170

Norfth Grand river, act for improvement
0 ‘I
High. Point mining and manufacturing
company in Moniteau county, act to
incorporate " ' _ I84
Merrimack river toll bridge, act to autho-
. rize the erection of e. 187
female academy in the county of D_aviéss, _
act to establish , _ ' 188
city of Glasgow, ‘act extending the cor-
porate limits of _ ' ' ‘ 189
Belleville hydraulic company, act to'in-
oorporate, and for other purposes _ 190
Hannibal and $t. Jos h railroad, act to
appropriate money or the survey and

marking out the , 392

680

town of Lagrang -in Lewis county, act
to amend an ac entitled an actto in-

corporate the , . _ 193
Cotton Wood female academy in Lewis 193

county, act to incorporate
Platte county male and female institute, 195
rate 196

act to incorporate
Fairmount academy, act to incorpo
academy in the town of St. Ferdinand in
the coun of St. Louis, act to amend - '
an act to incorporate; approved March
13, 1845 ‘ 197
St. Louis wharf boat company, act to in-
corporate - .198
grand lodge of Odd Fellows, act to amend
the charter of «. ' 199
St. Louis mutual savings’ and life 1nsu- 199

rance society, act to incorporate
St. Charles, act respecting certain streets

in

St. Cliarles and St. Louis turnpike com-
pany, act to amend an act to incorpo-
rate; ap raved Feb. 12,1841

St. Louis rseiial turnpike company, act
amendatory of an act; approved Feb.
1, 1847 "

St. Louis commercial insurance compa-
ny, act to amend an act to inco crate 202

Hannibal and St. Joseph ratilroa opin-

an act su lemon 0 an ac to s
i)ncoyr,porate;gtp rovedul-zeb. 16, 1847 201

Fulton division 0. 37 Sons of Temper-
ance, act to incorporate

Washington fire company, act to -amend
the act to incorporate -

Farmington library association, act to in-«
corporate « 1

Prairie lodge No. 90 in the county of_
Cass, act to incorporate ‘ ’

Washington female seminary at the city
of Cape Girardeau county, act to incor-
porate

central tire company. of St. Louis, an act
amendatory to an act to incorporate; ap-
proved December 21, 1836

Commerce steam millcompany, act to in-
corporate -

“Erho1ung,’_’ act to incorporate the‘.p.sso-
ciation “Erholung” in the town of
Hermann, Gasconade county ~' 209

Ste. Genevieve academy trustees, act toa
incorporate 209

city of St. Louis, act to amend an act en-
titled an act supplementary to the. sev-
eral acts to incorporate; approved Jan.

202

202

203
an

204

205

206
207

_ 6. 1847 ‘= 211
Missouri and Mississippi railroad, act for
survey of '. 211

Prairie lod e t o. 90, free, accepted and
"' ancient aeons, act to incorporate

St. Louis and Birmingham iron mining
company; act to incorporate "'

Franklin medical and literary college, act

5212
213

to incorporate the trustees of 2,14
St. George market house company, act to
incorporate ‘ ’ - 215

boatmen’s sayings’ institution, act amend-
atory of an act to ‘inc0rporate'in the

Faun] '

20l__

204'

rnnnx.

Pact.
county of St. Louis; approved Feb. 16,
216

1847 ‘E , ,,
sectional tloatiiig dock company, act to
Incorporate " ‘- 217

Pacific railroad, act to incorporate ‘ 219

St. Louis educational society, act to incor-
porate ' 223

Caiondelet and St. Louis railroad, an act
amendatory of an act to incorporate 224

Charleston and Ohio City’ Plank road com-
pany, act to incorporate 225

city o St. Lpuis, act to amend an act en-
titled an act to reduce the law incorpo-
rating the city «of St. Louis, and the
several acts amendatory thereo& and to
amend the same

Glasgow, Roanoke, Huntsville. Blooming-
ton and Kirksville graded road company,
act to incorporate a

college in the State of Missodri. act to
charter a '

Gasconade grape growing society, ac;,.to
promote the growing of wine in Gaseo-
nade countly" '

Union and ort Williams mining and

smelting amociation, act to incorporate 242

229

232

941

town of Parkville, act to incorporate ' 244
town of Carrollton, in Carroll county, act

to incorporate 247
Stella iron works and mining company,

act to incorporate ., 253
Weuem Sun mutual insurance company, '

act to incorporate 256
White river navigation company, act to

incorporate _ 259
city of St. Charles, act to incorpdra 266
rural cemetery association of St. ouis,

act to incorporate 273

Missouri and White river railroad corn- ,
pany, act to incorporate _ . 279

Alexandria and St. Francisville railroad '

company, act to incorporate '

tiremen’e insurance company of St. Louis,
act to incorporate *

Columbia and Missouri river turnpike com-
pany, act to incorporate

New Madrid and Stoddard planlt.rqa.d com-
pany, act to incorporate 293

Union copper company, act to incorpor-

.I§ ate " ‘ 

city of Ste. Genevieve, act to incorporate 998

town of Weston, act to extend the corpo-

_rate limits of 306
J etferson City tire company, act to incor-
porate 33
Scott and Cape" Girardeau turnpike road
company, act to incorporate 3115
Charleston division Sons of Temperance,
act to incorporate ‘ 313
Glasgow female academy and Odd Fel.
lows’ hall, act incorporating 314
Independence and Missouri river railroad
‘company, act to incorporate 316
Sarcoxie academy, act to incorporate 3'2!
laclede tire comppny, act to incorporate 323

lake bridge company. act to incorporate 324
Saint Louis and Illinois wire suspension
bridgerompany, act to incorporate 338

iNDEx. 681

I

   
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
      

PAGE. . PAGE"
city of Independence, act to incorporate 329 Madison: and Wayne, boundaries defined 34
Boonslick turnpike road company, act to ' Barry, western boundary line defined 34
incorporate J,’ as 336 ‘County-se_at of Butler county, commission-
Hannibal, Paris and Huntiville graded ers to select _ _ 25
, road company, act to incorporate 340 do Dodge do do 28
A Machpeiah cemetery, act to incorporate 344 _ ,do Laclede do do 29
' German school of Hertnann,,Gasconade -' do Meilonald do do 31
county, act to incorporate 316 Counts-1
Missouri and White river railroad,‘act for “ref Butler county, time and place of ‘cold-
survey of ,3 ' 347 ' ing , ' 25, 27, 45
town of Louisiana,'¢et to amend and to of Dodge county, do do I do 27
reduce _into one the several acts incor- McDonald cotfmy, where to,be holden 31
porating the town of, and to organize‘ j Laclede do do do ' 28

the same into a city of ‘boundaries and
general powers ' _
boaycn’.-I mutual insurance company, act

justices’ courts, act amendatoryof an act
to define the Jurisdiction and regulate
‘proceedings of in cases of breaches of

348

to incorporate 361 . , the peace ' 46
town of '1‘-ully, act to empower the eorp'o- supreme court, concerning_.deeisions of 47
fation of to do certain acts ’ 368 supreme court, time and place of holding
Phcenigt insurance company, act to incor- for trial of causes originating in 8th,
porate - = '368 10th, 3rd and 4th ,judici1Il circuits,
St. Louis generaldnsurance company, act (except Montgomery county) 38
d to incorporate . ' 370 supreme court, act to prqiidc for a clerk
Missouri and Mississippi-railroad compa- of at St. Louis I- 38
jny, act to incorporate 373’ 12th judicial circuit, time of holding courts
_ Missouri State mutual fire andtnarine in- in changed‘ V -' 39
, surance company of St. Louis; act to 12th judicial circuit, time of holding courts
incorporate 377 .‘, in fixed -- 42
mutual fire and marine insurance company Clay county circuit court 5th udicial circuit,
of Lexington, act to incorporate . 234} when to be holden “ 39, 45
_,' act to authorize the formation of = corpora- Ray do dti do do 39
‘I _tions for manufacturing, mining or che- Caldwell do do do do 39
mica] purposes , "‘ ,_18 Carroll do , do do 1 do 39
Costs in criminal cases. appropriation for 12 DeKa_1b do. do do do 39'
Costs in civil cases, not concerning 24' Harrison ‘ do do* do do 39
_ Cotton Wood female academy, act to in_cor.- I Daviess do do do do 39
ptjrate ‘ c 193 Clinton - do do do- .do -39
County attorneys, act toamend an act con- ‘ Jackson do . 6th judicial circuit do 40
ceening ‘ 15 Van Buren do " do do do 40
County warrants, a'ct regulating the redemp- Bates “ do do do do 40
9 , tiou of . 37 Johnson‘ do do ,do do 40
County treasurers, certain duties in relation Pettis , do do do do 40
to county warrants * 37 Saline do do do do 40
Counties, representation of apportioned 14 Lafayette do do do ‘ do 40
senatorial districts _ 14 Benton do 7th judicial circuit do , 41
organization of Butler county, \ 25 Hickory‘, do ' ,do do , do 41
do of.,-Dodge county v _ ' 27 Laelede do -_- do do do 41
go“ o!‘ Laclede county 28 Dallgs do do do do 41
.« do of ‘McDonald county 30 Po ‘do do do - do 41
' d3 of do do repealed 32 Cedar ‘* do d9 do do 41
Jeferson and Ste. Genevieve,‘bountlary St. Clair do . do do do 41
lines altered , 3'? Henry do do do do 41
Van Buren county, name changed to Case 30 Chariton do llth judicial circuit do 41
Cass cotmty, its powers and duties ‘-" 30 Linn _ do do - do ‘ do . 41
McDonald attached to Newton for repre- Livingston do do do do 41
_. sentation ,_ "" 32 Grun y’ do do ‘do - ' do 41
Wa no and Reynolds, dividing lines Mercer 1' do do do _ do 41
clianged 35 Dodge do do _ do do 41
New Madrid, Stoddard mid Dunklin, act Putnam do do do — do 41
more particularly to define the poundr’s. 36 Sullivan do do’; do - do 4|
Ripley,boundary of defined 5 35 Platte do ggth Judicial circnit do 42
Taney, northern boundary of more partic- Buchanan do .. ‘do do do 42
ularly defined “' _ 36 Gentry do do do do 42
Mississippi,limith of defined 33 Nodaway do do do " "' do 42
Perry and Cdpe Girardeau, boundary line ‘ Atchison do  do do .do 42 '
between more partidlularly delined 33 Holt ' dd ‘do do do 49
Lincoln and Mpntgoma'y,5dividing line Andrew dd do . do do 49
altered - , - 34 Dads do 13th~judidial circuit do 42

47'

682

Innnx.

I

' Pact . PAGE.
Lawrence do l3th judicial circuit do .42 Crow, W’-ayman, member of rural cemetery
Jasper do do do do 42 association of St, Louis 277
Newton do do do . do -42 member of Pitcitic railrolxl company 219
McDonald do do do do 4;‘ brow, Henry ‘W., mcmt‘Cr of Farmington
Ban-y do do do do 42 library tlSSOCla;l0Il , 204
Tauey do do _ do do , 42 Crutcher Thomas, commissioner to open
Greene do do do do ' 42 books 341
Crawford do 14th judinial circuit (0 3 #43 Cude, James. act for relief of 563
Shannon do do do do 471 Culwrigbt, Samuel, commissioner to open
Ripley do do do i do 43 books , . 3 341
Reynolds 'do do do do 43 Cttmmzns, John, appointed road commis-
Pulaski do do ‘do do 43 sioner «~- 618
Wright do do do do 43 tnemberofPrt1irie lodge No. 90 21:3
Ozark do do do do 43 Cunutnghatn, T. W., commissioner to open
Texas do do do do 43 bnoko- 337
Colo county circuit courts, act to change Cunditf, Hannah, authorized to enter certain
the time of holding . .44 lands 516
Boone county circuit court of, when to be Cunnin_t1liam, Edward C.., act for relief of. 558
holdcn ' 44 Curtis, Noah, act for reu'iv.'fol' 4- 5.32
Macon county, act to change the time of qtlrfl, Willis, act for rclitrfof . 566

holding ‘(in the 2nd judicial circuit) 4-1
Butler county circuit court of, when to

be holden,,,part of an act, approved

Lulmtors of State university, their Jtnntber,
tenure of ollice and general duties _ 1 1%
shall (’8l.'tll_)llSl) a normal professorship, how 130

 

Feb. 327, 1847, Hirelation thereto rcpl’tl. 45 authorized to appropriate money collected
act to reform the pleadings and practice on subscription lists to certain objects 131
in courts of justieein Missouri 73 authorized to employ collector to collect -
supplernentary act respecting St. Louis balance of subscription fund, how l32
county court 309 of the minor heirs of Emanuel Best, an-
act to regulate changes of venue in critni- thorized to sell certain real estate of 505
mil cases in St. Louis county 44$ of tire minor heirs of Thompson Kenyan, _
act authorizing justices of county courts authorized to sell certain real estate _ 506

in counties wherein prolzareiconrts are I,‘ .

are established to act as executors, ad- ,. A D

ministrators.,,guardians and curators 447 t

act respecting St. Louis county court 447

act in relation to clerk Of the county court . Dude caunty authonzgd to boy-yo“; certain
of Morgan county 445 money, 575

act respecting CONN)’ C001‘! 0‘. J3°k9°“ sell art of 16th section, 635
county ' , 449 Dade, ee M., heirs of, tnsaet for the relief

act supplemental to an act respecting re- of, .. 55g
c01'dt'f'S Om“? 5L L”“l31‘°"m)'i 3i’PT°' Dagtrett, John D., a member of sectional '

Ved Jun. 5. 1547 449 ‘floating dock company, ' * 217
Cowgill. Jauicf. ""‘mb€1' Of Al‘~‘X““d"la “lid Dale, Thomas, a director of Mo. and Miss.

St. Franctsville railroad company 98.’) R_ R_ co_ . 374
Cox, Joshua, apvoilllvd Wall C0mmiS8l0"9l' 595 Dallas.-county, supplementary act to estab-
Cox, Pleasant M., to legalize the act of , lish probate court in, 409

crectinga mill-dam " 533 ta regulate elections in, 3‘ _ 
COX, Abel, act ll)!‘ relief Ol‘ , ‘ 537 pay of grand jur-0;-5 in, E r 
Craig, . trustee 30 l‘"‘3t!‘ C0llP£¢ 232 ' concerning State roads in, . 629
Cramer, Eda at-«l, hW=H'UC~r 01‘ U18 539009058 Datneral, Jutilk s, a commissioner book 5, 341

grape tr1'0W3";: 806101)? 94' Danch, Henry, a member of the western
Crawford, Robert W-. membt’-1' of White sun mutual insurance co. 256

Time? na\‘lL'd1i0|1C0|1lP%1l1}'. 00mm'\S'-l0n01' Danforth, J17, a member of Vlfhite river

to open lmt)’;.~' - 25‘ navigation company, 259
Crawfordcounty,prob:t:c cm1rtt«staDli,sltcd in 260 Danfm-th,_‘[0hn “:5 member of white river

do }‘»?'l_V of jurors. in " -177 navigation company, 259

do cuncr)i'nin_t_f state roads 6 58 member of Miss. and White river R R co. 280
(.‘rawl'ord, Will<+~r.~on, 1‘nil(l ronnnissioncr 62:2 c0mmi.<sioX:cr to open books, i 260
Crigler, L., commissioner to open books 337 Daugherty, John, com to (men books, 294
Crow, M. l.. (I , road t,-mnm':ssioncr (NH Darby, John F, member of rural cemetery
Craig, Antltx-\\‘. :- ppointt-:4‘ road commissioner‘ 598 association, 277

Crattdall. John .‘*.'-.., %1lll,ll0l"lZx‘vtl to build dam

Crooks. Matt-guret L., changed from Marga-
ret Ritlg;eway

Crow. H. ‘We, -rlivt-t for of i\li§*=')t1l'l and Mis-
I-'i.~‘.‘l§l§‘l l"Jlll'u‘.-l t'flItlil"lli_\' .

Croce, .lni.'., m--I £l.“'[' or :~‘r/stt and Cape Gi-
rardeau tttrltpike company

455
37l

30::

497 Darby, .’tndre\tg,J., appointed com of roads, 627

Daviess co. may invest funds in Grand riv-

er association, 1'77

a female academy established in, 1139
Davis, John, appointed road com. (‘(-3

1 Davis, Henry r do ~.. Eu)?
Davis, Jolm.L‘. an hot for the relief of, 567

mnnx. 683
Man. PAGE.
Davis, Joshua an act for the relief of 563 Wm Cates and Mary Ann Caies, former-
Davis, James and Wyrinda, his wife, di- ly Mary Ann Routh, 456
vorced, 463 Isaac Smith and Nancy Smith, late Nan-
Davis, P H, directoI’Mo &. Miss I-‘. R co, 374 cy Maxwell, 457
Davis, John B do 374 Thos Kemble and Caroline Kemble, for-
Davis, Arthur L, trustee chapel hill college 150 . merly Caroline Middleton, 457

Davis, N A, appointed road com’r, 597
Dawson, Allen M, trustee of Sarcoxie acad, 321
Dawson, Thos H, authorized to do certain

acts, 529
Day, Ambrose, appointed road com, 614
Deaf and dumb, act amendatory to provide

for instruction of, 48
Dearmon, Anson, act for relief of, 535
Deceased persons, act to preserve the real

estate of, ‘ 11
Decisions of supreme court, publishing, ap-

propriation for, 12

co ies to be furnished, 47
De alb co, act concerning circusses, &.c 386

authorized to borrow certain money, 571
Delisle claim, defence of, an act to provide

for, '5 134
Dent, Frederick, a member of Merimack

bridge co, 187
Depositions, law respecting of, altered, 48
Depositions and acknowledgments of deeds

in other States, 49
Des Moines river, appropriation for im-

provement of, '-’ 119
Detherage, Alfred, act for relief of, "' 522

Dickson, Wm, member of Prairie lodge No

90, 212
Dillon, Abram, act for relief of, 559
Dillon, Patrick M, superintendent to open

books for 202
Divorce and alimony, amendatory act con-

cerning, 49
Divorce, an act divorcing Benj Wilson and

Mary Wilson, .~ 451

Edward H Moore and Elvira Ann Moore 451

Wm Logan and Louisa, his wife, former-
ly Louisa Russell, "

Benj Abrams and Martha Abrams,

Hermann Van Gralman and Sarah Jane
Gralman,

Jos Warson and Nancy Ann Watson, for-
merly Nancy Ann Winkler, '
Charles Herremon, and Martha Frances

Herremon,
Hardin Hargis of Sullivan county and
Katherine, his wife, ‘
Thos J Doolin and Levina Doolin, for-
merly Levina Null,

John Logan and Jane Logan,

Robt Snedigar ahd Nancy II Snedigar,

Robert Roland and Ulrica Roland,

James Davis and Wyrinda Davis,

Wm C Fawkes and Mary Fawkes, for-
merly Mary Stephenson,

Bartly W Gorin and Mary E Gorin,

John Perkins and Susannah Perkins,

Ansel Green and Nancy Green, former-
l Nancy. Markland, -- 455

R0 ert Snell and Elizabeth Snell,

Thos Ridgeway and Margaret L. Ridge-
Way: I

451
4.51

452

-152

452

-153
453
453
45 l-

454
454
454
455

455

452 Dogett, Thomas, appointed road commis-
. r‘

455 '

Cynthiana Hawkins and Wm Hawkins, 457
Wm P ne and Elvira J. Payne-, former-

ly J ohnson, 457
Andrew Kuentler and Christine Koenfler 457

John Eckler and Sophia Lee Eckler, 458
John Harris and Elizabeth Harris, 458
Moses C Ferguson and Mary Jane Fer-
guson, formerly Mary McMahan, 458
John Pyle’ and Susan Pile, 459
Clayton Titiin and J ulia G Titiin, 459
Geo Long and Ann Long, 459
Davis W Reinhart and Nancy Reinhart, 459
Ben} B Bryan and Nancy Bryan, 460
James Clark and Lavina Clark, 460 ‘
Jackson Violett and Nancy Violett 460
William T. Page and Melisa Ann Teter 460
William H. Shelton and Susan Shelton 460
Geo. D. Ingram and Jane Ingram 461

Joseph B. Kelsick and Margaret Kelsick 461

Jonathan Armfield and Jemima Arhitield 461

Josiah Franklin and Nancy Franklin 461
Zephaniah Atterberry and Isabella Atter-
berr 462
John . Payton and Paulina Payton 462
* Thomas R. Odell and Sarah G. Odell, 462
Eugene Dupre and Louisa Ann Dupre,
late Louisa Ann Pa in 463

Francis A. Driller an Caroline Driller 463
Robert McCrory and Nancy McCrory,
463

formerl Nancy Alar
Loring . Reynolds and Julia Maria
Reynolds late Julia Maria Cleveland 463
Randolph igh“‘and Mary High 464
Presley E. Gordon and Margaret Jane
Gordon 464

Britton A. Hill and Mary Melinda Hill -164

Peyton R. Mayo and Sarah Mayo 464
Dobbins, Edward, trustee of Washington

female seminary 206
Dodge county, further organization of 2

part of, act respectin , repealed ‘.8

oundaries of, define 28

commissioners to select seat ofjustice for 28
sioner 600
Donnovan, Danl. H., member of iiremen’s
insurance company 287
Doni ban, A. W., trustee to locate college 232
Dona dson county, act to organize, repea d 32
Doolin, Thomas G. and Levina his wi e,
divorced 453
Dauey, Pendleton, authorized to convey

-‘ certain property to 166
Douglass, John M., appointed road com-
missioner 582
Douglass, Wm. C., member of Missouri
and White river railroad company 280
Dayel, Milome, authorized to convey cer-
tain propcrty 166

Dram shops and groceries, act amended,

regulating same 54

Richard F. Chaney and Sa“'r'al1 -E Chaney, 456 Draper, Zack, commissioner to open books 34]

I

684 1NDEx.

   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
 

PAGE PAGE.
Driller, Francis A,, and Ca;-oiine his wife, . act to authorize the establishment of a
divorced 463 second election precinct in cedar town-
Duncan, John, sen., commissioner to locate Ship in the COHMY 0f B00118 470
seat of justice in Laclede county 29 act to regulate, in the iounty of Putnam, 470
Dunklin county, boundaries more partic.1- appropriations for contingent expenses
larly described 36 of 12
supplementary act to establish probate Ele°t9T5: act amendatory 10 an act 10 pro-
couitin ~, 409 _ vide for 51
to repeal an act concerning probate court 449 Elliot, Newton G., member of Fayette
authorized to borrow money 580 _ lodge N 0. 47 139
Duncan, Edward P,’ appointed road com- Ell1s,William, trustee of cation wood acad-
missioner 619 _ emy , 193
Duncan, Robe;-t_ do do 582 Ellis, John, trustee to locate college 232
Dunnica, W. F., trustee of Glasgow female Elliot, Wm. G., trustee of St. Louis educa-
academv &c. 315 tion society ‘ 223
Dunscomb, W. E., member ot Jetierson fire Ellet, (_3bas., jr., member of Missouri and
company 307 Illinois wire suspension bridge com-
Dunn, John, superintendent to open books ' pan)’ _ _ 328
for ' 202 Ellis,_A_s:~, director of Missouri and Mis.
Dupour, Tlieophilus, trustee of Ste. Genc- . sissip _i railroad company 374
vieve academy 210 Ellis, Wil ram, act for re ief of J 565
Dupre, Eugene, and Louisa his wife, di- Ely, ‘Benjamin S., heirs of, act for relief of 565
vorced 463 English, Simeon, member ot"‘Scott and Cape
Durkee, chancey, trustee of cotton wood Girardeau turnpike road company 308
fecgale academy 193 Estell, John H., commissioner to open
Duvane Peter, a commissioner to open books 337
bOOi{S 337 Evidence, act concerning _ 50, 51
Dysan Joseph, do do 313 Ewing, Robt. A., authorizco to build a
member of lake bridge company " 325 , bnd e , 133
Ewipg, obertt C., trustee of Chapel Hill
E " collage 150
° Ewing, m. Y., do do 150
Ewing, Thompson, director of Missouri and
Early, Peter, and others, act for relief of 534 i_SSiSsippi railroad company 524
Easterly,  W” appointed road com- EXBCIJUODS, act C0ltC€!'l'tlD§ S€l'VlIlg Of 37
lnigsionef 54 to amend an act to regu ate _ 67
Easely, Wareham, trustee of chapel bill EX9¢l|t°1‘9 1" Bum}? ¢°‘"1t}f: their OWEFS 25
couege 150 Expenses, for contingent 0! Gen Assem-
Eaton, W. J ., member of bbatmen’s mutual My 12
insurance company - 361 do do governor 12
Eckler, John and oSophiah his wife, di- d0 d0 secretaryof State 12
vorced 458 do do auditor of public
Eddy, Jas. A., member of mutual tire and accounts 12
insurance company 378 " do do State treasurer 12
trustee of St. Louis educational society 223 do do attorney gen-
Edgar, J as. M. , acts of, as clerk, legalized 554 eral_ . 12
Educational society, act to incorporate 223 do do register of lands
Ehrolun association, act to incorporate 209 ' 7 ' 12, 13
Eitzen, has. E., member of Ehrolung as. do do- electioss , 12
sociation _‘ 209 do do militia 1?.
do do Gasconade 2 .
ra e rowin society 41
Ejec%meIiit,gact in Eelation to the action of 51 F‘
Eldridge, Nimrod, director of Missouri and
sand Mississippi railroad company 374 Fairmount academy, act to incorporate 156
Elections, act -to alter and change time oi‘ Farris, Douglass, commissioner to locate
opening and continuing oéien the polls the county seat of Dodge 28
o'elect'ion in the city ot t. Louis , 465 Farmington library association, act to in-
act to provide for election of county trea- corporate 204
surers in the counties of Clark,Andrew, Farmer, A. W., road commissioner 597
and Platte 465 Farmer, John, road commissioner 6:23
act to authorize special election in Jasper Fawkes, William C., and Mary his wife,
county 466 divorced _ 454

act to amend an act entitled “an act to . Fayette lodge No. 47, of ancient, free, and
regulate elections,” approved March accepted masons, act to incorporate 139
28, 1845} It 467 Fees, clerks of circuit courts for certain

act to change the manner of voting in the services - 52
city of Lexington and Lafayette county 467 county court clerks, tees for taking depo-

INDEIE.

PAGE.
sitions
of notaries public in California, Oregon,
and New Mexico _
Ferries, act to establish free ferries across
Aux Cuivre river, in Lincoln county
act to authorize Thomas M. Horine and
others to keep a ferry
act to authorize Isaac R. Campbell to
keep a ferry across the Des Moines
river at the town of Lancaster, iii the
county of Clark
act to authorize. Jeremiah Wayland to
keep a terry at"the town of St. Fran-

470
471

471

685

Pan {-1.

52 Gallimore, John, of Van Buren county,

trustee of Chapel Hill college .

72 Garth, D. C., superintendent of Glasgow,

Roanoke, Huntsville, Bloomiiigton,
and Kirksville graded r_oad company
Gascnnade grape growing society, act to
incorporate
Garahty, Eugene, director pf Missonri and
Mississi lpi railroad company
Garrison, J. ., member of State mutual
tire and marine insurance com any 373
Gaines, Preston, an act for relief 0 526
General Assembly, appropriation for pay of 12

230
241
374

150.

cisville, in the county of Clark 472 contingent expenses, pay of ,- 12
act concerning :33 members chosen, how ' 6
Ferris, Isaac, road commissioner 585 ratio of representation, how ascertained 6
Ferguson, Moses C., and Mary Jane his compensation of members 5
wife, d(i1vorced 461 may allow a greater compensation» to
Female aca em in the count of Daviess, residin officer of each house ' 5
act to estabylish y . 185% Gendial contingent fund, appropriation for -13
Filly, O. D., trustee edulpatiofnal societyd 223 General attorney, ap ropriation for con(in- 13
Finne Hamilton, mem er 0 rairie o e , ent e uses 0
I33. 937, of free masonfs ‘f P g  actgto amgiied an act concerninhg d 15
Pin] S. . act for re ie 0 Ge er Hear 8. trustee of St. uis e uca-
Finch, W. J member western sun mutual ytional soyciefy ' 223
insurance company Gentry, Reuben, member of mutual tire and
Floating tiglttk company, act to incorporates‘ 2% marine insurahce company of Lexing- 234
Fletcher ias, subscriber to Palm ra an 1 ton
Mis’s. railroad company Y German school, of Hermann, Gasconade _
Firemen’s insurance company, act to incor- county, act to incorporate 346
orate 287 George, David 0., mem er of White river
Fish er, Francis, member St. George mar- navigation company . ‘ _ . 959
ket house company I f f £15 Gentry county, act to rel'i;‘nd certain money 400
Fleetwood, Isaac act lor the re ie o 061 to the tori-itor r attac ed to »
Flournoy,John GT, ailiriiiiistrator authorized act concerning c)ircuscs and other public _
to sell certain lands 523 exhibitions in ' 33‘)
Fox, 8. S., superintendent of the Glasgow, pay ofpetit jurors in . 470
Roanoke, Huntsville, Blooinington, Gilstrap, Lewis, superintendent of Glas.
auclNKirksville grapled rozlid compfany‘ 230 gow, Roanoke, Hiiiitsi'ill|e, Blo§ming-
Foster . B. triisteeo the G asgow ema e ton, and Kirksville grai ei roa com-
ac,ademy’and odd fellows’ hall 315 pany _ 230
Fox, James C.,commissioner to open books 337 Gillespie, David, member of mutual fire
Forbes,J. T., authorized to continue a dam 495 and marine insurance company of Lex-
Forbes, John W., do do 495 ington _ _, 234
Franklin medical and literary col1ege,act to Gillett, G. S.. director of Missouri and _
incorporate trustees of 214 Mississippi railroad company _ 344
Franklin, Joseph F., member of western 206 Gibsprn, liancy, name changed from Nancy 4“
sun mutua insurance com an ran lin "~
Franklin county, act .concerni)ng ycirciises Girdner, Wu}. H., collector of Mercer
and other public exhibitions 386 county, act for relief of _ 519
Franklin, gosiah, and Nancy his wife, el'i- 461 Gideop, James H., and otliers,:ict for relief 527
vorce o
Franklin county, ay of iiirors in 492 Qilliam, Joshua do do 593
Fry, A. 0., mem er of Union and Port Gibson, John B., and Jane Jones, act tp
William mining and smelting associa- legalize the record of marriage of 548
tion 242 Girdner, Wm. J., act for I'ellCl‘.Ol' - 569
Fulton division No. 37, sons oftemperance, Gilmore, Sainl. M., act for relief of secu-
act to incor orate 203 rities of 559
I:‘ulton,town o , act_.to extend corporate Glasgow, city of, act extending the cor-
limits of, and for other purposes 176 pomte limits; of _ 180
Fulkerson, R. B., coinmis_»ioner to open Glasgow, Ri):iliri}{n, lluntsvillr~, Blooming-
books v ' 337 ton, and Kirksville graded road com- “Q
an _, act to incorporate LL
G Glasgoviyfemale academy and odd fellows’
' hall, act to incorporate 314
' Glascock Henry, road commissioner 623
Gaty, Samuel, member of St. Louis marine Glover, Samuel T.. trustee to locate collei."-‘ 3-32

railway and dock company

_145 Glenn, Hugh G. Glenn, member of Mis-

686

_ ' PAGE.
sour: and White river railroad com-
pany . 279

act for relief of 544

Glenn, George, road commissioner
Government, appropriations for expenses of 12
Governor’s house, act_ appropriating money
to furnish the same, and for other. pur-
poses .
appropriation for certain repairs on
Goveran Ettienne,-trustee ofSte. Genevieve
aca emy
Got-man, Patrick, trustee of St. Louis edu-
cational society
member of .tiremen’s insurance company
of St. Louis ~
Goode, William, commissioner to open
books .
Gorin, Bartley W., and Mary E., his wife,
divorced
Gordon, Presley E., and Margaret J. his
wit'e,~divorced
Governor, ap ropriation for contingent ex-
penses o
authorized, either in person or by agent,
to purchase furniture for residence,

53
54

210
223
287
313
454
464

12

money appropriated for 53
ap ropriation made for repairs done on
iiouse and lot 54
authorized to contract for and superin-
tend the erection pf certain buildings,
mohey apipi-o riatcd for 54
authorized o di. iose ofthe lands granted -
to this State by an act of Congress,
‘which have not been selected, how 64
lus duties in cononection with agents ap-
pointee on tne part of the btate tor
selling State tobacco warehouse 125
autllilorilzeil ‘to employ counsel to defend
t e )e is e claim 134
au_thori7.ed to receive certain funds ' 
to perform certain duties 675

Grand river associatitni, act incorporating 14 a

Graded road company, act to incorporate 229

Grand lotlge and odd fellows, act to atnend
the charter ot

Gray, Thomas. member of the Roman

catholic male and female orphan asy-
lum of St. Louis ‘

Graham, Hiram. member of prairie lodge
No. 90, of tree, accepted, ancient
masons

Gray, lilijatli, member of \Vhite river navi-
gation company

Graves, Sodathan, director of Missouri and
Illississippi railroad company

Graham, Matti:-‘on, permitted to keep
repair a mill dam

Gray, James M., act for relief of

Green, James S... appointed a commissioner
on part of the State in relation to im-
provement of Des Moines river

Green, Elisha, member of Platte river
naviggation company

Greenleaf. E. F,, tnetnber of Alexandria

212
259

374
in

497

544

and St. Franc-i.<rille railroad company 285

(370911 cmmtt‘,amendatorv of an act esta-
lnli-liin: a probate court in

119

239 Hatchet, '1‘. 12.,

4-15
Green, Ansel, and Nancy his wife, divorced 45:’)

INDEX.

PAGE.

court of 587

Green county
d dram shops, act amended,

Groceries an

regulating keepers o 54
6:23 ‘Grocers and merchants, act to regulate the
license and taxes upon 68
Grolman, Herman Van, and Sarah Jane his
wife, divorced 452
Grundy county may invest funds in Grand
river association 177
Guardians, act to repeal a certain act in
relation to guardians of minors and
idiots and lunatics 55
act respecting, amended 55
Guclbretli, Auguste, member of Laclcde tire
company 323
Guibourd, Eugene, trustee of Ste. Genevieve
academy 910
tluyen, Robt , commissioner to open books 341
H.
llartlin, Hargis, and Catherine his wife, di-
vorced 455!
Httwlciits, William, and Cynthiatm his wile,
:li\ ()l‘tT(‘(l 457
Harris, John, and Elizabeth his wife, di-
vorct-n‘ 458
Hannibal, city of, act to amend an act.
entitled an act to incorporate 137
Harrison county circuit court, when to be
liolrlen 39
Hannibal and St. Joseph railroad, act to ap-
propriate money for the survey 6f 19?

act supplemental to the 8t'.l. incorporating 201
Hamiuon, Sumurl lt., member ofmammoth
mining company
liarcn. Edward, llH‘l|lbC1" of St. Louis horti-
tttiltural B()(‘l(‘t\'
Harris, Zachariah J., member of Arcadia
lll-_1ll school
Ilatclu-.r,Tliomas l7.., dirt-rtor in Palmyra
and Miszeissippi railroarl company
l‘1tlrpet’.llcI.I‘_\,tl)t*tnLul"0l'Nc\\' Madrid and
Etorfda rd canal cotnptmy
Hastings, Jost-ph, commissioner to open
books of stab-<1 iptiou to Bcllcville lay.
tlraulic emnpnny
l‘1ii\\'l{ll]<, (§i~t~;tir3' F., trustee of cotton
wood ft-innlr: acutlciny in Lewis county
Harper, l3cnj.. do do
Handy, Nozili, trttstm-. of \\'asltin_g;toii female
seminary ofC:1pe (£i;':tt'dcatt
Harbiuson. John, C0l.llllllSSll'llt'l' to obtain
8tll)S(‘|'l;|l.lUll to cvnntneuce steam mill
(‘0mp.'1tiy 3206
Hamilton, Charles, member of prairie lodge
No, Otl, free, accepted mason
Hamilton, lltiglz, do (lo
Hall, Eiishn, trustee of St. Louis educa-
tional soriety ,
Harris, Tyre (3., trustee to locate a college 232
do do  "
Hannibal, Paris. and Huntsville graded
road company, act to incorporate

153
15-1
157
170
174

109

19??
193

90+‘.

'21:}
21:?

223

340

‘Hampton. George \“., lTl(‘ll1btl' of V ’l:ite

river navigation t'oinp.tny -2:3,!
commissioner to open books

INDEX. 687
Pass. ' ° PAGE
Hay, Isabella, name changed from Isabella Hearing, Samuel, appointed road eom’r 614
Atterbcrry 462 Henderson, Allen, do- do 615
Harrison county, pay of grand and petit Hendricks, John, do do 627
jurors in 474 Hendrick, Littleberry, act for relief of 531
Harbin, Alfred 8., member of White river Hickox, Oliver M., commissioner to locate
navigation company ‘.259 S98! ofjustice of McDonald county 31
puny, act to incorporate 181 High Point mining and manufacturing com-
Hancock, John W., do do 25'.) pany, an act to incorporate 184
Harrison, James, member ot rural cemetery Hill, Samuel N., trustee of Vvashington
association of St. Louis 277 female semina.ry 01 Cape Girardeau 206
Hamilton, James, member of Missouri and Hickory county, act for reliefol‘ 510
VVhite river railroad company 279 Hiekum, Jacob, member of \Vhitc rivet‘
Hawkcn, Samuel, member of firemen’s in- navigation company 259
surance company of St. Louis 287 High, Randolph, and Mary his wife, di-
Harbinson, John, member of Scott and Cape vorced 464
Girartlcatfturnpike company 308 Hill, Samuel A., member of Scott and Cape
Hamilton, Wm”: (10 do 308 Girardeau turnpike company 308
Hatcber, Robert, do do 308 Hill, Britten A., and Mary Melinda his wife,
Handy, Noah, commissioner to open books 3l3 divorced 464
member oflttlte bridge company 325 Hill, Morgan, director of Missouri and Mis-
Hay. W. B , member of Independence and sissippi railroad company 374
Missouri river railroad company 316 Hickory county, probate court established in 400
Harbcs, Henry, member of St. Louis and authorized to loan money 579
Illinois wire suspension bridge ’ 39.8 Historicttb and philosophical society, act con-
Harper. Charles B., commissioner to open . corning 400
books 337 Home mutual insurance company, act of
Ilarbinson, John, director of Missouri and jncorporation, amended 155
Mississippi railroad company 374 Horticultural society of St. Louis, act incor-
Hancock, John W., act for relic; of 564 pmaling 1.34
Harrison,John B., authorized to receive and Hello, Anton, member of St Louis German
distribute certain money 537 Roman catholic society 13:)
1131519?» Samuel. a"t for relief of 5537 Houseman, J. D., member of St. Louis com-
Hayes, John appointed road commissioner 581 mcrcial insurance company ' 142
Hartman, Peter, do do 595 Hornsby, Brinkley, trustee of Chapel Hill
Harris, James, administrator, authorized to college 150
sell certain real estate 566 Hockaday, Isaac .\l' , member of Fulton di-
Hargus, Josiah VV., appointed road commis- vision _No. 37, sons of temperance 203
sioner 602 Hofiinan, Charles, me'mber qf Erholung as-
Harris, P. F‘., do do (527 sociation in town of [lermann - 209
Harrison county entitled to receive school Hockaday, George E. D., commissioner to
funds, when 629 sell real (.‘st,titc 512
Henly, Wm., commissioner to locate seat of Holmes, Ht-my, member of St. Louis ant}

_ ju.5lit't' of Butler county 25 Binninglmm iron mining cohlpauy 2l.‘i
Hensnn,W'ashingtou, commissioner to locate Hopkins, L. 13., do ' do '2l3
seat ofjustice of Laclcdc county 29 Horushy, lrinkley, member of Missouri and
Hereford, F. H., member of Independence \Vhitc river railroad company ' 279
lyceum 155 Humor, William H., eonnnissioner to open
Henry, Jesse, do do 135 books 994

Henrycouuty, pay of grand and pctitjurors Harrell. Wm. W.,‘ member of Scott and
in 491- Cape Girurdtrau turnpike company 3W
a.c'tconcrn-ning cireuses and other public Holmes, ilenr_\', member of St. Louis and
c.\'hibitions "'~ 356 llliuois wire suspension bridge com-
act to regulate elections in . 4'38 pany . 3'38
Herring, John 13., trustee of Miami acad- Hornet-, Col., commissioner to open books 341
emy 152 How, John, member of Phoenix insurance
Heisltell, ‘Nude ll., subscriber to Palmyra company 368
and MiS>i5Sippl railroad company 170 Holmes. John, director of Missouri and Mis-
Hearst. George, member of Union and Port sissipni railroad company 371
William mining and smelting associa- Hornsby, Brinkley, do do 374
tion 249 Hort, True, \V., member of Missouri State
Headrick. Jacob, act for relief of 534 mutual lire and marine insurance com-
Ileukle, Isaac, member of Scott and Cape pany 78
Girardean turnpike company . 308 Holt county, act to authorize the county
Herd, John, act for relief or * 510 court to levy a tax 399
Henderson, James S., commissioner to open . act concerning cireuses and other public
books 337 exhibitions in 381‘.
Hcrritnan. Clutrlcs, and Martha Francis his Howard county do do 38'?
wife, divorced « 452 Holt county, act to regulate elections in 468

688 INDEX.
' Pace. Pace.
llorine, Thomas M., authorized to keep a vorced 461
furry ' 471 Ingrabam, Martin, administrator,authorized
Holmes. Benjamin. act for relief of 535 to sell certain real estate 504
lloward, Avery R., to legalize the act of Inns and taverns, an act to repeal an act re-
erecting it mill dam 553 spccting' 56
Holt, Isabella, authorized to sell certain real an act amend-atory of an act regulating 56
estate 556 Insane, an act amcndatory of act to establish "
Holman, Hardy, and his securities, act for an asylum for 57
rclict" of 568 an act to ap’te. money for the asylum of 59
Hey, John D , administrator, act for relief pl‘ 561 an act to amentl the law respecting 60
Iiolt county authorized to borrow certain lnsurancc comp:tnies, commercial ol'Saint
money 57l Louis charter grained 141
do do do 575 commercial of St. Louis charter amended 202
concerning State roads in 585 home mutual tlfsl. Louis charter ’ do 155
llope, Thomas, appointed road commis- mutual savings and life insurunc * empa-
sioncr 602 ny of St. Louis charter (frame 199
Howard, R. Il., do - do 61:2 mutual fire and marine ofLexi_ngton char-
‘ flower, Stephen A., do do 621 tor granted - 234
Hughes, John T., trustee of Liberty female western sun mutual in St. Louis charter
asademy in Clay county 140 granted 5256
Hunt, James, metnber of mammoth mining liremens’ of St. Louis charter granted 287
company 153 boatmens’ mutual in St. Louis charter
Hunt, David A., do do 153 granted 351
Huglws. Angcla. authorized to convey t.'t‘.r- Ph-tenxi in St. Louis charter granted 368
min property 155 St.’ Louis general in St. Louis charter
Hunt, James, member of Mcrrimac bridge granted I 70
company 187 Mia-‘ouri State mutual fire and marnine of
Hunter, Abraltatn, commissioner to obtain St. Louis charter granted 377

subscription to commence steam mill

company 20?} J
Hudson, T. 3,, member of Pacific railroad Q19 '
Hunt, R. W., member of Carondelct and

St. Lmlis railroad company 2'34 Jack, \Villiam, member of Prairie Lodge
llubhlc, W. D., trustee to locate a college 232’ No. 90 212

litlabvs, Roland, do do :23‘) Jackson, W. .\‘I., trustee to locate college 232
Hull, Alphens, commissioner to open books 5259 Jackson county, to amend an act to rcgu-

llnstten, Robt. J., do _ do - 337 late clcctionsm 467
Hundhausen, Frcd., trustee of the t‘erman Jackson, Charles Edgar, name changed from
school of llermann 345 Charles Edgar Boon 500
Hughes, Jas. M. member of St. Louis gcne- Jacobs, Tllomas W., appointed road com.
ral insurance company 371 missioucr , 595
Hubert, Charles, member of Missouri and auth()1'izt‘.(l to build a dam 497
Mississippi railrqad com pany 374 J amps, Robert, trustee to locate 232
Ilunter, Abraham, do. do 374 James, Barton A., member of Wltite river
Hughes, Young L., authorized to build a navigatloll company 259
W“ ‘lam 498 January Jas. H., member of Prairie Lodge
Hubbard, Joseph, name changed from Jo- No, 90 212
seplt Hamilton t 500 Jarrott Vital, member of St. Louis and Illi-.
Hubbard, D. 0., act for relief of 521 nois wire suspension bridge company 323
lludspeth. A- D. do do 531 Iasper county, to authorize a special elec-
llugltcs, Young, L., do do 539 1,10,, _,, 466
Hughes, Absalom, do ‘do 561 Jefferson county, boundary changed 32
Hnbt-.1-, Charles, appointed road connnis- pay of'jut'0r8 in 477
930110!’ G90, Jellcrson, Robert R., authorized to build a
llttmes, Dttvitl, do do 621 bridge 133
Hyde, Sznnui-l T., member of Phoenix insur- JetTersnn City fire company, an act to incor- ,
:lllCC company 368 pm-ate 306

Jed‘:-ies, A. \V., member of Union and Port

I . William txtittiligttaitl snn lting ctnnpany 249 -

do do do do do do do 560
do do do dz. do do 1'0 571
lHdvp(‘ntlt?nCe lycentn, an act to incorporate 135 Jtanries, L‘. 3., lIlL‘tllbt‘l' 01‘ L‘nLz.n and Port
lnticpt-ndenct‘ and _‘tll!~SUllI‘l river rail road \Vi‘.h:ntt mining and smelting Cmnpuny ‘.3-19.
cotnpztny, an act to ineo:‘;.-nrate 3lli _leli'rie.-, C. 3., an act for the relief of 53 '
lI1dt‘pt-mtctn-e city or", an act to incutporrtte 339 .lelk_i‘l, lloss, member of Furntingt in l;br:t-

lnge, J;t:ne~' N , lll8llll!L‘l' of linion and Putt ry a~<:.ct.iti0n 1304
V» i.'2E.iii. tninint_{ and stnellin; company Ell‘? Jcxwil, \\l'lll., trustee to locate college 23‘! '
ll‘-;\‘dhiH‘-1. (im. 1)., and June his wile, di- do do commissioner to open books 337

4

INDEX.

. PAGE’.
Jewell, Wm., commis’nr. to locate road
Joggaro, Clement, member of White river
navigation company ‘.259
Johnson, John, commissioner to open books 185
do do an act for the relief of 527
do do appointed road commissioner 599
Johnson, Benjamin jr., member of Merimack
bridge compaii
Johnson, James I’{Y., trustee of Franklin
medical and literary college 215
Johnson, Andrew, member of White river
navigation company 5239
Johnson, David, commissioner to open books 260
do do member of Missouri and
White riser rail road company 280
Johnson, Wm., commissioner to locatearoud 994

187

John, Jesse, an act for the relief of 525
Johnson, '1 bomas, appointed road commis-
sioner 595
Johnson county, concerning State roads 624
Johnson, Waldo P., member of Missouri and
\Vhite river rail road company 280
Jones’ commercial college, an act to incor-
porate 148
Jones, Jonathan, principal of Jones’ com-
merciai college 148
Jones, Pierce, commissioner to open books 294
Jones, Wm. (1., member of White river
navigation company “ 259
Jones Lewis, member of Missouri and VVhite
river rail road company 275
Jones, Lewis, member of lndbpenclcnce and
Missouri river rail road company 316
Jones, Elisha, director of Missouri and Mis-
sissippi rail road company 374
Jones, Isaac N., an act for the relief of 559

Jones, W. R., appointed roa'l commissioner 613
Journals, an act to provide for binding 15
Justices courts, an act to regulate in cases of

breach of peace 46
an act in relation to tre.~passes 47
an act to define thejurisdietion of 46

Juries and jurors, an act to provide for the
payment ofjurors in the co., of Sullivan 473

do do do Madison 474
do do do Harrison 474
do do do Gentry 475
do do do Putnam 475
do co do Stc.Gcnevieve 476
do do do Dallas 476
do do do N odaway 477
do do do Warren 478
do do do St. Louis 478
do do do Mercer 479
’ do do do Ray 482
. do do I do Carroll 482
do do do Chariton 482
do do do Shannon 482
do , do do Polk 482
do do do Caldwell 482
do do do Cass 48??
do do do Oregon 48:2
do do do Buchanan 489
d0 d0 do Texas 477
d ) do do Crawford 477
do do do J elfcrson 477
do do do Pulaski 477
do do do Camden 477

689

PAGE.

29l Juries and jurors, an act to provide for the

payment ofjuroisin the 'co..‘ of «Wright 477

do do do ~Lawu2n'ce 490
do do do Clark 490
do do do ,Henry 49-1
do do do Lincoln. 491
do do do Franklin 49?
do do do Macon 493
do do do Cass 493
do do do Cole 493
do do do Lewis 493
do do do Knox 493

an act to equalize the service of grand. 
rors in the county of Schuyler _, 485

an act conceming grand and petitjurors
in the county of Lafayegte 486

K. ,

Kaemp, Ferd, a member of Erlrplung asso-
' ciation, 209

Kayser, Henry, a member of the rural cem-
eter association, ' ‘ 277
Keedy, wis, an act for the relief of, 560

Keui, Henry, a commissioner to locate Mo
river and Columbia road, 291

Keithly, Absalom, an'act for the relief of, 599

Keith, Arkelsom, a pointed road com. 599
Kelly, John, an act ‘or the relief of, 525
Kelsoe, E. B. ,a member of Scott'and Cape
Girardeau road company, ‘ 308
Kellogg, J. W , a member of White river
, . navi ation co. 259
Kelley, ohn B, a member of White river
navigation co. 259
commissioner to o n books, 260
member of Mo 8; hite river R R co. 0 280
Keller, Charles, a member of Prairie lodge
No 90, . 212
Kelly, John, a com’r of Laclede county, I‘ '29
Kemble,”I‘hos. and Caroline, his wife, di-
vorced, v ‘ 457
Kennett, Ferdinand,a member of commer-
cial ins. com any, 142
Kendrick, Peter 'chard,authorized to con-
vey certain property, 166

Kennedy, Wm, member of Lake bridge co. 325

Kerr, Wm D, an act for the relief‘ of, 371
Keranter, Mathias, a member of Gasconade
grape growin "society, ' 241
Kercbeval, R W , a member of commer-
cial ins. co. ' 142
Kernan. B W, an act for the relief of, 531
Kibbv, Elizabeth, do 559
Killehrew,~Wm H, ' do _ 570
King, Henry, a member of St Louis and
Birmingham'minin co. 213
Kinsey, Thos, appointe road com. 500
Kincaid, James D, do _ 535
Kirkpatrick, F W, a member of the Union
copper company, _ 295,997
Kissell, Chas, a member of Ohio city and
Charleston road co. _ 225
Kitchen, Sol G, a member of New Madrid
and Stoddard canal co. 174
a commissioner to open books, 249
a commissioner to locate roads, 294

690

INDEX.
_ PAGE. . _ . pic;
Kline, Herman, a member of German ben- appropriations for copying, 12
evolent society, 139 appropriations for printing, 12 13

Klinge, Geo, if inem_per of Erholung asso-
ciation; ’ 209

Knight, Z '1‘, trustee of Cotton wood acad. 193

Knapp, John, a member ofLaclede tire co. 323

Kolkineyer, Christopher, an act for the re-
lief of,

Knot, Geo, a member to locate Mo river 3;
Columbia road,

Knox, Reuben, a member of mutual marine
and fire ins. co. 378

Knox county, probate court established in, 404

5'36

291

pay ofjurors in, 494
authorized to borrow money, 577
concerning State roads, b07

Koeniler, Andrew and Christine his'wife,
divorced, '

Kulayer, Peter, a member of German ben-
evolent society,-

Kuykendall, James, a member of Platte riv

457
139

navigation cp. 239
appointed road commissioner, 613
Kuykendall, James .l{i_ng, do do ‘ 618
L E

Laclede county. organized‘ 28
boundaries of, 28
com. to select seat of justice of, 29

attached to and constituted part of 7th ju-
dicial circuit, 40
to regulate elections in, 468
Laclede fire company, an act to incorporate 323
Lacy, Wm, a member St. Louis temp. soc. 138
Lafayette county, a probate court estab. in, 410

an act concerning circuses, &.c. 336
to ctfhnge the manner of voting in, 467
to regulate elections in, 468
concerningjurors in, 486
conderning State roads, 594 624 627

Lake bridge company, an act to incorporate 324
Lands, an act for the rgliefof persons who
have bought State lands which have
been rejected,
regulating fees of reg. and receivers of,
amendatory act to provide for selection
and sale oflands granted by congress,61 63
a quarter quarter sec. or forty acre lot, 63
a legal subdivision of any State lands, 62
to provide for pay of advertising State l’ds 62
to authoqize Gov to dispose of certain lands 64
Landlords and tenants, an act to amend an
act concerning, in St. Louis city, 65
Lands R, mem. of society of Mercy 6:, Truth 165
Lane, Hardage, authorized to execute cer-

60
61

tain deeds, , 518
Lane, Hardage jr. an act for the relief of, 517
Lasley, James, a com. to open books, 337
Latimore, Wm, appointed road com’r, 611

Lawter, Solomon David, changed from Sol-
omon David Louterwasser,

Lawrence county, for pay ofjurors in,

Laws and journals, an act to provide for the
sale of,

to pay for distribution of,

500
490

66

66 Long, Alton mem. of Union copp

Layton, Austin, 9. com’r to open books 260
Leeke, John, appointed road commissioner 626
Lee, David do do 613
Lee, James a commissioner to open books 313
Leopold, Julius a member of Gasconade
grape growing society,’ 24]
Leopold, Julius a trustee of German school 346
Lessel, Joseph a member of Gasconade

grape growing society ‘ 241
a trustee of German school 345
Lessieur, Godfrey a member of New Mad-
rid and Stoddard canal company 17.1
a commissioner to open books 294

Letcher, F 'I‘ a member of Fulton Div No 37 203
Levi, Solomon J, a member of society of
Merc and Truth, 164
Lewis, Jo n a trustee of Chapel hill college 150
Lewis, B W a superintendent of Glasgow,
Roanoke, Huntsville, Bloomiiigton 8.:

Kirkville graded road 230
Lewis, Charles a member of St. Louis wire
suspension bridge company 323
Lewis, Henry a trustee to open books 337
Lewis county, an act to pay judges and
clerks of elections in 386
concerning circuses, &c. in 386
. concerningjurprs in 494
concerning State roads in 607
Lewis, Edmund to authorize the removal of
administration of 548
Lexington city, amending an act to incor-
porate 1-17 156
Lexington tire co, do do 136

Liberty female academy, act to incorporate 140

Library, an act for the repair of 66
Lightburn, Alvan atrustee of Liberty fe-
male academy 140

Lightner, C We mem. of Firemens’ ins. co. 287
Li an, W C a trusten to locate college 232
Li lard, James an act for the benefit of 523
Linder, W F mem. ofSt L wire susp. bridge 328
Linville, Jemima, changed from Jemima

Armtield 461
Lincoln county, concerning boundary 3.;
to pay judges and clerks of elections in 386
to pay petit jurors in _ 491
concerning State roads in 613 588

LindelI,Jesse G, a settlement with author’d 549
Link, Alfred R appointed road coni’r 628
Lionberger, Isaac a trustee to locate college 232

Lisle, D J a member ofJeti‘. City tire co. 307
Livingston county, may invest funds in
Grand river association 177
authorized to borrow money 574
concerning State roads in 607
Logan, John a mem. of White R. nav. co. 259
Logan, VV B do do 259

Logan, Wm and Louisa, his wife, divorced 451

Logan, John and Jane his wife, divorced 453
Long, Geo and Ann his wife, divorced 459
Long, John authorized to continue a dam 495
Long, John F an act for the benefit cf 531
Long, Wm act to authorize the sale of the

real estate oftlie heirs of 556

er ca. 296 5297

prices fixed for printing and binding of, 110 Loudeig, Mathew mem. of White R Lav co. 239

INDEX. 691
PAGE. PAGE.
Love, Thos B an act for the benefit of 541 Mason, Lavina, changed from Lavina Clark 460
Love, Jarnes.member of Fulton div No 37 203 Masters,,.John, an act for the relief of 523
Lucas, James H mem. of Pacific R R co. 219 Mason, E. R, member of commercial in-
Lucas, Saml D mem oflnde endence R R co 316 Iurance company. 142
Lucas, James C member 0 St. Louis wire Mntlock, Isaac, an act for the relief of 551
suspension brid or company 328 Matlock, lsam, appointed road com’r. 603
Lucas, W P a direc or of Mo. and Miss. Mathews, James L... commissioner to locate
railroad company 374 Columbia and Missouri river turnpike
Lucas, B D authorized to sell certain lands 552 road company 291
Lusk, James auditor to draw his warrant in Maulsby, Hez D., com’r. to open books 9.94
favor of 55 Maurice, A., jr., do do do 260
Luster, Jatnes an act for the relief of 510 do i do member of White river
Lynch, Henry C a member of St. George navigation company ' 259
market house com any 2'5 Maulsby, H. P , member of New Madrid
Lynch, Geo W 0 do 215 and Stoddard canul,company 174
Maurice, Wm. H , member of St. Louis tem-
M pcrancc society 138
' Maupin, Thos. L., appointed road t.om’r. 617
Maytield, James, com’r. tc locate seat ofjus-
Macon county, pay of petitjurors in 493 ties for McDonald county 31
Macpelah cemetery, an act to incorporate 3-14 Mayo, Peyton R., and Sarah his wife di-
Madison county, pay of petitjurors in 474 vorced 464
do do an act con'ing cirtusscs &c. 386 McAllister, R. C., member of commercial
do do a probate court established in 436 insurance company I-I2
Maguire, J ., trustee of Fairmount academy 197 .\IcBride, James H.. com’r. to open books 259
Majog,  commissioner to open books ‘259 McCanc, John S., member of St. Louis ma-
Majors, Alex., mem. of Prairie la-dge No.90 212 rine railway and dock company , 145
Malian, James D., director of Palmyra rail McClanahan. James, member of Fulton di-
road company x 170 vision No. 37 203
Mallencrodt, E., member of horticultural» ;\'lCCl'8Cl(t‘n, Wm. D., member of Farming.
society 154 ton library association $204
Mammoth mining co., an act to incorporate 152 McClure, W. A , superintendent of Glas-
Manstield, linbt. 0., appointed road com’r. 582 gow road company 230
Marriage contracts, supplemental act con. .\lcCurdy, Fleming B., trustee of Sarcoxie
coming 67 academy ' 321
Married women, an act concerning 67 McConnell, M., membcr of St. Louis sus-
Marine railway and dock company, an act to pension bridge company 328
incorporate I-ll Met‘-ammell, John, com’r. to open books - 341

Martin, John, member of New Madrid and

Stoddard canal company 174
Martin, Wm. B., trustee of Cotton Wood
academy i93

Martin, J. B., trustee of Washing:ton scm’y 206
Martins, Claus, member of Gasconade grape
growing society
Mares, John, member of Scott and Cape Gir-
ardeau road company 308
Martin, Dr., do do do 308
Martin, John, commissioner to open books 313
Marcey, VVm., director of Missouri and Mis-
sissippi rail road company 374
Marion county, an act c'm’ing circnsses &c. 386
do do concerning State roads in 607
Martin, James, an act for the relief of 526
Markland, Nancy, changed from N. Green 455
Martin, John W., appointed commissioner 502
Martin, Jesse, oppointed road eom’r. 5!)!
Masonic college at Lexington to receive sub-
scription 159
Mason, Edwin R., member of St. George

241

market house company 216
Mason, Littleberry, member of Ohio river '

navigation company 259
do do com’r. to open books 260
do do member of Mississippi and

White river rail road cotngany 280

Massey, B. F.,'trustce of Sarcoxie acadmiy 32]
do do corn’r. to open books 259

McCrory, Robt. and Nancy his wife divorced 463
McGlella'nd, Abraham, an act for relief of 563
McDaniel, J. J., appointed road com’r. 600
McDonald county. an act to provide for va-
cancies in .- . 385
McDowell, Nelson, director of Missouri and
Mississippi rail road company 374
.V‘IeDowcll, It E., trustee to locate college 5232

McDowell, Jas., trustee of educa‘ul society 2123
McDonald county, otganized 31
do do, boundaries of 31
do do com‘r appointed to select
seat of justice of i . 31
McDonald cot, attached to Newton for rep. 3?
McEnnis. Francis A., authorized to convey
certain property 166
McElhane_v, W, J ., com’r. to open books 337
McFadden, J. W., com’r. to open books 337

McF‘adileu, Huston, appointed road com’r. 600

McFadden, James, do do do 605
McGuire, Jas. M., director of Missouri and
Mississippi rail road company 374
McGlothlin, A., member of White river
‘ navigation company 259
McGltee, Barton, appointed to supcrintend
certain elections 3!

Mctiose, Isane, superintendent to open books 20:2
McJilton, Jas. T.,memberoi' Laclcde tire co. 393
McKee William, member of St. Francisville '

rail road company 285

692 INDEX.
, PAGE. PAGE.
McKnown, member of Laclede tire company 3233 Meyer, A.. mom. of Pacific rail road C0. 219

McMahon, 1’. J., membcrof Charleston and
Ohio city road company ' 225
Mcilliuin, Nicholas, member of Mississippi
and White river rail road company.
Mclilahan, P. J ., com‘r. to open boolts
Mcillurrey, John, member 3f independence
rail road company
McNott, Carr, com’r. to open books
McPikc, J tunes, appointed road rom’r.
McPhatritlgc, Jas. H., trustee of Sarcoxie
academy
McPherson, Wm. M., mom. of rural ceme-
tery association
do do tip to locate college 232
do do Co of Carondelct
and St. Louis rail road company 224
licshcrry, C. T., member of marine railway

980
313

3 l 6
259
604
321

277

and dock company 146
McSwan, D. D-, member of Parrnington
library association 204

Medley, G. (3.. men). .leti'crson City lire co. 307
Meek, Nathan, authorized to erect mill dam 497

Meir, A., trustee of Ftiirmouut academy 197

Meline, F. M., mem. horticultural society 154
Memorials to Congress of the United States
on the subject of the central Pacitic

rail road 645
on the subjcctof a geological survey of the

State of Missouri 648
praying a grant of land for the construc-
tion of the Hannibal and St. Joseph

rail toad 650
concerning the swamp lands in south-cash

ern .\‘l0. and north-cu.~‘tt:rn Ark. 661, 652

, For the benefit of the poor 654
asking a donation of land for the improve-

ment of Current river 654
asking, a donation ofland for the improve-

ment of the Usage river 65.3
asking a donation oflands lortiie improve.

merit of VVhite river 6.57

resling school lands and for other purposes 658

in relation to the pre-cmption law 659
in favor of the Missouri and Mississippi
rail road company 660
in favor of ti grant of latfd to teamsters
who served in the lllcxican war 66]
askitiga pension for the soldiers in the
militia service in the war of f8l2 66'}

asking an extension of the south-westcm
boundary of .\lissouri anti an extipguislh
mentotthe Indian title tocertafn lands 663
on the .~L1lIjt‘.(',I of I\’cw .\l:ulrid lands 664
Menard, (‘_vpriau, trustee of bite. Genevieve
atwnlmny
.\It‘tikcti.~, A. H., member of St. Louis ant!
C'trondt'l<'t rail road company 224
Merci‘ and truth sm-ivt_vot‘act to incorporate 16:1
l\lr:rriumt:l< river toll lirirluo, :1Lllll0l'i'11C(l to
(‘met tin: ' .
.\it.-rtvi 5,

210

IR?’
U, lllt'lll. of lirltolun,;’ttssuclatlon i.’tl‘J
l\lrrt:li.nt.» and grocers an acltn regulate
ll<'ttt~c Hi.
Meredith, U..:n-lcs L., member of Jefferson
City lire company ' . 307
M“1'C8l'c.nmty, probate court established in 404
do do concerning jurors in 479

63

Meyers, John C., director of Miss0u_ri and

Mississippi rail road company 374
Mexican war. agent to settle claims of 512
Miami academy, an act to incorporate 151
Militia, an act to repeal an act concerning 69
Military fund, an act to distribute 69

Miller, Henry, member of New Madrid and
Stoddard canal company _ 174

Miller, A. L., mean. of Pacific rail road co. 219

Miller, Anthony, member of Gasconade

grape growing society 24!
Miller, Peter, do do do 241
Miller, Geo. W., appointed road com’.r. 612

do do mean. 0l'Jctl'ers0n city tire co. 307
an act for the relief of 536
Miller, Thos. S., com’r. to open books, &c. 341
Miller, Wm. B., mom. of boatmens ins. co. 361

Miller, Thomas, do do do .361
Miller, Henry, director Missouri and M18-
sissippi rail road company . 374
Miller, Benjamin, an act for the relief of 510
Miller, S. 15., do do do 521
Miller, Christopher do do do 544
Miller, Gideon P., appointed road com’r. 594

Milburn, William, appointed to dispose of
16th sec. in,St. Louis county
do do appointed to settle with

Jesse Lindell

"632

549

do _ do mem. of horticultural society 154
Militia Olliccrs, appropriation to pay 12
Mills and mill dams, an act concerning a

dam across Platte river 495

an act to amend an act in relation to a mill

dam in Livingston county 495
an act to authorize the erection of a mill

dam across Platte river 496
an act to authorize Geo. A. Smith to build

a mill dam across Big river in Jefferson

county 496
an act to authorize Nathan Meek to erect

a mill dam 497
an act to permit Madison Graham of J cf-

ferson countly to keep in repair a mill

darn across ig river 497
an act to authorize James M. Clark and

others to build a dam across the east

fork of the North Grand river 497

an act to authorize Young L. Hughes and
Alexander Bclltuap to erect a mill dam 498
Mississippi county, boundaries described 33
do do concerning circusses in 386
do do to provide for levceing the
Mississippi river
Missouri Mutual Fire ant‘. Marine Insu-
', rance Co., an act to incorpore,
Missouri &. Mississippi R. R. Co., an act
to incorporate,
Missouri &. White River R. R.,Co., an act
to incorporate.
Missouri & White River R. R. Co., an act
to survey,
Missouri 3.: Miss. R. R. Co., an amt to sur-
VGV
-Mitche'll, Moses 3., a member or Miss. 5.;
White River R. R. Co.,
Mitchell__ Martin,‘ a Director of Miss. 8:.
Mo. R. R. Co.,

390
377
373
279
347
211
280
37-1

INDEX.

Pace.
Mitchell Wm. C. , appointed road Commis-
sioner, 586
Mitchell Robert, appointed road Commis-
stoner,
Modie John W., a member of the Inde-
pendence Lyceum,

Modie G. W., a member of the Indepen-

520
135

dence Lyceum, 136
Motlit W. A., a comm’r to 0 books, 341
Moller C. , a member of “ Er olung” asso-

ciation, 209

Moller Christopher, a member of Gaseou-
ade grape growing society,
Mongéeau county, a probate court establish-
rn .
Montgom’ery county, an act concerning cir-

241
431

cuses in, 386
concerning State roads, 588

, do do do 607
authorized to loan certain funds, 635
Monroe county, conclerning State roads, 

o

Mbntgomery Joseph, an act for the relief
0 o

, 510
Moore Albert, a trustee of Chapel Hill
College, 150
Mcpre James, a Comm’r to open books, 259
Moore Joshup, amembor of Lake Bridge
. Company, 325
Moore Edward .H. & Elvira, his wife, di-

vorced, 451
Moore Eli an act for the relief of, 529
Moore Rohert, appointed road comm’r, 612
Morin Jesse, an act for the relief of, 526

Morris Thomas, authorized to sell certain
real ‘estate,
Mor county, relating to Judge of Pro-
te in
Monow Jds. W., a member of the Boat-
man’s Ins. Co., ,
Morton Joseph 1., a Commis_sioner to open
books,
Morehead G., Superintendent of Glasgow
Morrliqs Jtgtan C., a mem. of Prairie Lodge
0.
Mar J. 5., a Comm’r to 0 en books,
Mo on Wm. A., a Trustee 0 Liberty Fe-
male Academy,
Morris James P., a member of St. Louis
Temperance Society,
Mullggplliy Bryan, a manager of Orphan
y um
Mnllpaylwidifred, a manager of Orphan
um
Mullins Mosles, a member of Mississippi 8:
White River R. R. Co.,
Mulsby H. P., a member of Scott &._Cape
Girardeau Road Co.,
Munday Harrison, appointed Road Com’r,
Murphy Wm. D., appointed Road Com’r, 615
Murphy Neal a Superintendent of Glas-
gow Road, Company, 230
165

Murphy ilouph, a manager of the Orphan
um
. a member of Port William
& Union Mining Company, 242
70

Music ohn
Musical instruments, an act to preserve the
State,

507
448
361
259
230

212
185

144
138
165
166
279
308

604*

693

PAGE.
Mutual Fire and Marine Insurance Com-

pan , an act to incorporate,

Myers egerick. authorized to build toll
bridge , -

Myers John 'M., a member of the Society
of Mercy and Truth,

Myers John C., a member of Scott 8: Cape

234
133
164

Girardeau Road Company, 308
N.
Nailor: Fountain, member of Prairie Lodge
No. 90 free masons 33153

32
498
499

Name of Van Buren changed to Cass county

Name of John Parmetcr changed to John
Roberts

Name of James McAfee Door changed to
James McA fee Williams

Name of Sarah Anne Door changed to Sarah
Anne Williams

Name of Cynthia Door changed to Cynthia
Williams

Name of Richard Door changed to Richard
Williams ~

Name of Wm. McGowan Patton changed to
Wm. Hugh Patton 499

Name of Charles Edgar Boon changed -to
Charles Edgar Jackson 500

Name of Solomon . David Lautcrwasser
changed to So1omon,Duvid Lauter 500

Name of Saralf M_t_1yo ‘changed to Sarah

499
499
499

Sims 500
Namezof Jos. Hamilton changed to‘Joseph
Hubbard 500

Name of town of Westport ch’cd to Lincoln

Name of town of Chilliticaux changed to
Butler

Name elf town of Middleton changed to Wa-
ver

Nash, G.y P., act to legalize act of erecting
mill dam ' 1

Nash, John, road commissioner

N asse, August, trustee German school Her-
mann

Nasse, member of the association “Erha-
lung” Hermann _

Neaves, Thonyas B., member White river

637
641
643

553
597

navi non company, 255‘
Nelson, . 8., member Carondclet and St.

Louis rail road company ‘J?-4
Nelson, Thomas, road commissioner 02.1

Nelson, Jas., trustee female seminary Lewis

county W3

Nesbit, Hiram an act t'or,the relief of 5.33
Nevins, Isaac, acnfor benefit of .303
Newton county, McDonald attached to for A
representation - - .52
New Madrid county, act to define boundary
lines bctw'éen New. Madrid, Stoddard
and Denklin , 36
N cw Madrid and Stoddard canal company,
acrto incorporate 174
New Madrid and Stoddard plank road com-
‘ pany, incorporated . 293

New Madrid county, an ac_ to amend an
act to preserve records o land titles in 385
New Madrid county, act to provide for levy-
ing Mississippi river in $0

694

Prion.

New Madrid county, act to legalize act of
county court of 549

Ncwmaii, A. R., member lake bridge com-
a 325
445

pilliy - ’
Newton county, an act to proridp for vacan-
385
624

CICS ll]
Newton county, act establishing probate
court in amended ‘
Newbill, N. A., road commissioner
Nicholas, James, superintendent Glasgow
Roanoke, &,c, graded road company 230
Nichi-na-bot-na riu-r, an act to repeal an
act dec’ing same a navigable stream Sec. 121
Nichols, Wm. authorized to sell real estate
as guardian, &.c. 514
Niemyer, Henry, metnbbr of St. Louis Ger-
man roman catholic benevolent society 139
Nodaway connty, act conceringjurors in 477
North Grand river, act for improvement of 177
North, William, member of Union and Port
Wiliiutn mining and smelting associa-
tion 949
Nordyke, Basil S., authorized to build a dam '49?

Notaries nblic an act to )I'0\'l(lc! for the a -
I P , . I I I ‘
pointtncntofin the territories of Oregon

New Me.\'icn and California 71
an act to explain law respecting "
Noticesjurlicial, an act respecting publica-
tion of 70
1_ . 0. t
O’Bi-ien, tlordan, trustee to locate college 232

Odd Fellows, charter of grand lodge amen-
ded ‘ i ‘ 199

Odell, Thos. R., and Sarah his uife divorced 462
U’F'aJlon, John, member St. Louis general

insurance company 371
O s - o -g
member oi Missouri ::t‘ate mutual Iireand
marine insurance company 378

U'Fall0n, licnj_, ut;t.,l'ui' liizlrtllll. Of heirs of 525
O’Fallon, J., Hiicc.-tor of Pacilic rail road co. 3319

‘do «lo member St. Louis and Illinois
wire suspension brid‘-_;c company 328
0’Flahei-ty, 'l'i1o::-., 1llt:llll)Pl‘ St. Louis marine
railway and dock company 145
manager orpnan asylum St. Louis 165
O’Flavcity, 'l‘ho«:., member bolltniums inu-
tual insurance coinpuny 361
(lldham, O. 11., an act for the hcziclit of 528
Uliver, Jatncs-, uiemocr Whit: river naviga- '
tion company 259
0‘Meall_s,-, l}i‘ni.1ria, authorized to convey
property to orphan asylum St. Louis I66
Orear, N. C., cetn’r. to opep books, Sic. 337
Uregon county authorized to borrow money 574
do , do do do do 577
do do pay of grand_jurois in 48.’
do do duties 01' court of concerning
State mad - 535
(Jrgariization of Butler county 125
do do Laclecle do :38
do do l)0dg') do 227
do do McDonald connty ' 30

(lrpltat'..s llllifle, an dc-, to um‘d the act rcap'ing I34
(Mtge cnuntyun act rcpc;1Ii1lg the acts estab-
lishi..;.-, probate court in

416,

INDEX.

Pact.
Osage county court of required to divide

certain school township in 631
Oslin, Martin, road commissioner 582
Overton, Charles T., member of Charlest on

and Ohio city plank road company 225
Ovcrton, James M., do do 2:25
Overall, ‘Wilson W., com’r to open books 337
Owens, Reuben, member of New Madrid

and Stoddard canal company 174
Owaly, A. D., trustee of female seminary in

Lewis county 193
Owsly, John H , do do 194
Ozark county, probate court established in 435

do do act to regulate elections in 468
do do authorized to borrow money 579

P.

Pacific railroad, right of way for ‘granted

through Missouri 116
act to incorporate _ 219
Page, Daniel D., member of Missouri State
mutual fire and marine insurance com-
pany 373
Page, Wm. T. and Melria Ann, his wife,
divorced ' 457
Palmyra and Mississippi railroad company,
act to incorporate . 170
Parsons, Daniel R., trustee of. Miami acade-
my 159
Parkville, town of, act to incorporate 244
Parker, John, metnbet' of the Missouri and -
White river railroad company 297
name, commissioner to locate road 29!
Parsons, M. M., member of Jetferson City
tire company 307
Parker, J ohn, member of Independence and
. Missouri river railroad company 3-16
Parker, William, road commissioner 634
Parsons, G. A., act for relief of 534
Partners, act respueting surviving partners l0
Partition, act concerning 509
Patton, Wm. Mctinwan, name changed 499
Payton. Paulina, act to divorce 462
Payne, William and Elvira, his wife, act to
divorce ' 457
Payne, ilatthew, member White river nav-
igation company 9.59
Paxton, William, act for relief of 510
Peakc, Elizalinth C., act for reiief of 517
Peake, -‘fatnucl ll., act for relief of 5]?
Pearson, Hiram 11., director of Missouri
and hlississipgii railroad company 374
Pcdlars, act concerning clock pedlars and
dealers P 18
Peels, Valentine C., director of Missouri and
Mi.~_<issippi railroad company 374
Pcmbcrlnn, ‘Sarah ii, 456
PCllltellllfil‘}', act to provide for the moral
and religions instruction of convicts in 16
c'napl'..3n ul to perform certain duties )6
Pci'::~.;nn~nt scat of government, commissioner,
of to pcrlurrn certain dutiesin relation
to (‘2.,r.'crn0|r’S ltotwc 53, 54
l‘c-icons, lliratn L., member of Charleston
and tlhio city plank road company 225

Perry, J.-'~.'rr., ;su,~cin.tendcnt of Glasgow,

INDEX. 695

PAGE. PAGE.
Roanoke, &c., graded road company 280 Pool, James S., member of St. Louis tem-
Perkins, David, trustee to locate college ‘.235? peroncc company ‘ ' 137
Perry. John D , continissioner to open books 337 Porterlield, 'I|.‘S.. act for relief of 533
Perkins, Susannah, act to divorce 454 Porter, Daniel, director ol Missouri and
Pettis county, act concerning circuses, &.c., Mississippi railroad company 374
in 386' Post, Professor, trustee of St. Louis educa-
duties of county court of concerning State tioual‘society .. 2:23
road 69-1, 586 Powers, Michael, member of Laclede tire
duties of county court of concerning State company 3?3
road 525, 624‘ Practice in -couits of justice, act to reform
Pettis County, actconcerning trespasses in 395 the pleadings and practice in courts of
Petit, George, road commissioner 59.’) justice in Missouri - - , 73
Peyton, R. L. W., member of Prairie lodge of the form of civil actions « 73
No. 90 of Free Masons 212 of the time of commencing civil(actions 74
Pharis, John, member of White river navi. of the parties to civil itctions‘ . 75
gation company 259 in what counties suits'may be brought . 76
Phat-is,Samuel M., member of VVhite river of the manner of commencing civil ac-
havigation company - 259 tions ' " 77
Pharls, Samuel, member of Missouri and ‘of pleadings in civil actions , ' , 79
Wh'te rive-r railrozid company 280 general rules of pleading 81
Phelps, John 5., member White river navi- claim and delivery of personal property 82
’ga‘tion company 259 in'unctions - - ‘ . ' ‘ 84
Phoenix irlsurance company, act to incorpo- Ot er provisional remedies - 86
* rate " - 368 mistakes in pleading and amendments,and
PhelEs,;l‘rueinan, member of St. Louis and new trial _ ‘~ - , 87
irmingliain iron mining company 213 judgment upon failure to answer , 88
Philbért, Joseph, member of White river issues and the mode of trial - l‘ 38
navigation company 259 trial by jury . 89
Pllmllsi Richard, member of Scott and Cape trial by the court ‘ . 90
. Girnrdeau“'turn, ike company 308 trial by referees «. " ' 91
Pl1mP9i Shaply 1’ , mcmoer of Scott and judgment and -manner of entering it 91
_ Cape Girardeau turnpike company 308 the execution " 92
Philips, Jeremiah and Oliver P., act for re- ‘appeals in civil actions 0 P 93
‘ ief of 528 submitting a controversy without action 95
Pickering, L., in:-usher of St.‘Louis general proceedings hgainstjoint debtors and against
insurance company . 37_l ' heirs, dcvisees, legatees and tenants bold-
Pickering, L., member of St. Louis commer- "‘ ing under a judgment debtor 95
 cial insurttncd oompan ' 149. _. confession ofjndgment without action 96
Pickering L , member of .5 ,_. Louis and Illi- - " offer of defendant to compromise the-
nois wire suspension bridge company ' 3,98 , whole or part of the action ’ 96
Pike count_v,:ict to estahlislt prabate conrtin 425 ' admission, inspection and production of
actconcerning cirettses, &c., in 386 _ witnesses, and examination of parties 97
duties of county court in relation to State examination of witnesses ' r 99
road 607 motions and orders 1 I00
Pile, Susan, act to divorce ' 4.39 entitling affidavits , 101
Platte county, act to incorporate male and ' ' computation of time ' 101
female institute in i 195 notice and tiling of_ service papers "'.. 101
Platte l'i\'t:r navigation company, act to in- . general and miscellaneous provisions °" ‘I02
corporate , ° 238 examples of petitions and answbrs, repli-
Platt3 county, act crncerning 389 cations and deinurrcrs, Which may be
act to establish probate court in 4:26 '7' used when applicable, and where not
act concerning circuses. c.§'c., in 385 strictly applicable ttnalagous ones may .-
act to provide for elerting treasurer in 465 ' be used in analagus cases‘ 104
act concerning duties of county court of when this act sh.-ill take effect _ , ‘I09
in relatioii to State road ' 6|8, 620 Pratte, E. ., director of .\‘lissout'i and Mis- _
act concerning duties of county court of sissippt railroad cbmpauy 374
in relation to State read 597, 584 Pratte,'Bq:.nard, member of Pacific railroad
Plump, Erich, member of Jefferson city company , s 219
fire company ' 307 Presid t and Vice P_resident cf the United
Pollard, Henry 'l‘., road commissioner 614 Sta es, act concerning electors of 51
Pollard, VV. M., member of White river . Prewitt, R. _P., tnenilier or Fayette lodge
navigation company 259 No. 47 - " ‘ l39
Polk, Tr'usten,member of boatmen’s nfutual Pi'etvjtt, Moses, commissioner to open books 337
insurance company J 361 Pres‘ton, J ohu 5., commissioner to open
Polk county, act l'Cl£tll\’t3 to probate court of 405 books, &c. , . 337
pay of jurors in 432 Preston, Francis, road eotnmissilmer .1339
Polk county, act for the ben fit of district Price, Edward, do do ' 618

No. 2, school township 0.1 in 638 Price, A. A., . do do 595

696 INDEX.

PAGE. PAGE .

Price, M. T., trustee to locate college 232 Q,
Primm, Wilson, commissioner to open books 224

P ' , W .R..‘, b 1' S. ' -
"cake, hngusc c0",nnc:,;n§,r 0 C G.-°°'g° ma.-r 916 Quartermaster General, shall collect and
preserve musical instruments belonging

 
  
  
  
 
  
 

Prichard, Goorge’t'l'., commissioner to locate
county seat of‘ Dodge 28 t0 the State 3 _70_
Printer, fees for advertising State lagids 62 t0 39_m° 3°°°‘mt3 °f J“m_°5 O Fan°n 905
not go motion mat _ IQ9 required torperform certain duties 668
Probate courts-— ‘
act to mtablish in the county of Hickory 400 R.
do do ' do Schuyler 404
do do do Ripley 404 _ _ _
do. a ' do do Moroor 404 Railroad, act giving right of way for the
do do i do Shannon 404 Mississippi and Pacific . 116
do - ,__ I, do  do Knox 404 authorizing St. Louis _city to_ subscribe
do - do do Lafayette 410 stock in Ohio and Mississippi _ 159
do do do Saline 417 to incorporate Palmyra and Mississippi 170
do. _ do do’ Pike 425 _ to appropriate, Hannibal and St. Joseph 192
do , do do ' Crawford 425 to amend incorporation act _ 201
do - - . do do plono 428 for survey of Miouri and Mississippi 211
do‘ ‘do do Andrew 423 ’ to incorponate the Pacific 219
I do do do Monitcau‘ 431 amendatory. Carondelet and St. Louis 224
do - do‘ ' do ‘ can-on 433 to incorporate Missouri and Wliitj rivet 279
do do do - Ozark 436 to survey . do 0 347
do _ do do Madison 436 to incorporate Alexandria and St. F ran- "'
. do do - do -Pulaski 433 cisville pg 985
do» do , do Henry 438 to incorporate Independence and It issouri
act relative'to probate court in Polk co. 408 1'iV°l' «. _ _ 315
act respecting St. Lovis probate court 409 to incorporate Missouri and Mississippi 373
act su pie cntary lmd explanatory of an Rainds. Willilmo “PP°i“'»§d E93‘! °°“~““l5‘
act entit ed an act to establish a pro- sioner . «$91
bate court in Dallas county _ 409 Rails county, concerning State roads 6_07
act supplementary t8 an act to establish :aet concerning circuses &c. _ . - 386
pd) ate court in the gounty of Cooper;' Rail, Jesse_N., director of Missouri and,
approyed Feb.6 1&4‘! . , 429 Mississippi railroad company 374
act supplementary? to an act entitled an , Ramsey, Allen, appointed road _comnii's-
act to establish probate court_in the '_ ‘ sioner ‘ 623
county of Dunklin; approved Feb. 15, Rankin, J ames,act for the relief of 510
184? ‘ - A30 Ramsey, W. C.,‘ mpinber of Scott and Cape
‘act amendatory of an act entitled an act ' ‘ Girardeau tuqnpike road ‘com 3' 308
to establish probate court in the coun- «,. Raiinells. 0- 3... member of Hire. cemetery
ties of Greene, Polk, Barry, Newton &S8'bciati0T! ‘ 277
and Cedar; approved Feb. 11,4847 . . 445 Ranken, Joseph, member of White river
ac to amend an act to establish -probate . Iltwigntion company 259
I court in the county of C00 1- l ' 446 Ranney, Nathan, member Of westerp sun
act to re eal theracts to estabxliesh probate - insumnce Company 255
curt n the county of Osage 44 Rnnd01pl1.B-. * d0 ' do 255
p in relation to the. judge of probate Rankin, C. 8., member of Merrimack bridge 187

court in. Morgan county" 448 Ranney, N., member of commercial insur-

aet to repeal an act to establish probate
court in the county of Dunklin; appro- “

ance company 142

\ . . *
Ray county, act concerning circuses &c. 386

red Feb. 15,1847 _ . '*’ 449 pay of jurors in , 482
“Pulaski county, territory attached to for ‘ coiiceming State roads in 590
represents "on. 28 Reading, James N ., member of mammoth
P'tilliam,. John A, commissioner to open mining company ‘ , 153
books ’ f 337 Recorder of St. Louis shall‘ record town
Pulaski county, act to e'stablish .a probate lats, how 127
.,court in - 438 Red ing. Tho. E.. member of firemeivs in-
yof jurors in . 477 gsiirance company 285
Pu lie printer, resolution concerning.‘ 671 Rees, R. R., member of Independence ly-
Pritcbard, Wm., trustee of female seminary ceum 135
in Lewis county 193 Reese, Thomas 0., trustee of cotton wood
Putnam colinty, act to locate and establish academy 193
county seat of _. 398 Reeso, Jane, changed from Jane Logan 4523
act to regulate elections in " .470 Registers of State land otiice, to grant cer-
act to pay ml and petit Jurors in 475 iitieates of rejected lands, when 60
county cou of required to do certain at Savannah may keep his odice separate
act! 558 from the receiver's 6|

INDEX. 697
Pass. Pass.
Register of lands, joint resolution making for beilefiupf heirs of Douglas; Smith 5l4
the oflicc elective 4 for benefit of Henry CoH'e"s heirs * 515
to issue patents for certain lands 64 for relief of orphan hei of David S.
shall record delinquent lists annually,how ll! Butler, deceased ' A .- _ 516
authorized to receive delinquent list of for relief of Hardage Lane, jr.t Samuel H.
Pike county for IS47 and i848 511 Peaksieand Elizabeth T). his‘ xirife 517
to make a patent to lsaac Nevins 503 to authorize the sale of certain real esntc
required to certify to auditor payment of in Harrison county ‘ ‘ 518
taxes made by S. B. Miller 52! to provide a general system of sewerage
to receive delinquent list of Henry county in city of St. Louis '. ' 519
for 1848 522 for relief of William J . Gardiner ' ' ° 519
to execute a deed to'H. Nesbit 533 act-supplemental to the act entitled.au‘act
to receive delinquent list of Crawford for the relief of William Pt Bllrncy 520
county for 1845 538 for benefit of Benjamin Chapnian and
to issue a patent in the name of Amos others ' 590
Stone 539 for relief of Luke W. Burris - 620
in the name of William Peery 540 for relief of O. B. Miller " ‘ ' 521
to cancel patent issued to John Harris 540 for relief of Thomas M. Barnet 521
to make a atent to Martin Ridgely 541 for relief of D. C. Hubbard ‘ 421
tgreecive t e delinquent list of St.Charl as for relief of John S. Allen and others 52!
county for 1847 558 for relief of Thomas Robertson - 522
, to receive the .delinquent list of Pettis for relief of ,Alfred Detherage - 522
county for 1847 570 authorizing the register of lands to receive
to cancel patent issued to Reuben R0bin- the delinquent list of Henry county for
son 571 1848 - ‘ . ‘ 522
to receillo delinquent list of Frlnlllin to authorize John_ D. Flournoy, adminis-
county 571 trator ‘of Howard Williams, deceased,

appropriation for contingent ex enses of 12, 13

-Reid, James, to assign dower 0 Jane W.

Merriwether 554
Relfe. Dr. J., Missouri and Mississippi rail-
road company 374
Relief, act concerning the estate of William
- H. Meader 501
to {authorize city of St. Louis to borrow
money 501
ict respecting St. Louis wharf 509
for the benefit of the heirsof James Martin 502
for the benetit.of Isaac Nevins 503

to authorize Joseph Rountree and Martin

Ingram, late of Green county, to sell

certain real estate 504
authorizing the curators of the minor heirs

of Emanuel Best and Thompson Keny-

on to sell real estate . 505
to pay the adjutaot general for certain

services - 505
for relief of omcers and privates of Capt.

Moses H. Snnows cavalry company 506
for the benefit of the heirs of Joseph Fuel 507
for the improvement of the harbor oppo-

site St. Louis 506
for the relief of «the county of. Hickory,

Benjamin Miller. James Rankin, Joseph

Montgomery, William Paxton, James

Luster, John Herd, G. W. Wallace 510
to authorize the register of lands to receive

the delinquent list of Pilte county for‘

the years 1847-48 511
bill to pay agent appointed to settle claims

fo: subsisting &.c. troops for the Mexi-

can war * 512
act to authorize the sale of certain real

estate belonging to the estate of Elisha

Chase, deceased 512
for benetit ol heirs of William H. Ture-
man 513

for benefit of estate of Jan '1‘, Williams 514
48

' for relief of Ambrose Callaway, James B‘.
V

to sell certain lands 523
for relief -of Elijah W. Smith, Hiram B.

Cahill and John Masters 523
for benefit of James Lillard' ' ‘ 523

for relief, of Abdalom Keithly,Wi1liari1 -
E. W. Keitltly, Hiram Kiethly, John
M. Kiethly, and Carty Klethly ' “e 524

for relief of Thomas G.‘ Smith _ 524
for benefit of Benjamin 0. F all6n’s heirs 525
for relief of Jesse Johns - - 526

do do John Kelley , ’525
to pay William R. Taylor certain costs 526
for benefit of Jesse Morin and James

Martin ' 526
Shriver, and Preetoh Gains 526
for relief of heirs of Pieter Dapiels, de-

ceased ' 527

for benefit of James Ht Gideon 3 ‘F 527

ibr relief of OV'(;J'toll H. Oldham” 528

for benefit of Jeremiah and Oliver P.

for relief of ohn Johnson E

- for relief ol‘ oshua Gilliam ‘

for relief of Eli Moore ‘ ‘ 529

to authorize Thomas H‘. Dawson to do
certain things - ' 529

concerning the heirs of James H. Wolf,
an alien ' ’ 530
for benefit of James C. Bernard and Susan

F$ernard ' " ' 530
for relief of Litl.-leberry Hendrick and other

securities of James W. Smith 531
for relief of A. D. Hudspcth ~ 531
for relief of John F. Long 531
for’ relief of heirs and legal representatives

of Granville P. Thomas . 532
for relief of Benjamin Stickney and Leon

ard Scolly _ 532
for relief of Stephen T. Wood and Gideon

P. Wyatt 532

698 mnax.
,, PAGE. Pace.
for relief of George W. Andrews, 532 belonging to estate of David Lang,
for rélief of widoy of S. T. Poterileld 533 deceased 547
for relief of Hiram N esbit 533 to legalize record of marriage of John‘ B.
for relief of Gustavus A. Parsons 533 Gibson and Jane Jones 548
for relief of acob eadrick 534 to authorize removal of administration of
for relief of eter ‘arly and otheré 534 estate of EXmond Lewis 548
for relief of James N. Bennet 534 to legalize act of county oourt of New
for bdliclit of Cordell 5:. Co. . 535 Madrid county
for benefit of Benjamin Holmes 535 to legalize marriage of John R. Clinkin-
for relief of Anson Dcamon, and other board 549
pu -po'ses . 535 to authorize county court of Buchanan
for ri-lid o Robert L. Brown 535 to issue a warrant 549
for relief Szhnuel B; Victor 536 to authorize settlement with Jena G.
for rejief Christopher Kolkmeir 536 Lindell, paymaster 549
for re ief of George W. Miller 536 to legalize an order of county court of

to authorize clerk of Oregon to practice
law in circiiit court of Oregon county 537
for relicfof Benjamin R. Allbright 537
to ituthorize John B. Harrison to receive
and distribute certain money to pay
costs ' 537
for relief of C. S. Jeffries 538
authorizing register of lands to receive of
, collector of Crawford county delinquent
list-of said county for the year 1848 538

for relief of John Woods 538
. do Amos Slone 538
do John W. Williams 539

do Abel C91: 539

to authorize Emanuel Rouck and Isaac
{Thornton to maintain a dam across

Platte river 539
for the relief of Wm. Peery and Samuel
P. Fleshman 540

to authorize David'B. Rice and 'Danil D.
Smith, administrators, to convey lands
1 and legalize the order of county court of ‘

Schuyler-county 540
for relief of Martin Bringley , 541
do Thomas B. Love 541

tq authorize .W. Robinson, as trustee, to
do cgrtain acts , 541

do Martha Bunn, of Cass county 542
do a. securities of Benjamin T.Nun-

nally sr 
to Tuthoiize John C? Scott to sell certain
property of his children 543
for relief of Matthias H. Allison 543
do " Robert Blaclt’s heirs 4543
._ do Hugh G. Glenn - 544
do Jarnes_S. M. Gray ' 544
do Johnson Burrus 544
do collector of Putnam county 544
do Thomas P. Clark _ 545
to authorize city of St. Louis to erect a
city hall ' 545

to authorize Rglph Smith to sell al
estate of Robert M. Easton, dece d 545
concerning osts against Absalom Baker
and Loret Baker 546
to authorize ‘Hannah Cundllf to enter
certain lands 546
to authorize county court of Cape Girar-
dcau county to order the sale of certain
real estate 547
act.supplcmentary to an act entitled an
act to authorize the county court of
Lupe Girardeau to order sale of lands

Camden county .. 550
authorizing Jesse Wilcox to sell the real

and personal estate of William M. Ellis,

deceased 550

for benefit of Bennett C. Clark ._ 551
for relief of Isaac Matloclt 551
do Eli Carter 55.1

do Ross Wilkerson and Noah
Curtis
to enable William N. Shotten to act as
administrator of estate of Robert G.
Fresh, deceased
for relief of heirs of James Lucas, de-
ceased
to legalize acts of Pleasant M. Cox, Avery
B. Howard, and Gabriel P. Nash, in
erectin a mill dam across Sac river
for the re ief of James Ball
to legalize the acts of James M. Edgar,»
deputy clerk

552

552
552
553
553
554
554
556
555

i for relief of widow and heirs of Walker G.__

Meriwether, deceased

to authorizize sale of real estate in county
of Carroll

authorizing Mrs Isabella Holt to sell
certain real estate

to authorize sale of real estate belonging
to heirs of William Long, deceased 556

empowering Wm. M. Sims, of Boone
county, executor of Elias Sims, to make

a deed 557
for relief of William C. Young 557
do Edwd. C. Cunningham 558

for benefit of childl'0.n Of 30501‘ smith,
deceased 558
for relief of J. C. Burch and W. B. Starke 559
do Josiah Riggs 559

do hrigadier-general A. W. J of-

fries 530
do Lewis Keedy _ 560
for benefit of John Carter’s heirs 561

for relief of Hardy Holman and his securi-

‘ ties 551
do James Fleetwood 561
do Andrew H. Skidmore, admin-

istrator 551

for benefit of heirs of Lee M. Dads 562
do Absalom Hughel 553

for reliefof James Cude 553
do Abraham M’ClollI-Ill 553

for beneht of Josiah Davis 553
do John W. Hancock 554

for relief of James Newton Trotter 554

runsx. 699
Pass. Pace.
to pay John Brockman for surveying 564 on sub’ ct of school funds 67]
for relief of Pleasant M. Wear 564 to ame d cgnstitution 3, 4, 5, 6
do Thomas C. Cuttron 565 Revenue, county, appropriations for pay of 12
to enable William Ellis to act as adminis- Revenue, ‘appropriation for'assessing and
trator 565 collection of 132
for relief of part of heirs of heirs of Benja- an act to regulate licenses and taxes upon
min S. Ely, deceased 565 met-chdnts and grocers’ 65
do Willis Curd 566 t » amend an act entitled an act to provide
do heirs of Edward Prather 566 for levying. assessin , and collecting,
do John E. Davis 567 approved March 27, 45 - lll
do Samuel Hadley 567 to repeal so much of section 14 of an not
do Elizabeth Williams and her entitled an act to sustain the credit of
heirs A 567 State, as relates to private individuals 11:?
for benefit of heirs of Daniel Hey 568 to amend an act entltledan not to provide
for relief of William P. Barney 569 for levying, amassing and collecting
do William J. Girdner 569 revenue, approved March 27, 1845 ill, 112
9 do of securities of Samuel M. to repeal part of an act entitled an act to
Gilmore 569 provide for levying, assessing, and col-
do Julia Chenie and others 569 lecting, approved March 27, 1845 113
do William H. Kiilebrew 570 for reliefof the several collectors of this '
do Reuben Robinson 570 State 114
do A. W. J effries 571 further defining duties of collectors of rev-
do Wm. D. Kerr 571 enuc, auditor or public accounts, and
concerning partition of land 509 county courts - ' 114
for relief of Abraham Dillon, Young L. for relief of the several collectors of this
Hughes, Frederick Arrant, arlministra- State V , _ 115
tors of estate of Stephen W. Kibby, and to repeal an act entitled an act to regulate
John Corb and Elizabeth Kibby, ex- the treasury department . 116
centers of harlcs Kibby, deceased 559 Revised statues, act to provide for sale of .66
Representation, apportionments of 13 Reynolds county, boundary, of, altered 35
resolution in regard to rates of 6 act concerning circuses doc. in 386
Requa, James [-1. member of Missouri and authorized to borrow money _ _ 579
White river railroad company 279 Reynolds, Loring B., and Juliet his wife,
Resolution, joint, for repairing roof of capitol 665 divorced , . 463
requiring tomb to be erected over remains Rhelnhart, Davis W., and Nancy his wife,
of Hon. J no. Hunt, late representative divorced - -. . 459
{K0111 P0115 C0003)’ 665 Rice, Eavid B., authorized to convey certain
authorizing the governor to receive the lands 540
distributive share of proceeds of sales of Rice, Martin, authorized to sell certain real
public lands 665 - estate 527
requiring commissioner of permanent seat Richmond, R. F., trustee to locate college 232
of government to make his report 665 Ridin s, Archibald. W., trustee of Chapel
requiring secretary of State to distribute I-glill college 150
copies of decisions of supreme court 666 Riden, Joseph, director of Missouri and
respecting State penitentiary 666 Mississi i railroad company 374
of thanks to the otiicers and soldiers of the Ridgeway, ‘IE omas, and Margaret his wife,
Mexican war 666 divorced It -¢- 455

on the subject of slavery 667

respecting arms taken at battle of Sacra-
msnto

requiring secretary of State to forward
slavery resolutions, to whom

in relation to Pacific railroad

requiring Stats librarian to perform cer-
tain duties

of thanks to Missouri volunteers in the
late war with Mexico

respecting commissioner of permanent seat

668
%
669
669

of government 670
concerning public debt 670
in commendation of oilicers of the regular

army 670

to pay Russell W. Murray. acting librarian 671
of aiproval of administration of Hon. Jas.
Polk as President of the United

States .. . 671
to print 6000 copies of acts go. of present
session 671

Ridge, Ranson, appointed road conirnissioner 589
Rieke, Nicholas, member of Roman Catholic 4
~ society 154
Riggs, L., member of commercial insurance
company , 142
Ri gs, Josiah, act for relief of 559
Rifey,‘ A. A., commission to open books , 337
Ringo, Samuel, trustee of iberty academy 140
Ringo, Judge, supegiptendent of Glasgow
graded road company 230
Ripley county, probate court established in 404

authorized to borrow money 580
concerning State roads 584
to define boundary of 35
Risley, W., member of fLretrtpn’s insurance
‘'.:cornpany ' 287
River. an act to appropriate money tp .iI_u-
provo Des Moines 119
to repeal an act concerning Salt '
Beaver creek in 'I\ney county declared
to he a navigable stream 1'”

700 INDEX.

_ PAGE. _ Pace.
Bryant's fork of White river, act‘ to to change a portion of astate roadin
amend act declaring same a public high- Scotland county 589

way as 121
Ni-chi-na.bot-na, act to repeal act declar-

ing same a navigable stream and public
highway

to establish a State road from the residence
of Peter Boyer in Buchanan co., to in-

tersect a State road leading from Wes-
121 -

  
  
  
     

e , ton to Plattsburg 589
Big Piney fork of Gasconade river de- to changes. portion of a. State road lead-
claretl a public highway _ 121 ing from Liberty to Richmond 590
Road and canal fund,‘ county court of Holt to change a part of a State road from Wa-
county may borrow the - 57] terloo to the northern boundary line of
county court of De Kalb co. may borrow 572 the State of Missouri 590
do ‘do Wright do do 572 to establish a State road from Bethany to
do do Sullivan do do 573 Rochester 591
do do ' Oregon do do 577, 574 about roads in St. Louis county 59]
do do Livin ston do do 574 to establish a State road in Cooper and
do do Carin I may lo.tn ‘ 574 Johnson counties e 594
do do Hickory do do 579 declaring a certain county road a. State read 594
do do Atchison do do 580 to establish a State road in Gentry co. 595'
do do Dade may borrow the 575 to declare a certain road a. State read 595
do do Texas do do 575 to establish a State road in Cape Girardeau
do do Caldwell do do 576 , and Scott counties 595
do do St.Francois do do 576 to vacate part of a State road in Law.
do do _ Knox do do 577 rence county 596
do do Holt do do 578 establishing a State road from Weston to
do do Colo do do 578 Saint Joseph by Way of Linnville 595

do ' do Ozark do do 579
do do _ Reynolds do do 579
do ' do Ripley do do 580
do do Dunltlin do do i 580
Roads, act amendatbry of act for opening
and repairing public roads and highways 117
act in relation to roads 118
amendatory of act to amend act foropcning

to change a portion of a State road from
Springfield to Forsyth 597
to establish a State road from Trenton to
Medicine bridge 593
to view and mark out a State road in Sul-
livan and Mercer counties 599
to view and mark out a State read from

Shiplep’s ferry, to intersect a State

and repairing ‘public‘r'oads and highways 118 read in Crawford county 600
to change a, portion of a State road leading to establish a State road from Lisletown
from St. Joseph to Linden 581 through said county 600
to change a portion of a State road from respecting a certain State road from St.
Milan to the northern boundary line ' Louis to Springfield 60!
in Putnam county 58] to locate a State road from Parltville to
to establish a State road from Paris to Weston ‘ 601
Mexico‘ I ', 582 to view and survey a State road from Put-
to change a State road running from St. notn county to Scotland county 503
Charles to Mexico 583 for a State road, in the counties of Craw-
to vacate a State road in the counties of ford, Pulaski and Osage, 503
Ste. Genevieve and St. Francois 583 to establish a State road from,Palmyra to
to gbangc a State road from city of J ef- Alexandria G04
ferson tmGcot-getown 583 to view and mark out a State road from
to declare it certain county roar’ a State Mexico to New London
road 584 for opening and repairing roads in the
concerning certain State roads 584 counties oi'Pike, Marion, She-lby,Knox,
to vacate a certain State road, and to Monroe, Montgomery, Ralls, Lincoln,
declare a certain road a State road 585 Lewis. Chariton, and Livingston
to extend a certain State road‘ - 585 to establish a State road connecting Boli-
to declare a certain road a State read 586 var and St. Louis 6”
to declare zt tfertahl county'road a State to establish a State road from Boonvillc 30
road ‘ "‘ 586 intersect the road from J ciferson City 512

to establish it State road in the counties of to establish a State road from Weston '0

Marion and Shelby . 586 St. Joseph 513
to discontinue rt State road within the to locate partofa State road in the coun-
limits of the City of \Varsaw 587 ties of Lincoln and Pike 6“
to change a portion of a State road leading to establish a State road from Chariton
from Spring'l'icld to Bolivar 587 mills to intersect road from Tippecan°°
to repealan act establishing and keeping in to Princeton 6”
repair roads and highways in the coun- to establish a State road from Erie to 5
ties of Lincoln, Pike and Montgomery 588 Tuscumbia . 6‘
to declare a certain road a State read 588 to work roads in St. Louis 615
to authorize the county court of St Charles to vacate a part of a State road in 1119

to appoint -:ommiss:oners 588 6”’

counties of Platte and Clinton

INDEX. 701

   
  

. - PAGE
to provide for it road tax in Clark county 616 Rotei-man, Wm, mom. of Ger. R C benev sec 139
to establish a State from Bethany to Rouse, Allen,‘ appointed road commissioner 605
Grass mills 617 Rouche, Emanuel, autlior’d to maintain dam 539 '
to change a State road from Columbia to Roundtree, Jos,author’d to sell certain real cit 504
Rocheport ‘ 617 Rousin, Michael, trust. of St. Gencv. acad. 210
to establish a State road from Harrisonville Ray, Ferdinand A, do 2IO
to Platte City 618 Raylantl, John R, appointed road com’r 612
to change a portion of a State road from Rozier, Francis C, trust. ot'St. Genev. acad. 210
Liberty to Sparta - 619 Ruff. Christian, sup’: to open books for sub. $302
to vacate part of a State road from Green- Ruggles, Star, director of Mo & Miss R, R co 374
field to Carthage 620 Runsbcrgei-,Silas H, mem’ Fayette lodge N047 139
to repeal an act in relation toa State road Rural cemetery assm, an act to incorporate 276
l'roi_n Hughes’ mid to Jamestown 620 Russell, Wm H, p1'0p’r of Maclipliclali cem. +345
to locate a tate road from Platte City to Russell, J os D, director ofMo& Miss R R ca 374

Woodviile 620
to establish a State road in Benton county 621
to View and mark out a State road from

   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 

- sf

Madisonville to New London 622 . .
to change a portion of a State road from Sacred Heart, ladies of authorized to en- .
Paris to Hannibal 623 close certain property 9 201
for the estublishm’t of State road in Cole co 623 Salt river, act concerning repealed J 120

to establish a State road in the counties of

Salv e act su lementaltoa t s ectin 122
Johnson and Lafayette 624 ag ’ pp C re P g

Salisbury William, member of Horticultu-

declaring a certain county road a State ral society ~ 154
read from Georgetown to Boonville 625 Salisbury, Pliilander, trustee of Fairmount,

to vacate part of a State road from Alexan- academy 197
dria to the northern bound’y of the State 625 trustee of Franklin college 214

to establish a State road from Tuscumbia member of rural cemetery association 277

to Rclfe 626 Saline court, probate court established in 417
to vacate a State road from Parltville to act concerning circuses in ' 386

Plattsburg 626 Samuel, Edward M., trustee of Liberty
to branch the State road from Boonville to academy - 140
Independence, to run time’ Lexington 627 trustee to locate college 232

to change a portion of a State road from Sandlin, Martin, to locate seat of justice
Edinburg to Memphis 627 of Butler county "' 25

to declare a certain road a State road in the Sanders, Bazil W. member of Prairie lodge
counties of Crawford, Texas do Wright 628 No. 90 “~' - 21-2

to change a State road from St. Louis to Sanford, Thaddeus D., appointed road com-
Jederson City 628 missioner ’ ' 614

to declare the county road from Buffalo Sanders, Samuel D., authorized to record
to Bolivar a State read 629 town plat of Surcoxie ‘ii 2 ' 642
Robinson, Reuben an act for the relief of ’570 trustee of Sarcoxie academy 321
Robinson, W, authorized to do certain acts 541 Sarcoxie academy, act to incorporate 321
Robertson, Thos, an act for the relief of 522 Sarpy, J onn B., member of Pacific railroad 21_9
Roberts,John, changed from John Par-menter 498 member of orphan asylum’ ‘ " 165

Roberts, John R, member of Lake bridge co 325 Scaggs, I-Ienry, appointed road commis-

member of Charleston and Ohio city read 225 sioner - "' 511
Robinson, Alex H, a com. to locate read 291 Scharett, A. W., member of temperance ‘
Roberson, R L a member of Alexandria and company 133

St Francisville railroad co ,, 285 Scheifer, Jacob, member of “Erholung” so-
Robinson, John a trustee to locate college 23:? éiety . 209
Robinson, F E a member of HOrl’l society 154 Scheneker, Albert, member Of El'b°1lm8
Robinson, Andrew trust. ofChapel hill coll. 150 iociety _ 209
Rodney, John. a member of Charleston and Scheider,'Ph., member of Eglgoluna society 209

Ohio City road 225 Schreiber, John, member of St. George mar-
Rodney, Thos J, a director of Mo. and Miss ltet-house company 215

railroad company 374
Rogers, Amos R, mom. of Farm’n lib. asso. 204
Rogers, Wm C, a member of St. Louis and

Birmingham mining company 213
Rogers, Ch, mem. Western Sun ins. co. 2.36
Rogers, James A, trust. of Franklin college 214
Rogers. Wm B, heir and ado"tetl son 499 _
Rogers, Jonathan, appointed road eom’r 586 common schools _ 123
Roland, Robt and Ulrica. his ivifc, divorced 453 act atnepdatory_ of an act to provide for
Riland, Fredk, sup’t Glasgow graded road co 230 the organization, support and govern-
Roman Cath. Orp. Asy’m,act to incorporate 165 ment of common schools, and an act
Ross, Francis A, guardian, &.c. 501 supplementary thereto 123

Schaefer, Jacob, memder of Gasconade
grape growing society 241
Schroer, Jacob, member of Laclede lire co. 323
Schools and school lands, act to amend an
act to apportion the State school mo-
ney, and to amend an act to PI‘0Vid8
for‘.the organization and support of

 

702 INDEX.
PAGE. PAGE.
afurther act respecting schools 124 shall cause certain books and maps in
act in relation to taking of the census of State library to be bound, &c. 66
the school children in Harrison county 629 authorized to have the Senate and House
achito authorize the county court of Cal- Journal bound, how 15
laway county to authorize the sale of a re uired to issue a certain certificate to
part of sixteenth section in township saac Nevins 503
foi-ty-3ix, in range‘ oievoo, in larger shall notify commissioners of a State road
quantities than forty acres 630 in Putnam, Schuyler and Scotland
act for the benefit of school district No. Counties _ . 502
2, township No_ 1,in Polk county 630 shall notify commissioners of a State road
act to sell the sixteenth section of school 19 Crawford, Pulaski and Osage coun-
lands in Barry county 631 ties 603
not to divide‘ coitain sohooi townships i. shall notify commissioners of State road
Cole and Osage counties 631 in Marion, Lewis and Clark counties 604
act respecting township forty-five north shall notify_commissioners of State road
in range seven east ' 632 in Audrain and Ralls 605
act concerning school township No. 2 in t0 have erected Certain tombs 655

Camden county’ 534
act respecting schools in Portage de Sioux 634
act to authorize county court of Mont-

gomery ‘county to loan certain school

funds
act for relief, of school children of dis-
trict No. one, in township 60, in Lewis
«county 635
act to authorize the county of Dade to

sell_ part of the sixteenth section of
- land in less quantities than forty acres 635
act for the benefit of con essional town-

635

ship No. fifty-two in arroll count 636
act for the benefit of schools in Bri ge-
ton ‘ 636

act for the benefit of school directors of
wnship No. seven in the county of

_ oiitgomei-y ,
act to legalize the talcépg of the census of
school children in e county of Shan-
non for the year 1845 -. 636

act explanatory of an act to legalize the

636

aboyc act 1._ 637
Schuyler county, probate court established
in ' 404
to ecppalize ervice of grand jurors in 485
Sclilim ack, . H.,appointed road‘commis-
missioner 600
Scotland county,,act concerning State roads
, in ' 627
Scott, John C., authorized to sell certain
pro crty 543
Scolly, gonard, act for relief of 532

Scott-county, act concerning circuses, &c. 386
act respecting county Warrants of . 399
act to provide for leveeing the Mississippi

river in 390

Scott and Cape Girardeau turnpike comp’y

incorporated - i
Secretary of State, joint resolution in rela-
tion to oliice thereof 3
appropriation for contingent expenses of 12
to furnish superintendent and commission
crs of McDonald county with copies

308

of certain act 3?.
shall furnish acopy of decisions of su-
preme court as published, to whom 47

shall dispatch messenger for retunn of
Presidential elections, when '

to furnish copies of certain act to regis-
ters and receivers

52
62

reguired to forward slavery resolutions to 668
Sectional floating dock company, act to in-

corporate 217
Selby, homes,’ a commissioner to open
Sh books 337
annon count a of tit 'urors in 482
probate cour}t’e1:itayblishI¢:fl in] 404
Shaw, T. M., commissioner to obtain sub-
scriptions 207
director of Missouri and Mississippi rail-
road company 374
member of Scott and Cape Girardeau
turnpike company 308
Shaw, Hiram, member of tirem’s insurance
com any 287
Shaw, enry, member of Pacilic railroad
company 219
Shackellord, G. P., member of Missouri
and White river railroad company 280
commissioner to open books 260
Shackelford, G. L., member of White river
navigation com any 259
Shepherd, Henry ., member of W'hite
river navigation company 259
Shepherd, John, member lake bridge
com any - 325

Shelby, . R., commissioner to open books 337
Shelton, Wm. H. and Susan his wife, div’d. 460
Shelby county, concerning State roads in 607
Sheriff of Dodge county, how appointed,
his duties, &c.,
Shotten, William N ., to act as administrator 552
Shrevg H. M., member of Pacific railroad

com any 219
Shriver, ames B., act for relief of _ 526
Sigerson, John, member of commercial in-

surance company 142

member of tire and marine insurance ca. 378

Sigerson, James, member of horticultural 154
Silvers, Silas, member of Lexington tire and
marine insurance company 234
proprietor of M acpelah cemetery 345
Simonds, John, member of Merrimac bridge
company 187
Simpson, Selby, trustee of Cotton Wood
academy 193
Simms, Sarah, changed from Sarah Mayo 500
Simons’, Capt. Moses H. company of cav- _
alry, act for relief of 50*‘
Simms, Wm. M., authorized to make cer-
tain deed 55

INDEX.

PAGE.
Skinner, Phineas, authorized to continue a

dam 495
Skidmore, Andrew H. ,act for relief of 561
Slaves, act concernin 124

Slattcut, Mark, memger of Scott and Cape
Girardeau railroad company
Slagell, Joseph, commissioner for Grand

308

river 405
Sloan, Hiram, member of Scott and Cape
Girardeau road company 308
appointed road commissioner 595
Slone, Amos, act for relief of 538
Smith, John, member of St. Louis temper- 138

ance company
member of commercial insurance comp-‘y 142
member of St. Louis mutual insurance co. 37]

act for relief of - 531
Smith, N. R., member of White river nav-
igation company 259
Smith, James, member of White river and.
Missouri road company 280
Smith, N. R., member of White river and
Missouri road company 280
Smith, Henry W., trustee of female acad-
emy 315
Smith, lames, member of lake bridge co. 325

Smith, Isaac and Nancy his Wife, divorced 456'

Smith, George A., authorized to build dam 496

Smith, Thomas G., act for relief of 524
Smith, Elijah W., act for relief of 523
Smith, Daniel D., authorized to convey cer-
tain lands 540
Smith, Ralph, authorized to sell certain .
real estate 545

Smith, Marshall, appointed road commis’r. 603

Smith, George, appointed road commis’r 617
Smith, Texas, director of Missouri and Mis-
sissi i railroad com any 374
Smythe, illiam L. mem er of White river
navi ation company 259
Snapp, armen G., member of White’ river
navi ation company 259

Sneider obert and Nancy his wife, div’d. 453
Snell, llobert and Elizabeth his wife, di-

vorced 455
Snively, Henry, member of Alexandria and

St. Franctsville railroad company 285
Snowden, James, member of Missouri and

Mississippi river railroad company 280
Snop, Harrison G., member of Missouri

and Miss. river railroad company 280

Snyder, Edw, appointed road commissioner 589
South, S D, a trustee to locate college 232
Spencer, Edw, commissioner to open books 294
Springfield,place named for opening b’ks 260 190
Spl‘8.%l1l0, Albert D, director of Palmyra and

ississippi railroad company 170
Spore, J as, member of St Louis Temp. co. 138
State treasurer, resol’n making otlice elective 3

appropriation for contingentexpenses of 12
a certain certilicate to receive as so much
money, by 503

State bonds, ttpp!'0p’n for payment ofint. on 13
State tobacco ware house, an act to author-

ize the sale of 125

to regulate inspection at 126 5
State university. an act rcspectin 129
to provide for normal professor-iip 130

703

race,

to authorize the curators to appropriate cer-
tain money to certain purposes ' 131
concerning subscription fund belonging to 132

State librarian, required to perform certain
duties . ‘ 669
Stagg, Henry, mem. of Vlgestern Sun ins. go 256
Starke, Wm B, an act for the relief of 559
Stewart, Dani, dircc.of Mo &. Miss R R co 3:74
Steele, G B do ' do 374
Stettinius, Joe, mem. M Bodtjnel1’s in . co .361
Stewart, Warren B, com’r to 0 en boo£s' .337
Stephens, Simeon, meiq. jgelxeris ins co 287
Stephens, Alven, m‘em. Prairie lodge No 90 2l2
Steitz, Mathias, superintend’t‘to open books 202
Steuheimer, M, mem. society, of Nlercy$:T. 164
Steamboats, an act respecting 7 * . . ', ' 16

concerning joint owners, )7
copy ofcustom house ‘enrollment pgiina fa-

eie evidence against persons ues?:ribed
' therein as owners ° ’ 51

Stith, Johp H, trust. ofCottoi1 wood'acad. l93
Stella iron works and mining cog‘hpany,,an

act to incorporate 253
Stickne , Benj, an act for the relief Of 532
Stiles, Izuke P, appointed road com’r C-120
Stoddard co, boundaries more _purticularly

defined ‘ ' 36

may app’t persons to re-survey Bloomfield 638
Stout, Benj F, mom. of St. L. wharf lzostco 198

Stuurwald, VV m, mem. of Gcrnp. bene§_. sbc_ iii‘)
Stuart, Sam) H, trust. of Cotton wood ac-ad I93
Stuart, Wm H, 4. do ‘ do _ 1533
Stuart,‘ C W, mem. ofleff. City fire (:0 307

St Charles reading ass‘n, act to incorporate 161
St Charles, an act respecting streets in :20!
an act to incorporate ’ 266
St Charles & St L turnpike’ co, act concel‘n’g :2U1
St Charles co,'a hori;zed to app. road com. 588
required to audllt certain.accouuts ' ' 588

authorized to borrow n onex 642
St Clair co, concerning State pads in _ 586
St Francois co, shall causergte town plat of

Farmington to be r 30 ed '3 ‘ 639

concerning State rdat$s in‘ .‘384_ 583

authorized to borrow certain untla ‘.376
Ste Genevieve co, conc;rning S ate roads in 583

pay of pctit jurors in ‘476

concerning eircuses, &.c, ip ' 386

to authorize the sale of certain lands * 393

for levyinga road tax,  in’ ‘ ‘ 357

boundaries cllnngcd ' ' 39.
Ste Genevieve academy, act to inctzrporatc 209
Ste Genevieve, town of do «lo 296
St George market house co, do do 35
St Gemme, Aug, trust. of St. Gen.-.v. acad. 210
St Joseph, town of, an acticolrcernjng 166
St Louis co, supreme édnrt 10 hold two an-

nual sessionsin . ' 37

concerning landl’ds and ten’ts in,a.mem!ed 65
supplementary act cnncerningr-o courtof 4C9
to regulate changes of vemie in cri'n1_c-.i.~:es 445
respecting county court of -147

« respecting the rccorder"s ojficc of 449
for the pay oijurors in 478
concerning roads in 591
for working roadsin ‘ 616

St Louis Temperance co, incol-porated 137

St Louis"Gvrm. Rom. G. Bencv. soc, incor’d 139

704 rmnrx.
AAGE. Pacn.
St Louis Commercial ins. co. incorporated 141 Taylor Tarleton, road Com., 582

St Louis Marine railway dz. dock co, incorp’d 144
St Louis'liorticultural society. incorporated 154
St Louis wharf boat company incorporated 198
St Louis mlitual Sav. 82: Life Ins.co. incorp’d 199

St Lopis Arsenal turnpike co, act amendato-
ry an act approved Feb I, 1847, 202

St_Louis Commercial ins. co, act to amend
an actto irlcdrmirate 202

St Louis upd Biriningliamlron mining com-
pan y, incorporated 213
St,Louis educati,oihl,§_ncipty, incorporated ' 223
St Louis tit Ill. wire susp. bridge co., incorp 328
St Louis "r-nciial ii urance co, incorporated 370

St Louis, ity, ant iprized to subscribe stock
in Ohio zthddlliss. railroad co 159

an algt to author ize the levying and collect-
ing a tap: for purposes of education 397
changing he timesofliolding elections, 5-c 465
authorized to b )l' owtmoncy 501
respecting the w iarf of 502
for improvcliient o hat-bor oppdsite to 508
to provide genera system of sewerage in 519
authorizing the city to erect a city hall - 545
recorder of requ’d to perform certain duties 126

Siillivan co, autliprized to borrow funds 573
for pay ol'jurors‘in 473

Sniruiiers, Berkley S director of Palmyra
and Mississippi railroad company 170

Sdperiliiciulent of common schools, required
to_ distribute certain funds
to apportion, &c, -
to issue’ warrant,
Snprr-.me court,time and place for trial of
cause originating in the 8th jud. circuit 37
in rclatilin in appeals and writs of error
from the 9th, lllfli, 3d and 4 , except
Montgomery county 38
two sessions to be held annurilly in St. L. 37
upp’n to defray apditipnal expense ofjudges 38
to provjrlc for clerk of at St. Louis 38
for publi hing ecisions of 12

630
636
637

conEerningI7lecisinns bf, 47 110
resolution making oflict: ofjudgcs elcetive 3
judge" in:iy"be ppointed, how 8
re-appnintmen , tCI‘llll'¢~0f0lllCt’, &c 8

Surveyor of Butler co, liow appointed 26

of Dndge°co, Gov,,to appoint, his duties, &c 27
Sweeny, Joshua, (lircctpr Mo 61. Miss R R co 374
Swiriiicy, Hugh, ihemhcr Platte R. iiav. co. 239
Swift ‘Isaac, incinbel Mo &. White nv R R co 279
Symington,R_S,‘member Indepen. lyceum 136

T. .
Taney county, nortliern 'boundary delined, 36
Targe T. 13., member Fire-pan’s Insurance
Company, "' 287
member of Laclede Fire Co., 323
Tarkington J . W., member Prairie Lodge
No. 90, 212
Tatum David, Trustee Franklin Medical Sr.
Literary College, 214
Taverns and Inns, an act to repeal an act
respecting, 56
Taylor Wm. C. Commissioner to dispose
16th See. in St. Louis county, ' 632

Taylor Wm. 11., an act to pay certain costs
to,

Taylor Townsend, Commissioner in rela-
tion to mill dam in Livingston Co.,
Taylor Geo., member of Boatman’s Mutu-

al Insurance Co.,
Taylor Robert, member White River Navi-
gation Co., 259
Taylor Geo. M., Superintendent of Glas-
gow, Roanoke &c. Graded Road Co., 230
Taylor Geo. R. Com’r to 0 en books &.c., 224
Taylor J. W., member St. (ileorge Market
House Co., 216

526
495
361

Compan ,

125

Tenants and landlords, an act to amend an

duties of county court of, in relation to
628

Tilden R. 8., member St. Louis Temper-
624

Taylor Thos.. member Merrimac mining
153
Taylor Geo. .,agent to sell State Tobacco
Warehouse,
Temple Jno. T., member St. Louis 8:. Bir-
mingham mining Co., 213
act concernin in St. Louis county, 65
Terrell Joshua, uperlntendent of Glas-
gow, Roanoke are. graded road Co., 230
Texas county authorized to borrow money, 575
State road,
pay of jurors in, 477
Tilden Alfred, member Firemen’s Ins. Co.
St. Louis, 287
ance Co., 138
Tice Jno. H. member St, Louis Educa-
tional Society, 223
Thornton Wm., road Com.,
Thornton Isaac, authorized to maintain dam
across Platte river, 539
Thomas Granville G., an act for the relief
of the heirs of, 532
Thornton Wm., Director Mo. &. Miss. rail
road Co., 374
Thompson H. S., member Lake Bridge Co., 325
Thomas R. J ., Trustee to locate college, 232
Thompson T. N.,Trustee to locate co lege, 232
Thomas Wm., member Sectional Floating
Dock Company, 217
Thompson Jno. S. member St. Louis Com-
mercial Ins. Corn any, 142
Thomure J ., Trustee te. Genevieve Acad-
emy, 210
Titiin Clayton and Julia his wife, divorced, 459
Throclrmorton J ., member St. Louis Marine

Railway and Dock Co., 145
Townsend J . M. , road Com. 581
Town plats, an act to preserve, J26
Towns—Columbia, an act authorizing the

trustees of to grant certain license, 162

St. Joseph, an act supplementary to an
act to incorporate the,

Fulton, an act to extend corporate limits
of and for other purposes, .

Lag‘;-ange, an act of incorporation amend-
9 9

166
176
193

Parkville, an act to incorporate, 244
Carrollton, an act to_ incorporate, 247
Westoii, corporate limits of extended, 306

Louisianna, an act to amend, and to re-
duce into one the several acts incorpo-

INDEX.

Pans.
rating the Town of, and to organize the

same into a city of boundaries and
general powers,

Tully, an act to empower the corpora-
tion of to do certain acts,

an act to change the name of Westport
in Lincoln county,

an act to authorize the trustees of the
town of Arrow Rock to make deeds to
certain lots in said town,

Union, in Franklin county, an act for the
benefit of‘ the inhabitants of,

Bloomfield, in Stoddard county, an act
for the re-survey of,

Farmington, in St. Francois county, an
apt to provide for recording the plat
° 2

Commerce, an act to authorize a survey
and plat of to be made and for other
pu oses,

348
368
637

637
638
638

639

640

New adrid, an act to extend the limits

of, 641
Chittilicaux, the county seat of Dunklin

county, an act to change the name of

to Butler, 64]
Charleston, an act to abolish the alleys

in, 642

Sarcoxie, an act to authorize Samuel D.
Sanders and Andrew Wilson to record .
the town plat of, 642

St. Charles, an act to authorize the coun-
ty court of‘ to obtain a loan of money, 642

Middleton, an act to change the name of, 643

Hartford, in the county of Jetferson, an

act to abolish the, 643
Wiote, an act concerning, . 644
West Philadelphia in the county of Ma-

rion, an act to abolish the, 644
Wyaconda, in Lewis county, an act to

abolish, 644

Trespasses—an act in relation to, 47

an act to repeal a law entitled “ an act to
prevent certain trespasses” so far as
the citizens of Clark county are inclu-
ded in said act, 385
an act concerning, in Scotland county, 389
an act to to prevent certain trespasses in
the county of Saline,
an act to revent trespasses in the coun-
ties of ettis or Clay
Trotter James N., an act fbr the relief of,
Trustees, an act respecting,
Trusk George, Trustee Washington Female
Seminary of Cape Girardeau,
Tucker D. M., Comm’r to 0 en books,
Tuggle J no. N ., member of rairie Lodge
N o. 90, ‘ -
Tully town of, an act to empower corpora-
tion to do certain acts,
Tureman Wm. H. an act for the benefit of
the heirs of,

393
395
564
127

206
337

212
368

513

U.

University, State, an act respecting 129
normal professorship provided for

an act authorizing the curators to appro-

705

race.
priate money collected on subscription .
list to certain objects . 131
concerning subscription fund belonging to 132
Union and Port William mining and smelting
association incorporated '24:?
Union Copper co, act to incorporate 296

V‘.-

1

Valle, Amede, manager R. C. Orphan asyluth 165
Valle, Jules, trustee St Genevieve-acadgmy ‘ 210
Vallean, Chas M, member St Louis an‘d Bir-
mingham iron mining company 913
Valliant, .7110, director Pal &.~Mi_ss'R R co 170
Vancourt, Alex, mem. ilainmotli minipg co l53
Vancourt, Jackson, member of Mernmablt
bridge company . . 137
Van Juyles, Ab’m,member St L wharf boat ed’ 198

Van Buren co, name changed to Case 30
Vessels and boats, act respecting . ,15
an act to amend steamboat law 17
Victor, Saml, B, an act for the relief of‘ 535
Violett, Nancy, divorced 450
W.

Wade, Geo. A., member: of Prairie lpdge
No.90 _ 912
Weddell, W. B., member of tire and marine 234

insurance company .
Walsh, Edward, mem. of boatmens ins. co. 361

do do do St. Louis gen.~ do -371
do do ,ag’t to sell tobacco warehouse 120
do do member of orphan asylum 165
do do do Pacific rail road 60- 219
Walton, Henry, do do d0 _ 125
Wallingford, Estes, member of St. Louis 137

temperance company

Waldo, , trustee of Cha ell Hill college l50
Wallace, Benj F., do id d0 d0- 150
Walker, Wm. H , director of Palmyra and ~
Mississippi rail road company _ 140
Walker H ., member of New Madrid 8115
Stoddard canal company - 174
Walker, T hos., do do do ' 174
Walker, Amos, com’r. to open 1190149: 9% 190
Wallace. Benj. F .. member of M15801!!! and
White river rail road company _» 280
Wall, Wm., director of Missourr and Mts- 4
sissippi rail road company 274
VVaIl, Benj. 1-"., do do do 7

Walsh, Jno. and Edward au’zed to lfeep fell’? 473
Wallace, G. W., an act for the l'9110f Of 51,,
Warrants county, to regulate the redcn}P- °f 36
Warren county, con’ing cirt_:usseS.'_5f-C-a 1“ 3%
do do for pay of ]ul'01_'8 "1 _ 4

Warson, J es. and Nancy his wife, divorced 452
Washington county, concerning State roads 58%
Wash, Robt., mem. of aec’al floating dock co. 21

Washington seminary, an act to incorporate 905

Washington tire co., an act to amend an act Of 203

Watkins, N. W., member of Scott and Cape
Girardeau road company 308
174

130 Watson, R. G.,member of New Madrid and

Stoddard canal company

’

do 0 ‘an act for relief of 564

Webstcr,%;nos., mom. of commercial ins. co. 142

Weidepsrecker, Hans. D., member of Gas-
conade grape growing society ' 241

Wells, A. cm‘. of Fitlton Division No 37 203
Wells, 'Wln., com’r. to 0 en books 294
VVe1ls, R. W., mem. Jcligrson city fire cc. 307
Wells, Charles appointed road com ’r. 501

do do do ' do do 620

Weston town of an act to extend limits of 306

Western sun mutual ins. co.,an act to in. 256
Wharf boat co., an act to incorporate 193
Whitacre, Thomas, to locate seat of justice

of Laclede county 29

Whiteside, J ., mem. Fulton Division No. 37 203
White river nav. co., an,act to incorporate 259
Whittlesly Chas. C., mem. liremens ins. co. %7
White, Geo. T., mem. Jelferson city fire co. 307
Whiteside, John C., corh’r. to open books &c. 337
White, Robert director of Missouri and Mis-

sissippi rail road company 374
Whitcomb, Geo., do do do do 374
do do member of Charleston and
Ohio city road compan 225
Whitcomb,~Geo., mem. of lllke bridge co. 325

White, Horace H., director of Missouri and
Mississippi rail road company

Williams, David, to locate seat of j ustice of
Dodge county

Wllltfét, lggthaniel, member of Prairie lodge

o. .

Wilson; John, member of Platte river nav-
igation company

Williams, Willis L., member of Western
Sun insurance company

Williams,,John, member of White river
navigation company

commissioner to open books

Williams, John C., member of White river
navigation _company

Willing, Charles, member of Scott and Cape
Glrardeau road company 308

Williams, Isaac 8., member of Scott and
Cape Girardeau road company 308

Wilson, James M, trustee of Sarcoxie acad 321

Wilson, A, member of Sarcoxie academ 321

Wilson, N. W. , commissioner to open boo s 337

Wilson, J. W., director of Missouri and
Mississippi railroad company 374

Wilson, Ben_;. and Mary his wife, divorced 451

Williams, James McAfi'ee, changed from
James McAii'ee Door 499

Williams,Sarah Ann,|chnged from S A Door 499

Williams, Cynthia, changed from Cynthia

374

28
212
239
256

259
260

259

.706 ntmtx.

. PAEE. PAGE.
Watson, J. S., mem. of Franklin college 214 Door i 490
Watts, Bcnjatnin,.com’r. to open books 337 Williams, Richard, changed from Richard
Watson, J . G., director of Missouri and Mia. Door 499

sissip irail road company 374 Williams, J. W., act for relief of 539
VVatson, .D., appointed road com’r. 622 Wilcox, Jesse, authorized to sell certain
Wan h, Alexander, member of Scott and real estate 550

Cape Girardeau road company 308 Wilkerson, Ross, act for relief of 552
Wayne county, concerning ooundary of 34 Williams, Eli1,’th and heirs, act for relief of 567
Wayland J ., authorized to keep a ferry 472 Wilson, Isaac, appointed road commis’r 581
Weaver, ., member White river nav. co. 259 Williams, James; Sr, appointed road com’r 582
\Vear§ Pleasant M., do do do 259 Williams, Caleb, appointed road commis’r 605

Wilson, Williams, ap ointed road commis’r 626
Wilson, Andrew, aut orized to record town
lat of Sarcoxie 642
Win ree, Charles, authorized to petition co.
court of . 556
Winkle, Nancy Ann, changed from Nancy
Ann Warren 452
Winderly, Peter, member of Laclede tire co. 323
Winston, T. M., member of Jelierson city
fire company 307
Winsor Edward, member of mutual marine
and fire insurance company 234
Wisdom, C., superintendent of Glasgow
railroad company 230
Wisirell, William, member of St. Louis

and Birmingham company 213
Witte, Franz, member Germ. benev. sec. 139
Wolves, an act concerning 132
Wolf, Jas H, act concerning the heirs of 530
Wood, Saml C, appointed road eommis‘r 622
Woodworth, Lance do 589
Woods, John, an act for the relief of 538

Woodsides, John R authorized to prac. law 537
Wood, Stephen '1‘ an act for the relief of 532
Wood, W T aprop. of Macpelah cemetery 345
Wnodson, W, commissioner to open books 337
Woods, Benj A trustee of Sarcoxie acad. 321
VVoodson.Saml H, mem Independence R R co 316

Woodward, John, com’r to open books 294
Woodson, VVarren, to locate Mo and Col-

umbia turnpike road _ 291
Woodson Saml H, member Mo and W'bite

river railroad company 279

a trustee of Chapel hill college 150

Woodward, George do 150

Woodruif, J E, mcmb. Commercial ins. to. 142

Wrigllt co, territory attached to for represen’n 28

assessor shall perform certain duties 29
Wright,-, member White R navigation co 259
Wright, Thos, trustee of Sarcoxie academy 321

Wright co, for pay ofjurois in 477
authorized to borrow money 572
concerning State roads 698
to regulate elections in 458

VVyatt, Gideon P, an act for the reliefof 532

Wyatt, B B, director of Mo & Miss R R co 374

Y.

Yancy, Chas S, member White riv. nav. co 259

Yeatman, Jas E, director Pacific R R co 219
member Rural cemetery association 277

Young, W C, member-Jeif. City the co 3
an act for the relief of 557

.EBRATA. 707 .

ERRATA

PAGE.
Sec.9,line1st,beforeword‘State’read‘the,’......................‘.................. 23
Sec. 1, line 2d, forward ‘second’ read “l1th,’------------u - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -- 74
ArticlelV,caption,for‘maybe’read ‘areto be,’- - - - - -  76
See.9,]ine5t_h,befofe‘stated7 read ‘as,’ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .... .... aqua .... ....... 82
Sec.4,line2d,after-must’read‘fix-st,’......................-.-...................... 39
Sec_],|ine ]5t,for‘to’ read ‘for,’ . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .......... - . . . . . . U...“-.... 89
Sec. 3,1ine 4th, fox-‘revived’ read ‘reviewed,’.. . . . . . . . . . . .. ....  .;..     91
Sec.8,line8th,af'ter‘term’read 93
Sec. 9, line 13th, for ‘art. 4th’ read ‘art. 5th_3 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 104

Pt.No.3,5thline,read‘said’after‘of,>................................. . . . . . . . . . . . ..105

Pt. No. 16, 19th line, for ‘pa ment’ read ‘plaintiff,’ - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -    - - - - -  108

Sec. 6, line 3d, for ‘and’ tea ‘anyg . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  194

Sec.14,line2d,after‘and’read‘at,7..... . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  208

Sec.9’]ineI2tb’before‘judge’1-ead‘the,’............nun... . . . . . ..........o....... 221

Sec. l,line4th,afteI‘owning’ read‘a,’ . . . . . . ..       287

Sec. l1,line 5th, for ‘oontigious’ read ‘contagious,’-----------u - - - . -  - . - -   301

Sec. 1, Iine1st,after‘that,’ read ‘a,,>........ . . . . . . . . . . . . .        308

Sec.7,line29th,for‘rest,’read ‘vest,’ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   327
Sec. 5,line 10,for‘number’read‘member,!........................................... 331
Sec.ll,line9,after‘prohibit’read‘ti P1ing,>...................   331
Sec,12,line2d,for‘Writing’read‘wit£1n,’ ......................................... 33:72
Sec.11,line4,for‘raid’read‘said,9.................................................. 338

Sec_7,line I, for ‘trustees’ read ‘t1-ustee,’............................................ 345
Sec. 20,line2,for‘reasonab|e’ read ‘seasonable,----u---------~---'--'-'°'---------- 413
.23,line4,for‘resealing’read‘repealing,’...................;..................... 414

Sec
sec.   30,  ‘seat’  ‘Seal,,ooao u soon o-on QIIO coco IIIO oouu goon noun 0.00 none 423.

Sec.  1, for “agpeal, read Ca pea‘s,’.... noun a... coco anon coco cotton ..'.o 0000 not 

Sec.1,line 3,for |deonT,71-ea ‘Gideon P,”..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . ............. 532
Intitleofact,for‘a.n’read‘and,’........................ . . . . . . .... . . . .  . . . . . . .. 569
Sec. 2, line2, for °executive’ read ‘execute,’ . . . . .      ....  .. 575
Sec.1,line4,before‘county’;-ead ‘mid’ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .................. 581
Sec. 1, line 1, for ‘Jas. King Kuykendafl’ read ‘Jas. Kuykendall,’....     613
Intitle of act, for ‘[marking]’ read ‘mark’’.... a ~ . . . . .. .... .... .... ....‘... o... o... ... 622
Sec. l,line4,before‘by’ insert‘tobe,’. . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  622
Sec..],]ine3,fo1-‘Falmoute’read‘Ea_]mouth,’......................................... 622
Sec. l,line2, before‘auditor> insex-t‘the’.... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... . 670

-I ‘,5

I‘

I‘OQ.Il. I.

