A111‘. 2. An Act to reduce into one the several Acts and parts of Acts, concerning
the Establishment, Jurisdiction, and Powers of the Superior Courts of Law
—June 28, 1822.

§4. Ad 'ournment. In the absence of the Judge of any of the said courts,
the sheri of the county may adjourn the same, from day to day, for the space
of four days.

5. Undecided Cases to be as  continued. If, from any cause, a Circuit
Court shall not be held at any term thereof, or shall not continue to sit the
whole term, or before the end of the term shall not have heard and determined
all matters ready for their decision, then all process, pleadings, and proceedings,
of what nature soever, remaining in said court, pending and undecided, shall
stand continued of course, until the next succeeding term; and if, from any
cause, the court shall not sit on any day in a term, after it shall have commenced, there shall be no discontinuance, but the court may proceed to business on an subsequent day until the end of the term, if the business before
said court e no sooner finished.

16. Jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts ; Power of Circuit Judge in Vacation. The Circuit Courts of law in the several counties of this state, shall
have original jurisdiction of all suits and actions for the recovery of money,
founded on any bond, bill, promissory note, or other written contract, covenant
or agreement whatsoever, or on any open account where the matter in controversy shall be of the value of fifty dollars or upwards, and of all other civil
suits and actions, real, personal, and mixed, and all causes, matters and things,
arising under the constitution and laws of this state, not expressl cognizable
in some other court, established" by law ; and shall have power to hear and determine all prosecutions in the name of the state, by indictment, information,
or presentment, for treasons, murders, and all other felonies, crimes, and misdemeanors, committed within their respective jurisdictions, except such as may
be exclusively cognizable before a Justice of the Peace, or in some other court
of this state, or of the United States; and shall, moreover, have and exercise
all the powers incident or belonging to a Court of Oyer and Terminer, and
general jail delivery, and generally to do and rform all other acts lawfully
pertaining to a Circuit Court of law of this ‘tate: And the Judges of said
courts, and each of them, either in vacation or term time, shall have authority
to grant writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, certiorari, writs of error, and supercedeas, and all other remedial writs, returnable accordin to law, into the
Supreme Court or either of the said Circuit Courts.—Parti ly superseded by

17. When Ofences on Indian Territory Cognizable. All offences against
the laws of this state, committed within the limits of the same, on lands tr
which the Indian title has not been extinguished, shall be cognizable in the
Circuit Court of the county to which the defendant may be brought, or in
which he may be found.

100. How far this Act a Rule of Decision to all the Courts. All things
herein contained, not restricted by their nature, or by express provision, to
particular courts, shall be the rules of decision and proceeding in all courts

whatsoever, Within this state.

' 101. Apportionment of Causes to Days; Subpamas accordingly. Before
every term of a Circuit Court of law, the clerk of such court shall enter in a
particular docket, all such causes (and those only), in which an issue is to be
tried, or enquiry of damages to be made, or judgments by default entered, which
may be set aside during the term, or a specia verdict case agreed, or demurrer, or other matter of law is to be argued, in the same order as they stand
in the course of proceeding, and shall, under the control of the court, apportion the causes on the docket, to so many days, and in such number to each
day, as may be deemed most expedient; and no cause shall be taken up for
trial or hearing, at a day previous to that for which it ma be set; and he shall
issue subpoenas for witnesses, to attend on the days, on w ich the causes stand
for trial ; and no witness shall be bound to attend in any cause, unless specially summoned to each term, and it shall be the duty of the clerk to keep a regular subpcena docket, and to issue subpoenas before every term of the court, for
all the witnesses in every cause, that either party may, at any time, have directed to be summoned.-See a. 3, 4, 5.

159. Minutes of each day read, corrected, and signed. For preventing
errors in entering up the judgments and orders of the said courts, the minutes
of the proceedings of every day shall be drawn up for the clerk, against the
next sitting of the court, when the same shall be read in open court, and such
corrections as are necessar being made therein, they shall be signed by the
Presiding Judge, and carefu ly preserved among the records. On the last da '
of each court the proceedings therein shall e drawn up, read, correct ,

signed, and preserved as aforesaid.
164. Power of the Court to hear Motions on Notice against Sherffs, Attorl

neys, ¢§~c. The said court shall have power to hear and determine a motions,
on reasonable notice to the adverse party, against sheriffs, coroners, or other
oflicers, for money received under execution or other process, or order of the
court, which shall not be paid to the party entitled to the same, his agent or
attorney, on demand ; and all motions against attorneys and counsellors-at-law.
for failing or refusing to pay money received for their clients, and to glve
judgment according to the statutes, in such cases made and provided, and
award execution thereon accordingly.

176. Judge within his Circuit, may grant Writs of Injunction and ne areal.
<§~c. The judges of the said courts shall, within then‘ respective circuits, ha‘?
power to grant writs of injunction, and of ne caveat, either in vacation or terrn
time, and may order a defendant ondefendants in chancery to be held to ball,
in the same manner and under the same regulations, as such writs may be
allowed, or bail ordered b * the chancellor; and the process shall issue out 0f»
and be returnable to the Court of Chancery, where the same is cognizablf’.
and be subject to the like proceedings, as in other cases originating in Said
Court of Chancery.—But see c. 54, a. 29.

177. The Court may Fine and Imprison for Contempt. The said c0uI't5
shall have power to fine and imprison any person who may be guilty of a 0011'

tempt of the court, while sitting, either in the presence or a hearing of such
court: Provided, That such fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars, and no
person, for such contempt, shall be imprisoned for a longer period than the
term of the court at which the contempt shall have been committed.

184. Court to cause Jail to be Inspected, and Jailor punished for mal-trcatment of Prisoners. It shall be the duty of the Judges of the Circuit Courts.
respectively, from time to time, as often as they may deem it expedient, at least
once in every year, to cause an inspection to be made of the jails of the
several counties within their circuits, respectively, and a report to be made to
the court, of the condition of such jails, and of the manner in which they are
kept. And if it shall appear, by the report aforesaid, or by other satisfactory
evidence, that the jailor hath neglected or violated his duty, in the manner of
keeping or furnishing any prisoner in his custody, or otherwise, it shall be
lawful for such court to punish him, as for a contempt, in any sum not exceeding fifty dollars for each offence.

186. When the Judge is related to Accused, or otherwise Incapacitated to try
the Case. When, in any prosecution for an offence against the laws of this
state, depending before any Circuit Court, the Judge of such Circuit Court
shall be so nearly connected with the accused, or with the person upon whom
the offence charged may be alleged to have been committed, as to render it
unfit that the judge assigned to such Circuit Court, should preside on the trial,
or when, for any other cause, it may be unfit that such judge should preside on
such trial, he shall enter upon the record the cause of such unfitness, and that
he is unwilling to preside upon the trial ; whereupon the cause shall be continued until the next term, and the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall forthwith
certify to the Supreme Court, the pendency of such prosecution, and a copy
of the entry testif ing the unfitness and unwillingness of the judge to preside
at the trial. The upreme Court shall thereupon assign to the circuit, in which
such Circuit Court may be, some other judge of the Supreme Court, whose
duty it shall be, to hold all the courts within that circuit at their next succeeding terms, and to continue to hold them, from term to term, until such prosecution shall have been finally tried and decided. During the time the judge.
so designated by the Supreme Court, shall hold the courts within that circuit,
the judge, who had been assigned thereto by law, shall hold all the courts
within the circuit, which b * law had been assigned to the judge so designated
by the Supreme Court.— Virtually superseded.

188. Seal of the Court. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of each Circuit
Court within this state, to procure, at the expense of the proper county, a seal
for the use of their courts respectively, with the style of the court around the
margin thereof, and an eagle in the centre.

179, 180, 181. Jail and Jailor to be those of the Circuit Court ,- Sherif its
Ojicer; Constables to attend it. In all cases where the Circuit Court is holden
at the county court-house, the county jail shall be used as the jail of the Circuit Court; and the keepers of the jails of such counties shall act as jailors for
the said Circuit Courts, respectively, and shall attend them during their sessions,
be amenable to their authority, and obedient to their lawful orders. They shall
take into their custody all persons committed by the orders of the Circuit Courts,
or by any process issuing from such courts, and all persons committed, by
whatever lawful authority, for trial in such courts.

The sheriff of the county in which any Circuit Court shall sit, shall execute
all judgments rendered by such court in any criminal case; provided such
judgments are by law to be executed in the said county; and shall in all
respects act as sheriff of the said court.

It shall be the duty of the sheriff of each county, to summon not exceedin
three constables, to attend the Circuit Court of his county, who shall atten
accordingly, or pay a fine at the discretion of the court not exceeding ten
dollars.

ART. 3. Act Requiring the Causes to be set for days of the Term-—
January 20, 1823.

It shall be the duty of eve clerk in making out his issue docket for
each term, to set as many suits gr each day, beginning on the first, and proceeding as far in the term as the number of suits may make it necessary,
as the court or judge may direct, or in his opinion ma best suit the business of the court; and thereafter, on issuing subpoenas or witnesses in any
cause, the subpoenas shall be so issued as to require the attendance of the
witness or witnesses on the day for which the cause, in which the said
witness or witnesses are so summoned, may be set.—See a. 2, s. 101 ; a. 4, 5.

A111‘. 4. Jlmendment of Article Two—Jan. 23, 1824.

§ 4. Court to take up Causes as Docketed. The several courts of law and
equity in this state, shall take up the causes for trial, or hearing, in order, as
they stand on the docket, and try or continue the same before the said
court shall proceed to the trial of any other cause: Provided, That such

court may set any cause for trial or hearing, at any future day in the term.
See a.. 5, c. 6l,a. 1, s. 45; c. 59, a. 9.

ART. 5. Supplement to Article Two—Feb. 1, 1825.

Separate State Docket; its Preference. Hereafter it shall be the duty of
the clerks of the several Circuit Courts in this state, to make out at each
term of their respective courts, a separate docket, in which shall be placed
all causes in favor of the state, or any county, and all indictments, presentments or informations ; and it is hereby expressly declared to be the duty of
the judges of the courts aforesaid, to take up said docket for trial, on motion of
the Attorney-General or District Attorney, unless good cause be shown to the
contrary.

ART. 6. An Act to organize and establish Circuit Courts, and to define their
Powers and Jurisdiction in Law and Equity-—March 2, 1833.

§ 1. Divided the State into four Districts-—Superseded.

2. Oath of Judge—Penalty for Acting -without Taking it. Each judge of
the Circuit Court, shall take the oath prescribed in the constitution; which
oath may be administered by the Executive, Judge of any Court of Record, or
b a Justice of the Peace ; and a certificate of the same shall be filed in the
c erk’s office of the Circuit Court, when the said judge shall first sit; and the
certificate being so filed, the said judge shall be enabled thereafter to discharge
his oflicial duties, and if any judge shall ofliciate as such, without having first
taken the oath herein required, he shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and may therefor be removed from office.

3. Election of the Circuit Judge. The Judges of the Circuit Courts shall
be elected by the qualified electors of their respective districts, at the places of
holding elections for members of the legislature; which elections shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by law for the eneral elections. The sheriffs
of the several counties shall return .to the sheri of the county first named in
each district, as prescribed by this act, a correct return of the votes taken in
their respective counties, who is hereby authorized and required to declare the

rson having the highest number of votes duly elected ; and it also shall be
is duty to transmit to the office of the Secretary of State, a full and correct
return of the whole number of votes taken: and the Secrefar of State is hereby required to preserve the same ; whereupon, the persons e ected shall forthwith be commissioned by the Governor, and continue in oflice for the term
prescribed in the constitution.
This section gave the Judge a salary of 82000. It was increased to $3000

in 1836. s. 33. c. 13—but in 1844, put at 82000, c. 33, a. 20.

4. Terms of the Circuit Courts-changed.

5. Jurisdiction of this Court at Law. The Circuit Courts of law in the
several counties of this state, shall have ori inal jurisdiction of all suits and
actions for the recovery of the money foun ed on any bond, bill, promissory
note, or other written contract, covenant or agreement, whatsoever, or on any
open account, where the principal of the sum in controversy exceeds fifty dollars,
and of all other civil suits and actions real, personal, and mixed, and all causes,
matters, and things, arisin under the constitution and laws of this state, which
are not expressly co niza le in some other court established by law, as also
such appellate jurisgiction as by law may be vested in said court; and said
Circuit Courts shall have power to hear and determine all prosecutions in
the name of the state, by indictment for treason, murder, and all other felonies,
crimes, and misdemeanors committed within their respective jurisdictions, except such as may be exclusively had before a Justice of the Peace, or in some
other court of this state, or of the United States, as also to hear and determine
all prosecutions by information as are designated in the constitution; and,
moreover, shall have and exercise all the powers incident or belongin to a
court of 0 er and Terminer and general jail delivery, and to do an perform all ot er acts, properly pertaining to a Circuit Court of law. And
the judges of said courts, and each of them, shall have power, either in vacation or term time, to grant writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, certiorari,
and of error and supersedeas, and all other remedial writs returnable according to law into any or either of the said Circuit Courts.

6. Its Equity Jurisdiction. The said Circuit Courts shall have and possess
original and concurrent jurisdiction with the Superior Court of Chancery,
over all matters, pleas, an plaints whatsoever, belonging to or cognizable in a
Court of Equity, where the value of the thing or amount in controversy does
not exceed the value of five hundred dollars; also, in cases of divorce, and
for the foreclosure of mortg es; and such process and course of proceedings
shall be had herein, as in simi ar cases are commonly had in the Superior Court
of Chancery.

7. Issue of Fact in Equity cause. In all actions, suits and controversies
in equity that may be instituted in the Circuit Courts, accordin to the previsions of this act, whenever an issue or issues as to matters 0 fact shall be
made up by the parties, or under the direction of the court, touching the merits
of the case in question, it shall be the duty of the court to empannel a petit jury
to try said issue or issues ; and the jury so empannelled, may render a specified
verdict therein, whereby the court may be enabled to found a decree. Said
jury, by consent of the parties, under the special charge and instructions of
the court, as to matters of law, may render a general verdict.

10, 11. Transfer of suits from the former courts; teste of writs to first
term, expired.

12. Alternation of the Judges. The judges of the several Circuit Courts
may alternate and make temporary exchanges of their circuits, whenever in
their opinion the public interest may require it.

13. Advisement and Written Opinion in Vacation. The Judges of the Circuit Courts shall have power, whenever in their opinion the importance of the
case may require it, which may be submitted to them for decision on any point
thereon, to take the same under advisement, and the opinion given thereon in
vacation to be as of the term: Provided, however, That such opinion shall, in
no case, be deferred for a longer time than four months ; and the said opinion
be in writing, filed in the clerk’s otiice of the proper county: And provided
also, That the right to except and take writs of error to such opinion shall not
be affected thereby; and that a bill of exceptions to such opinion, may be
taken at the term of the court held next after such opinion may have been
given; and on the trial of any issue of fact, where the judge may think

roper to take the case under advisement, it shall be the duty of said judge
hefore he takes said cause under advisement as aforesaid, to cause all the
material facts of said case, with notice to the counsel on both sides, to be
reduced to writing, which statement of the evidence shall be signed and
allowed by the court, at the time he may take said case under advisement ; and
when the judge shall issue his opinion in writing; said written opinion, together
with the written statement of the evidence, s all be enrolled in and made a
part of the record in the case; and any party appealing from or prosecuting a
writ of error from said decision, may avail himself of all matters of law
arising from the facts stated in said record.

16. Clerks of Chancery routs to transfer to Circuit Court cases now cognizable there, expired.

18. What Laws govern this Court. The laws now in force defining the
powers and jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, and regulating the proceedings
therein, not repugnant to the constitution, or inconsistent with the provisions
of this act, be, and the same are hereby declared to be in full force and effect
for the government of the courts established by this act.

ART. 7. Inferior Court of Criminal Jurisdiction, for the Counties of
Warren, Claiborne, Jeferson, Adams, and PVillcinson—Feb. 27, 1836 . . 25,
Rep. 547, H. & H., 493.

This act required those counties to elect a judge, and each county a
clerk; gave terms of the court for each county, an limited it to the trial
of criminal cases. It was repealed by the act Feb. 19, 1840 . . 37, which
restored the jurisdiction and records of the court, to the Circuit Courts of
those counties respectively.

ART. 8. An Act to amend an Act entitled “An Act to organize and establish Circuit Courts, and to define their Powers and Jurisdiction in Law
and Equity.” Approved March 2d, l833—Dec. 25, 1833.

§1 to 6. Regulation of Special Terms. Whenever, in the opinion of any
judge presiding in any Circuit Court of this state, the business of the court requires it, the said judge shall be and he is hereb authorized and directed to
order, either in term time or in vacation, a specia term of the Circuit Court to
be holden therein ; which order shall be entered on the minutes of the court,
if made in term time, or upon the minutes of the special term, when said order
shall have been made in vacation.

2. On receiving notice of said order for special term of the Circuit Court,
it shall be the duty of the clerk and sheriff of the county in which it shall be
ordered, to meet in the court-house and draw the number of jurors which are
required by law to be drawn for the regular terms of said courts, upon which
a panel, so drawn, a venire facias shall issue, and the sheriff shall summon them

accordingly. And at any such special term, the said court shall have power
to hear and determine all business remaining in the said courts unfinished and
not specially continued at the preceding regular term; and shall also have and
exercise ful jurisdiction of jail delivery in all cases that have not been so continued ; which said special terms, whenever so ordered, shall continue until all
the business therein pending shall be finished.

3. N 0 special term shall be ordered to be holden at a shorter time than thirty
days from the time that it is so ordered. And when a special term shall be
directed to be holden in pursuance of this act, it shall be the duty of the Clerk
of the Court to advertise in some newspaper printed in the county, if there be
any such, giving twenty days’ notice of the time of holding said court; and it
there be no newspaper published in said county, then the notice required to
be given by this section, shall be by advertisement on the court-house door,
and at three other public places in the county, for the length of time aforesaid.

4. Whenever any Judge of any Circuit Court in this state shall have been
interested as counsel for either of the parties, or in any other manner, in any
cause pending in any such court, of which he is the presiding Judge, it shall be
his duty, if such fact be known to him previous to the sitting of the court, to
give notice to some other Judge of another Circuit of his incapacity by reason
of such interest: and upon receiving such intimation or notice, it shall be the
duty of the Judge of another circuit so notified, to attend and hold the court
so intended to be holden, whether the same be a regular or special term. And
if the presiding Judge of any such court shall not be apprised of any such interest as would disqualify him to sit on the trial of any cause, according to the
true intent and meaning of this act, until after he shall have given notice to
the other Judge as aforesaid, it shall be his duty to continue every such cause
in which he shall be interested as aforesaid, and give notice as aforesaid, to
another Judge to attend at the next term, whether regular or special, and hold
the court, or try that particular cause, as the case may be. And if any Judge
shall try any cause in which he may be in any manner interested, without the
consent of the parties, he shall be deemed gui ty of a high misdemeanor in office, and shall be liable to impeachment therefor.

5. If at any time, when a special term of any Circuit Court ought to be
holden, it should happen that the presiding Judge of the Circuit should be sick,
absent, about to be absent, or from any other cause, besides being interested,
as hereinbefore provided for, it shall be the duty of the presiding ud e of the
adjoining or other Circuit, on being notified of such inability by the udge of
that Circuit in which such special term ought to be holden, to make the order
for holding said special term, as required by this Act, and to give notice thereof
to the Clerk, and also to attend and hold said special term.

6. In case the presiding Judge of any Circuit, in any county, of which a
special term of the Court is required to be holden, shall have neglected or omitted to give such notice as is required by this Act, then it shall and may be
lawful for the District Attorney of that district, and the Clerk of the Court,
to certify to the Judge of any other Circuit, that in their opinion, the business
of the Court requires the holding of a special term for the speedy administration of justice; and on receiving such certificate, it shall be the duty of such
Judge immediately to give notice to the Clerk that a special term of the Circuit Court of that county will be holden at such time as he shall appoint within
the time prescribed by this Act; and on receiving such notice, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk to make publication thereof, as required by this Act, and, together with the Sheriff, proceed to draw the jury; and the Clerk shall issue the
venirefacias, and the Sheriff shall serve the same in the manner now required
by law; and it shall, moreover, be the duty of said Judge, so notified, to attend
at said special term and hold the Court. See a. 9

ART. 9. Amendment of Article Eight—Feb. 16, 1839.

So much of the above recited Act as authorizes the Circuit Judges of this
State to hold special terms of their Court, except when the regular term shall
have failed, is hereby repealed.

Arr. 10. An Important Provision in the Act changing the Judicial DistrictsFeb. 5, 1830.

§ 4, 5. Whenever the Terms of a Circuit Court are changed, the process issued shall be returnable to the new Terms ; and no exception shall be sustained.
In all cases in which the time of holding a. Circuit Court or Circuit Courts
may hereafter be changed by an Act of the General Assembly, all writs and
other process which may be issued previous to the passage of the Act chang;
ing the time of holding any Circuit Court or Courts, and upon the face of suc
writs or other process made returnable to the time at which such Court or
Courts would be required by law to be holden if such change had not been
made, shall be and are hereby made returnable to the time to be prescribed
by law for the holding of the Court out of which the same has or shall issue.

No exception shall be sustained to any writ or other process, on account of
the same being tested in the name of the Jud e who was the Judge of the
Court to which the same is made returnable at t e time of holding the term of
said Court, next preceding the term to which the same is made returnable.

ART. 11. An Act to Re-organize the Judicial Districts of this State, and for
other pu17)oses—Feb. 3, 1844.

§ 1. Seven Districts. From and after the next eneral election in this state,
the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Judicial istricts shall be abolished.
and thereafter this state shall be divided into seven Judicial Districts, for the
holding of Circuit Courts, which shall respectively be composed as follows:

The First District, of the counties of Wilkinson, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin.
Amite, and Claiborne.—See a. 25.

The Second District, of the counties of Copiah, Pike, Lawrence, Marion.
Hancock, Sim son, Covington, Harrison, Smith, Rankin, and Scott.

The Third istrict, of the counties of Tunica, Coahoma, Bolivar, Washington, Warren, and Hinds.

The Fourth District of the counties of Jasper, Newton, Jackson, Jones.
Greene, Pcrr *, Wayne, Clark, Lauderdale, Neshoba, and Kemper.

The Fifth istrict, of the counties of Yazoo, Madison, Holmes, Attala, Win‘
ston, N oxubee, and Leake.

The Sixth District, of the counties of Monroe, Lowndes, Octibbeha, Choctaw, Yallobusha, Tallahatchie, Carroll, and Chickasaw.

The Seventh District, of the counties of De Soto, Marshall, Tippah, Tishamingo, Itawamba, Pontotoc, Lafayette, and Panola.

2. Terms qf Circuit Courts. A Circuit Court shall be held in each county
in this state, twice in each and every year, and shall commence, and may 00"‘
tinue for the time hereafter specified, as follows:

In the county of Franklin, on the third Mondays of March and Septemberpnd may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and “O
on er.

1% the county of Claiborne, on the first Mondays of April and October. and
may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no long61'In the county of Jefferson, on the third Monda s of April and October, and
maly continue twelve judicial days, if busljliiess so on require, and no longer.

11 the county of Adams, on the first ondays of ay and November, and
may continue twenty-four judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer —Only eighteen days-—a. 25.

In the count of Washin ton, on the fourth Monda s of March and Se temY 8 Y P
ber, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Bolivar, on the third Mondays of March and September,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long re uire, and no longer.

In the county of Coahoma, on the second Mondays 0 March and September, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Tunica, on the first Mondays of March and September, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Lauderdale, on the first Mondays of March and September, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Kemper, on the second Mondays of March and September,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Newton, on the fourth Mondays of March and September, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the count of Neshoba, on the third Monda s of March and Se temY Y . P
ber, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Jasper, on the first Mondays of April and October, and
maly continue six judicial days, if business sonllong require, and no longer.

11 the county of Clark, on the second ondays of April and October,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Wa ne, on the third Mondays of April and October, and
may continue six judicia days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Jones, on the fourth Mondays of April and October, and
maiy ctqlntinue stix jufdilqial days,  businessdslqiloqg reqtélfremand nqi lq\rT1ger. be

u e coun y o erry, on e secon on ays ay an ovem r,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Jackson, on the third Mondays of May and November, if
business so long require, and no longer.—Six days a. 14.

In the county of Greene, on the fourth Mondays of May and November,
and may continue ski judicial days, if busihniess so lon require, and no longer.

In the county of adison, on the first ondays 0 _April and October, and
may continue twenty-four judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer.

In the county of Yazoo, on the first Monday after the fourth Mondays of
Aplril and Octoberi, anq may continue twenty-four judicial days, if business
so ong require, an no onger.

ART. 12. An Act to Change and Prolong the time Qf holding the Circuit
Court in the County of Panola—Feb. 7, 1844.

Hereafter the Circuit Court of Panola county shall be held on the first

Mondays of May and November, and each court shall continue in session
twelve judicial days, if business so long require.

Arr. 13. An Act to Change the Times of holding the Circuit Court of Tallahatchie County—Jan. 22 1846.

Changed.—See a. 23.

ART. 14. Amendment of Article Eleven—-Feb. 11, 1846.

Each Term in Jackson, six days. The courts held in the county of Jackson,
in pursuance of the second section of said recited act, on the third Monday in
May and November, may continue six judicial days, if business so long require,
and no longer ; and that this act take effect and be in force from and after its

passage.

ART. 15. An Act to Legalize the Test of all Writs, Executions, and other
Legal Process, in the Second and Fourth Judicial Districts of this StateFeb. 20, 1846.

§ 1. All writs, executions, and other legal process heretofore issued from the
clerk’s ofiices in any of the counties now composing the second judicial
district, whether tested in the name of Thomas W. Willis, or any other person
or judge, are hereby legalized and made valid in law as if tested in the name
of the proper person.

2. The provisions of this act shall extend to the fourth judicial district.

3. This act shall take effect and be in force, from and after its passage.

ART. 16. An Act to .;9ttach the County of Noacubee, to the Fourth Judicial
District of this State, and for other Purposes—Feb. 20, 1846.

§ 1. Noatubee to Fourth District; Terms thereof. From and after the
passage of this act, the county of Noxubee is hereby attached to the fourth
judicial district of this state; and that a Circuit Court in said county shall be
held twice in each and every year, and shall commence and may continue for
the time hereafter specified, as follows: on the second Monday of June and
December, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require.
and no longer.

2, 3. Cured the process issued, &c.
4. Circuit Courts of Winston and Attala. The Circuit Court for the county

of Winston shall commence on the first Mondays of March and Se tember, in
each year, and may continue for the space of six judicial days, if Business so
lon require, and no longer. In the county of Attala, on the second Mondays
of arch and September, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business
so long require, and no longer.—June term 1848, of N oxubee, twenty-four days

—l848 . . 173.

ART. 17. An Act Supplementary to an Act, by which the time of holding the
Circuit Courts, in the Counties of Winston and Attala was changed.
approved 20th Feb. l846—Feb. 20, 1846.

So much of the above-recited act as changes the time of holding the Circuit Courts in the counties of Winston, and Attala, shall not take effect andbe
in force till after the first day of April, 1846.

This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Arr. 18. An Act to Change the time o holding the Circuit Courts in the
County of Marshal Feb. 20, 1846.

Superseded.—See a. 22.

ART. 19. An Act to Change the time o holding the Circuit Courts in the Third
Judicial District of this State, an for other purposes—.March 3, 1846.

A Circuit Court shall be held in each of the following named counties in this
state, twice in each and every year, and shall commence and ma continue for
the time hereinafter specified, as follows: In the county of arren, on the
second Mondays of April and October, and may continue twenty-four judicial
days, if business so lon require, and no longer. In the county of Hinds, on
the third Mondays of ay and November. and may continue twenty-four
judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

From and after the passage of this act, the county of Sunflower, be, and
the same is hereby attached to the third judicial district, and the county of
Issaquena, to the third judicial district, and that the courts in the two
last mentioned counties shall be held twice in each and every year, as follows,
to wit: In the county of Sunflower, on the fourth Mondays in June and
December, and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and
no longer. In the county of Issaquena, on the first Monday after the fourth
Mondays of March and September, and may continue six judicial days.
if business so long require, and no longer.

3, 4. Cured the process as usual.

5. Suspended the operation of the act, as to Hinds and Warren, until July
1,1846.

ART. 20. An Act Supplemental to an Act, entitled an Act to reorganize the
Judicial Districts of this State, and for other purposes ; approved February
3,1844-—F?b.25,l846.

All Process cured, which issued during the late changes of the Circuits and
Terms. All writs and process of every description issued or to be issued from,
or returnable to, any of the Circuit Courts in the counties now composing the
first judicial district, which writs or process have been or shall be tested, either
in the name of the late or the present judge of the said courts, or bearing test
of the times of the spring or fall terms of said courts, in the year 1845, either
as fixed by the act to which this is a supplement, or by the laws in force at the
time of the passe e thereof, and returnable to the fall terms of said courts for
the year 1845, eit er as the same are fixed by the act to which this is a supplement, or by the laws in force, prior to the passage thereof, or returnable to the
spring terms of said courts for the year 1846, shall be deemed and held to be
valid and regular to all intents and purposes, and shall not be quashed for any
irrggularities in the particulars above specified.

he provisions of this act shall apply to the several judicial districts of this
state.—A. 10, had made provision on this score.

An-r. 21. Second Section of an Act concerning Sherif ’s Returns in Wilkinson—Feb. 5, 1841.

The Act providingfor the hearing of Causes, when the Chancellor is Interested (c. 54, a. 14), applied to Circuit Courts. That the provisions of the
act entitled “ An Act to provide for the determination of certain causes in the
Superior Court of Chancery,” passed 20th day of February, 1840, so far as

they will a ply, be, and they are hereby extended to the Circuit Courts of the
State of ississippi.

ART. 22. An Act to Change the time of holding the Circuit Courts in the
Seventh Judicial District in this State—Feb. 7, 1848.

§ 1. That the Circuit Courts of the several counties in the seventh judicial
district in this state shall commence at the times, and may continue for the
terms hereinafter mentioned, to-wit: '

In the county of Tippah, on the first Mondays of March and September, in
each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so
long require, and no longer.

In the county of Tishamingo, on the third Mondays of March and September, in each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business
so lon require, and no longer.

In t e county of Itawamba, on the first Mondays of April and October, in
each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so
long require, and no longer.

In the county of Pontotoc, on the third Mondays of April and October, in
each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so
long require, and no longer.

In the county of Lafayette, on the first Monda after the fourth Monday
of April and October, in each and every year, an may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Panola, on the third Monday after the fourth Monday of
April and October, in each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial
da s, if business so long require, and no longer.—See a. 22.

n the count of De Soto, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday of
April and October, in each and every year, and may continue twelve judicial
da s, if business so long require, and no longer.

n the county of Marshall, on the third Mondays of January and July, in
each and every year, and may continue twenty-four judicial days, if business
so long require, and no longer.

2. hat the next term of the court in the counties of Tishamingo, Itawamba, Pontotoc, and Tippah, shall be held at the following named times, and continue for the term hereinafter mentioned, to wit:

In the county of Tishamingo, on the first Monday in March, A. D., 1848.
imd may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and n0
onger.

In the county of Itawamba, on the third Monday in March, 1848, and may
continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Pontotoc, on the first Monday in April next, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Tippah, on the third Monday in April next, and may 0011tinue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

And after the termination of the said next terms of the court, in the counties in this section mentioned, that the courts in said counties shall be held 3‘
the times and for the terms in the first section of this act mentioned.

3. Regulates returns of process, &c., corresponding with these change!’
(already permanently provided for in a, 10.)

4. Repeals acts in conflict, and gives this effect from its passage.

A supplement to the above act of Feb. 12, 1848 . . 69, provided {OT
twenty- our jurors, to the second week of the then next terms in Tishamln'
go, Itawamba, and Pontotoc, and :

§ 4. That at each term of the Circuit Courts of the said counties, there shall
be dfawn in the same manner as other jurors are required to be drawn,
twenty-four additional jurors for each of said counties, to serve as such on the
last week of said courts, and they shall be subject to the same penalties for a
failure to attend, and allowed the same compensation as other jurors.

ART. 23. An Act to Change the time of holding the Courts of the Sixth
' Judicial Circuit Court District—Feb. 9, 1848.

§ 1. That from and after the passage of this act, the Circuit Courts in the
Sixth judicial Circuit Court District of this state shall be held as follows, to
Wit : '

In the county of Chickasaw, on the first Mondays of March and September,
and continue each term twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and
no longer.

In Lowndes county, on the third Mondays of March and September, and
continue each term eighteen judicial days, if business so long require, and no
lon er.

Ii the county of Monroe, on the second after the fourth Monda s of March
and September, and continue eighteen judicial days each term, i business so
long require, and no longer.

In the county of Yallobusha, on the fifth after the fourth Mondays in March
and September, and continue each term twelve judicial days, if business so
long require, and no longer.

In Tallahatchie county, on the seventh after the fourth Monda s of March
and September, and may continue each term six judicial days, i business so

long require, and no longer.
In the county of Carroll, on the eighth after the fourth Monda s of March

and September, and continue twelve judicial days each term,i business so
long require and no longer.

In the county of Choctaw, on the tenth after the fourth Mondays of March
and September, and continue each term six judicial days, if business so long
re uire, and no lon er.

n the county 0 Octibbeha, on the eleventh after the fourth Mondays of
March and September, and continue six days, each term, if business so long
require, and no longer.

2. Regulated the return of process to the first of the new terms.—But see
a. 10. .

3. That the clerks and sheriffs of the counties of Chickasaw, Lowndes, and
Monroe, shall. in the presence of three respectable freeholders, proceed to draw
the number of ' jurors now provided by law, for the second week of the term
of the court in Chickasaw county, and for the third week of the term in the
counties of Lowndes, and Monroe, at least ten days before the term of the
Circuit Court in each county.

4. Act to operate from its passage.

Am. 24. An Act to Change the time of holding the Circuit Court in the Second
Judicial District of this State, and for other pu1j)oses—Jan. 22, 1848.

§ 1. That the Circuit Courts of the counties composing the second judicial
district shall he held as follows :

In the county of Harrison, on the third Mondays of March and September,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no lon er.

In the county of Hancock, on the fourth Mondays of March and Septem r,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

In the county of Marion, on the second Mondays in April and October, and
maiy continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.n the county of Pike, on the third Mondays in April and October, and may
continue six judicial days, if business so long re uire, and no longer.
ln the county of Lawrence, on the fourth ondays of April and October,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so long reqlpiire, and no longer.
In the county of Covington, on the first Mondays of ay and November,
and may continue six judicial days, if business so lon require, and no longer.
In the county of Smith, on the second Mondays 0 May and November, and

‘ may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no lon er.

In the county of Scott, on the third Mondays of Iay and Novem er, and
may continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.
In the county of Rankin, on the fourth Mondays of May and November, and
ma continue six judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.
11 the county of Simpson, on the first Mondays of June and December, and
ma continue six judicial days, if business so long re uire, and no longer.
lit the county of Copiah, on the second Mondays 0 June and December, and
may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.
2. Provided that these changes should take effect from and after the spring
terms of 1848.

Am‘. 25. An Act to amend an Act entitled an'Act to Re-organize the Judicial

Districts of this State, and for other purposes, approved 3d February, 1844,
¢§«:.—Feb. 1, 1848.

§ 1. That so much of the above-recited act as provides for the holding of the
Circuit Courts of Amite county on the first Mondays in March and September in each and ever year, and the Circuit Courts of Wilkinson county on
the first Mondays in une and December of each and every year, be repealed;
and hereafter the Circuit Courts of Amite county shall be holden on the fourth
Mondays in May and November in each and every year, and continue in session for twelve judicial days, if business so long require; and the Circuit Court
of Wilkinson county shall be holden on the second Mondays in June and December, and continue in session eighteen judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

2. That so much of the above-recited Act as allows the Circuit Courts of
Adams count to continue its sessions for twenty-four judicial days be repealed; and ereafter said Circuit Court of Adams county, at each session
thereof, shall continue in session for eighteen judicial days, if business so long
require, and no longer.

3. Regulated returns, &c., to first of new terms of Amite and VVilkinson—but see a. 10.

4. That in the counties of Amite and Wilkinson, whenever any tatzs juror
or jurors shall be summoned, and who shall serve on one or more juries for
the day, he or they may be so summoned and compelled to be in attendance
on said Circuit Courts; all such talis jurors thus serving shall be entitled to
and receive the same compensation as is now allowed by law to the jurors of
the regular venire : Provided, the sheriffs of said counties do not return to the

said Circuit Courts of the counties herein named any person or persons who
are not legal jurors by law.

5. Concerned Probate Court of Wilkinson.
6. Act to operate from its passage.

-behavior, divided the state into two districts, an eastern and western, and
prescribed the practice, &c., in that court, a. 2.

By the revised Constitution there is a Superior Court of Chancery for the
state, a chancellor elected by the people thereof for six years, when jurisdiction is defined, &c., IV, 16, 22, 27.

The Act Feb. 4, 1825 . . 133, Rep. 85, allowed a special term at Natchez,
and formed Monroe county into a separate chancery district. Repealed,
Feb. 5, 1827 . .142.

The Act Feb. 5, 1827.. 139, formed four chancery districts and appointed

_ the terms, &c. The Act Feb. 6, 1827 . . 150, reduced the chancellor’s salary
for absence. Both these superseded.

ART. 2. An Act to Establish a Court of Chancery in this State, and to Prescribe the Rules of Proceeding Therein—Nov. 27, 1821, H. c} H., 506.

§ 1. Established the court under the constitution of 1817. and is superseded.

2. Jurisdiction of the Court. The said court shall have exclusive jurisdiction
over all matters, pleas, and plaints, whatsoever, belonging to or cognisable in a
court of equity; and the chancellor shall have power, either in vacation or
term time, to grant writs of injunction to stay waste, to enjoin execution of'a
judgment, or to stay proceedings at law; to grant writs of ne exeat, and all
other remedial writs, returnable into said court, and properly belonging to a
Court of Chancery, and to hear and determine the same according to the rules
of proceeding hereinafter prescribed. See a. 10, s. 4.

3. Oath, &c., of the chancellor. Superseded.

4. The Eastern and Western districts. Superseded.

5. Transfer of the equity cases according to this arrangement. Expired.

6. When Chancellor Fails to Attend, Adjournment and all Cases Continued.
If the chancellor shall not attend on the first day of the term, such court shall
stand adjourned from day to day, until a court be made, if that shall happen
before four o’clock in the afternoon of the sixth day. And if a court shall not
sit in any term, or shall not continue to sit the whole term, or before the end
of the term, shall not have heard and determined all matters ready for its
decision, all suits, matters, and things, depending in court, and undecided, shall
stand continued to the next succeeding term. If, from any cause, the court
shall not sit on any day of the term after it shall have been opened, there shall be
no discontinuance; but, so soon as the cause is removed the court shall proceed to business until the end of the term, if the business depending before it be
not sooner despatched. T

7. When‘ the Chancellor is Interested, <§~c., he may Send the Case to the
Supreme Court. When the chancellor shall be interested in any cause
depending in the Superior Court of Chancery, or related to either of the parties,
or in any manner situated so as to render it improper, in his judgment, to
preside at the trial, it shall be the duty of the chancellor to enter upon the
record the cause of such unhtness, and that he is unwilling to preside at the
trial; and thereupon such cause shall he removed into the Supreme Court, and
such proceedings mpybe had therein as in other suits in chancery; and the
said Supreme our shall proceed to a decision thereon, and certify the same
to the Superior Court of Chancery of the proper district, to be there entered as
the final decree of the court in the cause, and execution may issue thereon as
in other cases.‘ But see a. 14, 23.

14. Process to any County. All process of every nature and kind, in cases
where the said courts shall have jurisdiction, may be directed to the sheriff or
other proper ofiicer, of any county in the state, and shall be by him executed

and returned to the court from which it emanated. And if there be more
than one defendant in any suit, the said suit may be instituted in the
district where either of them may reside; and the clerk shall and may issue
process against the other defendant or defendants, directed to the counties in
which they may be found; and on the return thereof, the like proceedings shall
be had as if all the defendants resided within such district.

15. Style, Teste, Execution of Process. The st 'le of all process issuin
from a Superior Court of Chancery shall be “The tate of Mississippi,” ang
shall be tested in the name of the chancellor, and bear teste on the first day of
the term next preceding that to which the same may be made returnable; and

the clerk issuing the same, shall mark thereon the day on which it shall be issued; and the s eriff or other ofiicer receiving the same shall mark thereon in
like manner the day he shall have received it ; and every clerk of a Superior
Court of Chancery, sheriff] or other ofiicer, neglecting so to do, shall forfeit
and pay the sum of two hundred dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, in
any court of record having cognizance thereof, with costs, by any person who
shall sue for the same. And all original process, and all subsequent process
thereupon, to bring any person or persons to answer to any suit, bill, or plaint,
in any Superior Court of Chancery, shall be issued and si ed by the clerk of
such court, with the seal of office thereto afiixed, and shall e returnable on the
first day of the term, next succeeding that at which the same shall bear teste,
and shall be executed at least fifteen days before the return-day thereof; and
any writ or process, which shall issue within fifteen days before the commencement of the term of a Superior Court of Chancery, shall be made returnable to
the term next after that to be held, within fifteen days as aforesaid, and not
otherwise; and all writs and process issued, made returnable, or executed in
any other manner, or at any other time than is hereinbefore directed, may be
abated u on the plea of the defendant. See a. 9.

16. I 'hen Process Tested in Clerk’s Name. Whenever the chancellor shall
be either complainant or defendant in any suit in a Superior Court of Chancery,
or, whenever the ofiice of chancellor shall be vacant, all process in any such
suit, shall bear teste in the name of the clerk of the district wherein such suit
may be commenced, anythino in this Act to the contrary notwithstanding.

17. Chancellor may hold 5efendant to Bail, and Reduce the Penalty, or Discharge the Bail. The chancellor shall have power to order any defendant or
defendants in chancery, to be held to bail, on good cause shown by afiidavit of
the complainant or otherwise, in such sum as shall appear to be reasonable, on
injunctions to stay waste, and all other suits in chancery, where, in the opinion
of such chancellor, justice requires that bail should be ordered ; and the clerk
shall endorse on the writ or other process, the order for such bail, which shall
be executed, taken and returned, by the sheriff or other officer of the proper
county, in the same manner, and under the same regulations, in all respects, as
are provided in a suit or action at common law, wherein bail is required. And
the chancellor shall have power, in vacation, to examine all answers to bills in
chancery; and if any defendant or defendants have been held to bail, he may
and he is hereby authorized, on application, to reduce or discharge such bail so
taken as aforesaid.

18. Service of Process when no Bail is Required. All writs and other pro
cess issuing out of any Superior Court of Chancery, where no bail is required,
shall be served in the same manner as writs and other process at common law.
where no bail is required, are directed to be served.

19. Chancellor to Arrange the Business of the Court and Prescribe its
Rules. The chancellor shall have power to arrange the business of said court,

iii each district, in the most convenient and equitable manner, and also to establish, from time to time, as occasion may require, such rules and orders for
the orderly conducting of the suits and pleadings, the taking of rules, and entering up decrees, by default or otherwise, and all other matters to be done in
vacation; so that the said rules be not repugnant to the constitution and laws

of this state, and are necessary_and proper to prevent delays in proceedings,
and for the advancement of justice.

20. Publication and Proceeding against Absent Defendant. If any of the
defendants, whether debtors or others, in any suit instituted in any Superior
Court of Chancery, should be absent from the state, the court may, nevertheless,
proceed to a hearing and decree therein, as in the case of absent debtors having effects within this state. And, in suits against such absent defendants, it
shall be lawful for the court in which the same may be depending, to direct
publication to be made in any newspaper printed within this state, which, in
the opinion of the court, is best calculated to apprise the absent defendant or
defendants of the pendency of such suit.

21. The Court's Superintendence, and its Jurisdiction as might be conferred by Statute. The said Superior Court of Chancery shall have general jurisdiction over all persons, and in all causes in chancery within the respective
districts, now pending therein, or which may hereafter be brought before it,
whether b original process, appeal from any Court of Probate, certiorari, or
other lega means, and also in such other cases, as by any statute are or shall
be made cognizable therein. But no person shall commence an original suit

in any matter of less value than fifty dollars, on pain of having the same dismissed with costs.

22. Its Control over the Clerh’s Action in Vacation. The said court, in term

time, may regulate all proceedings in the clerk’s offices, and for good cause

shown, may set aside any dismissions, and reinstate the suits, on such terms as
shall ap ar equitable.

23. rocess in Vacation on the Death of a Part;/—Rules—Publication.
Where any person, complainant, or defendant, in any suit depending in a Superior Court of Chancery, shall be dead, it shall be lawful for the clerk, during
the recess of the court, upon application, to issue process to bring into court
the representative of such deceased person; and decrees nisi, taking bills for
confessed orders of publication against absent defendants, and orders to proceed in the names of the representatives of deceased persons, may be entered
at rules in the -clerk’s office of the respective districts, subject to the control

of the court, in the same manner that other proceedings at the rules are subject to such control.

24. Issue at Bar, or in the Circuit Court, on matters of Fact. The chancellor, in his discretion, may direct an issue or issues to be tried whenever it
shall be judged necessary, either in the Superior Court of Chancery, or in any
other court whatsoever, as justice or convenience to the parties may require;
and in all other cases, the mode of trial shall be the same as has been heretofore used and practised in Courts of Chancery. See a. 28.

25. Commissioner of the Court. The said Superior Court of Chancery
shall have power, in cases requiring a report, to appoint commissioners in
Chancery, and to cause a reasonable allowance to be taxed therefor, in the bill
pfcosts; and the same shall be collected and paid in the manner prescribed by
aw.

26. Account directed in Vacation—No Argument. The Chancellor may

direct an account to be taken, in any cause depending in a Superior Court of
Chancery, in vacation, whenever such account would be directed if the court

were in session ; and whenever a commissioner engaged in taking an account
in vacation, shall doubt as to the principles on which the account shall be
taken, or shall doubt of the propriety of admitting any item of debit or credit,
contended for by a party, a commissioner may state in writing, the points on
which he shall doubt, and submit the same to the chancellor in vacation, who
may thereupon decide the question or questions so submitted to him, and the
commissioner shall govern himself accordingly ; but on such points submitted,
the Chancellor shall hear no arguments of counsel, except by consent of parties. ’

27. Commissioners may Administer Oath. Commissioners in Chancery
shall be, and they are hereby, empowered, to administer an oath or affirmation,
in all cases to them referred by a Superior Court of Chancery, or by the chancellor in vacation, wherein it shall be necessary to examine witnesses on oath
or affirmation ; and if an person sworn or afiirmed by any of the said commissioners, by virtue of this Act, shall give an evidence, under such circumstances as would have constituted the same to he perjury, if given in the presence of a Court of Record, the same shall be deemed perjury to all intents
and purposes.

28. Commissioner may Summon and Coerce Attendance of Witnesses. Commissioners in Chancery shall and may issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend
before them, to be executed and returned in like manner as subpoenas issued
by the clerks of the Circuit Courts of law; andif a subpaana be issued by a
commissioner in Chancery, and served upon the witness or witnesses named
therein, and he, she, or they shall fail to attend, according to the requisitions
of such subpmna, such commissioner shall report such default; and thereupon
such proceedings shall be had, before the court to which such report shall be
made, as would be had if such witness or witnesses had been summoned to any
Circuit Court to give evidence on a trial therein depending, and had made
default : and, moreover, such witness or witnesses shall be liable to such action
for dama es, at the suit of the party aggrieved, as he, she, or they would have
been liab e to for a default in any Circuit Court in this state. _

29. Fees for Copies of Reports of Commissioners. The commissioners in
Chancery shall be authorized to charge for copies of reports, or such other
papers as the parties in the suits referred to them may require, the same fees
as the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery whence they receive their appointment, is authorized to charge by law for similar services: whiehshall be
collected and accounted for in the same manner as the fees of the said clerk:
Provided, Such charges shall be confined to the services for which no allowance shall be made by the rules of the Superior Court of Chancery establishing the fees of such commissioners; and such fees being certified to the clerk of
the proper district, shall be charged in the bill of costs, if the same would have
been so chargeable in case the same services had been performed by such clerk;
and every commissioner, for asking, demandin , or receiving any other or further fees for services performed. than those al owed by law, or for asking, demanding, or receiving any fees for services not performed, shall be liable to the
same penalties and proceedings as clerks of the Circuit Courts are liable to in
like cases. _ ,

30. Chancellor might certify a matter to the Supreme Court for its decision. Superseded. _ _

31. Chancellor may Appoint Two in each County to take Deposztions. The
chancellor may authorize and empower two or more persons in each county
within this state, to take the depositions of witnesses, in any cause or causes
depending in a Superior Court of Chancery, the clerk whereof shall issue the

proper commissions to the persons so appointed, who shall, for such service or
services, be allowed by the chancellor, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed
in the bill of costs, and collected and accounted for in the same manner as the
fees of the said clerk.

32. Power of those County Commissioners in Chancery. The said commissioners are hereby empowered to administer an oath or affirmation in all such cases
wherein it shall be necessary to examine and take the depositions of witnesses, on
oath or affirmation ; and if any person sworn or afiirmed by any of the said
commissioners by virtue of this Act, shall give any evidence, under such circumstances, as would have constituted the same to be perjury, if given in the
presence of a Court of Record, the same shall be deemed perjury to all intents
and purposes; and the said commissioners shall and may issue subpoenas for
witnesses to attend before them, to be executed and returned in like manner as
subpoenas issued by the clerks of the Circuit Courts of law ; and if a subpcena
be issued by commissioners under the authority of this Act, and served upon
the witness or witnesses named therein, and he, she, or they shall fail to attend
according to the requisition of such subpoana, such commissioner shall report
such default; and thereupon such proceedin s shall be had before the court
to which such report shall be made, as woul be had if such witness or witnesses had been summoned to a Circuit Court of law, to give evidence on a
trial therein dependin , and had made default : and, moreover, such witness or
witnesses shall be lia le to such action or dam es, at the suit of the party
aggrieved, as he, she, or they would have been lia le to for a default in court
as aforesaid: Provided, That no witness shall be compelled by any subpaana
from such commissioner to go out of the count in which he resides.

33. Sale may be for Cash or on Credit—C’onveyance when Decreed, and
its Eject. The Superior Court of Chancery, in all cases where a sale of property is decreed, may direct the same to be made for cash, or on such credit.
and on such terms as may be deemed best ; and whenever, in any suit
in Equity, it shall be proper to decree the execution of any deed or other
writing, it shall be lawful for the court to appoint a commissioner or commissioners to execute the same ; and the execution thereof by such commissioner
or commissioners, shall be as valid in law, to pass, release, or extinguish the right,
title, and interest of the party on whose behalf it is executed, as if it had been
executed by such party in proper person, and as if such party had been at the
time capable in law, of executing the same : Provided, however, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to alter, abridge, or in any manner affect
the right of infants or absent defendants, or of any other person or persons to
show cause against any such decree, or to contest or reverse the same, within
the same time, and in the same manner as if this Act had never passed.

But there is redemption, c. 62, a. 20 ; see also, a. 12, s. 4, of this chapter;

also, a. 17, 19.

34. Appeals on Final Orders or Decrees. Whensoever any person or persons, body politic or corporate, being complainant or defendant, shall think
himself, herself, or themselves aggrieved by the decree or final order of 3
Superior Court of Chancery, in any suit or controversy whatsoever, where
the debt of anything claimed or recovered, exclusive of costs, shall be of the
value of two hundred dollars, or where land, slaves, or other specific property.
of the value aforesaid, shall be the subject of the suit, decree, or final order.
such person or persons, body politic or corporate, may enter an appeal to the
Supreme Court, from such decree or final order; and before granting any such
appeal, the party praying the same, his, or their agent or attornev, shall enter
into bond with sufficient security, to be approved by the Chancellor in a reasonable penalty, with condition to pay, satisfy, and perform the decree or final
order of the Superior Court of Chancery, and all costs, in case the same be
affirmed.

See c. 63, class IV., for Appellate practice.

35. Appeal within One Month after Decree. Any party thinking himself
aggrieved by a decree of a Superior Court of Chancery, and not having entered an appeal from the decree at the time it was pronounced, may appeal
from such decree at any time within one month after decree pronounced,
lodging, for that purpose, with the clerk of the Supreme Court, a copy of the
proceedings in the suit, and a petition suggesting error in the decree, signed
by the party, or some counsel attendin the Supreme Court ; and also, lodging
with the petition a bond, executed by t e appellant or his agent, with good and
sufiicient security, to be approved by one of the judges of the Supreme Court,
with the like condition as is annexed to other appeal bonds in Chancery ; and
the clerk of the Supreme Court shall thereupon issue a summons against the
appellee, requiring him to appear and answer the said appeal, and shall also
issue a supersedeas, if necessary, to enjoin from proceeding in the execution
of the decree ; and the court shall and may hear and determine the appeal, in
the same manner as if the appeal had been entered at the time the decree was
pronounced.

See c. 63, class IV., for Appellate practice.

35. Petitions for Appeals when Allowed within Three Years. The Supreme Court, or any judge thereof, in vacation, shall have power, for good
good cause shown, to allow a petition of appeal, and if necessary, order a
snpersedeas to stop the execution of any decree pronounced by a Superior
Court of Chancery, at any time within three years after pronouncing the
same : the party praying such appeal and supersedeas complying with the
terms which the said court or judge thereof shall annex to such order.

See c. 63, class IV., for Appellate practice.

37. Appeals on Interlocutory Order or Decree. In any cause dependin in
a Superior Court of Chancery, wherein any interlocutory order or decree jiall
be made, it shall be lawful for such court, or the chancellor in vacation, at any
time before a final decree in the cause, to grant an appeal to the Supreme
Court from such interlocutory order or decree, in the same manner, and upon
the same conditions, as if a final decree had been made: Provided, That, by
such interlocutory order or decree, money is required to be paid, or the possession or title of property to be changed, or that the court or the chancellor
shall think such appeal proper, in order to settle the principles of the cause, or
to avoid expense and delay; and if the Superior Court of Chancery, or the
chancellor in vacation, shall refuse an appeal from such interlocutor ' order or
decree, it shall be lawful for the Supreme Court, or an judge thereof? in vacation, upon petition, to grant an appeal from such inter ocutory order or decree,
for any error therein, and to award the proper process thereupon, in the manner
and upon the conditions prescribed by law, for granting appeals from final
decrees.

38. Power of the Court to Decree Interest. The Superior Court of Chancery,
or Supreme Court having jurisdiction, shall have power and authority in all
cases where, by any final decree, any sum or sums of money are directed to be
paid to either party, to award interest until the same shall be paid ; any law or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

39. Damages of Ajirmance to Appellee. The Supreme Court, in all cases
where any decree rendered for any sum of money by a Superior Court of
Chancery, and on an appeal therefrom the same be aflirmed, shall award to the

appellee damages, at the rate of ten per centum per annum, on the whole
amount (inclu ing the costs) for which such decree was rendered, from the

time the appeal was obtained until the aflirmance in the Supreme Court in
satisfaction of all damages or interest ; and legal interest from that time until

the same shall be paid. But reduced to 5 per cent. a. 19, s. 8.

40. Release of Errors before Injunction of Judgment. cf-c., on Dissolution
Bill Dismissed—Dam.ages on Dissolution. No injunction shall be granted to
stay an execution of a judgment at law, unless the party applying for such
injunction, or to be benefitted thereby, shall first sign and seal a release of
errors in such judgment at law, and file the same in the office of the clerk of
the court in which such judgment shall have been obtained ; and whenever an
injunction shall be dissolved, damages after the rate of six per centum shall be
added to the amount of the judgment: Provided, The court be of opinion that
the injunction was obtained for dela . And in all cases where any injunction
shall be wholly dissolved, the bill o the complainant shall stand dismissed, of
course, with costs, unless sufficient cause is shown against its dismiss-ion at the
next succeeding term of the court. And it shall be the duty of the clerk of
such court to enter such dismission on the last day of the term aforesaid. Reduced to five per centum, a. 19, s. 8.

41. 1)amages on Dissolution of Injunction. Where any injunctions shall be
obtained to stay the proceedings on any judgment at law, rendered in any of
the courts in this state, for money, and such injunction shall be dissolved
wholly or in part, damages as aforesaid from the time the injunction was
awarded until the dissolution, shall be paid to the party on whose behalf the
judgment was obtained, on such sum as appears to be due, including the costs.
And the clerk ofthe Superior Court of Chancery wherein such injunction shall
be depending shall, on the dissolution thereof, certify to the clerk of the court
wherein judgment was obtained, the order of dissolution, as also the time of
granting and dissolving the injunction, and the clerk shall issue the execution
according to the provisions of this Act: Provided, nevertheless, That where
the injunction is granted to obtain a discovery, or any part of the judgment
shall remain enjoined, the court wherein the injunction shall be depending may,
if it appear just, direct that no such damages shall be paid by the complainant,
or such proportion as, according to equity, the court may deem expedient ; and
the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, or the court by whom
execution shall be awarded, shall govern themselves accordingly. See a.
19, s. 8.

42. Ne Event and Proceedings Tltereon. Writs of ne e.z:eat, shall not be
granted, but upon a bill filed and aliilavit made to the truth of its allegations,
which being produced to the court in term time, or to the chancellor in vacation, such writ may be granted or refused as shall seem just; and if granted he
shall direct to be endorsed thereon, in what penalty bond and security shall be
required of the defendant; and if the defendant shall, by answer, satisfy the
court that there is no reason for his restraint, or give sullicient security to
perform the decree, the writ may be discharged; or it may be discharged in
ike manner by the chancellor in vacation: Provided, Reasonable notice be
given to the adverse party, of the time and place of making the motion.

43. Injunctions of Proceedin.gs at Law. No injunction shall be granted to
stafg proceedings in any suit at law, unless the matter in dispute be of value
su czent to admit of original jurisdiction in the Superior Court of Chancery;
nor unless the court in term time, or the chancellor in vacation, shall be
satisfied of the complainant’s equity, either by afiidavit certified at the foot of the

bill, that the allegations thereof are true, or by other means and shall order the
same. See a. 6, 17, 19, 29.

43. Injunction Bond, <§~c. Where any injunction shall be granted, the
clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery shall endorse on the subpmna, that the
effect thereof is to be suspended, until the‘part obtaining the same shall give
bond with sufiicient security, in the ofiice of t e court in which judgment to
be enjoined shall have been obtained. And the party obtaining the injunction
shall then enter bond with sufficient security, to be approved by the chancellor,
or judge granting the injunction, and file the same in the clerk’s ofiice of the
court in which the proceedings at law were had, conditioned for paying all
money and costs due, or to become due, to the plaintiff in the action at law,
and also all such costs and damages, as shall be awarded against him or her, in
case the injunction shall be dissolved ; and the clerk of such court shall endorse
on the subpoena and injunction that the bond is filed. See a. 19.

45. When Guardian ad litem Appointed, Not Liable for Costs.—The _court
before whom any suit in equity is depending, shall have power to appoint any
person they may think fit, to be guardian ad (item to any infant, or insane defendant in such suit, whether such infant, or insane defendant shall have been
served with process or not, and to compel the person so appointed to act: Provided, however, That such guardian ad litem shall not be liable to the payment
of costs, and that he shall have his reasonable charges allowed him bv the court,
to be paid by the party at whose motion he was appointed, and to be taxed in
the bill of costs.

47. Process-Book—Process transmitted to Proper Counties. The clerk of
the Superior Court of Chancery, of each district, shall keep a process-book, in
which he shall regularly note all process issued by him, whether final or mesne,
and all orders and decrees which he shall issue, together with the dates thereof,
the time of issuing the same from the office, and the person to whom delivered,
or to whom transmitted. In this book he shall take a receipt for all process,
orders, and decrees, delivered to the sheriff or other ofiicer. And all process,
orders, and decrees, not so delivered, unless when it shall be otherwise directed
by the party or his attorney, shall be sent b the clerk to the sheriff or other
proper officer, of the county within which t ey are to be executed. They shall
be transmitted by the mail, postacre paid, and the date of the transmission shall
be noted in the process-book; and the clerk shall keep a regular account of the
moneys so paid by him for postage, which he may render to the court, ‘from
time to time, at intervals not exceeding eighteen months; and such accounts,
when distinctly made out, and verified by the oath or afiirmation of the clerk
if deemed correct by the court, shall be allowed, and ordered to be paid by the
parties chargeable therewith. The entry of an order to this effect, in open court,
shall be deemed notice to all concerned; and if any person shall fail to pay the
sum, with which such person stands charged, within sixty days, an execution
may be issued for the same, as in case of a judgment, with interest at the rate
of ten per centum per annum.

48. Contempt of Court. The Superior Court of Chancery shall have power
to punish any person who may be guilty of a contempt of such court, in like
manner as if such contempt had been committed against a circuit court of law.
See c. 53, a. 2, s. 177. _

49. IV/zat Jail and Jailor of the Court. In all cases the jail of the county in
which a Superior Court of Chancery shall sit, shall be used as the jail of such
court; and the keeper of the jail of such county shall act as jailor for the said
Superior Court of Chancery, and shall attend it during its sessions, be amenable to
its authority, and be obedient to its lawful orders. He shall take into his custody

all persons committed by the order of the said court, or by any process issuing

from such court. _
50. Duties of Sherifs in Relation to the Orders and Process of this Court.

The sheriff of the county in which a Superior Court of Chancery shall sit, shall
execute all orders and decrees rendered by such court; provided such orders
and decrees are by law to be executed in the said county ; and shall, in all respects, act as sheriff -of the said court. And it shall be the duty of the sheriff
of each county within this state, to execute and duly to return all process, orders, and decrees, which shall be directed to him from any Superior Court of

. Chancery, in the same manner, and under the like penalties, as are prescribed

in the case of process, judgments, or decrees of a Circuit Court of law; and
also to execute all notices relating to suits in chancery, all decrees ‘for the sale
of property within his county, made by a Superior Court of Chancery, unless
the court shall appoint special commissioners for that purpose.

5],. Constables of the Court. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of the county
in which a Superior Court of Chancery shall sit, to summon two constables to
attend such court, who shall attend accordingly, or pay a fine, at the discretion

of the court, not exceeding ten dollars.

54. Minutes Read and Signed—Complete Final Record. For preventing errors in enterin up the decrees and orders of said courts, the proceedings of
each day shallie drawn up at large by the clerk, and read in open court the
next day, (except those of the last day of each term, which shall be drawn up,
read, and corrected, the same day,) and any necessary corrections made therein; when they shall be signed by the chancellor, and preserved among the records. And for the more entire and better preservation of the records of the
court, the clerk shall, within three months after any suit shall be finally determined, enter all the pleadings therein, and other matters relating thereto together, in a book to be kept for that purpose, so that an entire and perfect
record be made thereof; and those wherein the titles to lands are determined,
shall be entered in separate books to be kept for that purpose only ; and every
clerk of a Superior Court of Chancery, who shall fail or neglect to perform the
duty herein required, shall be liable to the penalties prescribed in the case of a
clerk of a Circuit Court, for failing to make up a full and complete record of a
jtgcflgment rendered in a suit or action at common law. Amended, c. 63, class

., a. 4, s. 1,2.

55. Depositions before Answer, Witness being Aged, Infirm, or going out of
State. After any bill filed, and before the defendant hath answered, upon oath
made that any of the complainant’s witnesses are aged and infirm, or going out
of the state, the clerk may issue a commission for taking the examination of
such witness de bene esse; the party praying such commission, giving reasonable notice to the adverse party, of the time and place of taking the depositions.
See a. 12, s. 2.

56. Repealed—February 12, 1828, s. 1 . . 64.

57. Deposition of Witness Residing out of the State taken on Interrogatories.
If any party to a suit depending in equity, shall desire to take the deposition of
any witness residing out of the state, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the court
in which such suit shall be depending, upon application of the party, to issue a
commission, to any judge, justice of the peace, or notary public, in the state,
territory, or dominion, in which the witness may reside, to take such deposition
on interrogatories: Provided, That the party applying for such commission,
shall file his interrogatories in the clerk’s office, and serve the opposite party,
his agent, or attorney, with a copy thereof, with notice of the day on which
such commission will issue, at least ten days before the same shall issue; in

which time the opposite party may file his cross-interrogatories; and a certified
copy of such interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, if any there be, shall accompany such commission; and if any deposition taken as aforesaid, shall contain any testimony, but the answers to such interrogatories, the same shall be
deemed surplussage, and shall not be read in evidence. And any question put
to the witness or witnesses, in such interrogatories, and the answer thereto, shall
be subject to all legal objections, on the trial of the cause, in which any deposition is taken as aforesaid, and may be admitted or rejected by the court as in
other cases: and all depositions taken as aforesaid, shall be sworn or affirmed
to, certified, authenticated and returned, in the same manner, in all respects, as
is provided in the case of like deposition taken in a Circuit Court of law.

58. When Defendant’s Appearance Entered, and when Copy of Decree Served. If any defendant or defendants shall be in custody upon any process of
contempt, and be brought into court by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus, or
other process, and shall refuse or neglect to enter his or her appearance, according to the rules of the court, or appoint an attorney of the court to do the same
for him, the court in such case may direct an attorney to enter an appearance
for the defendant or defendants, and thereupon such proceedings may be had as
if he or they had actually entered an appearance, but if such defendant or defendants shall be in custody, at the time a decree shall be made, upon refusal or
neglect to enter an appearance, or to appoint an attorney as aforesaid, or shall
be forthcoming so as to be served with a copy of the decree, then such defendant or defendants shall be served with a copy of the decree, before any process
shall be taken out to compel the performance thereof; and if such defendant or
defendants shall die in custody before such service, then his heir, if any real
estate be sequestered or affected by such decree, or if only personal estate, his
executor or administrator shall be served with a copy, in a reasonable time after
such death shall be known to the complainant, and who is such heir, executor

or administrator.

59. Proceedings may be Stayed on Bill of Review filed or referred. And
whereas, upon bills of review in the Superior Court of Chancery, the chancellor may think it reasonable. during the pendency of such bills, or until cause
shall be shown to the contrary, to sta proceedings on the decrees, which such bills
are intended to review: Be it there are enacted, That in such case the chancellor,
either in term time or vacation, when a bill praying a review of the proceedings, in which a decree shall have been pronounced by the said court, shall be
presented to him, may, upon such bill, and the circumstances of the case, as the
same shall appear satisfactory to him, direct the proceedings on such decree to
be stayed, until a decree on the said bill of review shall be made, or until the
further order of the chancellor ; or he may refuse to grant a stay of proceedin s
in that case, as to him shall seem right: Provided, That the chancellor sha l,
in either of the said ‘cases, direct such security to be given, and in such place as is
usual in the cases of appeal and injunction, or such other security as to him
shall seem to be reasonable.

60. When and what Final Process to Issue, and Penalties for not Executimg it. After a final decree in any suit depending in any Superior Court of
Chancery, for lands, slaves, money, or things of a specific nature, if no commissioner or commissioners be appointed to carry such decree into effect, the clerk of
such court shall. at the request of the party in whose favor such decree shall
have been rendered, issue any writ of _/ieri facias, capias ad satisfaciendum,
habere facias possessionem, or other final process, according to the nature of
the case, directed to the sheriff or other officer of the proper county; which
writ, so issued, shall be executed and returned by the sheriff or other officer,

to whom the same shall be directed, and shall have the same operation, and
possess the same force, to all intents and purposes, as similar writs issued upon
a judgment at common law ; and the sheriff or other officer, to whom the
‘same 18 directed, shall be subject to the like penalties and recoveries for misconduct or neglect, and the court shall exercise the same powers as if the said
writ had issued upon a judgment at common law.

61. Proof in Proceeding against Sherif In any proceedings against a
sheriff or other officer, for failing to return any process, order, or decree, proof
that such process, order, or decree, was put into the post-office, duly addressed

, to him, and that the postage thereon was paid, shall be sufficient evidence of

the receipt thereof by such officer, unless he will make oath or affirmation that
he did not himself receive it, and that he verily believes it was not received by
any of his de uties.

62. Costs ow Decreed. The Superior Court of Chancery shall have power, on the final determination of any suit in Equity, to decree that either party
shall pay the costs in such suit, or that the same be divided, as may appear to
be equitable and just.

64. Seal 0 the Court. The executive of the state shall cause to be provided a sea for the use of the Superior Court of Chancery for each district,
with the style of the court around the margin, and an eagle in the centre;
and the sum necessary to procure such seals shall be paid, on the order of the
executive, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

65. Repealed all conflicting laws.

ART. 3. An Act Directing the Method of Proceeding in Courts of Equity
against Absent Debtors, and other Absent Defendants, and for Regulating
the Proceedings on Attachments against Absconding Debtors—Junc 7, 1822.

§ 1. Proceedings against Non-residents who have Property in this State.
If, in any suit which hath been, or hereafter shall be commenced, for relief in
Equity, in any Superior Court of Chancery, or in any other court, against any
defendant or defendants who are out of this state, and others within the same_.
having in their hands effects of, or otherwise indebted to, such absent defendant or defendants, or rrainst any such absent defendant or defendants having
lands or tenements tvifhin the state, and the appearance of such absentees be
not entered, and security given to the satisfaction of the court for performing
the decrees, upon affidavit that such defendant or defendants are out of the
state, or that upon inquiry at his, her, or their usual place of abode, he, she, or
they could not be found, so as to be served with process : in all such cases such
court ma make any order, and require surety, if it shall appear necessary, to
restrain t e defendants in this state from paying, conveying away, or secreting
the debts by them owing to, or the effects in their hands of such absent defendant or defendants, and, for that purpose, ma order such debts to be paid,
and effects to be delivered to the said plaintiff or plaintiffs, upon their giving suflicient securit for the return thereof to such persons, and in such manner as the court shal direct.

2. Day for Appearance and Publication—Bill taken as Confessed. The
court shall also appoint some day in the succeeding term for the absent defendant or defendants to enter his or their appearance to the suit, and give security
for performing the decree; a copy of which order shall, by direction of the
court, he forthwith published in any newspaper within this state, the circulation of which shall, in the opinion of the court, be best calculated to apprize the absent defendant or defendants of the pendency of such suit, and
continued for two months successively; and another copy thereof shall be

posted at the front door of such court, or such order of ublication may be
entered at rules held in the clerk’s office of any Superior ourt of Chancery,
subject.to the control of the court, in the same manner that other proceedings
at the rules are subject to such control. If such absent defendants shall not
appear and give such security, within the time limited, or such further time as
the court. may allow for good cause shown, the court may proceed to take
such proof as the complainant shall offer; and if they shall thereupon be satisfied of the justness of the demand, they may order the bill to be taken as confessed, and make such order and decree therein, as shall appear just, and may
enforce due performance and execution thereof, by such ways and means as
have heretofore been used for enforcing other decrees, requiring the plaintiff
or plaintiffs to give security as the court shall approve, for abiding such future
order as may be made for restoring the estate or effects to the absent defendant or defendants, upon his or their appearance and answering the bill ; and if
the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall refuse to give, or not be able to procure such
security, the effects shall remain under the direction of the court, in the hands
of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a time as the court shall appoint, and

shall then be finally disposed of, in such manner as to the court shall seem
just.

»3. Sale of Realty gf such Non-Resident Defendant to be on Prior Valuation,
and Security by the omplainant. No sale, however, of any lands or tenements
belonging to any such defendant shall be decreed for the satisfaction of any debt
appearing to be due from him, unless the personal fund in the power of the court
shall be insufficient for that purpose; nor shall any such sale be decreed until such
lands or tenements shall have been fairly valued by discreet commisioners, for
that purpose appointed by the court, and acting upon oath, and the valuation so
made shall have been returned into court; nor shall such sale be decreed until
the plaintiff, or some one for him, shall have filed in court, or in the clerk’s office,
bond, with good security, in double the value of such lands or tenements, for
performing the future orders and decrees of the court in that behalf.

4. Rehearsing in such Case after Decree. If any person or persons, who
shall be out of the state at the time an decree is pronounced as aforesaid, shall,
within five years from the passing sue decree, return and appear openly; or
in case of his or her death, if his or her heir, executor or administrator, shall,
within the said five years, be and appear openly within this state, the plaintiff or
plaintiffs, their executors or administrators, shall serve such person or persons, so
returning or appearing, with a copy of the decree, within a reasonable time
after such return or appearance shall be known to the plaintiff or plaintiffs;
and thereupon, such defendant or defendants, or their representatives, may within
twelve months after such service, or those defendants not served with a copy,
or their representatives, may within five years after the decree pronounced, appear in court, and petition to have the cause re-heard; and upon their paying
down, or giving security for payment of such costs, as the court shall think reasonable, they shall be admitted to answer the bill, and issue may be joined, and
witnesses on both sides examined, and such other proceedings, decree and execution had, as may be just and right in the cause; but if the several defendants or
their representatives, upon whom the decree shall be so served, shall not, within
twelve months after such service, and the other defendants or their representatives, upon whom no such service is made, shall not within five years from the
time of the decree pronounced, appear and petition to have the cause re-heard
as aforesaid, and pay, or secure to be paid, such costs as the court shall think
reasonable, all and every decree, to be made in pursuance of this act, against

any defendant or defendants so failing, shall stand absolutely confirmed against
him, her or them, and at the end of such term, the court may make such further
order for quieting the plaintiff or plaintiffs, in any such suits, possession and title to
estate and effects so sequestered or made liable, as to them shall seem reasonable.
5. Publication against Non-Residents Generally. In all cases whatever,
where a suit is or shall be depending in a Superior Court of Chancery, or other
court of Equit , concerning any matter or thing whatever, against any absent
defendant or defendants, the court may, on satisfactory proof to them made,
that such defendant or defendants is or are out of this state, or that upon inqui_ ry at his, her or their usual place of abode, he, she or they could not be found,

make any order similar to that which is directed to be made in case of absent
debtors, adapting the same to the nature of the case; a copy of which order
shall be published in like manner as is directed in case of absent debtors; and
thereupon the proceedings in relation to such absent defendants, shall be in all respects the same, both before and after the decree, as are above precribed in relation to absent debtors, so far as such proceedings against absent debtors shall
be applicable to other absent defendants.

Am‘. 4. The Twenty-Second Section of the Act to Suppress G'aming—Junc
18, 1812.

The Courts of Equity shall hereafter have jurisdiction in all cases of gambling consideration, so far as to sustain a bill for discovery. or to enjoin judgments at law.

Arr. 5. The bill and proceedings for Divorce and Alimony, under Act,
June 14, 1822, and the cts of 1840. See c. 34. Husband and wife, a.
2, 5, 6.

ART. 6. Supplement of Article Two——Feb. 4, 1825.

§ 1. On Application for Injunction of a Judgment, Five Days’ Notice and
Copy of Bill Served, or Injunction or Supersedeas Dismissed. Hereafter, it
shall not be lawful for any judge of the Supreme Court. or chancellor for the
state, to issue or grant any injunction, to sta any judgment or execution at
law, until the defendant, or opposite party, shal have received five days’ notice
of such application, and the service of a true copy of said bill of injunction, or
petition for said supersedeas; and it shall be lawful for the defendants, in any
such bill of injunction or supersedeas, to answer the same, and be entitled to a
hearing, before any such judge or chancellor at his chamber.

Any injunction or supersedeas, granted without due proof of the notice, and
service of a copy of an bill or petition for supersedeas, as is required by the
aforesaid section, shall e dismissed, on motion of the party aggrieved. But
these virtually superseded. See a. 17, 19, 29.

ART. 7. An Act Authorizing Proceedings in certain Cases therein named
against Unknown Heirs—Feb. 4, 1825.

Whereas, great inconvenience arises to suitors in Courts of Equity within
this state, from not being able to bring before the court, unknown heirs.
whose interest in the controversy, renders it necessary to make them parties.
Therefore,

Whenever it may be necessary for the attainment of full and complete justice, between the parties of any suit in chancery, to introduce the heirs of a deceased person, and where the name or names of such heirs are unknown to the
complainant or complainants, then, and in that case, upon the aflidavit being

made, and filed in the clerk’s oflice of the Chancery Court, by such complainant
or complainants, with his bill, that such heirs are unknown to him or them, it
may be lawful for said heirs to be entered as parties to the suit, by a general
description of the unknown heirs of such an ancestor; and such unknown heirs
shall stand in the same situation and be proceeded against by publication or
otherwise, in like manner as non-resident defendants are proceeded against.

ART. 8. An Act to Extend to Suits in Chancery the Seventieth and Seventy‘
First Sections of the Circuit Court Act of June 28, 1822, Relative to Security
for Costs—Feb. 7, 1828. i

From and after the passage of this Act, all the provisions of the seventieth
and seventy-first sections of the above recited Act are extended to and shall be
the rules of practice in and for the Chancery Courts of this state, and the said
Chancery Courts shall have all the powers therein given to the Circuits Courts
of law. See c. 58, a. 1, s. 70.

ART. 9. Amendment of Article Two—Feb. 12, 1828.

§ 2. If Process Served Twenty Days before Term, Defendant to Answer
within First Three Days thereof. In all causes now pending, or which shall
hereafter be commenced in any Superior Court of Chancery in this state, in
which the subpcena, or leading process shall have been executed upon the defendant or defendants, at least twenty days before the term to which the same
is made returnable, the defendant or defendants shall appear, answer or demur,
on or before the third day of such return term; and in case of default thereof,
the complainant’s bill ma be taken pro confesso, and set for hearing at the same
term; and such pro con/lisso, so taken, shall not be set aside, unless upon good
cause shown and payment of costs: Provided, however, That upon application,
further time may be given by the court to defendant or defendants, to appear
and answer, plead or demur, on good cause shown, by afiidavit or otherwise.

3. 012 Pro Confesso or Answer, Parties may take Depositions. After any
bill in chancery shall have been taken pro confesso as aforesaid, the complainant may immediately proceed to take depositions of witnesses, as in other cases;
and in all causes in chancery, after answer or plea filed, either party may immediatel proceed to take depositions of witnesses, under such rules as are now,
or shall hereafter be established by the chancellor, and all such causes shall be
triable at the term succeedin that to which the subpcena was made returnable.

4. Compensation of Sheri , 4~c.,how Allowed and Paid. Whenever it shall
be the duty, by law, of any sheriff] constable, or other oflicer, to attend upon
any of the Superior Courts of Chancery while in session, such sheriff, constable,
or other otlicer shall, for his services, be entitled to the same compensation as is
now allowed for similar services in the Circuit Courts, which compensation shall
be paid out of the treasury of this state, when the accounts of such sheriff or
constable shall have been allowed b the chancellor, and the Auditor is hereby
authorized to draw his warrant on t e treasury for the same.

Section Ten of Amendment of Circuit Court Act of Dec. 16, 1830.

Process returnable to the Chancery Court may be Opened by Clerk of Circuit
Court. All process issuable out of, and returnable, to the Court of Chancery in
this state, may hereafter be issued by the clerks of the Circuit Courts respectively, and made returnable to the Court of Chancery.

ART. 10. An Act to Establish and Organize a Separate Su erior Court of
Chancery, and Define the Powers and Jurisdiction thereof—-Jaarch 2. 1833.

§ 1. The Court Established. There shall be established in this state, a court
to be styled the Superior Court of Chancery of the State of Mississippi, which
shall consist of one judge, to be denominated the Chancellor of the State of
Mississippi, who shall be elected by the qualified voters of the state, and shall
hold his office for the term prescribed b the constitution, and shall receive for
his services the sum of two thousand ollars per year, payable quarterly from

the treasury of the state.
2. Election of Chancellor. The first and all future elections of Chancellor,

shall be conducted in the manner and places that may be prescribed by law;
and all contested elections for Chancellor shall be determined in the same manner, that now is or may hereafter be prescribed for contesting the election of
Governor.

3. His Oath. The Chancellor, before he enters upon the duties of his
office, shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the constitution, which
oath may be administered before the executive, or any 'udge of the High
Court of Errors and Appeals, or any judge of the Circuit ourt, or justice of
the peace, and a certificate of the same shall be filed in the ofiice of the Secre:
tary of State, and any Chancellor who shall sit in said Superior Court of
Chancery without first having taken and subscribed said oath, shall be deemed
ggiilty of a high misdemeanor, for which he shall be liable to be removed from
o ce.

4. Jurisdiction of the Court. The said Superior Court of Chancery, shall
have jurisdiction over all matters, pleas, and plaints whatsoever, belonging to,
or cognisable in, a Court of Equity, and the Chancellor shall have p0We1‘,
either in vacation or term time, to grant writs of injunction to stay waste, to
enjoin execution of judgment or stay proceedings at law, to grant writs of ne
exeat, and all other remedial writs returnable to said court, and properly belonging to a Court of Equity, and to hear and determine the same; and the
Chancellor shall also have power, either in vacation or term time, to punish
any person for breach of injunction, either by fine or imprisonment: Provided, That any person so punished by the order of the Chancellor in vacation.
may, by giving the opposite part ten days notice thereof, make application 10
any judge of the High Court 0 Errors and Appeals to supersede the samt}.
who may, should he deem it just and equitable to do so, grant such applicanon. .

Circuit judge to grant remedial writs, a. 29, c. 5; a. 2, s. 176.
5. Sessions of the court changed.

7. Certiorari to Remove Equity Suit from Circuit Court for Cause’Bi”‘
of Review Grantable. And where any defendant, against whom a bill of Chancery may be filed in the Circuit Court, shall apply to the Chancellor to h3V3
the same moved into the Superior Court of Chancery by certiorari, and shall
himself and one other person make aflidavit, and state therein that they 110 not
believe that afair trial of said cause can be had in the Circuit Cou1't,t_h°
Chancellor shall have power to grant such certiorari for the purpose aforesaid:
and shall have power to hear and determine the same in as full and amgle 3
manner as if the same had been originally commenced in the Superior 9"”
of Chancery, and the Chancellor shall also have power to grant bills of r8V'13W
in any judgment that may be rendered on the equity side of the Circuit C011“
E the same manner that. bills of review are usually granted in CouT15°f

qulty.

8. l'Vhat Laws Concerning the Chancery Court, c., to be in Force- A“
laws heretofore enacted in this state, relative to the uperior Court of Chan’
cery, and the proceedings and practice therein, which were in force at the

time of the adoption of the revised code, and not abrogated thereby, and
which are not contrary to the provisions of this Act, shall remain in full
force.
9. Required the transfer of suits, &c., according to the change of the
judicial system.

ART. 1]. An Act to Designate in what Manner, and in what Courts, Suits may
be brought against the State of 1VIissz'ssippi—-Feb. 15, 1833.

§ 1. Hereafter it shall be competent for any person or persons deeming him,
her, or themselves, or body politic, to have a just claim against the State of
Mississippi, to exhibit and file a bill in equity, in the Superior Court of Chancery, against the State of Mississippi; and the bill being so filed in the office
of the said clerk, and at least thirty days before the first day of the ensuing
term, and the complainant, enterin into bond in behalf of the State of Mississippi, at the time of filing his bi l, and in the sum of two hundred and fifty
dollars, with two sureties in like sum, to be approved of by the said clerk,
conditioned to indemnify the state against all costs; and also providing, that
if the complainant shall fail to prosecute his suit, or to obtain a judgment or
decree against the state, that then, and in either case, the complainant and
his sureties shall forthwith pay and satisfy to the clerk of said court, all such
costs as may be incurred therein, that the complainant shall have and receive
a transcript of said bill so filed, under the seal of the court, and signature of
the clerk, and shall, within ten days thereafter, deliver the same to the Attorney-General; and it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, on or before
the third day of the ensuing term, to answer, defend, or demur to said bill;
and provided it shall be necessary in the investigation of said case, to tré’ any
issue or issues of fact, that may be made up, then, and in such case, the hancellor shall direct, according to the nature of the bill, in what Circuit Court
of any county, said issue or issues shall be tried; and the clerk shall forthwith transmit an entire transcript of the record herein, to the clerk of such
Circuit Court, in which the said issue or issues is or are to be tried, and the
same being duly docketed, such issue or issues shall be tried, subject to the
rules of law and rerrulations of said court; and the said issue or issues being
tried, the verdict of the jury, together with a bill of costs in said Circuit
Court, shall be duly authenticated and certified to the Superior Court of Chancery, and thereupon, such decree shall be had as will consist with law and
equity; and the decree being so had, it shall be competent to the complainant, or the Attorney-General, to appeal to the High Court of Errors and
A eals.

 And provided that no appeal be made from the decree of the Chancellor,
and that a decree be had in said court in favor of the complainant, then such
decree shall be duly exemplified, under the seal of the court and signature of the
clerk; and such exemplified record shall, by the clerk aforesaid, be deposited in
the office of the Secretary of State; and the Governor having due notice
thereof, shall issue his mandate to the Auditor of Public Accounts, to draw his
order on the treasurer for the amount of such sum and costs so decreed to be
paid by the state; and the complainant shall give his receipt therefor, to be
filed in the office of the Secret of State.

3. No execution, whatever, s all ever issue on any decree in chancery,
against the State of Mississippi, whereby the state may be dispossessed of lands
and tenements, goods and chattels. Con. VII., 10—post a. 24, 28

Arr. 12. An Act Concerning the Powers and Jurisdiction of the Superior
Court of Chancery of the State of Mississippi——Feb. 15, 1838.

§l. New Matter may be Introduced in Answer by way of Cross-bill.
Hereafter any defendant or defendants, in any chancery suit, may introduce
any new matter material to his, her, or their defence, and call on the complainant or complainants, if deemed necessary by such defendant or defendants,
to answer the same on oath, which the complainant or complainants shall do
within the same time, and under the same rules and regulations, as a defendant
is now compelled to answer the bill of a complainant, and with the same effect;
and any defendant or defendants may, if he, she, or they choose, make his, her,
or their answer, a cross bill against the complainant or complainants, or
against his, her, or their co-defendant or defendants, or all of them, upon which
no subpcena shall be required to issue, unless new parties be introduced, but
the complainant or complainants, or defendants, as the case may be, shall
answer unto the matter therein set forth, by way of cross bill, on or before the
first term of said court, after filing the same, or earlier if the court shall so
direct; and on his, her, or their failure so to answer the same, may be taken
for confessed, and the like proceedings shall be had thereon as on other bills, or
cross bills, similarly situated.

2. Depositions Thirty Days after Bill, or after Answer Filed—ReasonabIe
Notice for Depositions in the State—Those de Bene Esse as Before. In suits
in chancery the complainant or complainants may, if he, she, or they elect to
do so, take his, her, or their depositions, at any time after the expiration of
thirty days from the filing of his, her, or their bills, and the defendant or
defendants may do the like immediately after filing his, her, or their answer,
and the commissions for taking de ositions shall stand open until the hearing
of the cause: Provided, however, hat when the witness or witnesses reside
in this state, reasonable notice shall be given to the opposite party or parties.
his, her, or their attorney, of the time and place of taking such depositions:
And provided also, That the depositions de bene esse, in chancery causes, may
be taken as heretofore; and when regularly taken, they shall, unless good
cause be shown to the contrary, be read upon the trial of the cause, without
the necessity of retaking the same.

3. Answer, how Authenticated Abroad. Hereafter, whenever it may become
necessary for any person or persons, who may be out of this state, to make
out and file an answer in chancer , in any cause pending in any of the
courts in this state, it shall be sufficient for such person or persons to make
the necessary oath to such answer before any judge or justice of the peace»
notary public, mayor, or alderman of any city, town, or corporation, in any
state or territory of the United States; and such answer, certified by all)’
such judge, justice of the peace, notary public, mayor, or alderman, to have
been sworn to before him, and that the person so certifyincr was, at the time
of making such oath, any of the characters aforesaid, shall be permitted 10
be filed, and shall have the same effect as if the same had been sworn I0
in court, or before any ofiicer of this state having power and authority t0
administer an oath and certify such answer.

4. Sales under Decrees to be on a Credit of, at least, Six ]VIonths——Th39
Regulated. Hereafter, all sales of real or personal estate, made by any 00m‘
missioner, actin under a decree of the Superior Court of Chancery, or of an?’
of the -Circuit éourts of this state exercising chancery jurisdiction, shall _b°
made upon a credit of not less than six months, at such place, upon such notlee
as may .be directed in said decree; and it shall be the duty of such commls‘

sioners. at the time of making said sale or sales, to take from the purchaser or
purchasers a bond, with good and suflicient surety or sureties, for the payment of
the purchase-money, to such person or persons as may be entitled thereto, under
the decree, which bond shall bear interest at the rate of eight per centum
per annum, from the date thereof, and shall be returned by the commissioner
taking the same into the clerk’s office of the court in whic such decree was
pronounced, and shall, by said clerk be carefully filed awa in his office ; and
if the said bond shall not be paid on the day the same shal fall due, it shall be
the duty of the said clerk to endorse such non-pa’ment on said bond, and
thereupon such bond shall have all the force and efiect of a judgment; and
upon the request of the obligee, or obligees therein, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to issue execution thereon, against the obligor or obligors therein, which
execution shall be endorsed, no security to be taken: if any of the obligors in
said bond shall have died before the issuance of the execution aforesaid, then
said execution shall be issued against the survivor or survivors, and the executors or administrators of the deceased co-obligor, or obli ors jointly, with the
endorsement aforesaid; and if any of the obligees of said hond shall have died
before the issuance of said execution, then said execution shall issue in the
name of, and in favor of, the survivor or survivors of them; and if there be
none of them surviving, then said execution shall issue in the name of, and in
favor of, the executors or administrators of the last surviving obligee. See a.
17, 8.3; a. 19, s. 6, 7; c. 62, a. 20.

5. When and How Receiver Appointed—His Bond. Hereafter, whenever
in any cause pending in the Superior Court of Chancery, the chancellor shall
deem it proper and expedient to appoint a receiver; such receiver, when appointed, shall enter into bond and security, in such penalty as said chancellor
may direct, with such condition or conditions as he may prescribe, and be
made payable to the said chancellor, and his successors in office, which bond
may, at any time, upon a forfeiture. thereof be put in suit, at the instance of
any person aggrieved thereby, and for his use, and shall not become void upon
the first recovery thereon, but may, at any time thereafter, be put in suit, in
like manner, by any person thus aggrieved, until such recovery or recoveries
shall e ual the full amount of said penalt *. See a. 19, s. 4.

6. ule in Equity Requiring Two Wzitnesses Modzjied. The rule heretofore enforced in chancery proceedings, which requires two witnesses, or one
witness and corroborating circumstances, to overthrow an answer denying the
allegations of the bill, be, and the same is hereby abolished in all cases where
the bill of complaint is sworn to by the complainant; and hereafter such an
answer of a defendant in chancery, shall receive only such weicrht and credit
upon the final hearincr, as in view of the interest of the party making the same,

and the other circumbstances of the case, it may be fairly entitled to.

ART. 13. From the Act dividing the State into three Districts for th.e Election
of Judges of the High Court, and for holding the Chancery Court—Feb. 15,
1839.

§ 5. Places of Session, and Terms of this Court. There shall be holden, at '

the times and places hereinafter mentioned, in each district. two terms of a
Chancery Court in each year; for the first district, at the town of Jackson, in
the county of Hinds, on the first Mondays of June and December, in each and
every year, and may continue for four weeks, if business so long requires, and
no longer; for the second district, at the town of Columbia, in the county
of Marion, on the second Mondays of January and July, in each and every
year, and may continue twelve iudicial days, if business so long requires, and

no longer; for the third district, at the town of Oxford, in the county of Lafayette, on the second Mondays of February and August, in each and every
year, and may continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and
no longer. And that the courts in the several districts shall be governed by
the same laws, rules, and re ulations, as applied to the Superlor Court of
Chancery, in this state; and t at the Chancellor of the State of Mississippi is
required to hold said courts agreeably to the provisions of this act.
But districts and terms changed, a. 18, 19, 20, 22, 25, 26.

6. Pending suits transferred to the district of the defendant’s residence on
application.

7. In what Districts Suits to be brought. In all suits where there are two
or more defendants, residing in different districts, the plaintiff or complainant
may commence his suit in either of said districts,,at his own option, and sue
out a counterpart of the process in such suit, directed to the county wherein
the other defendants reside, and proceed thereon to final judgment, in the same
manner as if all the defendants resided in one and the same district.

9. Act to operate from the first of March.

10. Chancellor’s salary increased, 8lO00—but see c. 33, a. 20.

ART. 14. An Act to provide for the Determination of certain Causes in the
Superior Court of Chancer_r/—Feb. 20, 1840.

§ 1, 2, 3. Causes in which Chancellor cannot sit, how heard and reviewed.
In all causes depending in the Superior Court of Chancery of this -State, where
the Chancellor is incompetent to sit by reason of interest, or for other causes,
the cause or causes shall be heard and determined as well upon final hearing
as upon applications for interlocutor orders, in the following manner, to wit:

The parties, by their counsel, shalfselect some member of the bar in attendance on the court, and in the event they do not make such selection, then it
shall be the duty of the court to designate at least four of the members of the
bar in attendance as aforesaid, not of counsel interested or related to the parties, and from that number one shall be chosen by lot; when such selection in
either of the two modes aforesaid shall be made, it shall be the duty of the
Chancellor to retire for the time from the bench, and the said member of the
bar so selected shall take his place and hear and determine the cause or causes
for which he shall have been so selected.

In all cases and every cause tried, heard, and determined, according to the
provisions of the foregoing section, it shall be the duty of the Chancellor to
enter the proceedings in the court, by virtue of this act, as if the same were
had before him; and it shall be his duty to sign all, and every, and any decree
or decrees to be tendered in the cause or causes, as the same would have been
signed had the decree been rendered by him when presidin in court, and in
every other respect, the records, minutes, and proceedings, s%lall be and appear
as if the selection provided for by this act had not been made.

. In all causes tried, heard, and determined, according to the provisions of
this act, appeals and writs of error shall be granted and allowed by the Chancellor or otherwise, as by law now provided in other causes.—But see a. 23.

ART. 15. An Act to change the Terms of the Superior Court of Chancery in
the Orford District, and to Annex Carroll County to said District—Feb.

7,1840. ,
That the county of Carroll be attached to the Oxford Chancery District, and

that all suits in the Superior Court of Chancery in the state, now pending, or
hereafter brought, where the defendants, or either defendant, now resides, or at

the time suit may hereafter be brought, shall reside in Carroll county, shall be
triable at Oxford only, and the clerk of the Chancery Court at Jackson, shall
transmit the papers accordin ly.

Said Court of Chancery S13" hereafter be holden at Oxford, on the third
Monday of April and October, in each and every year, and may continue until
the business is finished.

ART. 16. An Act to Quiet Land Titles to the Rightful Owners of Land in the
State of ]lIississip]2i—Feb. 5, 1841.

§ 1, 2. Bill to remove Cloud; also to establish Paramount Equitable Title.
In all cases in which any person or persons, not the rightful owner or owners
of any real estate situated within the state of Mississippi, shall have a deed,
or other evidence of title, which may form a cloud, or in any way cast a shadow of doubt or suspicion on the title or claim of the real owner or owners of
such real estate, such real owner or owners may file his, or her, or their bill in
the Superior Court of Chancery in the state of Mississippi, to have such deed,
or other evidence of title cancelled, and such cloud removed from said title.
and the real owner or owners confirmed in his, her, or their title thereto,
whether the real owner or owners be in possession of such real estate or not,
or whether the real owner or owners be threatened to be disturbed in his, her,
or their right or possession or not, by the person holding such deed or other
evidence of title.

Any person. or persons having the equitable title to any lands in the state of
Mississippi, may file a bill in Chancery to divest the legal title out of such person or persons as the same may be vested in, whether such person or persons
holding the legal title he citizens or residents of the state of Mississippi or
not ; and whether the person or persons having such equitable title he threatened to be disturbed in his, her, or their possessions, or title, or not.

ART. 17. An Act to amend the Laws relating to Injunctions and Supersedeas
Bonds, and Sales in Chancery—Jan. 20, 1841.

§ 1. TVrits of Injunction, and all Remedial Process and Orders, grantable
by Appellate, or Circuit Judge or Chancellor. That writs of injunction and
ne exeat, orders requiring bail in chancery ; orders for receivers, as well as all
other remedial orders and process, may be made and granted by any Judge of
the High Court of Errors and Appeals, any Circuit Judge, or by the Chancellor: in all cases in which by law the same may be properly granted, either in
term time or in vacation ; and the fiat of any such judge or chancellor shall be
sufficient to authorize the proper officers to issue writs and orders in pursuance
thereof.—-Sec a. 19. .

2. All(lCll7Il67l/.S likewise so Grantable. Attachments as now, may be granted
by the judges aforesaid, returnable to the Circuit Courts of the proper counties;
and the Courts of Chancery, in all cases in which by law the same are authorized to be issued.

3. Chancery Sales for Cash or on Credit ; but  on Credit, Security taken.
That whenever the parties to any suit in Chancery, whether in the Superior
Court of Chancery, or in the Circuit Court, shall desire a sale under a decree
of such court to be made for cash or on a credit differing from that now

prescribed by law, such sale may, by order or decree of such court, be made

either for cash or on a credit as may be directed by decree of said court;
Provided, however, that when such sale shall be made upon a credit, bond
with security shall be taken from the purchaser or purchasers, in manner
and with the effect required and declared by the fourth section of an act

entitled an act concerning the powers and jurisdiction of the Superior
Court of Chancery of the State 0 Mississippi, approved February 15, 1838.
See a. 19, s. 6, 7; c. 62, a. 20.

ART. 18. Amendment of Article Thirteen—Feb. 4, 1841.

§ 1 to 4. Five Counties added to First District; Terms of Court: for
First and Second District, the latter at Jllonticello; a Fourth District and
Court at Columbus. The counties of Jefferson, Adams, Wilkinson, Amite,
and Franklin be, and the same are hereby attached to the first Chancery District, and that all suits in the Superior Court of Chancery of this state, now
pending, or hereafter brought, where the defendants or either of them, now
reside, or at the time suit hereafter may be instituted, shall reside in the county
of J efferson, Adams, Wilkinson, Amite, or Franklin, shall be triable in the first
district only.

All papers and documents, in any suit or suits now pending in said Superior
Court of Chancery, for the second Chancery District, where the defendants,
or either of them, reside in the county of Jefferson, Adams, Wilkinson, Amite,
or Franklin, shall be transferred to the said Superior Court of Chancery, for
the first district, under the direction of the Chancellor.

The said Court of Chancery, for the first and second Chancery Districts,
shall hereafter be holden at the times and places hereinafter prescribed, to wit:
for the first district, at the town of Jackson, in the county of Hinds, on the
first Mondays in January and July, in each and every year, and may continue
forty-eight judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer; and for
the second district, at the town of Monticello, in the county of Lawrence, on
the first Mondays of March and September, in each and every year, and may
continue twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer.

The counties of Itawamba, Monroe, Octibbeha, Winston, Neshoba, Lauderdale, Kemper, N oxubee and Lowndes, shall form the fourth district for the Snperior Court of Chancery of this state, and that a term of said court shall be
held at the court-house of Lowndes county, in the town of Columbus, on the
second Mondays of June and December, and may continue twelve judicial
days, if business so long require, and no longer. But this arrangement changed
by the Vice-Chancery system, a. 20, &c.

ART. 19. An Act authorizing the Chancellor to exercise certain necessary
Powers in Vacation, and for other Purposes——Feb. 6, 1841.

§ 1. Receiver in Vacation before as after Answer. The Chancellor shall
have power to appoint a receiver in vlacation before or after answer filed.
whenever the interest of the parties litigant shall make such appointment 118cessary; Provided, the party praying the appointmentshall have given the 0P‘
posite party, his agent or solicitor, at least ten days’ notice of the time end
place of making the application, and one additional day for every thirty miles
travelled thereto.

2. When lllotion to Dissolve Injunction, may or may not be made. 11 Shall
not be lawful for the Chancellor to entertain any motion to dissolve 39)‘
injunction upon matter set up by the answer of the party, unless the answer
setting up such matters shall have been lodged with the clerk of the court at
least thirty days before the motion to dissolve be made, and the opposite pa“)?
his agent or Solicilor, notified for the same length of time that the answ6_F_h35
been lodged, and that the motion will be made : Provided, That the pl‘OVlSlOI1S
of this section shall not apply to cases where the injunction shall have bee"
granted more than forty days before the commencement of the term.

3. Length of his Terms at Jackson. The Chancellor may hold the terms of
his court at Jackson, for the space of nine weeks, for each term in each and
every year, if the business so long require it.—See a. 21.

4. lVhen Receiver Removed or Suspended. VVhenever it shall be alleged,
that the security in any injunction or receiver’s bond is insufiicient, the Chan‘cellor or any one of the Judges of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, shall
have power to hear and determine the same in vacation, upon the opposite
party being notified as prescribed in the first section of this act, and may order
the injunction to be dissolved, or receiver to be suspended or removed, unless
the bond be perfected in twenty days, or such longer time as he shall appoint.

5. VVho Receivers of lVIoney paid into Court. In all cases where money
shall be paid into the Court of Chancery under its order, the clerk of the said
court, or the Treasurer of the State, shall act as the receiver of said money,

the first clerk or treasurer iving such bond and security for the safe keeping
thereof, as the Chancellor siall direct.

6. Injunction to stay Sale of Property levied on, to be upon Bond, in double
the Value of the Property ; Property restored. Whenever an injunction shall
be granted to stay the sale of property levied on by virtue of any execution,
the Chancellor shall have power to order the restitution of the property
so levied on, to the complainants who may be entitled to the possession thereof,
Provided, That the said complainant or complainants give bond and security,
in double the value of the property (to be assessed by the sheriff, or other
oflicer making the levy), payable to said sheriff, or other oflicer, conditioned
that the said property shall, in case the injunction be dissolved, be delivered to
said sheriff or other ofiicer.-—See c. 62, a. 20.

7. But in that case the Lien is to be Retained. In all cases wherein an
injunction shall issue to stay the sale of property levied on by virtue of any
execution and restitution of such property be made as provided for in the fourth
section of this act, the lien on such roperty created by the judgment or
decree, and the execution by virtue 0 which said levy shall be made, shall
remain in full force, and the said sheriff or other officer, to whom a venditioni
exponas, or other order of sale, may issue shall have power by virtue of said
venditioni eayionas, or other order of sale, to seize upon the property so levied on.

8. Damages on Dissolution of Injunction, or on .d_;7ir/nances in High Court,

ve per cent. Hereafter the damages awarded by the Chancellor on the dissoution of an injunction, and the damages awarded by the high Court of Errors
and Appeals, upon the afiirmance of the judgments below, or dismissal of the
Writ of Error or Appeal, shall be five per cent. and no more.

9. The same when Injunction of Trust Sale is dissolved. Damages at the
same rate as the law allows upon dissolution of injunctions to judgments at
law, be allowed upon the dissolution of injunctions to sales under deeds of
trust, and that execution issue against the complainant in the injunction bond,
for such damages as the Chancellor may award.

10. Injunction on Bond in amount of Debt sought to be Enjoined. The
Chancellor and the Judges of the Circuit Court when thereunto required shall
grant injunctions, upon bond being given with security in the amount of the
debt sought to be enjoined.

ART. 20. An Act to establish an Inferior Court of Chancery in the Northern
part of this State—Feb. 26, 1842.

§ 1. District Chancery Court, and Vice-Chancellor. There shall be established in and for the district composed of the counties of Lowndes, Octibbeha,
Noxubee, Winston, Kemper, Chickasaw, Pontotoc, Tippah, T ishamingo, Itawamba, Monroe, Lafayette, Marshall, De Soto, Tunica, Coahoma, Panola,
Yallobusha, Carroll, Holmes, Tallahatchie, Choctaw and Neshoba, a separate
Inferior Court of Chancery, which shall consist of one Judge, to be denominated the Vice-Chancellor of the State of Mississippi, who shall be elected by
the qualified electors of said district, as hereinafter provided, and said court
shall be styled the District Chancery Court of the State of Mississippi. See
a. 22.
2. Terms at Columbus, Fulton, Holly Springs, and Carrollton. The ViceChancellor for said district shall hold two terms of said court in each and every
‘ear for the counties of Lowndes, Octibbaha, N oxubee, Winston, Kemper and
eshoba, in the town of Columbus, in Lowndes county, commencing on the
first Monday of May and November, and to continue in session twelve judicial
days if business so long require; and two terms of said court in each and
every year, for the counties of Chickasaw, Pontotoc, Tishamingo, Itawamba,
and Monroe, in the town of Fulton, in Itawamba county, commencing on the
third Mondays of May and November, and to continue in session twelve
judicial days, if the business so long require; and two terms of said court in
each and every year for the counties of Lafayette, Marshall, De Soto, Tunica,
Coahoma, Panola, and Tippah, in the town of Holly Springs, in Marshall
county, commencing on the first Monday in July and January, and continue
twelve judicial days, if the business so long re uire; and two terms of said
court in each and every year for the counties of 'liallahatchie, Yallobusha, Carroll, Choctaw, and Holmes, in the town of Carrollton, in Carroll county, commencing on the third Mondays of June and December, and to continue in
session twelve judicial days if business so long require; and process against
any person in said district, shall be returnable to the District Chancer ‘ourt,
holden for the county in which he or she shall reside, when there sha 1 be two
or more defendants residingin different counties of said district, then to the court
holden for the county in which either may reside ; and process against defendants residing in any counties in this state, who may be necessary parties to
any suit instituted in any of said courts, shall be issued from the said court directed to the sheriff of the proper county, whose duty it shall be to execute and
return the same.—See a. 22, 32, 34.
3. Vice-C/2.cmcellor’s Juriscliction. Said District Court of Chancery shall

have concurrent power and jurisdiction within said district with the Superior '

Court of Chancery of this state, when the amount in controversy shall not
exceed five hundred thousand dollars; and said Vice-Chancellor within his
district shall have like power and authorit I‘ with the Chancellor of the state,
both in term time and vacation; he shall be a conservator of the peace, and
all laws now in force touching the powers and jurisdiction of the Superior
Court of Chancery, or the powers, duties and authority of said Chancellor, or
in reference to any matter or thing connected therewith, shall be held and construed to apply to said District Court of Chancery, and to said Vice-Chancellor
within said district, unless the same be inconsistent with this act, or manifestly
inapplicable.

4. Cler/cfor eac/1. Division appointed for Four Years ; Oath and Bond, 
The said Vice-Chancellor shall appoint a clerk for each and every of the courts
requiredb this act, to be held in said district, and each of said clerks shall
hold his ofhce for the term of four years ; and before entering upon the duties
of his oflice, shall take the oath prescribed in the constitution, and enter into
bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, payable to the Governor for
the time being, and his successors in office, with the same condition as is now
prescribed by law for the bond to be given by the clerk of the Superior Court

of Chancery: and for any breach of said condition, or default in office, or
neglect of duty, the said clerks shall be liable to the same penalties, and may
be proceeded against in the same manner in every respect, as the clerk of the
Superior Court of Chancery.—See a. 22.

5. Power, d~c., of such Cleric or Deputy; Fees. The clerks and aeputy
clerks of said District Chancery Court, shall respectively exercise the same
power and dut , and receive the same compensation, as may be lawful in like
cases for the cferk and deputy clerks of the Superior Court of Chancery; and
all laws now in force in relation to the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery, and his deputies, shall be deemed applicable to said clerks of said District
Chancery Court, and their deputies, as far as the same can be made to apply.

6. Slzerzfs, cj~c., to attend these Courts; Execute the Process; Compensation and Fees. The sheriffs of the counties in which said District Chancery
Court shall be held, and their deputies, shall attend on said Court during its
session, and shall do and perform such service and duty, and exercise such authority as any sheriff or deputy sheriff may by law do, exercise and perform in
any Superior Court of Chancery ; and the sheriffs and coroners of the different
counties of this State, and all other officers, are hereby authorized and required
at all times, to do all such acts in relation to the suits, orders, sentences, inquests, jud ments and decrees on process, or other proceedings of said District
Chancery ‘ourt, or said Vice-Chancellor, as they may by law be required to
do in relation to the said Superior Court of Chancery, and shall receive for
their services the same fees and compensation, as they are or may be entitled
to by law for like services in relation to the Superior Court of Chancery.

7. Seal of this Vice- Court. Said District Chancery Courts hereby directed
to be holden, shall have their respective seals, with the substance of their titles
around the margin, and an eagle in the centre, to be procured by said ViceChancellor, and to be paid for, on his certificate, out of the treasury; and until
the procurement of said seals, the private seal or scrawl of the c erks of said
Courts or of said Vice-Chancellor shall be sufficient in all cases wherein an
official seal of said Court ma be needed.

8. Special Terms. Said ice-Chancellor may order special Terms of the
aforesaid Courts, when in his opinion the public interest may require, on giving thirty days’ public notice thereof in some one or more newspapers, most
convenient for that purpose; and at such special terms all unfinished business
of the said Courts may be taken up, unless the same shall have been specially
continued to the next regular term.

9. When Case removed to the Superior Court. It shall be lawful for any
defendant or defendants in said District Chancery Courts, to remove_ any cause
therein pending against such defendant or defendants, or any original proceeding, to the Superior Court of Chancery, on proving to the satisfaction of the
V ice-Chancellor in term time, by affidavit, that said defendant or defendants,
if there be more than one of them, reside and have a freehold all of them without the said disirict, and within the limits of this State; or in case part of said
defendants are non-residents of this State, then the affidavit shall show that
such of the defendants that reside within this State, have their residence and
freehold without such district and now within the same : Provided, That such
application be made within ten days after the return of such process executed
against defendant or defendants : And provided, also, That in all cases arising
under this section, the Vice-Chancellor shall be further satisfied that the matter or thing in controversy lies not within said district; and no cause shall be
dismissed from said District Chancery Courts for want of jurisdiction, if neither

party applies for a removal of the same to the Superior Court of Chancery, and

the case is of such nature that it might have been originally commenced and
prosecuted in said Superior Court of Chancery. _ O '

10. Further on same subject. Any bill, petition, or plaint, originally commenced in said District Chaucer Court, may be removed for final adjudication to said Superior Court of Chancery, on the application of any defendant
thereto, supported by the affidavit of the applicant within five days of the commencement of the term to which the process shall be returned executed ; showing to the satisfaction of the Vice-Chancellor, that without such removal injustice may be done in the cause, and all cases removed from any District
Chancery Court to the Superior Court of Chancery under the provisions of this
Act, shall be proceeded with the final adjudication, as if the same had therein
originally commenced. _

11. On the same subject. It shall be lawful at an time, by consent of
parties, to remove any cause pending in said District hancery Courts to the
said Superior Court of Chancery, and any cause pending in said Superior Court
of Chaucer , to said District Chancery Courts, and from one of said District
Chancery Courts to another, and the said causes shall be proceeded in as if
commenced ori inally in the Court to which they may be so removed.

12. Clei-I:’s Duty on such Removal. When any cause shall be removed
under any of the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
proper court to transmit all papers connected with the cause to the clerk of
the court to which they ma have been ordered to be removed, and a certified
copy of all the proceedings had therein, prior to such removal, together with a
bill of all costs which may have accrued; and said costs shall be taxed in the
final bill of costs in the cause.

13. Vice-Chancellor for the present Appointed. It shall be the duty of the
Governor of this state to appoint a Vice-Chancellor in said district, who shall
hold his office by virtue of such appointment until the next general election in
November, 1843, and until his successor is qualified.

14. Must be Thirty Years old. The said Vice-Chancellor shall, at the time
of his appointment, have attained the age of thirt years.

15. His Compensation, Oath, Commission. T e said Vice-Chancellor shall
receive for his services an annual compensation of three thousand dollars, to be
paid quarterly out of the treasury of the state ; and that said Vice-Chancellor,

efore enterin on the duties of his office, shall take and subscribe the oath
prescribed in t e constitution, before some judge or justice of the peace of this
state; and a certificate of such oath, together with the commission of said
Vice-Chancellor, shall be recorded on the minutes of the court by him first
holden under this act.—Salary chan ed to 82000; c. 33, a. 20.

16. Appeal to Superior or High ourt. From any order or decree of the
said District Chancery Courts, an appeal may be taken in the manner now
prescribed for appeals from the Superior Court of Chancery ; but such appeals
shall be taken from the said District Chancery Courts to the Superior Court of
Chancery, unless by consent of both parties, when the same may be taken
directly to the High Court of Errors and Appeals; and either party who may
be aggrieved by any order or decree of the said District Chancery Court, may
sue out a writ of error to the High Court of Errors and Appeals; and appeals or writs of error so taken or sued out, shall be proceeded in by the High
gourt of Errors and Appeals, as in like cases from the said Superior Court of

hancer .

17. hird and Fourth Chancery Districts abolished; Terms of Superior
Court. The several acts requiring the Superior Court of Chancery to be
holden at the towns of Oxford and Columbus be, and the same are hereby

~ the Clerk of the Superior Court 0

repealed; and that the third and fourth Chancery Districts, by those acts
established and created, be abolished; and that hereafter the Superior Court of
Chancery shall be holden at the cit of Jackson, on the first Mondays of December and June, and continue so ong as business shall require.
18. Duties of Clerks as to Trangfer of Papers,  It shall be the duty of
Chancery to deliver the records, books,
presses, and furniture in his oflice at Oxford, to the clerk of the District Chancery Court at Holly Springs; and the records, books, presses, and furniture in
his office at Columbus, to the Clerk of the District Chancer Court at Columbus ; and it shall also be the duty of the said clerk of the Superior Court of
Chancery, to deposit in the oflice of the District Chancery Clerk, at Holly
Springs, the papers in the decided causes at Oxford ; and in the oflice of the
District Chancery Clerk, at Columbus, the papers in the decided causes at
Columbus ; and it shall also be the duty of the said clerk of the Superior Court
of Chancery to transfer the papers in all causes Sending in the court now
holden at Oxford, to the office of the clerk of the istrict Chancery Court at
Holly Springs ; and the papers in all cases ppnding in the court now holden at
Columbus, to the ofiice of the clerk of the istrict Chancery Court at Columbus, and the same shall progress in said District Chancery Courts respectively,
as if originally brou ht therein: Provided, That on motion of either party at
the first term of said District Chancery Courts, any of the said causes shall be
transferred to the Superior Court of Chancery at Jackson; and the ViceChancellor may, on sufficient showing, remove any of said causes to any other
of said District Chancery Courts.

ART. 21. Supplement to Article Twenty—Feb. 28, 1842.

Superior Court at Jackson always Open. Hereafter the Superior Court of
Chancery held at Jackson, shall, in law, be considered as always open ; and
the Chancellor shall hold the same at such times and for such periods as the
business of said court shall require : Provided, The Chancellor shall give three
weeks’ notice in the newspapers previous to the holding of each session of the
court : And provided, That this shall not apply so as to prevent the continuance of the present term of the court ; but that said court shall continue until
the first day of June next, if business so long require.

ART. 22. Amendment of Article Twenty—July 23, 1843.

§ 1. Vice-Chancellor Elected for Four Years. There shall be elected by
the qualified electors of the counties of Lowndes, Octibbeha, N oxubee, Winston, Kemper, Chickasaw, Pontotoc, Tippah, Tishamin o, Itawamba, Monroe,
Lafayette, Marshall, De Soto, Tunica, Coahoma, Panof, Yallobusha, Carroll,
Holmes, Tallahatchie, Choctaw and Neshoba, on the first Monday and day
following in November, Anno Domini, 1843, and every four years thereafter,
one judge denominated the Vice-Chancellor of the State of Mississippi, who
shall hold his office for four years and until his successor is duly qualified.

2. Election Returns ; Commission. The Sheriff or proper returning ofiicer
of the respective counties aforesaid, shall cause to be opened a poll for the
election of said Vice-Chancellor, and shall make return thereof to the Secretary of State, according to the laws now in force; and it is hereby made
the duty of the Governor to commission the person receiving the highest number of legal votes, who is hereby declared to be vested with all the powers of
Vice-Chancellor of the court established by the act to which this is an amendment.

3. Clerk for Columbus District Elected. The qualified electors of the

counties of Lowndes, Octibbeha, Noxubee, Winston, Kemper and Neshoba,
shall on the first Monday and day following in November, Anno Domini 1843,
and every two years thereafter, proceed to elect a clerk, who shall hold the office, and discharge the duties of clerk of the District Chancery Court of the
State of Mississippi, to be holden at the town of Columbus, in the county of
Lowndes, as now provided for by law, and for that puirpose the Sheriff or
other proper returning officer of the respective counties last above-named,
shall open a poll for the election of such clerk, and due return make thereof to
the Secretary of State as now required by law ; and the Governor is hereby

required to commission the person receiving the highest number of votes. who

shall hold his oflice of clerk of said court for two 'ears.

4. Clerkfor Fulton District Elected. The qu ified electors of the counties
of Chickasaw, Tishamingo, I tawamba, and Monroe, shall, at the same time and
in the same manner as p)rovided for in the foregoin section of this act, proceed
to elect a clerk for the istrict Chancery Court 0 the State of Mississi pi, to
be holden in the town of Fulton, in the county of Itawamba: and the herifl
or other proper returning officer of the said last-named counties res ctively,
shall make due return thereof, as provided for in the third section o this act;
and the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be commissioned,
and shall hold his oflice as therein provided. _

5. Clerk for Holly Springs District Elected. The qualified electors ot
the counties of Lafayette, Marshall, Pontotoc, De Soto, Tunica, Coahoma,
Panola, and Tippah, shall at the same time, and in the same manner, proceed to
elect a clerk for said District Chancery Court of the State of Mississippi, to be
holden in the town of Holly Springs, in the county of Marshall, as now provided for by law ; and the Sheriff or other proper returning ofiicer of the respective counties last aforesaid, shall make due return thereof to the Secretary
of State ; and the person receiving the hi hest number of votes shall be commissioned by the. Governor, and shall hold is ofiice for the like period of two

‘ears.

y 6. Clerk for Carrollton District Elected. The qualified electors of the
counties of Tallahatchie, Yallobusha, Carroll, Choctaw, and Holmes, shall, at
the same time, and in the same manner, proceed to elect a clerk for the Di_Strict Chancery Court of the State of Mississippi, to be holden at Carrollton, In
the county of Carroll, as now provided for by law; and the Sheriff or other
proper returning officer of the respective counties last named, shall make due
return thereof, as now required b law, in such cases, and the person receivin
the highest number of votes shal be commissioned as clerk of said court, all
he shall hold his office for the like period of two years.

7. Who Eligible as Clerk. No person shall be eligible to the ofiice of clerk
unless he be twenty-one years of age, and has resided in the state for one year
next preceding his election, and at the time thereof shall be a citizen of the
sub-district for which he may be elected as clerk, and he shall keep his office
at the place appointed for the holding of the respective court of which he I113)’
be the clerk elect, and shall superintend his oflice.

8. Vice-Chancellor’s Salary—superseded, see c. 33, a. 20.

9. Pontotoc to Holly Springs Division. The terms of the Vice-Chancery
Court for the county of Pontotoc, shall hereafter be held in the town of H011)’
Springs, in Marshall county, commencing on the first Monday in July and
January, in each and every year.

ART. 23. An Act for the more perfect Organization of the Superior Court of
Chancery—Feb. 24, 1844.

§ 1. When Vice- Chancellor to sit for the Chancellor. In all cases now
pending, or which may hereafter be instituted in the Superior Court of Chancery, in which the Chancellor is, or may be hereafter personally interested, or
otherwise legally disqualified to sit, it shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor,
when thereto required by the Chancellor, to attend and preside in such Superior Court of Chancery, until such case or cases may be decided by him; and
such decision shall be binding and valid, as if made y the Chancellor himself.

2. When Chancellor to sit for Vice- Chancellor. In like cases occurring in
the Vice-Chancery Court, or on the requisition of the Vice-Chancellor, the
Chancellor shall attend and preside in the hearing of such causes in the ViceChancery Court, with like effect: Provided, Nothing in this act shall require
the Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor, in such case, to adjourn any regular session
of his court: And provided also, That from all decrees made by the Chancellor, under this act, in any Vice-Chancery Court, from which an ap al is
allowed by law, such appeal may be had directly to the High Court of rrors
and Appeals.

3. Appeal on Decision of Demurrer. In all cases when a demurrer has
been, or may be filed in any suit in the Superior or District Court of Chancery,
in this state, and said demurrer is overruled, it shall be lawful for the defendant or defendants to appeal to the High Court of Errors and Appeals from the
judgment overruling the demurrer, without first being compelled to answer
thereto. '

4. Action of Appellate Court on that Appeal. If the said Hi h Court of
Errors and Appeals affirm the decision of the Chancellor or Vice- hancellor in
overruling the demurrer, the cause shall be remanded to the Court from which
the appeal was taken to be proceeded in according to the rules of practice in

said court.
5. VV as repealed—l846 . . 117.

AM‘. 24. An Act to Regulate'the Payment of Judgments or Decrees against the
State—Feb. 16, 1844.

Hereafter no judgment or decree of any court of law or equity having jurisdiction of suits against the state, shall be paid by warrants on the Treasurer,
or otherwise, without an appropriation by law, any former law or usage to the
contrary notwithstanding.-——See ante, a. ll ; post, a. 28.

ART. 25. An Act to attach the County Iqf Copiah to the Second Chancery Court
District—— ‘ch. 21, 1844.

The county of Copiah is hereby attached to the Second Chancery Court
District of the State of Mississippi, and all suits now pending, or which may
hereafter be brought, where the defendants, or either of them, shall reside in
the county of Copiah, shall be brought in the Second Chancery District only.

The second section regulated the papers and process accordingly.

ART. 26. An Act to establish an Inferior Court of Chancery in the Southern
part of this State—Feb. 1846.

§l. Southern Chancery District and Vice-Chancellor. . There shall be
established in and for the district composed of the counties _of Jefferson,
Adams, VVilkinson, Amite, Franklin, Lawrence, Copiah. Pike, MEIPIOII, H -DCOCR.

Harrison, Jackson, Perry, Greene, Wa ne, Jones, and Covington, a separate
Inferior Court of Chancery, which shal consist of one Judge, denominated the
Vice-Chancellor of the State of Mississippi, for the southern District, who
shall be elected by the qualified voters of said district, as hereinafter provided:
And said court shall be styled “the Southern District Chancery Court of the
State of Mississippi.”

2. Divisions and Terms of the Southern District. The Vice-Chancellor for
the said southern district, shall hold two terms of said court, in each and every
K/clear, for the counties of Jackson, Harrison, Greene, Hancock, and Perry, at

ississippi city, in the county of Harrison, commencing on the second Mondays of February and August, and continue in session twelve judicial days, if
business so long require, and no longer: And two terms of said court in
each and every year, for the counties of Copiah, Lawrence, Pike, Marion,
Covington, Jones, and Wayne, at the town of Monticello, in the county of
Lawrence, commencing on the fourth Mondays of January and July, and
continue in session twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no
longer : And two terms of said court in each and every year, for the counties of Wilkinson, Amite, Franklin, Jefferson and Adams, in the city of
Natchez, in the county of Adams, commencing on the fourth Mondays of
June and December, and continue in session twenty-four judicial days, if business so long require, and no longer. And process against any person in said
district, shall be returnable to the District Chancery Court, holden for the
county in which he or she shall reside; when there shall be two or more
defendants residing in different counties of said district, then to the court
holden for the county in which either may reside. And process against defendants residing in any counties in this state, who may be necessary parties to any
suit instituted in any of said courts, shall be issued for the said court, directed
to the sheriff of the proper county, whose duty shall be to execute and return
the same.

Seven counties added, and Paulding district created—a. 30. Claiborne

and Simpson, to Natchez district—a. 33. .

3. Jurisdiction Q; the Southern Vice-Chancellor. Said Southern District
Chancery Court, s all have concurrent power and jurisdiction within said
district, with the Superior Court of Chancery of this state, when the amount
in controversy shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ; and said ViceChancellor, within his district, shall have like power and authorit with the
Chancellor of the State, both in term time and in vacation. Hie shall be
a conservator of the peace, and all laws now in force, touching the powers and
jurisdiction of the Superior Court of Chancery, or the powers, duties and
authority of said Chancellor, or in reference to any matter or thing connected
therewith, shall be held and construed to apply to said Southern District Chancery Court, within said district, unless the same be inconsistent with this act,
or manifestly inapplicable.

4, 5. Election and Tenure of Southern Vice- Chancellor. There shall be
elected by the qualified voters of the counties of Wayne, Greene, Perry, Jaflli‘
son, Harrison, Hancock, Marion, Jones, Covin ton, Copiah, Lawrence, Pike,
Amite, Franklin, Jefferson, Adams, and Wiliinson, on the first Monday
in May, 1846, one Judge, who shall be denominated the Vice-Chancellor of the
State of Mississippi, for the southern district, who shall hold his ofiice until the
November election, in the year 1849, and the Vice-Chancellor, who Shall
be then elected, shall hold his office for four years, and until his successor shall
be duly qualified. _

The sheriff or proper returning ofiicer of the respective counties aforesaid.

shall open a poll for the election of said Vice-Chancellor, and shall make return
thereof to the Secretary of State, according to the laws now in force ; and it
is hereby made the duty of the Governor to commission the person receiving
the highest number of legal votes, who is hereby declared to be vested with all
the powers of Vice-Chancellor of the Southern District Chancery Court of
the State of Mississippi.

' 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Election Tenure, and General Duties of the Clerks of the
Southern Chancery District. The qualified voters of the counties of Jackson, Harrison, Hancock, Perry, and Greene, shall on the first Monday of May,
1846, proceed to elect a clerk, who shall hold the office, and dischar e the
duties of the Clerk of the Southern District Chancery Court, to be hol en at
Mississippi city, in the county of Harrison, and who shall continue in office
until the general election in 1847, and thereafter the clerk of said court shall
be elected every two years. The sheriff, or other proper returning officer of
the respective counties last above-named, shall open a poll for the election of
such clerk, and make due return thereof, to the Secretary of State, as now
required by law for other officers ; and the Governor is hereby required
to commission the person receiving the highest number of legal votes, as such
clerk. Q

The ualified voters of the counties of Wayne, Jones, Covington, Pike,
Copiah, awrence, and Marion, shall, on the first Monday of May, 1846, proceed to elect a clerk, who shall hold the office, and discharge the duties of the
Clerk of the Southern District Chaucer Court, to be holden at Monticello, in
the county of Lawrence, and who shal continue in office, until the general
election in November, 1847, and thereafter the clerk of said court shall
be elected every two years. The sheriff, or other returning officer of the
respective counties last above-named, shall open a poll for the election of such
clerk, and make due return thereof, to the Secretary of State, as now required
by law for other officers; and the Governor is hereby required to commission
the person receiving the highest number of legal votes, as such clerk.

The qualified voters of the counties of Amite, Franklin, Jefferson, Wilkinson
and Adams, shall, on the first Monday of May, 1846, proceed to elect a clerk,
who shall hold the office, and discharge the duties of the clerk of the Southern
District Chancer Court, to be holden at Natchez, in the county of Adams, until the general efhtion in November, 1847; and thereafter the clerk of said
court shall be elected every two years. The Sheriff, or other returning officer
of said counties last above-named, shall open a poll for the election of such
clerk, and make due return thereof to the Secretary of State, as now required
by law for other officers ; and the Governor is hereby required to commission
the person receiving the highest number of legal votes, as such clerk.

The said clerks, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
shall take the oath of office, prescribed in the constitution of this state, and
enter with security, into bond, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars,
payable to the Governor of this state, for the time bein , and his successor in
office, with the same condition as is now prescribed by faw for the bond to be
given by the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery, and shall be liable, in
like manner, for any default or breach of duty.

The clerks and deputy clerks of said Southern District Chance Court,
shall respectively exercise the same power and dut , and receive t e same
compensation as may be lawful in the like cases or the clerk and deputy
clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery; and all laws now in force in relation to the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery and his deputies, shall
be applicable to said clerks of said Southern District Chancery Court and

their deputies, as far as the same can be made to apply: And the said
clerks shall hold, and continue in their respective ofiices, and perform the
duties, and exercise all the powers appertaining thereto, until their successors are duly elected and qualified, according to the provisions of this act.

11. Sherifs of the Southern Chancery Districts. The Sheriffs of the
counties in which said Southern District Chancery Court shall be holden, and
their deputies, shall attend on said court during its sessions, and shall do
and perform such service and duties, and exercise such authority as any
sheriff or deputy-sheriff may by law do, exercise and perform, in any Superior Court of Chancery; and the sheriffs or coroners in this state, and all
other ofiicers, are hereby authorized and required, at all times, to do all such
acts in relation to the suits, orders, sentences, inquests, judgments and decrees, on process, or other proceedings of said Southern District Chancery
Court, or said Vice-Chancellor, as they may by law be required to do in
relation to the Superior Court of Chancery, and shall receive for their services the same fees and compensations, as they are, or may be entitled to
by law for like services. in relation to the Superior Court of Chancery.

12. Seals of these Courts. Said Southern District Chancery Courts, hereby '

directed to be holden, shall have three separate seals, with the substance of
their titles around the margin, and an eagle in the centre, to be procured by
said Vice-Chancellor, and to be paid for on his certificate, out of the Treasury
of this State; and until the procurement of said seals, the private seal or scroll
of the clerks of said courts, or of said Vice-Chancellor, shall be suflicient in all
cases whenever an ofiicial seal of said court may be needed.

13. Special Terms thereof. Said Vice-Chancellor may order special terms
of the aforesaid courts, when, in his opinion, the public interest may require,
on giving thirty days’ notice thereof in some one or more of the newspapers
most convenient for that purpose; and at such special terms, all unfinished
business of the said courts, may be taken up, unless the same shall have
been especially continued to the next regular term.

1-4, 15, 16. Removal of Case to the Superior Court,  It shall be lawful
for any defendant or deiendants in said Southern District Chancery Courts, to
remove any cause therein pending against such defendant or defendants, or
any original proceedings to the Superior Court of Chancery, on proving to the
satisfaction of the Vice-Chancellor in term time, by afiidavit, that such defendant or defendants reside, or have a freehold without the limits of this State; or
in case part of said defendants are non-residents of this state, then the afiidavit
shall show that such of the defendants as reside within this state, have their
residence or freehold within such district : Provided, That such application be
made within ten days after the return of such process executed against such
defendant or defendants: And provided, also, that in all cases arising under
this section, the Vice-Chancellor shall be further satisfied that the matter or
thing in controversy, lies not within said district, and no cause shall be dismissed from the said Southern District Chancery Court, if neither party applies
for a removal of the same to the Superior Court of Chancery, and the cause is
of such a nature that it might have been originally commenced and prosecuted
in said Superior Court of Chancery.

Any bill, petition, or plaint, originally commenced in said District Chancery
Court, may be removed for final adjudication, to said Superior Court of Chancery, on the application of any defendant thereto, supported by the affidavit
of the applicant, within five days after the commencement of the term to
which process shall be returned executed, showing to the satisfaction of the
V ice-Chancellor, that without such removal, injustice may be done in the

cause; and all causes removed from any Southern Chancery District Court
into the Superior Court of Chancery under the provisions of this act, shall be
proceeded with as if the same had been therein originally commenced.

It shall be lawful at any time, by the consent of parties, to remove any
cause pending in said Southern District Chancery Court, to the said Superior
Court of Chancery, and any cause pending in said Superior Court of Chancery,
to any of the District Chancery Courts, created by this act, or from any one
of said District Chancery Courts to another; and in all cases where any such
removal shall take place, there shall be a transfer of the original papers, in such
manner as the court, Chancellor, or V ice-Chancellor shall order, with a copy
of the minutes and records concerning the same, so that the court to which
the same is removed, shall proceed to hear and determine the same as justice
may require ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of such Superior Court of

- Chancery or District Chaucer Court, to deliver over and forward such papers

and records as the Superior ourt of Chancery or District Chancery Court
shall order or direct; and for a transcript of the minutes and proceedin s had
in such case, the clerks respectively shall be entitled to charge, in the %ill of
costs for such transcript, ten cents for each hundred words contained in any
such transcri t.

17. Quali ations 0 Vice- Chancellor. The said Vice-Chancellor for the
southern district, shal have at the time of his election, attained the age of
thirty years, be a citizen of the United States, and a resident of the district,
and shall have been a resident of this state five years next preceding his
election.

18. Compensation $2,000. The said Vice-Chancellor shall receive for his
services, an annual compensation of two thousand dollars, to be paid quarterly
out of the treasury of this state; and the said Vice-Chancellor, before entering
on the duties of his office, shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the
constitution of this state, before some Judge or Justice of the Peace of this
State; and a certificate of such oath, together with his commission, shall be
recorded on the minutes of the court first holden by him under this act.

19. Qualifications of the District Clerks. No person shall be eligible to the
oflice of clerk of said District Chancery Court, unless he be twenty-one years
of age, a citizen of the United States, and a resident of the district for which
he may be elected as clerk ; and such clerks as may be elected under this act,
shall keep his oiiice at the place appointed for holding the court for which he
may be clerk elect. and shall superintend his oflice, and shall have power to
appoint deputy clerks in the same manner as the Clerk of the Superior Court
of Chancery, is now authorized.

20. Appeals from the Southern District Courts. From any order or decree
of the said Southern District Chancery Court, an appeal may be taken in the
same manner now prescribed for appeals, from the Superior Court of Chan-a
cery, but such appeals from the District Chancery Court, shall be taken to the
Superior Court of Chancery, unless by the consent of both parties, when the
same may be taken directly to the High Court of Errors and Appeals, and any’
party who may be aggrieved by any order or decree of the said SouthernDistrict Chancery Court, may sue out a writ of error to the High Court of
Errors and Appeals ; and appeals or writs of error so taken or sued out, shall‘
he proceeded in by the High Court of Errors and Appeals, as in like cases.fr.orn.
said Superior Court of Chancery.

ART. 27. Supplement to Article Twenty-si.2:—Feb. 23,1846.

Transfer of the Records, (fr. All suits and pleadings now pending in the
Superior Court of Chancery of this state, wherein the defendants reside in any
of the districts of the Inferior Court of Chancery of the southern part of this
state, may be removed to the district where the defendants reside, on the application of his or their attorneys.

It shall be the duty of the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery to deliver
the records, books, presses, papers, and furniture in his office at Monticello, to

_ the clerk of the Southern District Chancery Court at Monticello: and all

causes now pending in the Superior Court of Chancery, now holden at Monticello, shall be transferred to the Southern District Chancery Court holden at
Monticello, and shall progress and be determined therein, as if originauy
brought in said Southern District Chancery Court.

AM. 28. An Act Amendatory and Explanatory of an Act to Designate in
what Manner and in what Courts Suits shall be brought against the State of
Mississippi, approved February 15, 1833—JIarch 5, 1846.

In all cases heretofore or hereafter instituted pursuant to the provisions of
the above-recited act, any issue or issues of fact that have been or ma be
directed, shall be tried in the Chaucer Court, by a jury to be em annell for
that purpose, unless the Chancellor, fb,r some special cause, shall) order such
issue or issues to be tried in a Circuit Court; and in either case, the verdict of the jury shall be conclusive of the fact or facts found, subject to the
rules and regulations‘ of a court of law.—-See ante, a. 24, s. 11.

AM‘. 29. An Act to amend the Laws relating to Writs of Injunction, Ne
exeat, and »S'upersedeas—Feb. 12, 1848.

That the judges of the several Circuit Courts of law in this state shall have
power to grant writs of injunction, ne exeat and supersedeas, either in term
time or in vacation, in all cases in which it may be proper to grant said writs
or either of them, whether the case originated within or without the district of

the judge granting the same ; and the at of any such judge shall be suflicient '

to authorize the proper oflicer to issue any or either of sai
thereof.

Act to operate from its passage.—See c. 53, a. 2, s. 176.

writs in pursuance

Arr. 30. An Act to add the following Counties to the Southern Vice-Chancery
' Court District of the State of Mississippi—Feb. 25, 1848.

§ 1'. Counties added. That the following counties be added to the Southern
district of the Vice-Chancery Court of the state of Mississippi, to wit: the
counties of J as r; Clarke, Lauderdale, Newton, Neshoba, Scott, and Smith.

2. District ourt at Paulding. That it shall be the duty of the ViceChancellor to hold a term of said court at the town of Paulding, in the county
of Jasper, twice in each and every year, for the counties of Jasper, Clarke,
Lauderdale, Newton, Neshoba, Scott, Smith, Wayne, and Jones, commencin
on the second Monday in March and September in each and every year, and
pontinue in session twelve judicial days, if business so long require, and no
onoer.

3? Election of Clerk. That the qualified electors of the counties of Jasper,
Clarke, Lauderdale, Newton, Neshoba, Scott, Smith, Wayne, and Jones, shall,
on the first Monday in June next, or as soon thereafter as notice can be given.

proceed to elect a clerk of said Vice-Chancery Court, who shall continue in
office until the next general election; and after that time the clerk of said
court shall be elected every two years, at the general election ; and the sheriffs,
or other proper returning officer of the respective counties last above-named,
shall give notice of the election by posting the same in three of the most
public places in the county, at least ten days before the first election as
aforesaid; and shall open the polls of said election, and shall conduct the
same in all respects according to the laws now in force, regulating the general election: they shall make out returns of said election to the Secretary
of State; and the Governor is hereby required to commission the person
receiving the highest number of votes as such clerk.

4. Duties of Clerk, and of Sherzf of Jasper. That the clerk aforesaid, and
the sheriff of each county above-named, be required to discharge all the duties
devolving upon the clerks of said Vice-Chancery Court, and upon the sheriffs
of their respective counties, by the act organizing and creating said ViceChancery Court, approved February —, 1846 ; and that all laws regulating
process and all other proceedings of said court by said act, shall be applicable to said court held in the town of Paulding aforesaid.

5. Eligibility, Power, <§-c., of Clerk. That no person shall be eligible to
office of clerk of said court, unless he be twenty-one years of e, and a resident of the district in which he may be elected; and shall hold is office at the
place appointed to hold the said court; and shall have power to appoint a
deputy or deputies; and in the event of failure of said clerk or any of his deputies from attending on the said court by sickness 01‘ Other 031188, the ViceChancellor shall appoint a clerk pro tem., who shall receive the same fees as
is now allowed to the clerk of said Vice-Chancery Court.

6. Act to operate from its passage.

_ AM‘. 31. An Act to amend the Practice in the Superior and District Courts

of Chancery in this State—March 4, 1848.

§ 1, 2. A jidavit for setting Pro Confesso aside, to be engrafted on the Record,
and heard an Error. That in all cases in which the Chancellor or Vice-Chanoellor shall refuse to set aside a pro confesso and permit an answer to be filed,
the party or parties aggrieved thereby may require the Chancellor to endorse
on the affidavits, and t e answer offered to be filed, and on such other paper or
instrument read, or offered to be read, on the trial of the motion, that they
have been read or offered to be read on the trial of such motion; and it is
hereby made the duty of the Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor to make such endorsement, whereupon they shall become a part of the record in such case.

That after a final decree shall be rendered in the cause wherein the motion
to set aside the pro confesso as aforesaid is overruled as aforesaid, if the defendant or defendants prosecuted a writ of error, or an- appeal to the High
Court of Errors and Appeals, it shall be the duty of the High Court of Errors
and Appeals to examine the order of the Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor, refusing to set aside said pro confesso; and if said court is of opinion, that said pro
confesso ought to have been set aside by the chancellor, the decree shall be
reversed and the cause remanded, with direction to file said answer, and the
cause to be proceeded in as in other cases.

ART. 32. An Act to Change the Term o the District Chancery Court at Carrollton—Fe . 17, 1848.

§ 1. That from and after the passage of this act, the sessions of the District
Chancery Court at Carrollton, shall be holden on the second Mondays of April

and October, in each and every year, and shall continue two weeks at each
term, if business so long require, and no longer.
The third section _of this act concerned the return of process, &c. ; and
the fourth gave the act operation from its passage.

ART. 33. An Act to attach the Counties of Claiborne and Siztpson to the
Southern District Chancery Court of the State of Mississippi— ebruary 28,
1848. '

§ 1. That the counties of Claiborne and Simpson be, and are hereby attached

. to the southern district of the Inferior Court of Chancery, established by the

act of the legislature, approved February, A.D. 1846, entitled an act to establish an Inferior Court of Chancery in the southern part of this state ; and that
said counties of Claiborne and Simpson be, and hereby are attached to said
Inferior Court of Chancery, composed of the counties of Wilkinson, Amite.
Franklin, Jefferson, and Adams.

That all suits and proceedings now pending in the Superior Court of Chancery of this State, wherein the complainants or defendants, or any of them.
reside in the said counties of Claiborne and Simpson. shall be removed by the
consent of parties to the aforesaid district of said inferior Court of Chancery,
on the application of such party, or his or their solicitor; and where any order
for the removal of such suits and proceedings shall be made by the Superior
Court of Chancery, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said Court to deliver to
the party obtaining such order, or to his, her, or their solicitor, sealed up and
directed to the clerk of the said district of the said inferior Court of Chancery.
all the papers in the cause so ordered to be removed, with a statement of the
situation of said cause on the docket at and prior to such order, and also a certified copy of all orders, decrees, and proceedings had or taken in such cause.
from the minutes and general docket of said Superior Court of Chancery.

2. That all the provisions of the said Act, approved February, A. D. 1846
recited in the first section of this-Act, shall apply to the said counties of Clai
borne and Simpson; and that this Act shall take effect from and after its pas

sage.

Aar. 34. Act establishing a District Chancery Court at Hernando—February
22,1848.

§ 1. That hereafter it shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor for the Northern Division of this State, and he is hereby required to hold a term of his
Court hereafter regularly in the town of Hernando, for the transaction of the
Chancery business for the counties of Panola, Coahoma, Tunica, and De Soto.

2. That the qualified electors of the counties of De Soto, Panola, Tunica,
and Coahoma, shall, on the first Monday of June, 1848, proceed to elect a
clerk, who shall hold the office and discharge the duties of the clerk of the
said Northern District Chancery Court, to be held at Hernando, in De Sow
county, and who shall continue in office until the general election in 1849, and
thereafter the clerk of said Court shall be elected every two years. The sheriff or other proper returning officer of the respective counties above-named»
shall open a poll for the election of such clerk, and make due return thereof t0
the Secretary of State, as now required by law for the election of other offlcers; and the Governor is hereby required to commission the person receiving
the hi hest number of votes as such clerk.

3. hat the first term of said District Chancery Court shall be holden at the
Courthouse in the town of Hernando on the third Monday in July next. and
continue in session one week, if business so long require.

supervened. By it three judges are elected by districts, for six years, to hold
the High Court of Errors and Appeals, and to exert final appellate jurisdiction only. These, and the qualifications of the judoe——vacancy in his office
—his personal function, compensation, contested eection, removal on address, and substitute in special cases, are prescribed, IV., 1-27.

ART. 2. An Act to Establish and Organize the Supreme Court, and to Define
the Powers and Jurisdiction thereof—-June 29, 1822.

§ 1, 2, 3, 4. Gave the style of the court——tenure and appointment of the
judges—their oath—terms of the court—-circuit duties——superseded.

5, 6. Jurisdiction qf that Court, and its Power or that of a Supreme Judge in
Vacation to Grant Remedial Process. The said Sujteme Court shall have jurisdiction over, and shall bear and determine all manner of pleas, plaints, motions, causes and controversies, civil and criminal, which are now pending
therein, or which may be brought before it, from any Circuit Court of law, Superior Court of Chancery, or Orphans’ Court of any county in this state, either
by appeal, writ of error,/or supersedeas, or other legal means, and which shall be
cognizable in said Supreme Court, according to the constitution and laws of
this state: Provided, That no appeal, writ of error or su ersedeas shall be
granted, nor shall an cause be removed into the Supreme ourt, in any manner whatsoever, unti after final judgment or decree in the court below, except
in cases particularly provided for by law.

The said court, or any judge thereof, in vacation, may grant writs of error
or supersedeas, to the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of law, or Superior Court of Chancery, and allow appeals from the decrees of the latter, in all
such cases wherein writs of error or supersedeas, or appeals may be by law allowed, in the manner and on the terms and conditions as are prescribed by law
in cases of appeals, writs of error or supersedeas ; and also to grant writs of injunction, habeas corpus, certiorari, ne ea-eat, and all other remedial writs and
process, grantable by the said judges, b virtue of their oflice, a eeably to the
principles and usages of law, returnabe as the law directs, eit er to the Supreme Court, or before an judge of said court, or to the Superior Court of
Chancery, as the nature 0 the case may require.

11. Relates to the appointment, &c., of the clerk of the former Supreme

Court, and is obsolete22. Opinions to be Delivered Publicly. It shall be the duty of the judges of
the Supreme Court, in all matters of law by them decided, each one to give his
opinion publicly, and with the reasons thereof, at the time they make known or
pronounce their judgment, or determination on such matters of law. See a.
3; a. 6, s. 8, 9.

23. To Prescribe Rules of Practice. The Supreme Court shall have power,
from time to time, to establish and promulgate rules of proceeding in said court,
and also rules for bringing causes to issue, and for the orderly conducting and
arrangement of business in the several Circuit Courts of law, in this state: Provided, Such rules be not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this state.
See a. 4.

26. Adjournments—-No Discontinuance thereby. The said court may adjourn from day to day, or for such longer period as they ma think necessary
to the ends of justice, and the determination of the business before them ; and
there shall be no discontinuance of any suit, process, matter or thing, returned

._to, or depending in the Supreme Court, although a suiiicient number of judcres

shall not attend at the commencement, or any other day of the term ; but i a
sufiicient number shall fail to attend at the commencement of any term, or at

any time during the term, any judge of the said court, or the sheriff attending
the same, ma adjourn the said court from day to day, for six days successively.

27. Chief ustice Chosen—No Judge to Sit where Interested. The judges of
the Supreme Court shall choose, from amon themselves, the presiding judge,
and enter the same of record; and in case o his absence, or disqualification to
sit in any cause, the senior judwresent shall be the presiding judge for the
time being; and no judge of sat court shall sit in any cause wherein he is directly or indirectly interested, or if he shall have been of counsel for either
party in such cause.

28. How Cause Heard when there is not a Competent Court. Although one
or more of the judges of the Supreme Court be interested in the event of any
suit, matter or thing depending therein, the same shall be finally decided by the
other judges, if there be a number of judges not so interested, suflicient to constitute a court; and in case a majority of said judges shall be interested in any
cause de nding in said court, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to
appoint, y 'oint resolution, one or more persons, learned in the law, to supply
the places ol the jud es so interested, who shall hear and determine that particular cause, and no ot er. Con. IV., 9.

29. Ajirmance when Court is equally Divided in Opinion. Whenever the
Supreme Court shall be equally divided in opinion, on hearing any appeal or
writ of error, the 'udgment or decree of the court below shall be aflirmed.

30. Minutes of] each Day Read, Corrected and Signed on next Day. For
preventing error in entering up the judgments, decrees, orders and decisions of
said court, the minutes of the proceedings of each day shall be drawn up at
large by the clerk, and read in open court the next day, (except those of the last
day of each term, which shall be drawn up, read and corrected the same day,)
and any necessary corrections made therein, when they shall be signed by the
presidin judge, and preserved amon the records.

31. nnual Inspection of Clerk’s ce. The Supreme Court shall annually
appoint one of the judges thereof, to inspect the clerk’s oflices of said court,
and to report to the next term of the Supreme Court, the condition in which
he shall find the records and papers, which report shall be recorded.

34. Sherif <}c., of this Court. The sheriff of the countyin which the Supreme Court shall be held, shall be an oflicer of said court, and shall attend the

same, with :1 suflicient number of deputies, accordingly, and the sheriff and his '

deputies shall be bound to perform the duties of sheriff, tipstaff, and crier.

35. Punishment for Contempt. The Supreme Court shall have power to
punish any person who may be uilty of a contempt of such court, in like
manner as if such contempt had een committed against a Circuit Court of
law. See c. 53, a. 2, s. 177.

36. Sealof the Court. The executive of the state shall cause to be procured a seal for the use of the Supreme Court for each district, with the style
of the court around the margin, and an eagle in the centre; and the sum
necessary to procure such seals, shall be paid on the order of the executive,
out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

ART. 3. An Act Relative to the Supreme Court, and to Prescribe the Duties of
the Judges therein——Feb. 4, 1825.

§ 1, 2. Opinions Delivered in Writing—Copy when Required—Those on
Constitutional Law certified to Governor. The jud es of the Supreme Court,
at each term of the said court, shall appoint one of t eir number, to deliver the
opinion of the Supreme Court in writing, upon any suit, controversy, matter,
or thing whatsoever, which may be brought in or presented for adjudication in

said court; and it shall be the duty of the judges of the said court, to cause
said opinions so written and delivered, to be filed by the clerk of the Supreme
Court, with the papers of every suit, matter, or thing, which said opinions may
have relation to.

It shall be the duty of the clerk of the Su _reme Court, to furnish an person, on application, with a copy of said 0 ns, and the clerk shall e entitled to demand and receive for each co’ y, fifteen cents for every hundred
words contained in said copy; and that t e judges of this state, when in the
Supreme or Circuit Courts, where they shall make any decision affecting the
constitutionality of any law passed by the legislature, shall make out a full
report of the case and decision thereon, and si n the same, and within twenty
days thereafter, transmit a copy thereof to‘ t e Governor of this state, who
shall immediately have the same published in some public newspaper, printed
within the state, for the information of the citizens thereof; and the Governor
is hereby authorized to pay for the printing thereof out of the contingent
fund. See a. 6, s. 8, 9.

ART. 4. Amendment of Article Two—Feb. 8, 1827.

Rules of Supreme and Circuit Courts. It shall be the duty of the Supreme
Court of this state to establish rules for proceeding in said court, and also rules
for bringing causes to issue, and the proper conducting of the business in the
several Circuit Courts of law in this state, and to cause a copy thereof to be
deposited with the state printer, within twelve months from the assage of
this Act, whose duty it shall be to print four hundred copies thereo , to be distributed among the several counties of this state in equal proportions ; and it
shall be the duty of the said court, whenever they shall alter, amend, or enlarge
said rules, as soon thereafter as may be to cause such amendment, alteration,
or enlargement, to be deposited as aforesaid, and the said printer shall print the
same as is above-directed.

ART. 5. A Res‘olution—-Feb. 6, 1827.

That if any judge of the Supreme Court, or the chancellor of this state,
shall fail to attend any term of a court, which either of them ma be required
to hold, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such court, to certi y the number
of days such judge or chancellor was absent at each term of his court, to the
Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall, in addition to the deduction already
made or required by law, deduct the sum of twenty dollars for each and every
day such judge or chancellor may fail to attend, if it should appear that suc
judge or chancellor was within the limits of the state, at the time of such
failure: Provided, however, That if such judge or chancellor shall make oath,
as required by law, and file the same in the Auditor’s ofiice, that his absence
was occasioned by sickness, or that his attendance was prevented by the obstruction of high waters, or by his attendance at any other court assigned to
his charge at the same time, in which cases the deduction shall not be made.

ART. 6. An Act to Establish and Organize the High Court o Errors and
Appeals, and to Define the Powers and Jurisdiction thereof— eb. 27, 1833.

§ 1. The Court of Three Judges Organized. There shall be established in
this state a court to be styled the High Court of Errors and Appeals, to consist of the number of judges prescribed in the constitution, and each of said
judges shall receive a salary of two thousand dollars annually, payable quarter-yearly out of the state treasury.

The Act of 1836, raised the salary to 83,000 ; but that of 1842, reduced
it to 82,500, the present salary, c. 33, a. 13, 17.

2. Oathof Judge. Each judge of said Court of Errors and Appeals, before
he enters on the duties of his 0 ce, shall take and subscribe the oath required

in the constitution, which unlit l1.l:1_\_' be administered before the executive, or
any judge or justice of tlw peace ml the state, and a certificate of the same
shall enable him to do all lily‘ elntin- ~17 his office, which certificate shall be recorded by the clerk of the court aforesaid: any judge who shall sit in said
court without havin first taken the oath herein required to be taken by him,
shall be deemed guiFty of a high misdemeanor, and may for the same be removed from ofiice. .

3. Terms of the Court. The High Court of Errors and Appeals shall be
held at the town of Jackson, in the county of Hinds, on the first Monday of
July and January, in each and every year, and may continue until the business therein depending shall be disposed of. See a. 7, ll, 12.

4. Choice of Chie Justice. The judges of the said High Court of Errors
and Appeals, shall c oose from among themselves the presiding judge thereof,
and enter the same of record.

5. Districts for Election of the Judges. The state shall be divided into
the following districts, to wit: The counties of Wilkinson, Amite, Pike, Lapwrence, Marion, Perry, Green, Jackson, and Hancock, shall form the first district; the counties of VVayne, Jones, Covington, Simpson, Copiah, Hinds,
Madison, Monroe, Lowndes, and Rankin, shall form the second district; the
counties of Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Claiborne, Warren, Washington, Yazoo, and Holmes, shall form the third district: in each of which districts one
judge shall be elected as prescribed in the constitution. See a. 8, 9, ll.

6. Election of the Judges——Contests thereof. The first and all future elections for said judges shall be conducted in the same manner, and at the places
that may be prescribed by law for the election of members of the legislature ;
and all contested elections for said judges of the High Court of Errors and
Appeals, shall be determined in the same manner that now is, or that may
hereafter be, prescribed for contesting the election of Governor.

8, 9. Court to Deliver Opinions in Writing—-They Recorded. It shall be
the duty of said High Court of Errors and Appeals, in every case they may
decide or decree, to deliver their opinions in writin , stating at large the reasons and principles upon which such decision is made ; which opinion shall be
by the clerk of said court filed among the records of said court, at the time of
delivery; and any judge of said court differing in opinion from a majority of
said court, shall reduce his opinion to writing, and the reasons therefor, and
shall file the same among the records of said court; and any judge of said
court, neglectin or refusing to comply with the provisions of this section, shall
be deemed guiihy of a misdemeanor in oflice, and shall be liable to removal
therefor.

It shall be the duty of the clerk of said court to record in a book, by him to
be kept for that purpose, the written opinions of said court, and the written
opinions of any judge thereof; and said clerk shall receive as a compensation
therefor, ten cents for each hundred words so recorded, payable half-yearly, out
of the treasury of the state, upon the certificate of any one of the judges of
said court that the services have been performed, and that the account therefor
is true as stated.

Opinions reported, c. 23, a. 1 to 5.

10. Transfer of the Records, <§-c., of the late Supreme Court, and of the

Causes therein. The clerk of the Supreme Court is hereby required to transfer "and deliver to the clerk of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, imme- '

diately after the organization thereo, all books, papers, records, and office
furniture, which may rtain to his ofiice; and all suits, actions, and plaints
now depending in the upreme Court of this state. or which may be instituted
therein by appeal or writ of error before ll1L"- s:1iLl I ligh Court of Errors and
Ap eals shall have been organized ac(_'.n1‘(liI1g tn the provisions of this Act,
shall be transferred to the said High Court ml‘ l:‘.i~r«m< and Appeals, on or before
the first day of the first term of said court, and shall be proceeded on to final
decision by said court in the regular order in which they may stand on the
docket of the Supreme Court, at the time of their transfer.

11. What Laws to Govern this Court. The several Acts for the organization of the present Supreme Court, not repugnant to the constitution, or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, are hereby declared to be in full
force, for the government of said High Court of Errors and Appeals.

12. This Act is to operate from and after the first Monday of May next,
and all Acts in conflict with it are repealed.

ART. 7. An Act to Change the Time of Holding the High Court of Errors and
' Appeals—Feb. 27, 1836.

The High Court of Errors and Appeals shall hereafter be holden on the first
Monday in December and January in each year.
The December term thereof shall end on the last Saturday in December,

and the January term may continue until the business shall be finished. See
a. ll, 12.

ART. 8. Amendment of Article Si:z:—Feb. 27, 1836.

Arrangement of the High Court Districts to Include the Chickasaw Counties.
Hereafter the following counties, to wit, Wilkinson, Amite, Pike, Marion, Perry,
Hancock, Jackson, Green, Wayne, Jones, Covington, Lawrence, Copiah, Jefferson, Franklin, and Adams, shall form the first district of the High Court of
Errors and Appeals. r

Hereafter the following counties, to wit, Claiborne, Hinds, Simpson, Smith,
Jasper, Clarke, Lauderdale, Neshoba, Newton, Scott, Rankin, Madison, Yazoo,
Warren, Washington, Bolivar, and Coahoma, shall form the third district of the
Hi h Court of Errors and Appeals.

Hereafter the followin counties, to wit, Holmes, Attala, Leake, Kemper,
Noxubee, Winston, Carrol , Choctaw, Octibbeha, Lowndes, Monroe,Chickasaw,
Yallobusha, Tallahatchie, Tunica, De Soto, Lafayette, Panola, Marshall, Tippith, Pontotoc, Itawamba, and Tishamingo, shall form the second district of the

igh Court of Errors and Appeals. See a. 9, 11.

ART. 9. An Act to Divide this State into Three Districts for the Election of

Judges of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, aud for the Superior Court
of Chaucer;/—Feb. 15, 1839.

§ 1. The state is divided into three districts for the election of judges of the
Hirrh Court of Errors and Appeals, and for the holding of the Superior Court
of Chancery.

2. The first district shall consist of the counties of Claiborne, Copiah, Simpson, Clarke, Jasper, Lauderdale, Newton, Smith, Rankin, Hinds, Warren,
Washington, Yazoo, Madison, Leake, Neshoba, Noxubee, Winston, Kemper,
Lowndes, Octibbeha, Attala, Holmes, Carroll, and Bolivar.

3. The second district shall consist of the counties of Wilkinson, Amite, Pike,

' Hancock, Jackson, Greene, Perry, Wayne, Jones, Covington, Lawrence, Marion, Franklin, Jefferson, and Adams.

4. The third district shall consist of the counties of Monroe, Chickasaw,
Choctaw, Yallobusha, Tallahatchie, Coahoma, Tunica, Panola, Lafayette, Pontotoc, Itawamba, Tishamingo, gppah, Marshall, and De Soto. See a. 11.

A31‘. 10. An Act Concerning the .Mode of Proceeding in the High Court qfErrors and Appeals—Feb. 14, 1839.

§ 1. Docket for each District. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the High
Court of Errors and Appeals to make out and keep three distinct dockets of all
cases now pending or which may be hereafter brought in the said court, one for
each of the three districts for the election of judges of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, and to place on the docket for each district all cases, criminal
or civil, emanatin from counties in the same, and cases prosecuted from the
Superior Court 0 Chancery, on the docket of that district in which the first
named defendant in such cases, who ma be resident in the state, shall appear
by the bill or process to reside; if there lie no such resident defendant, then of
that in which the plaintiff shall so appear to reside; and if neither defendant
nor plaintiff appear by the bill or process to reside in some county in the
state, such case shall be placed on the docket of that district which the said clerk
shall deem most convenient to the parties: Provided, That civil cases in which
the State of Mississippi may be a party, shall be placed on the docket of that
district in which the seat of government is situated; and all criminal cases
shall be placed first on the docket to which they respectively belon .

2, 3, 4, 5. Portions of Term Allotted to each Docket and Reguiztions Concerning the Same. It shall be the duty of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, some time durin each term commencing on the first Monday in January, to apportion out o the two next succeeding terms so much time as said
court shall deem suflicient for the hearing and disposition of the cases on each
of the dockets to be made out and kept as before provided, and by general order
to direct at which time during said term the docket for each district shall be
taken up: Provided, That at least two weeks shall be allowed for each docket.

In the event the High Court of Errors and Appeals shall fail to sit, or sitting,
shall fail to make the order hereinbefore required, then it shall be the dut of
the clerk of said court to prescribe the time when each of said dockets sh 1 be
res ctively taken up.

0 soon as the time for taking up the said dockets shall be prescribed, either
by the court or the clerk, in the manner before provided, it shall be the duty of
the said clerk to give notice thereof, by publication for six weeks in one of the
public newspapers printed in each of the said districts; and his account therefor shall be allowed and paid in like manner with other contingent expenses of
the High Court of Errors and Appeals. And any clerk who shall fail to prescribe the time for taking u said docket when it shall be his duty to do so, or
shall fail to give the notice liereby required, shall in either case forfeit and pay
the sum of one thousand dollars, to be recovered for the use of the state by indictment in any court of competent jurisdiction.

It shall be the duty of the High Court of Errors and Appeals to take up the
docket for each district at the time prescribed therefor, and proceed to hear and
determine the causes on the same; and if it shall happen that any causes cannot be disposed of within the time allowed to the dockets on which they may
be respectively placed, the said court shall, after the causes on the docket
last taken up have been disposed of, again take up the two first dockets, or
either of them, on which any causes remain undisposed of, in their order, and

proceed to hear and determine the same : Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent said High Court of Errors and Appeals from continuing
any cause for sufficient reasons, or from setting any case for argument on particular days of each term, by consent of parties, so as not to interfere with the
regular disposition of the dockets, or from announcing the opinions of the
court on cases which may have been arguetfbr submitted at any time during
each term. ART. 1]. An Act to Regulate the Districts for the Election of Judges o the
Higlt Court of Errors and Appeals, and to Change the Terms of said ourt.
—Feb. 22, 1840.

§ 1. The districts for the election of the judges of the High Court of Errors
and Appeals, shall hereafter be regulated and established as follows, to wit:
The first district shall be com sed of the counties of Hinds, Warren, Claiborne, Washington, Bolivar, ankin, Scott, Newton, Lauderdale, Kemper,
Neshoba, Leake, Madison, Yazoo, Holmes, Attala, Winston, and Noxubee;
the second district shall be composed of the counties of Adams, Jefferson, Wilkinson, Amite, Franklin, Co iah, Lawrence, Pike, Marion, Covington, Simpson. Smith, Jasper, Clarke. Wayne, Jones, Perry, Green, Hancock, and Jackson; and the third district shall be composed of the counties of Lafayette,
Lowndes, Octibbeha, Choctaw, Carroll, Tallahatchie, Yallobusha, Chickasaw,
Monroe, Itawamba, Pontotoc, Ponola, Coahoma, Tunica, De Soto, Marshall,
Tippah, and Tishamingo.

2. The sheriff of the first-named county in each district shall be the retuming ofiicer for said district.

3. The terms of the High Court of Errors and Appeals shall hereafter commence on the first Monday in January and July, of each year, and may continue until the business thereof is disposed of. See a. 12.

ART. 12. An Act to Chan e the Time 0 Holding the July Term of the High
Court of rrors and ppeals—-—Feb. 16, 1844.

The time of holding the summer session of the High Court of Errors and
Appeals, shall be changed to the first Monday in November, instead of the first
Monday in July.

ART. 13. Third Section of the Act concerning Costs—Feb. 16, 1846.

Return Days in the High Court for Executions. The first Monday of
January and July, shall be return days in the High Court of Errors and Appeals, in each and every year, to which all executions issuing from said court,
shall be made returnable; and all officers failing to return said executions at
the time to which they are returnable, or to pay over the money collected
thereon, shall, on motion, be made liable therefor, as in cases of sheriff's failing
to return executions, or to pay over moneys on executions, returnable to the
Circuit Courts of this state.

ART. 14. An Act to Attach the County of Claiborne to the Second Judicial
District for the Election of the Judges of the High Court of Errors and
Appeals—Jan. 17, 1848.

§ 1. That the county of Claiborne be attached to the second district, for the
election of the judges of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, and that all
appeals and writs of error, and other cases brought up to the High Court of
Errors and Appeals, from the said county of Claiborne, shall be placed upon
the docket of the said second district.

2. That all cases brought up from the county of Claiborne by appeal, writ

ART. 1. An Act Concerning Arbitrations and Awards—-June '7, 1822.

§ 1. Parties to Suits may Consent to a Rule of Court for Arbitration.
In all suits or actions, depending, or which hereafter may be depending, in any
court in this state, either at common law or in chancery, it shall and may be
lawful for the plaintiff and defendant, by themselves, their agents, or attorneys,
to consent to a rule of court, for referring all matters in controversy, between
them, in any suit or action. to the award, arbitrament, or umpirage of any
person or persons, who may be mutually chosen by them; and the award of
such referee or referees being made and returned, accordin to the rule or
submission of the parties, approved by the court, and enter of record, shall
have the same effect as the final judgment or decree of the court into which
such award may be returned, and execution ma issue thereon accordingly.

2. A Submission to Arbitration May be ade a Rule of any Court. It
shall and may be lawful for all merchants and traders, and others desirous to
end any controversy, for which there is no other remedy but by personal action,
or suit in equity, by arbitration, to agree that their submission of the matter in
controversy, to the award or umpirage of any person or persons, should be
made a rule of any court of record which the parties shall choose, and to insert
such their agreement in their submission or the condition of the bond or
promise, whereby they oblige themselves, respectively, to submit to the award
or umpirage of an person or persons; which agreement being so made and
inserted in their su mission or promise, on condition of their respective bonds,
shall or may, upon producing an aflidavit thereof, made by the witnesses thereunto, or any one of them, in the court of which the same is agreed to be made
a rule, and reading and filin the said affidavit in court, be entered in the proceedings of such court; an a rule shall be made thereupon by the said court.
that the parties shall submit to and finally be concluded by the arbitration or
umpirage, which shall be made concerning them by the arbitrators or umpire,
pursuant to such submission.

3. Award to be Entered as the Judgment of such Court. The award made
in pursuance of such submission may be entered up as the judgment or decree
of the court, and the same execution or process may issue thereupon as on other
judgments or decrees: and the court shall not invalidate any award, arbitrament or umpirage made in‘ pursuance of this Act, unless it be made to appear
to such court, that such award arbitrament or umpirage was procured by corruption or other undue means, or that there was evident partiality or misbehavior
in the arbitrators or umpires, or any of them. And any award, arbitrament, or
umpirage procured by corruption or other undue means, or where there shall
have been such evident partiality or misbehavior, as aforesaid, shall be deemed
and judged void and of no effect, and accordingly set aside by the court in
which the submission shall be made, so as complaint of such corruption or und ue
means, or evident partiality or misbehavior, as aforesaid, be made before the

end of the term of the court next after such award, arbitrament, or umpirage
be made and returned to such court.

4. Equity Cognizance Retained. Nothing in this Act contained shall be
construed to take away from Courts of Equity their power over awards, arbitraments, or umpirages.

ART. 2. From the Act Organizing the Former Circuit Court, 1822.

§54. Action of Account. Actions of account may be brought and maintained against the executors or administrators of every guardian, bailiff; and
receiver, and also by one joint tenant or tenant in common, his executors or
administrators, against the other as bailiff, for receiving more than comes to
his just share or proportion, and against the executors or administrators of such

joint tenant or tenant in common.

ART. 3. From the Act to Suppress Duelling——.hme 13, 1822.

H). Certain W'ords Made Actionable. All words which, from their usual
construction and common acceptations, are considered as insults, and lead to
violence and breach of the peace, shall hereafter be actionable, and no plea,
exception or demurrer shall be sustained in an court within this state to preclude a jury from passing thereon, who are hereby declared to be the sole
judges of the damages sustained: Provided, That nothing herein contained
shal be construed to deprive the several courts of this state from granting new
trials as in other cases.

ART. 4. From the Act Concerning Absent Debtors (see Title thereof, Ch.
54, a. 3.)—June 7, 1822.

The sections of this article are revisions or transcripts of the Acts, Feb.
10, 1807, T. 146; Dec. 18, 1811, T. 185, 187; Dec. 12, 1812, T. 196, and

Jan. 15, 1814, T. 200.
§ 6. Attachment where Debtor has Removed, is Removing, Absconds, or

Conceals flimseif. If any creditor shall make complaint on oath or affirmation,
to any judge of the Supreme Court, justice of the County Court, or justice of
the peace of any county within this state, that court, or justice of the peace of
any county wit in this state, that his or her debtor hath removed, or is removing
out of the state, or so absconds, or privately conceals him or herself, that the
ordinary process of law cannot be served on such debtor, and if such creditor
shall make oath or affirmation to the amount of his or her debt or demand, to
the best of his or her knowledge and belief, such judge or justice shall grant an
attachment against the estate of such debtor, or so much thereof as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the debt or demand and costs; which attachment shall be
directed to, and served by the sheriff, or other proper officer, of any county in
this state, and made returnable to the next term of the court where the suit is
properly cognisable, and shall be deemed the leadin process in such suit ; and
it shall be lawful for such sheriff, or other proper o cer, to serve and levy such
attachment upon the slaves, goods, and chattels, lands, and tenements of the
party so removed or removing, or absconding, as aforesaid, wherever the same
may be found, or in the hands of any person indebted to, or having any effects
of the debtor, and to summon such person as a garnishee, to appear at the
court to which the attachment is returnable, there to answer upon oathgor
affirmation, what he or she is indebted to the defendant in the attachment, or
what effects of such defendant, he or she hath in his or her hands, or had at the
time of the serving of such attachment, and what effects or debts of the
defendant there are in the hands of any person or persons, to his or her knowledge or belief; which attachment being returned executed, the court may
thereupon compel such garnishee to appear and answer as aforesaid, who shall
be allowed out of the effects attached, reasonable satisfaction for his or her
attendance. See a. 9, 15.

7. When Ajidavit by Creditor’s Agent. If the creditor or plaintiff in the
attachment be absent from, or shall reside out of this state, then the oath or affirmation, required in the preceding section, may be made by his or her ent
or attorney, and the like proceedings shall be had thereon, as if such oat or
affirmation had been made by the creditor or plaintiff in his or her own proper

j person. See a. 8.

8. Bond— That and Ajidavit Returned, or Attachment Dismissed. Every

judge or justice, before granting any attachment as aforesaid, shall take bond
and security from the party for whom the same shall be issued, his or her agent
or attorney, payable to the defendant, in double the sum for which the complaint shall be made, conditioned for satisfying all costs which shall be awarded
to such defendant, in case the plaintiff suing out the attachment therein mentioned, shall be cast in the suit, and also all damages which shall be recovered
against the plaintiff for wrongfully suing out such attachment ; which bond, together with the affidavit of the party complaining, his or her agent or attorney,
subscribed with his or her proper name, shall be returned by the judge or justice
taking the same, to the court to which the attachment is returnable ; and every
attachment issued without bond and affidavit, taken and returned as aforesaid,
is hereby declared illegal and void, and shall be dismissed.

9. How Attachment Executed. Every writ of attachment shall be executed
in the following manner, that is to say: the officer to whom it is directed, shall
go to the house or lands of the defendant, or to the person or house of the person in whose custody or possession the defendant’s property and estate may be,
and then and there declare, in the presence of one credible person at least, that
he attaches the rights and credits, moneys and effects, goods and chattels, lands
and tenements of such defendant, at the suit of the plaintiff in said writ mentioned, from and after which declaration, the goods, chattels and personal estate so attached, shall remain in the safe keeping and care of the said officer,
-in order to answer and abide the judgment of the court, unless the garnishee
shall enter into bond to such officer, with two good and sufficient sureties, in
double the sum for which such attachment shall have issued, with condition
that the said goods, chattels and personal estate, shall be forthcoming to answer
the judgment of the court in said suit.

10. Property how Replevied. All attachments shall be repleviable, at any
time before final judgment entered, or writ of inquiry executed, on the appearance of the defendant, and putting in ood special bail, or by giving bond with
good security to the sheriff or other 0 cer serving the same; which bond, the
sheriff or other officer is hereby empowered and required to take, to appear at
the court, to which such attachments shall be returnable, and to abide by and
perform the order and judgment of such court; and upon the defendant or defendants replevying any attached effects, b * iving bond and securit * to the
sheriff or other officer as aforesaid, the sheriff sgfiall return the name of t e surety by him so taken ; and if such surety shall be adjudged insufficient by the court,
and if the defendant shall fail to appear and give special bail as aforesaid, such
sheniff and surety shall be subject to the same judgment and recovery, and have
the same liberty of defence and relief, as if such surety had been taken upon the
execution of mesne process. Repealed, a. 14, s. 1.

11. Attachment against Realty of Non-Resident. When any rson who
shall be an inhabitant of any state, territory or country, without e limits of

this state, so that he cannot be personally served with process, shall be indebted
to any person, a resident of this state, and hath any estate real or personal,
within the same, any of the said judges or justices may grant an attachment
against such estate of such foreign person, under the rules, restrictions and
regulations before mentioned, and the like proceedincrs ma be had thereon;
and in case of the death of any debtor, residing out of the limits of this state,
having estate, real or personal therein, the creditor resident within the state,
shall, in like manner, be entitled to recover by attachment, against the executors and administrators, and execution shall issue accordingly against the propert * so left within this state. Extended to non-resident creditor, a. 1'7.

1 . Attachment against Non-Resident jointly Indebted. When two or
more persons, not residing in this state are jointly indebted, either as joint
obligors, partners, or otherwise, then the writ or writs of attachment shall and
may be issued against the separate and joint estate of such joint debtors, or any
of them, either by their proper names, or by or in the name or style of the partnership, or by whatever other name or names such joint debtors shall be generally reputed,,known or distinguished within this state, or against the heirs,
executors or administrators of them, or either or any of them: and the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels and effects, rights and credits, of such debtors, or
either or any of them, shall be liable to be seized and taken for the satisfaction
of any just debt or other demand, and may be sold to satisfy the same.

13. Attachment Cognizable before a Justice. If complaint be made on
oath, as aforesaid, to a justice of the peace of any county in this state, that
any person is indebted to the complainant in a sum within the jurisdiction of
such justice, and that such debtor hath removed, or is removing, out of the
count wherein the debt was contracted, or so absconds, or privately conceals
himself or herself, that a warrant cannot be served on him or her, such justice
shall take bond and security, as in this Act is before directed, grant an attachment against the estate of such debtor, or so much thereof, as shall be of value
sufficient to satisfy the debt and costs of the party praying such attachment, directed to the sheriff, or any constable of his county, and returnable before himself, or any other justice of the peace thereof, who shall and may proceed
thereupon as upon an attachment returnable to any Court of Record.

14. Form of Attachment and Condition of Band. And to prevent errors
in issuing attachments and taking bonds thereupon: Be it further enacted,
That the attachment shall be in the form, or to the effect following, viz. :

“ The State of Mississippi, to the sheriff (coroner or constable, as the case
may be), of county, greeting ;

“Whereas, A. B. (or agent or attorney of A. B. as the case may be),
hath complained on oath (or affirmation) to , Esq., judge of the Supreme
Court (or justice of the County Court of county, or justice of the
peace of the county of ), that C. D. is justly indebted to the said A. B.
to the amount of or thereabouts, and oath having been also made, that
the said C. D. hath removed, or is about to remove himself out of this state
(or out of your county, as the case may be), or so absconds or conceals himself, that the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him (or, is an inhabitant of another state, territory, or country, if the case be so), and the said
having given bond and security, according to the directions of the Act
in such case made and provided: We therefore command you, That you attach the estate, real and personal, of the said C. D., if to be found in your
county, or so much thereof as shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the said
debt and costs, according to the complaint; and such estate so attached, in
your hands to secure, or so to provide, that the same may be liable to further

 

proceedings thereupon according to law, at a court, to be held at
for the count of upon the day of next; so as
to compel the said  D. to appear and answer the above complaint of the
said ; when and where you shall make known to the said court how
you have executed this writ, and have then there this writ, witness, ———,
judge, or justice (as the case may be), the day of in the year
of our Lord ;” which attachment shall be signed and sealed by the
judge or justice granting the same, and the condition of the bond to be given
on obtaining suc attac ment, shall be in the form, or to the effect following,
v1z.:

“The condition of this obligation is such, that whereas the above bound
hath the day of the date hereof, prayed an attachment at the suit of
, against the estate of the above-named for the sum of ,
and hath obtained the same, returnable to the court of to be
held at on the day of next; now, if the said
shall prosecute his said suit with effect, or in case he fail therein, shall well and
truly pay and satisfy the said all such costs and damages as shall be
awarded against the said , his heirs, executors, or administrators, in any
suit or suits which may be hereafter brought for wrongfully suing out the said
attachment ; then the above obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full
force and effect;’’ and no attachment shall be abated for want of form, if the
essential matters expressed in the fore oing recedents be set forth.

15. Publication as to Non-resident ef ant. In all suits commenced and
prosecuted by attachment against the estate of any person or persons residin
out of this state, the court in which the same may be pending, shall stay a§
proceedings in such suit, for such time as it may think necessary, not less than
six months, nor exceeding one year from the return day of such attachment.
And the court may order notice of the attachment to be inserted in some pub
lic newspaper within the state or territory where the defendant is supposed to
reside, specifying therein at whose suit, against whose estate, for what sum, and
from what court such attachment issued, and that, unless the defendant shall
appear, give special bail, and plead within the time limited for his or her appearance in such case, judgment will be entered, and the estate so attached
will be sold. And if the de endant appear, put in bail, and plead as aforesaid,
his estate so attached, shall be liberated, and the garnishee or garnishees, if
any, discharged.

Publication one month, a. 1'7.

16. Publication as to Defendant Removing, 4-c. On the return of any writ
of attachment against a defendant who hath removed, or is removing without
the limits of this state, or so absconds, or privately conceals himself or herself,
that the ordinary process of law cannot be served on him or her éexcept in
cases cognizable before a justice of the peace), it shall be the duty o the clerk
of the court in which the suit is pending, to give notice, for four weeks successively, in some newspaper published within this state, most convenient to the
place where the court is held, of such attachment, and at whose suit, against
whose estate, for what sum, and before what court the same is pending, and
that unless the defendant shall appear, give special bail, and plead within the
time limited for his or her appearance in such case, jud ment will be entered,
and the estate so attached will be sold; and if the de endant appear, put in
bail, and plead as aforesaid, his estate so attached shall be liberated, and the
garnishee or garnishees, if any, discharged.

But see a. 14, s. 4, as to defence, &c.

17. Where Property Attached is Claimed by a third Person. In all cases

       

 

of attachments, any person other than the defendant, claiming the propert

attached, may interplead without giving bail ; but the property attached shafl
not hereby be replevied ; and the court shall immediately (unless good cause be
shown by either party for a continuance) direct a jury to be empannelled to
inquire into the right of property, and in all cases where the jury find for a
claimant, such claimant shall be entitled to his costs ; and where the jury find
for the plaintiff in the attachment, such plaintiff shall recover his costs against

such claimant. See c. 62, a. 1, s. 25; a. 8.
18. Judgment and Execution onAttachments. If any attachment as aforesaid, returnable to any Court of Record, or before a justice of the ' ace, shall
be returned executed, and the estate, real and personal attached, slieall not be
replevied, or defence shall not be made as this Act directs, the plaintiff shall be
entitled to a judgment for his whole debt and costs, and may take execution
thereupon ; and all the estate, real and personal, attached and not replevied as
aforesaid, shall be sold and disposed of for and towards satisfaction of the
plaintiff’s judgment, in the same manner as such property taken in execution
upon a writ of jieri facias ; and where any attachment shall be returned served in\he hands of any garnishee, it shall be lawful, upon his or her appearance
and examination, in the manner by this Actobefore-directed, to enter u judgment and award execution against every such garnishee, for all sums 0 money
due from him, her, or them, to the defendant in the attachment, or in his, her,
or their custody or possession, for the use of such defendant, or so much
thereof as shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the debt and costs of the complainant ; and all goods and effects whatsoever, in the hands of any garnishee
or garnishees, belonging to such defendant, shall be liable to satisfy such judgment, and shall be delivered to the sheriff or other officer accordin ly.

19. When Garmlshee Fails to Appear, cf-c. When any garnis ee shall be
returned by the sheriff or other officer summoned in manner aforesaid, and shall

fail to appear and discover, on oath or affirmation, as by this Act is directed, it
shall be lawful for the court, after solemnly calling the garnishee, and such
court is hereby authorized and required to enter a conditional judgment against
such garnishee, and thereupon a scirefacias shall issue against such garnishee,
returnable to the next term of the court, to show cause, if any he have, why
final judgment should not be entered against him. And upon such scirefacias
being duly executed and returned, if such garnishee shall fail to a pear accordingly, and discover, on oath or affirmation, in manner aforesaid, t e court shall
confirm such judgment, and award execution for the plaintiff ’s whole judgment
and costs; and if upon the examination of any garnishee, it shall appear to the
court that there is any of the defendant’s estate in the hands of any person or
persons, who have hot been summoned, such court shall, upon motion of the
plaintiff, grant a judicial attachment to be levied in the hands of such person or
persons having any of the estate of the defendant in his, her, or their custody
or possession, who shall appear and answer, and be liable as other garnishees.

But see a. 13.
20. Attachment before Debt is Due—Proceed~ing.s-—Commission. Whenever any creditor who shall have sufficient grounds to suspect that his debtor
will remove with his effects out of this state before his debt will be payable, or
whenever such debtor shall have so removed, leaving effects, it shall be lawful
for such creditor to go before any jud e or justice of the county court, or justice of the peace of the county where is debtor resides, or in case such debtor
has removed, where he last residebor where his effects may be found; and
make oath or affirmation to the true amount of his debt, and the time when it

will be payable, and that he hath just cause to suspect, and verily believes that

such debtor will remove himself, with his effects, out of the state, before the
said debt will become payable, or hath actually so removed; and, also, that he
had no knowledge, when the said debt was contracted, of the intention of such
debtor so to remove; and thereupon such judge or justice, taking bond and security from such creditor, as in other cases of attachments, shall issue an attachment against the goods and chattels of the debtor, returnable to the next
term of the court having jurisdiction thereof; which attachment may be served on any goods and chattels of such debtor, or any amishee or garnishees.
If such debtor shall not, on or before the return of suc attachment, enter into
bond, with sufficient security, for the pa ment of the said debt when it shall become payable, the court, on due roof 0 the justice thereof, and of the intention
of the debtor to remove, or of is having actually removed out of this state,
shall grant judgment, as in other cases of attachments; but execution shall be
stayed against any arnishee who shall state that he is indebted, or will at a future day be indebte to the defendant, until the claim of the plaintiff, or such
garnishee’s debt to the defendant shall become due, and the goods condemned
shall be sold upon a credit until the time the plaintih"s claim shall be pavable.
The sheriff, or other officer selling such goods, shall take a bond or bonds: with
good security, from the purchasr or purchasers and assign the same to the
plaintiff} to the amount of his debt, interest and costs; which bond or bonds
shall be returned to the clerk’s office, and execution may issue thereon, as on a
judgment of any court of record in this state ; and where the property sold shall
amount to more than the debt, interest and costs, shall take a bond, with good
securit for the surplus, and assign the same to the defendant: Provided, always, hat not more of the goods attached shall be sold than shall be necessary
to satisfy the debt, interest and costs, except in cases where the property sold
cannot be divided, and in such cases the sheriff or other officer shall be entitled
to commissions only on the amount of the plaintiff ’s demand, which commissions shall be included in the bond or bonds assigned to such plaintiff; who shall

be liable therefor, as for commissions included in a forthcoming bond, taken by

virtue of an execution: Provided, also, That all such attachments shall be repleviable in the same manner as other attachments are by law repleviable, and

where any such debt shall be within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace.

an attachment may be obtained as aforesaid, returnable before an justice of

the peace of the proper county, who shall and may grant judgment thereon, and

direct the goods condemned by him, to be sold in manner aforesaid, or execution to be stayed as aforesaid, against any garnishee or garnishees.

21. Contest of Garn~ishee’s Answer. Whenever the plaintiff in any attachment shall allege that any gamishee summoned in such attachment hath not
discovered the true amount of debts due from him to the defendant, or what
goods and chattels belongin to the defendant are in his or her possession, the
court shall direct, without tie formality of pleading, a jury to be empannelled
immediately, (unless good cause be shown, by either party, for a continuance’)
to inquire what is the true amount due from such garnishee to-the defendant»
and what goods and chattels are in his possession belonging to the defendantIf the finding of the jury shall be against such garnishee, the court shall gran‘
judgment in the same manner as if the facts found by the jury had been 6011‘
fessed by him or her, on his or her examination; and if the jury find in f=1V'°’

of the garnishee, he shall recover his costs against the plaintiff. See a. 13.
22. Perishable Property Attached, how Sold and Applied. VVhen 30)’
goods and chattels shall be levied on b’ virtue of any attachment, and the
sheriff, or other proper officer, in whose custodv such goods and chattels 3‘?
0

shall be of opinion that the same are of a perishable nature, and in danger

immediate waste and decay, such sheriff, or other oflicer, as aforesaid, shall
summon three respectable freeholders of his county, who shall examine the
goods and chattels so levied on, and if the said freeholders shall, on oath or
afiirmation, certify that, in their opinion, the are of a perishable nature, and
in danger of immediate waste and decay, andy if the person or persons to whom
such goods and chattels belong, his, her, or their agent or attorney, shall not
within twenty days after serving such attachment, replevy the same, then such
goods and chattels shall be sold at public vendue, by the sheriff, or other proper
oflicer, he having first advertised such sale at the court-house and other public
places in his county at least ten days before the sale. And the money arising
from such sale shall be liable to the judgment obtained upon such attachment,
and deposited in the hands of the clerk of the court, to which the process shall
be returnable, there to abide the event of such suit.

23. Slaves and Live Stock Attached, how Sustained. VVhen any sheriff,
or other officer, shall serve an attachment, on slaves, horses, or other live stock,
and the same shall not be immediately replevied or restored to the debtor, it
shall and may be lawful for such officers, and they are hereby required, to
provide sufficient sustenance for the support of such slaves and live stock, until
such slaves or stock shall be sold, or otherwise legally discharged from such
attachment; and their compensation for the same shall be ascertained, regulated and paid in like manner as in case of slaves and live stock taken in
execution.

24. Trial of Right of Property Attached before a Justice of the Peace.
In all attachments cognisable before a justice of the peace, served on any estate
which may be claimed by any person other than the defendant, the justice of
the peace, before whom the attachment is pendin , shall direct a jury of good
and lawful men to be summoned to appear beére him, at a day and place
specified in the summons; who shall be sworn and empannelled, to inquire
into the right of property, in the same manner as is hereinbefore provided in
the like cases before a court of record, and the verdict of the jur shall be
final between the claimant and the plaintiff in the attachment. gee c. 62,
a. 1, s. 25, and a. 8.

25. Judgment by Default on Attachment. If judgment, by default, shall be
entered on any attachment, against the estate of the defendant, in any court
of this state, no execution shall issue thereon, except against the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, on which the attachment may have been served,
or against a garnishee or garnishees, who shall have money or other property,
in his or their hands, belonging to the defendant; but if the defendant shall
appear, put in bail, and plead to the suit, the verdict and judgment rendered
therein shall have the same force and effect, as if a capias ad respondendum
had been served on the person of the defendant.

26. Security; to be Given by Creditor against Non-Resident Debtor in
Attachment before Sale. After judgment obtained by the plaintiff, upon any
atta.chment against non-residents, the plaintiff shall, before sales, and after
execution is awarded, find security, who shall undertake for the plaintiff, that if
the defendant in the attachment shall, within a year and a day next following,
by himself or attorney, come into court and disprove or avoid the debt
recovered by the plaintiff against him, or shall discharge the same with costs,
that then the plaintiff shall restore to the defendant, the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, or the value thereof, by the plaintiff attached and condemned, or so much thereof as shall be disproved or discharged, or else they
shall and will do it for him.

27. Garnishee to Answer Out of his County. The respective courts having

jurisdiction of attachments, may summon and compel the attendance of any

garnishee from one county to another ; who shall, in all respects, be proceeded
against in the same manner, as garnishees residing within the county where

the attachment is returnable. But see a. 13 and 17.
28. Death of Defendant after Return Day of Attachment not to Abate

it. If any defendant shall die after the return day of the writ of attachment,
the said action shall not be thereby abated or discontinued, but the same shall
be carried on to judgment, sale, transfer, and final determination, as if such
death had not intervened, and the defendant had been alive; and all proceedings
and deeds, which shall be had and made in such case, are hereby declared to
be as valid and effectual in law, as if they were had and made in the lifetime of
such defendant.

29. Attachment Issueable on Sunday. Upon proof being made before any
judge, justice of the County Court, or justice of the peace, within this state,
that a debtor is actually removing or absconding, as aforesaid, on Sunday, it
shall be lawful to issue and serve an attachment against such debtor, as is

directed b this Act on any other day.

30. A onstable may laxecute an Attachment. Any process of attachment
against absconding debtors may be executed and returned by a constable,
in the same manner as, by law, s eriffs are directed to execute and return the
same.

31. Construction of this Act. This Act shall be construed in all courts of
judicature, in the most liberal manner for the detection of fraud, the advancement of justice, and the benefit of creditors.

ART. 5. An Act for the better Securing the Payment of Rents, and Preventing the Fraudulent Practices of Tenants, and to Regulate the Practice of
Suing out and Prosecuting lVrits of Replevin—June 10, 1822.

The Act of December 18, 1812 . .53, T. 377, gave an action on the case
for rent, and abolished the common-law-remedy by distress. This article,
however, revived distress by way of attachment.
§ 1. Attachment to Distrazn for Rent in Arrear on Leased Premises. If

any lessor or lessors of lands and tenements, his, her, or their agent or attorney, shall make complaint on oath before any justice of the County Court, or
justice of the peace of the county where the lands and tenements leased are
situated, that his, her, or their tenant is indebted to him or them for rent due
and in arrear on such leased premises, specifying the sum so due and in
arrear, it shall be lawful for such justice to grant an attachment against the
goods and chattels of such tenant, directed to the sheriff or other proper oflicer,
commandin him to distrain the goods and chattels of such tenant, or so much
thereof as shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the rent due in arrear, to the
lessor or lessors as aforesaid ; and the goods and chattels so distrained shall be
by such sheriff or proper officer, disposed of in the manner hereinafter directed.

2. Three Months Replevy, Band, or Sale. Where any goods and chattels
shall be distrained for any rent reserved and due upon any demise, lease, or
contract whatsoever, and the tenant or owner of the goods so distrained, shall
not, within ten da s after such distress taken, and notice thereof, and the cause
of such taking, leflz’ at the dwelling-house, or other most notorious place on the
premises, charged with the rent distrained for replevy the same, by suflicient
security given to the sheriff or proper officer serving such distress, to pay
the money, with lawful interest for the same, and all costs, at the end of three
months, in such case, such sheriff or proper oflicer shall and may sell the

goods and chattels so distrained, by public auction, to the highest bidder, for
money to be paid at the end of three months ; and shall take bond of the purchaser or purchasers, with one or more sufficient sureties, to pay the same accordingly, with interest, to the lessor or lessors for whom the distress was made.

3. Tenor of Bond, and Proceedings on it. Every bond so taken in pursuance of this Act, shall mention that the same was entered into for goods or
other estate distrained for rent, and restored to the debtor, or sold to the obligor
(as the case shall be), and before the expiration of the said three months, shall
be delivered to the lessor or lessors for whom distress was made; and if the
mone shall not be paid, according to the condition of such bond, it shall be
lawful: and full power and authority are hereby iven to the court havin jurisdiction of the amount of such bond, where t e same shall be lodgerf, upon
motion of the party to whom the same is payable, to award execution thereupon with costs: Provided, The obligors have ten days notice of such motion ;
and upon such execution, the sheri or other proper officer shall not take
any sureties for payment of the money at a further day, but shall levy the
same immediately; and for the better direction of such sheriff or officer, the
clerk shall endorse upon every such execution, that “No security is to be
taken.”

4. 0j7icer’s Com/rnission. Any officer who shall levy distress for rent, shall
be entitled, in case the property be replevied, to the same commission as in
the case of a forthcoming bond, taken under any writ of execution for the like
sum, and may include such commission in every bond taken under such
distress.

5. Remedy to Defendant if no Rent Due. In case any distress and sale
shall be made under color of this Act, for rent pretended to be due and in
arrear, where, in truth, no rent is due or in arrear to him, her, or them in
whose name or names, or right, such distress shall be taken as aforesaid, then
the owner of the goods and chattels so distrained and sold, his executors or
administrators, shall have remedy by action of trespass, or upon the case,
against the person or persons in whose name or names such distress shall
have been taken as aforesaid, or either of them, his her, or their executors
and administrators, and shall recover double the value of the goods and chattels
so distrained and sold, together with full costs of suit.

6. Damages for Pound .Breach or Rescous. Upon any pound breach or
rescous of goods or chattels distrained for rent, the person or persons 'eved
thereby, shall, in a special action upon the case, for the wrong there y sustained, recover treble damages with cost of suit, against the offender or offenders, in any such rescous or pound breach, or either of them, or against the
owner of the oods distrained, in case the same be afterwards found to have
come to his or er use or ossession.

7. Attachment when Tldnant is about to Remove, and Proceedings thereon.
Where an landlord or lessor shall have sufhcient grounds to suspect that his
tenant wil remove his effects from the leased premises, to any other place,
whether within or without the county, before the expiration of his term, so as
no distress for the said rent can be made, it shall be lawful for such landlord or
lessor, to go before any justice of the County Court, or justice of the peace
of the county where the lands and tenements leased do lie, and make oath
what rent the tenant is to pay, and at what time the same will be due, and that
he has just cause to suspect, and verily believes such tenant will remove his
or her effects out of the count before the time of payment, and thereupon
such justice may, and he is here y empowered and required to issue an attachment against the goods and chattels of such tenant, returnable to the next term

of the court having cognizance thereof; and if such tenant shall not, at the
time of serving such attachment, or before, or at the next term of such court
as aforesaid, enter into recognizance, with one or more sufficient sureties, for
the payment of the said rent, at the time it shall become due, it shall be lawful for such court, and they are hereby required to order the goods attached to
be sold by the sheriff or other proper officer, for money to be paid at the time
the rent shall become due, the purchaser or purchasers giving good security for
such payment, and to assign the bonds taken for the same and the costs, to
such landlord or lessor, and the overplus of such sale, if any, besides the

charges of attachment and sale, to return to the owner.

8. W’/cere Tenant has Removed—Rent in Arrear. When any tenant shall
have actually removed his effects from the leased premises, before the rent reserved thereon has become due, so that there be not left on such premises property liable to distress, sufficient to secure the payment of the rent so reserved,
it shall be lawful for the landlord or lessor, in like manner to obtain at attachment, at any time within thirty days after such removal, and to levy the same
on the effects of the tenant, wherever they ma be found, and in other respects

to proceed therein, in the manner, and under t e regulations hereinbefore prescribed.

9. Landlord’s Agent may Obtain Attachment. The agent or attorney, in
fact, of any landlord or lessor, shall have the same right to obtain and prosecute, in the name of such landlord or lessor, any attachment, upon taking the
oath required by law, which the landlord or lessor would himself have under
like circumstances.

10. Goods of a third Person if Distrained-—Recovered by Replevin. No
goods or chattels found, or being in or upon any demised premises, such goods
and chattels bona _/ide, belonging to any person other than the tenant of such
premises, or some other ‘person or persons bound or liable for the payment of
the arrears of rent, or 0 some ortion thereof, due on such demised premises,
shall be liable to be distrained or the payment of such arrears of rent: Provided, however, That if such tenant or other person, bound or liable for the
payment of such arrears of rent, or of any portion thereof, shall have any
limited property or interest in such goods and chattels, the same may be distrained and sold for such interest as such tenant or other person or persons,
bound or liable for the pa ment of such arrears of rent, or of any portion
thereof, may have therein: Provided, also, That no person claimincrtitle to such
property distrained for rent, shall, in anv manner, avail himselfp of the provisions of this section, unless by a writ of replevin sued out and levied before
the sale of such property under the distress.

11. Attachment for Rent Executed by a Constable. Any process of attachment against a tenant or tenants for rent, under any lease or other contract,
may be excuted and returned by a constable, in the same manner as by law
sheriffs are directed to execute and return the same.

12. Goods F-raudulently Removed from Premises Seizable in Thirty
Days. In case any lessee for life or lives, term of years at will, or otherwise,
of messuages, lands or tenement, upon the demise whereof any rents are or
shall be reserved or made payable, shall, at any time, fraudulently or clandestinely, convey or carry off from such demised premises, his goods or chattels,
with intent to prevent the landlord or lessor from distraining the same for
arrears of rent so reserved, it shall be lawful for such landlord or lessor, or any
person or persons by him for that purpose lawfully empowered, within thirty
days next after such conveying away, or carrying off such goods and chattels,
to cause the same to be taken and seized according to the provisions of this

Act, wherever they shall be found, as a distress for the arrears of such rent,
and the same to sell, in the same manner as if they had been distrained by
such landlord or lessor in and upon the demised premises: Provided always,
That no goods or chattels so carried off, and bona fide sold for valuable consideration, before such seizure made, shall be afterwards liable to be so taken or
seized for any arrears of rent.

13. Rent in Arrear from Tenant for Life Recoverable in Debt. Any person or persons having rent in arrear, or due upon any lease or demise for
life or lives, may bring an action or actions of debt for such arrears of rent,

in the same manner asif such rent was due and reserved upon a lease for
tears.

3 14. In what Cases Distress for Rent may be Made. It shall be lawful for
any person or persons having rent in arrear, or due upon any lease for life or
lives, or for years, or at will, ended or determined, to distrain for such arrears
after the determination of the respective leases, in the same manner, as if such
lease or leases had not been determined: Provided, That such distress be
made within six months after the determination of such lease, and during the
continuance of such landlord’s title or interest, and during the possession of
the tenant from whom such arrears became due ; and no distress for rent shall be
made in any.case whatsoever, but within five years after such rent shall become due and in arrear.

15. Replevin of Goods Dis-trained. Before any writ of replevin shall be
granted in case of goods and chattels distrained for rent, the person or persons
praying such writ, shall enter into bond, with one or more sufiicient sureties,
in the clerk’s oiiice, in the penalty of at least double the value of the rent
distrained for, and costs of suit, to perform and satisfy the judgment of the
court in such suit, in case he, she, or they shall be cast therein ', and if upon
the trial of such suit, it shall be found that the rent distrained for, was justly
due, the party injured or delayed by suing forth the said writ, shall recover
against the party suing forth and prosecuting the same, double the value of
rent in arrear and distrained for, with full costs of the suit ; and upon an execution issued upon such judgment, the clerk shall, in like manner, en orse,
that “no security is to be taken.” See a. 10, ll.

16. T/l‘iTd Person Claiming may have Replevin. Where any person shall
suggest that the goods and chattels distrained, are his or her property, and not the
property of the tenant, nor held in trust for the use of the tenant in any manner whatsoever, and that the same, in his or her opinion, are not liable to such
distress, he or she giving bond and security in manner hereinbefore directed,
may sue out a writ of replevin for such goods and chattels, but not otherwise ;
and in case the person or persons suin out such writ shall be cast in said suit,

judgment shall be given crainst him or double the value of the rent in arrear
and distrained for, with fu 1 costs as aforesaid.

17. When Writ of Replevin Returned—1s.s-ue thereon. And for the more
speedy determination of such writs of replevin: Be it further enacted, That every
such writ issuing from the clerk’s ofiice of any court shall be returnable to the next
court after the same shall be issued; and such court shall, at the term to which
the same is returned, cause an issue to be made up therein; and every issue made
up on such writ of replevin, whether in a superior or inferior court, shall be
tried at the same term, without waiting for its turn in the order of priority, in
regard to other suits.

18. Like Remedies to Grantee, Assignee, 490., of the Lessor. All persons
bein grantees or assignees of any lands, tenements or hereditaments let, to lease,
or of t e reversions thereof, from any person or persons, and the heirs, executors

and administrators and assigns of such grantees or assignees, shall and may have
and enjoy the like advantages against the lessees, their executors, administrators
and assigns, by entry for non-payment of the rent, or for doing of waste, or
other forfeitures; and also shall and may have and enjoy all and every such like
covenants and agreements contained and expressed in the said leases, demises
or grants, a ainst all the said lessees, their executors, administrators and assigns,
as the said essors themselves or their heirs ought, should or might have had, or
enjoyed at any time or times.

19. Lessee for Years or Life, or his Executors, Administrators or Assigns,

, Remedies against Lessor, (9-0. All lessees of any lands, tenements and hereditaments, for a term of years, life, or lives, their executors, administrators or
assigns, shall and may have like action and advantage against all and every
person or persons, their heirs and assigns, which have, or shall have any ift
or grant of the reversion of the said lands, tenements, or hereditaments so etten, or any parcel thereof, for an condition, covenant, or agreement contained
or expressed in the indentures 0 their lease and leases, as the same lessees, or
any of them, might and should have had against the said lessors and their heirs

all benefit and advantage of recoveries in value, by reason of any warranty in
deed or law only excepted.

20. Executor or Administator may bring Debt, or Distrain j§r Rent. The
executors and administrators of any person unto whom any rent is or shall
be due, and not paid at the time of his death, shall and may have an action of
debt for all such arrearages against the tenant or tenants who ought to have
paid the said rent. so being behind in the life of their testator or intestate, 01'
against the executors or administrators of such tenants ; and also, furthermore.
it shall and may be -lawful for every such executor and administrator of any
such person to whom such rent is or shall be due, and not paid at the time of
his death, to distrain for the arrearages of all such rents on the lands, tenements.
and hereditaments which were charged with the payment of such rents, and
chargeable to the distress of the said testator or intestate, so long as the same
continue, remain, and be in the seizin or possession of the said tenant in demesne, who ought immediately to have paid the said rent, so being behind, to
the said testator or intestate in his lifetime, or in the seizin or possession of
any person or persons claiming the said lands, tenements, and hereditamentsa
on by and from the said tenant by purchase, gift, or descent, in like mannéf
an form as their said testator or intestate might or ought to have done In his
lifetime; and the said executors and administrators for the same distress, law‘
fully may make avowry upon the matter aforesaid.

21. So the Ilusbaml in VVife’s Right at her Death. If any man who DOW
bath, or hereafter shall have, in the ri ht of his wife, any estate in fee—simpl8»
or for term of life of, or in any rents or ac-farms, and the same rents or fee-farms
now are, or hereafter shall be due, behind and unpaid in said wife’s life, lb?“
the said husband, after the death of his said wife, his executors and administrators, shall have an action of debt for the said arrearages against the 1993"‘
of the demesne who ought to have paid the same, his executors or administrators; and also, the said husband, after the death of his said wife, may d1S_U'3‘_“
for the said arrearages in like manner and form as he might have done If )1”

said wife had then been living, and make avowry upon his matter as is afore‘
said.

22. So Executor or Administrator, even though Decedent’s Estate had be?"
Determined. The executors and administrators of any person or persons h“.V'
ing rent in arrear, or due upon any demise or lease for life or lives. 0T W
years, or at will, although the same be determined, shall and may have the like

remedy, by action of debt, or by distress against the person who ought to have
paid the same, his or her executors or administrators, as the testator or intestate,
if living, might or could have done.

23. Pro erty Distrained not Removed out of C'ounty—Dis-tress to be Reasonable. t shall not be lawful for an person taking any distress, to drive or
remove the same out of the county w ere such distress was taken; and if an
person shall so remove an goods and chattels distrained as aforesaid, suc
person shall, on conviction, be lined at the discretion of the court before whom
the conviction may be had, and shall, moreover, be liable to the action of the
party aggrieved, for all dama es occasioned thereby ; and moreover, distresses
shall in all cases be reasonab e, and not too eat, and any person who shall
make an unreasonable distress, under color 0 this Act, shall be liable to the
action of the party grieved, for damages.

ART. 6. Amendment of Article Five—Jan.20,1823.

Lessor to give Bond on Suing out Attachment. If any lessor or lessors of
lands or tenements shall wish to sue out an attachment against his, her, or
their tenant or tenants, for any rent due, or in arrear, or leased premises, such

lessor or lessors shall give bond and security, as is required by law in other
cases of attachment.

ART. 7. An Act Concerning Forcible Entries and Detainers—June 18, 1822.
See a. 16.

£31. Forcible Entry and Unlawful Detainer Prohibited. None shall enter
into any lands or tenements, but in case where entry is given by law; and in
such case, not with strong hand, nor with multitude of people, but only in a
peaceable manner. And none who shall have entered in a peaceable manner
shall hold the same afterwards, against the consent of the party entitled to the
possession thereof.

2, 3. Remedy therefor-—-Limitation. If any shall enter, or shall have entered, into any lands or tenements, in case where entry is not given by law; or if
any shall enter, or shall have entered into any lands or tenements, with strong
band, or with multitude of people, even in case where entry is iven by law, the
party turned out of possession by such unlawful, or by such orcible entry, by
whatever right or title he held such possession, or whatever estate he held or
claimed in the lands or tenements, of which he was so dispossessed, shall, at any
time within three years thereafter, be entitled to the summary remedy herein

rovided. A

P If any shall enter, or shall have entered in a peaceable manner, into any
lands or tenements, in case where such entry is lawful; and after the expiration
of his right, shall continue to hold the same, against the consent of the party
entitled to the possession, the party so entitled, whether as tenant of the freehold, tenant for years, or otherwise, shall be entitled to the like summary remedy, at any time within three years after the possession shall so have been withheld from him against his consent.

4, 5. Complaint and Oath. The party so turned out of possession, or so
held out of possession, may exhibit his complaint before any justice of the
peace for the county or corporation within which such lands or tenements may
lie, in the following form, or to the following effect, that is to say: “ county (or corporation of ), to wit: A. B. of the said county (or corporation),
complains, that C. D. hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out of possession,
or unlawfully and against his consent withholds from him the possession of a
certain tenement, containing, by estimation, of land, with the appurte 

nances, lying and being in the county (or corporation) aforesaid. whereof he
prays restitution of the possession. A. B., plaintiff.”

Such complaint shall be verified by the oath or amrmation of the plaintiff,
certified at the foot thereof, after the following manner: “ county (or corporation of ) to wit: This day the above-named A. B. made oath (or affirmed) before me, a justice of the peace for said county (or corporation), that
he verily believes the allegations of the above complaint to be correct and true.
Given under my hand, this day of .”

6,7, 8. Warrant, and how Directed, Executed and Returned. The jus. tice before whom such complaint shall be made, shall thereupon issue his warrant to the following effect: “ county (or corporation of ), to wit:
Whereas A. B. hath made complaint on oath (or affirmation), before me, a justice of the peace for the said county (or corporation), that C. D. hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out of possession (or unlawfully and against his consent, holds him out of possession), of a certain tenement of land, with its
appurtenances, lying and being in the said county (or corporation), and hath
prayed restitution of the posession thereof: These are therefore, in the name of
the State of Mississippi, to require you to summon the said C. D. to appear at
the court-house of your county (or corporation), on the day of , before the justices of the county (or corporation) aforesaid, to answer the complaint aforesaid; and also to require you to summon at least eighteen good and
lawful men of your county, being freeholders therein, and not of kin to either
party, then and there to be attendant upon the said justices, or jurors to try the

complaint aforesaid. You are furthermore required to give notice of this warrant to at least two other justices of the peace for the said county (or corporation), and to request their attendance at the time and place aforesaid; and have

then there this warrant. Witness my hand and seal, this day of .
E. F.” (seal.)

The warrant aforesaid shall be directed to the sheriff or coroner of the proper
county, as the case may require; shall be made returnable on a day certain,
not less than ten, nor more than twent days after its date; and shall be forthwith executed by the proper officer, who shall make due return to the justices
at the time and place therein mentioned, of the manner in which he shall have
executed the same.

The said warrant shall be served on the defendant at least eight days before
the return day, either by delivering to him a copy thereof, or, if he cannot be
found, by delivering a copy to any white person of his family, above the age of
sixteen years, at his usual place of residence, or, if no such person be found,
then by setting up a copy on some conspicuous place on the tenement in the
warrant mentioned.

9. Wrztnesses. At any time after such warrant shall have been issued, it
shall be lawful for the justice issuin the same, or any justice of the peace for
the county (or corporation), or for t e clerk of the county or corporation court,
as the case may be, upon the application of either party, to issue subpaanas for
witnesses, requiring them to attend at the court-house, before the justices, at
the time appointed as aforesaid, to give evidence on the trial. Any subpoena,
so issued, shall be executed in the same manner, and, to all intents and purposes,
shall have the same force and effect, as a subpoena issued according to law, in
acause depending in a Circuit Court.

10, 11, 12, 13. C'ourt——Jury——and Trial in such Case. It shall be the duty
of the justices notified as aforesaid, and of the justice who shall have issued the
warrant to attend at the court-house on the day therein specified, for the purpose of holding a court, for the trial of the complainant aforesaid; for which

purpose, such justices, or any two of them, or any two or more justices of the
county or corporation, as the case may he, shall constitute a court. Such
court shall be considered a court of record; they shall have power to issue all
proper process to bring before them witnesses, or other persons whose attendance may be lawfully required by them; and they may adjourn from day to
day, and from time to time, until the trial shall be ended. The sheriff or coroner, as the case may require, shall be attendant upon them, and execute their
orders. And the clerk of the same county, or corporation court, as the case may
be, shall attend them, and shall record their proceedings in the proper books of his
office, and file away and preserve the complaint and warrant aforesaid, with all

other papers exhibited on the trial.
When the justices shall have so met, and formed a court, on the day and at
the place aforesaid, if it shall appear to them that the defendant has been duly
1

served with the warrant agreeably to the requisitions of this Act, they sha .

proceed, without further pleadings In writing, to empannel a jury for the trial
of the complaint aforesaid. The jury shall be composed of any twelve of the
freeholders, summoned as aforesaid, to be selected by lot, to whom neither
party hath any legal exception ; or, if a sufficient number of such freeholders,
to whom neither party hath any legal exception, be not attending, the deficiency
shall be made up of bystanders, being freeholders of the county or corporation.

When the jury shall have been so empannelled, they shall be charged on
oath, in the following manner, that is to say: If the complaint be of a forcible
entry, or of an unlawful entry, they shall be charged thus: “ You shall well and
truly try whether the defendant, C. D., at any time within three years next
before the exhibition of the complaint filed by the plaintiff in this case, did
forcibly (or unlawfully) enter upon the tenement in the said complaint mentioned, and turn the said plaintiff out of the possession thereof; and whether
the said defendant continued to hold the possession thereof at the time of the
exhibition of said complaint. And you shall find a true verdict thereupon
according to the evidence: So help you God.” Or if the complaint be of an
unlawful detainer against the consent of the plaintiff, they shall be charged
thus : “You shall well and truly try whether the defendant, C. D., against the
consent of the plaintiff, holds possession of the tenement mentioned in the
complaint filed in this cause; whether the said defendant hath so held possession
thereof, for three years next before the exhibition of the said complaint; and
whether the plaintiff hath the right of possession in the tenement aforesaid:
And you shall find a true verdict thereupon according to the evidence: So
help you God.”

The jury being so empannelled and charged, the justices shall then admit
before them all le al evidence which shall be offered, as well on the part of the
defendant, as on t e part of the plaintiff; shall suffer each party to be heard by
counsel ; shall decide all questions of law which shall be properly submitted to
them in the course of the trial; shall admit bills of exception to their opinions;
and shall, in all respects, conduct the trial according to the usages of courts of
law in this state.

14. Verdict. When the jury shall have unanimously agreed upon their
verdict, they shall find the same in the following form, or to the followin effect,
that is to say, in cases of forcible entry, or unlawful entry, thus: “ e, the
jury, find that the defendant did (or did not) within three years next before the
exhibition of .the complaint filed by the plaintiff in this cause, forcibly (or unlawfully) enter upon the tenement, in the said complaint mentioned, and turn
the plaintiff out of possession thereof; and that the said defendant did (or did
not) continue to hold the possession thereof at the date of the said complaint.”

Or in case of unlawful detainer against the plaintiff’s consent, thus: We, the
jury, find that the defendant did (or did not) at the time of the exhibition of
the complaint filed in this cause, hold possession of the tenement therein mentioned, against the consent of the plaintiff, that the said defendant hath (or hath
not) so held possession thereof against the consent of the plaintiff. for three ‘cars
next before the exhibition of said complaint; and that the plaintiff ha (or
hath not) the right of possession in the tenement aforesaid.

15, 16, 17, 18. Judgment—Appeal——Eject qf Judgment. If the verdict
so found, on a complaint of a forcible entry, or of an unlawful entry, shall ascer-tain that such forcible entry or unlawful entry, as the case may be, whereby the

plaintiff was turned out of possession, was made by the defendant within three
years before the exhibition of the complaint, and that the defendant’s possession
continued at the time of exhibiting the complaint; or if the verdict found as
aforesaid, upon a complaint of unlawful detainer against the consent of the plaintiff, shall ascertain that the defendant, at the time of the exhibition of said complaint, held the possession of the tenement therein mentioned, against the consent of the plaintiff; that the said defendant had not so held, against the consent
of the plaintiff, for three years next before the exhibition of said complaint;
and that the plaintiff hath the right of possession in the tenement aforesaid;
then in either of these cases, the justices shall render judgment in favor of the
plaintiff; that he recover possession of the tenement aforesaid, with full costs, and
shall award a writ of ha ere facias possessionem.

If the verdict found as aforesaid, in either of the said cases shall be in favor
of the defendant, the justices shall render judgment against the plaintiflj that his
complaint be dismissed, and that the defendant recover of him full costs.

The 'udgment of the justices rendered as aforesaid, either in favor of the
plainti , or in favor of the defendant, shall be executed in the same manner, as
if it had been the judgment of any other Court of Record in this state; and
either party thinking him or herself aggrieved thereby, may appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county, which appeal shall be granted only after judgment,
on the appellant entering into bond and security in double the amount of the
costs of the suit before the justice, who shall approve the security, payable to
the opposite party; and thereupon the justice shall send up to such Circuit
Court all the papers, records, and (proceedings in the case, and cause the same
to be delivered to the clerk of the. ‘ircuit Court, to be docketed for trial; and
the said Circuit Court shall empannel a jury, and hear and determine the
same, de novo, according to the provisions of this Act, and the rules of said
court, except that the same shall be tried out of course, and at the first term
after such removal.

N o judgment rendered as aforesaid, either for the plaintiff or defendant, shall
bar any action of trespass, or any writ of ejectment, or writ of ri ht, between
the same parties, respecting the same tenement ; nor shall any vergict found as
aforesaid, be held conclusive of the facts therein found, in any such actions of
trespass, ejectment, or writ of rirrht. See a. 16.

19, 20. Defaulting Jurors—i'ees of 0_17icer.s-. Every juror summoned to
attend the 'ustices aforesaid, and failing to attend without sufficient cause
therefor, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the
state, which may be imposed by the justices aforesaid, or by the Circuit Court
of the county.

The sheriff, or other proper oflicer, shall be allowed for his services in executing and returning the warrant aforesaid, the sum of four dollars; and for
attending the justices during the trial, the sum of two dollars for each day; all
other fees of officers for services rendered, in relation to the proceedings and

trial aforesaid, shall be the same as the fees for similar services, rendered in a
suit at law, respecting the title of land, depending in any Circuit Court in this
state.
The preceding Act is a revision of that of Feb. 10, 1805, Toulmin, 263.
T. 277.

ART. 8. Act Extending the Provision in the Seventh Section of Article Four
to the Agent of a Non—Resident Creditor——Feb. 3, 1825.

The provisions of the seventh section of an Act, to which this is an amendment, is hereby further extended, so as to entitle the agent of any creditor or
plaintiff in attachment, to all the provisions of the said section, whenever the
creditor or plaintiff in attachment shall be absent from, or reside without the
county, wherein the debtor or defendant may be found.

ART. 9. Amendment of Article Four——Dec. 9, 1830.

The Benefit of Article Four Extended to Individual and Corporate Creditors qf this State. The provisions of the Act to which this is an amendment,
are hereby extended to all cases of indebtedness to any person or persons resident in the State of Mississippi, or to any body or bodies corporate or politic,
located within the limits thereof, by any body or bodies corporate or politic,
whose place of location shall be without the limits of said state, and which shall,
at the time of said indebtedness, be possessed of any estate, real or personal,
situate or found within the limits thereof.

AM. 10. From the Act Establishing the Circuit Court under the Revised
Constitution——March 2, 1833.

§21. Replevin Extended to all Cases of Property unlawfully Taken‘ or
Detained. The action of replevin shall not be confined to the recovery of personal property distrained or attached for rent due and in arrear on demised
premises, but shall be intended to, and be for the recovery of any personal property unlawfully taken or detained in any case whatsoever ; and when an ' person shall sue out a writ in replevin, the party plaintiff shall first make a davit
before the clerk of the Circuit Court of the proper county, or a justice of the
peace, that the defendant, to the best of his knowledge and belief, is in the possession of the propert claimed, and that the property is, bonajide, the property‘
of the plaintiff, and s all also set forth in said affidavit, the estimated value of
said property, and shall moreover, enter into bond, with one or more good and
sufficient securities, to be approved of by the clerk of the Circuit Court of the
proper county, in a penalty of double the amount of the property as stated in
the affidavit ; which bond shall be made payable to the defendant in replevin,
and shall be conditioned as bonds are directed to be made in cases of attachment or distress for rent.

This section was repealed by the Act February 9, 1836 . . 98.

ART. 11. An Act to Regulate the Action of Replevin—Feb. 14, 1842.

i1. Replevin for Personalty wrongfully Taken or Detained. Whenever
any oods or chattels are wrongfully taken or detained, an action of replevin
may e maintained by any person having the right to immediate possession,
for the recovery thereof, and for the damages sustained by reason of such

Wrongful taking or detention.
2. Ajidavit of Plaintifs Right and of the T‘Vrong Committed. Before

any writ of replevin shall issue, the plaintiff shall file in the clerk’s ofiice of the
Circuit Court of_the proper county, the aiiidavit of himself, or of some credible

person, setting forth a description of the property taken or detained—that the
plaintiff is legally entitled to the possession of the same—that it was wrongfully
taken or is wrongfully detained by the defendant, and that the plaintiff ’s right
of gactjgn ha;%:£crlt1e witlli}inmgn;y'1c;zlir. f h P Band fD

. rit o evin— 0 0 ainti to get t e roperty—- o efendant to retairlf it. The writ of replevin shall command the sheriff of the
proper county to take the goods or chattels s cified in the affidavit, and upon
the plaintiff ’s entering into bond, ayable to t e sheriff, with sufficient security,
in a penalty of double the value of) the property, to be ascertained by the valuation of the sheriff, conditioned that he will prosecute the writ with effect, and
without delay make return of the ropert to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and save harmless, the s eriff fiir replevying the same; to deliver the
propert to the plaintiff, unless the defendant shal enter into a bond with good
and su cient security, pa able to the plaintiff in a like penalty, conditioned that
the property shall be fort coming to satisfy the judgment of the court, and to
summon the defendant to appear in court on the return day of the writ and answer to the action.

4. Declaration—Trial at Return Term——Plea Not Guilty to cover all
Defences. The declaration may be filed after the issuing of the writ, provided
it be filed on or before the first day of the return term, or before any order of
nolle ros. be taken ; and the action may be tried at the first term of the court,
and s all have precedence on the docket of all suits commenced by ordinary
summons : The defendant may plead that he‘is not guilty of the remises charged against him, and this plea shall put in issue, not only the rig t of the plaintiff to %he possession of the property, but also the wrongful taking and detention
thereo .

5. Judgment or Plaintiff against Defendant and Sureties. When the property shall have n permitted to remain in the possession of the defendant, if the
plaintiff recover, the judgment of the court shall be against the defendant and

is securities, that they restore the property to the plaintiff, or pay him the value
thereof, as assessed by the verdict of a jury, and also, for such damages as shall
have been assessed b the jury for the wrongful taking or detention.

6. On Failing to £rosecute Suit to efect, Judgment against Plaintzf and
Sureties. If a plaintiff in replevin, to whom the property has been delivered,
fail to prosecute his suit with effect, the jury shall assess the value of the propert and the damages sustained by the defendant, and the judgment of the court
shal be against the plaintiff and his sureties, that they restore the property to
the defendant, or pay him the value thereof so assessed, and also the damagesso
assessed for wrongful] suing out the writ.

7. Action 0 Sheriff on Plaintif’s Bond. If a sheriff is damnified by taking
any property yivirtue of a writ of replevin, at the request of the plaintiff, he

may maintain s action for damages on the bond taken by him from the
plaintiff.

8. Sherif and Sureties Liable for taking InsujicientBond,  The bond
directed by this act to be taken in either case, shall be returned with the writ to
the court issuing the same ; and if the sheriff fail to take a proper and sufficient bond, and return the same, as is required by this Act, or if the bond taken
be adjudged insufficient, and the party iving it shall, if required, fail to perfect
the same, the sheriff shall be liable to tEe party injured for all damages by him
sgstained, either by action of debt on his official bond, or by special action on
t e case.

9- How any Bond under this Act may be Perfected—Date of Act. If either
party in such suit, or the sheriff shall at any time, deem any bond taken, as

required by the provisions of this act, to be insufficient, such party, or sheriff, if
in vacation, may, upon application to the judge of the court where such writ may
be pending, obtain a citation under the signature of said judge, commanding the
obligor and sureties in such bond, to appear before such judge, at such time and
place as the said judge shall therein designate; and if in term time, such party
or sheriff shall be entitled to a motion against the obligor on such bond, whic
shall be entitled to precedence of other motions not of a like kind, and in
either case, whether by citation or motion, the judge or court shall, after
hearing the evidence of parties, determine the sufficiency or insufiiciency of
such bond.

This act shall take effect and be in force thirty days from and after its passage.

ART. 12. An Act to prevent Frauds in the Packing of Cotton-—Feb. 23, 1842.

Any person or persons who shall be guilty of any fraud or deceit in the
packing or bailing of cotton, shall be liable to pay, and shall pay, to any person or persons defrauded or deceived and injured thereby, the sum of one
hundred dollars, for each bale of cotton, in the bailing or packing of which any
such fraud or deceit has been committed, to be recovered by action of debt or
otherwise in any court of competent jurisdiction.

ART. 13. An Act to Regulate the Practice and Proceedings in Suits against
Garnishees-—Feb. 25, 1842.

§ 1. No Judgment against Garnishee as Surety until Judgment against
Principal, preceding Endorser,  No final judgment upon garnishment
shall go against a surety or endorser, until judgment shall go against the principal and preceding endorser or endorers, if they be residents of the state.

2. Judgment against Garnishee for Debt to Bank, to be discharged by the
Banl£’s issue. In all proceedings against those who may be debtors to banks
in this state by garnishment, the final judgment shall be only given against
them to be discharged in the issues of the banks.

3. Garnishee of a Bank may, before or after Judgment, tender its Issues.
Any person or persons who ma be summoned as garnishees of any bank in
this state, may either before ju gment or after, tender in payment and satisfaction of such demand or judgment the amount thereof in the issues of the
bank.

4. Garnishee to answer, <§~c., in his own county. The summons of garnishment shall be returnable to, and the issue tried in, the Circuit Court of the
county where the garnishee resides.

ART. 14. An Act to amend the existing Acts regulating Proceedings by Attachment—July 26, 1843.

§ 1. Section Ten of Article Four Repealed ; all property attached Repleviable
on the Bond here rescribed. The fifteenth section of the forty-third chapter
of Howard and utchinson’s Digest be, and the same is hereby repealed, and
that hereafter all attachments not provided for by the laws of this state, shall
be repleviable at any time before final judgment rendered against the defendant thereto, or a writ of inquiry executed on the appearance of such defendant, and his execution of a bond with sufiicient security to be approved by the
sheriff or other officer executin said attachment, and pa able to the plaintiff
in a sum double the value of t e property attached, an conditioned to have
said property forthcoming to abide the order or decree of the court, to which
said writ of attachment shall be returnable, or in default thereof to pay

and satisfy to an extent not exceeding the value of said property, such order or
decree of said court; which said bond, together with said Writ of attachment
shall be forthwith returned by the officer taking the same into the clerk’s office
of the court aforesaid, with a particular endorsement thereon of all the acts
of said officer in relation thereto.

2. Property Restored on such Band. In all cases where the defendant in
any attachment shall have executed a replevy bond under the first section of
this act, the sheriff or other officer taking the same shall restore to said defendant the property attached.
~ 3. How Sherzf to be inculpated for not taking a sujicient Bond. If any

laintiff, in attachment, shall be dissatisfied with the bond or security executed
by the defendant, under the first section of this act, he may, within sixty days
after the date of such bond, by petition to the judge of the court to which said
attachment shall be returnable, or to any Judge of the High Court of Errors
and Appeals of this state, obtain a citation, ordering such sheriff or other
officer taking such bond, to appear at such place and at such time, not exceeding ten nor less than five days, and show cause, if any he can, why said bond
or such security shall not be adjudged insufficient, and the judge ordering such
citation shall then and there examine said bond and hear such testimony as
may be offered by either party, and in case such judge shall adjudge such bond
or the security thereon to be insufficient, then such sheriff or other officer shall
be and remain subject to the same judgment as the surety in such bond, and
shall have the same liberty of defence as said principal of security may have
hpiid, as to all matters not growing out of the acts of said sheriff or other
0 cer.

4. De endant may Defend, but Bonds and Lien not to be Afected. In all
cases 0 attachments the defendant in attachment shall be entitled to appear by
himself or attorney to defend the same, as in other suits for the recovery of
money at any time, before final judgment, or writ of inquiry executed, but in
no case shall such appearance operate to vacate or otherwise affect the obligation of any bond taken under this act, nor to discharge an garnishee or garnishees, nor otherwise affect any lien created by such attac ment.

5. The Claimants of Property Attached to be governed by the Law as to
Claimants of Property taken in Execution. The provisions of law now in
force in relation to claimants to property under a writ of fieri facias shall be

and the same are hereby extended to claimants to property under writs of
attachments.

ART. 15. An Act to extend the Remedy by Attachment and G'arnishment——
Feb. 23, 1844.

The remedy by attachment and garnishment, under the laws of this state, be
so extended as to apply in all cases where an affirmation is made that the debtor
or debtors is or are about to remove from this state, or has or have removed,
or is or are about to remove, or has or have concealed, or is or are concealing,
or removing or about removing his, her or their effects, so that the claim of the
attaching creditor or creditors, will be defeated, or cannot be made, and the
facts upon which application upon which such attachment or garnishment is
predicted, shall be stated in the affidavit applying for such attachment or garnishment, to be within the personal knowledge of the applicant, or that he
is informed or believes the facts stated to be true.

ART 16. An Act to amend the Laws of this State, in relation to Unlazoful and
Forcible Entry and Detainer—.7VIarch 5, 1846.

§ 1. Rent in Arrear Recoverable herein. In any action of forcible or
unlawful entry, or unlawful detainer under the existing laws of this state, it
shall be lawful for the plaintiff to set up a claim for, and produce evidence to
establish, any amount due for arrears of rent of the tenement or tenements for
which possession is sought; and it shall be the duty of the justices before whom
such action is tried, to charge the jury empannelled in the case, to find upon
the evidence, the amount due for such arrears of rent at the time of the finding,
from the lessee to the plaintiff or lessor, and to bring in a verdict accordingly ;
and the said justices, in addition to their powers and duties now prescribed by
law in such cases, shall have power, and it shall be their duty, to cause judgment to be entered up against the defendant in the action, for any such arrears
of rent, accordin to the verdict of the jury, and to award a writ of jierifacias
against the said efendant, for the amount of such judgment, with legal interest
thereupon, from the time of the rendition of such judgment and all costs :
Provided, such judgment shall not exceed fifty dollars, which jud ment shall bar
a subsequent recovery upon the same cause, and if the jury sha I find in damages exceeding that amount, the said justice shall only enter judgment for fifty
dollars : Provided, also, that if the defendant in the action shall appeal, a judgment shall be rendered in the Circuit Court for the full amount of the damages
which may he assessed by the jury: And provided further, that in case of a
mistrial, it shall be the duty of the presiding magistrate, to order a summons
for a new jury, and order the trial at such day, as to him may seem meet.

2. Appeal; Bond ; Trial of Appeal. Whenever the defendant in any such
action, shall appeal from the judgment of said Justice to the Circuit Court, the
said Justice before granting such appeal, shall require from such defendant a
bond with good and sufficient security, in double the amount found and adjudged to be due for arrears of rent, and all costs payable to the opposite party, as
now directed by law: And on the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the
plaintiff may, as before the said Justices, set up a claim for arrears of rent due
at the time of the trial of the cause in said Circuit Court, and produce evidence
to establish the same; and the jury empannelled shall be charged to inquire
and find from the evidence, the amount then due for such arrears of rent from
the defendant to the plaintiff or lessor, and to bring in a verdict accordingly.
And the said Circuit Court shall thereupon cause judgment to be rendered,
and award a writ of fieri facias against such defendant and his security on
the appeal bond for the amount of the verdict, with legal interest from the time
of the rendition of the judgment, and all costs: Provided, that in no case shall
the judgment against such security exceed the penalty of the appeal bond.

3. Clerk of robate to be Summoned. Whenever any complaint is exhibited before a Justice of the Peace for forcible or unlawful entry, or unlawful detainer, it shall be the duty of (such) justice at the time of issuing his warrant
thereupon, to issue a summons (to) the clerk of Probate of his county, requiring said clerk to attend the trial of said complaint, on the day appointed therefor, and to perform the duties of clerk of the court, to be composed of the Justices of the Peace summoned for the trial of such com laint.

4. That Clerk to Record Proceedings, and issue rocess Returnable into
Probate Court, <§~c. On the trial of any cause of forcible or unlawful entry, or
unlawful detainer, before justices, under the provisions of the act to which this
is an amendment, the clerk of the Probate Court in the county in which the
same is had, shall act as clerk of the court constituted by said justices; and

shall keep a record of the proceedings, orders and judgments thereof, and enter
and record the same upon the minutes and record book of the Board of Police
of his county ; and the said clerk shall issue all process directed and ordered by
said court of justices when in session, in the same manner as the clerk of the
Circuit Courts of this state are by law required to do ; and all process issued b
order of said justices shall be tested in the name of said justices, and sealed wit
the seal of office of said clerk ; and all writs of haberefacias possessionem and
jieri facias, ordered under the provisions of this act, and the act to which the
same is an amendment, shall by order of the said justices when in session, be
made returnable to the office of the clerk of Probate, acting as clerk of the
court composed of said justices, at a day certain, and not exceeding sixty days
from the day of awardin the same.

5. Return Day of suc Process. The said clerk of Probate shall have full
power and authority to issue all process necessary to the consummation of any
order or judgment of said court, returnable to the office of said Probate Court,
in not less than sixty nor more than ninet days from the date of such process.

6. Appeal Bond how Executed and feet thereo. All appeal bonds entered into under the provisions of this act, to which t e same is an amendment,
shall be executed within five days from and after the day of the rendition of
judgment, in the presence of the justice before whom the complaint was originally made, and the clerk acting on the trial of the cause, and be attested

y said clerk, and approved by said justice; and any appeal taken under
this act, and the act to which the same is an amendment, after the execution and approval of the bond aforesaid, shall have the effect and operation of a supersedeas to the execution awarded upon judgment in the
cause.

7. Security Peifected in Circuit Court. In all appeals to the Circuit Court
under the provisions of this, and the act to which the same is an amendment,
the said Circuit Court may, upon motion of the ap ellee, inquire into the sufficiency of the security upon the appeal bond, and ill) adjudged insufficient, order
and direct new and additional security.

8. Costs below Tamed in Circuit Court. The clerks of the Circuit Courts
of this state are hereby required to tax in the bill of costs, after final judgment,
all the costs that accrued on the trial before the justices in all cases herein provided for, and include the same in the jieri facias by him to be issued for the
costs accruing in the same case in said Circuit Courts.

9. Suits of this kind for Lots in Jackson, triable in that City. In all cases
where suits for forcible or unlawful entry, or unlawful detainer, may be brought
for, or concerning any lands, lots, or tenements, situated, or being within the
corporation of the city of Jackson, or within the Jackson district in Hinds
county, such suits shall be tried in the said (city) of Jackson, before any three
justices of Hinds county, and a jury, in the same manner, and under the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions, as are now provided by law, for the trial of
such suits at the court house of the county.

10. Clerk of Corporation of Jackson to Act in such of the Cases. The clerk
of the corporation of said city of Jackson shall be summoned, and shall attend
and perform the same duties and services, have the same powers to issue process, and shall receive the same fees for his services, that are provided for in
this act, in relation to the clerk of the Probate Court.

11. Duty of that Corporation Clerk. In all cases where no appeal is taken
from the verdict of the jury, and judgment of the justices as herein provided
for, the clerk of the corporation of said city of Jackson, shall, within thirty days
after such judgment, return all the papers, process, and minutes of the trial to

the clerk of the Probate Court of Hinds county; and the said clerk of said
Probate Court, shall file, record, and keep the same in the same manner as is
herein provided for the filing and preservation of similar papers, process, and
records in the cases tried at the court house.

12. The same subject. In all cases where appeals are, or may be taken
from the verdict of the jury, and judgment of the justices rendered under this,
and the act to which the same is an amendment, in the cit of Jackson, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of the corporation of said city 0 Jackson, to return
the papers and records in such cases to the clerk of the Circuit Court of
Hinds county, in the same manner, and under the same rules and regulations,
as the clerks of Probate Courts are required to do in similar cases.

AM. 17. Amendment of Article Four on Attachments—March 3, 1848.

§ 1, 2, 3. Attachment Laws extended to Non-resident Creditors; Publication in any Case, in any Court, against Non-resident Party only One Month.
That the twent -seventh section of the above-recited act, the same being
thirty-three in oward and Hutchinson’s Digest, be so extended as to apply as
well to cases of attachment, where the property attached ha". been replevied,
as where it has not been replevied.

That the eleventh section of the aforesaid act, Howard and Hutchinson,
section sixteen, be so extended as to make it lawful for any non-resident creditor or creditors to whom any person, bein a non-resident of this state, and
having estate, real or personal, therein, shal be indebted, to have and obtain
the writ of attachment at law, as fully and in the same manner as though said
creditor was aqesident of this state, as is provided in said eleventh section;
and the privileges of non-resident creditors against the property of non-resident debtors by attachment process, are hereby extended as amply to all provisions of the attachment laws of this State as are now allowed to citizens of
the state.

That in any suit or matter which hath been or hereafter shall be commenced
in any of the courts of this state against an person or party who is out of
this state, or resides beyond the limits thereo , and in which it may be necessary to notify such person or party by publication in a newspaper, it shall only
be necessary to publish such notice weekly for one month.

Act to operate from its passage.

act shall be so construed, as in any wise to affect or interfere with the primary
disposal of the lands of the United States within this state.—a. 6, § 1.

2. Rights of Entry into Lands within twenty years. No person who now
hath, ‘or hereafter may have, any right or title of entry into any lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall make any entry therein, but within twenty years
next, after such right or title shall have accrued, and such persons shall be
barred from any entry afterwards; Provided always, That the time during
which the person who hath, or shall have such right or title of entry, shal
have been under the age of twenty-one years, femme covert, or insane, shall not
be taken or computed as part of the said limited period of twenty years.—See
c. 42, a. 3, § 3; also a. 6, § 2, of this chapter.

3. Fifty Years’ uninterrupted possession of Realty, gives absolute Ownership. Fifty years’ actual possession of any lands, tenements, or other real
estate, uninterruptedly continued by occupancy, descent, conveyance or otherwise, in whatever way or manner such possession might have commenced or
nave been continued, shall vest a full and complete right and title, in every
actual possessor or occupier of such lands, tenements, or other real estate, and
shall be a good and sufiicient bar, to all claims that may be made, or actions
commenced by any person or persons whatever, for the recovery of any such
lands, tenements, or other real estate.—Ten years, a. 6, § 3.

4. What Actions limited to Six Years. All actions of trespass quare clausum
fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue, trover and replevin, for taking away
goods and chattels, all actions of debt founded upon any lending or contract,
without specialty, or for arrearages of rent due on a parol demise, and all
actions of account and upon the case, except actions for slander, and except
also such actions as concern the trade or merchandise, between merchant and
merchant, their factors, agents and servants, shall be commenced and sued
within six years next, after the cause of such actions shall have accrued, and
not after.—See a. 2, § 2; a. 3, § 2; a. 4, a. 6, § 4.

5. What Actions limited to Two Years. All actions of trespass for assault,

menace, battery, wounding, and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be commenced and sued within two years next, after the cause of such actions shall
have accrued, and not after.—One year, a. 6, § 6.

6. Actionfor Words within One Year. Every action upon the case for
words, shall be commenced and sued within one year next, after the words
spoken, and not after.—a. 6, § 6.

'7. Salvo to _Minor, Femme Covert or Insane, in relference to Specified Actions.
If any person or persons, who is, or are, or shal be entitled to any of the
actions specified in the three preceding sections of this act, is, are, or shall be,
at the time of any such cause of action accruing within the age of twenty-one
years, femme covert, or insane, then such person or persons, shall be at liberty to

ring such action, so as he, she, or they institute or take the same within such
time as is before limited, after his, her or their coming to or being of full age,
discovert, or of sane memory, as by other person or persons, having no such
impediment, might be done.

8. What Actions within Sixteen Years. Every action of debt, or covenant
for rent or arrearages of rent, founded upon any lease under seal, and every
action of debt, upon any single or penal bill, for the payment of money only,
or upon any obligation, with condition for the payment of money only, or upon
any award under the hands and seals of arbitrators, for the payment of money
on y, shall be commenced and sued within sixteen years next after the cause
of such action shall have accrued, and not after; but if any payment shall
have beeen made on any such lease, specialty, or award, within or after the

said period of sixteen years, then an action instituted on such lease, specialty
or award, within sixteen years after such ayment, shall be good and effectual
in law, and not after: Provided, always, '¥hat the time during which the per
son who is or shall be entitled to any of the actions specified in this section,
shall have been within the age of twenty-one ‘years, femme covert, or insane,
shall not be taken or com uted as part of the said limited period of sixteen
years.—Seven years, a. 6, 7.

9. Reviver of Judgment within Twenty Years. Judgments in any Court of
Record in this state, may be revived by scirefacias, or an action of debt may

~ be brought thereon, within twenty years next, after the date of such judgment,

and not after: Provided, That the time during which the person who is, or
shall be entitled to the benefit of such judgment shall have been under the age
of twent -one years, femme covert, or insane, shall not be taken or com uted as
part of t e said limited period of twenty years.—Seven years, a. 6, 8; see
also a. 5, and 8.

10. Suits against Sureties of Public Ojicers ; Limitation Five Years from
Cause accrued. And whereas, it is reasonable that persons entering into bonds
or recognizances, as sureties for any public officers, should be exonerated from
their responsibility within a reasonable term after such officers respectively
shall die, resign, or be removed from ofiice ; therefore, Be it further enacted,
That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons, whomsoever, to commence and maintain any suit or suits on any bonds or recognizances, which
shall hereafter be given and entered into by any person or persons, as sureties
for any public oflicer, from and after the expiration of the term of five years,
to be computed from the time at which the cause of action shall have accrued ;
and if any such suit or suits shall be commenced, contrary to the intent and
meaning of this act, the defendant or defendants, respectively, shall and may
plead the general issue, and give this act and the special matter in evidence;
and if the plaintiff or plaintiffs be nonsuit, or if a verdict or judgment pass
against him or them res ctively, the defendant or defendants shall respectively
recover double costs.— hree years, a. 6,§ 9.

ll. Limitation of Suits an Accounts, between Jlerchant and .Merchant, 
All suits or actions, founded upon any account for goods, wares or merchandise, sold and delivered, or for any articles charged in any store account, shall
be commenced and sued within two years next, after the cause of such suit or
action, or the delivery of such goods, wares and merchandise, and not after;
except, that in the case of the death of the creditors or debtors, before the expiration of the said term of two years, the further time of one year from the
death of such creditor or debtor, shall be allowed for the commencement of
any such suit or action. And to prevent imposition or deception herein, the
respective times or dates of the delivery of the several articles charged in any
such account, or any receipt taken for the delivery of them, shall be particularly specified. And if any merchant or trader shall wilfull * post-date any
article or articles in such account, or the receipt taken for the delivery of them,
he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of the article or articles so postdated, to be recovered, with costs, by warrant, where the penalty does not
exceed the jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, and by action of debt
or information, in any Court of Record, where the penalty shall exceed the
jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, to the informer, where the informer
prosecutes, or to the state for the use of the Literary Fund, where the prosecution shall be first instituted on the public behalf. And to prevent any doubt
in the construction hereof, it is hereby declared, that the before-mentioned
limitation of two years, shall take place and be computed from the respective dates or times of delivery of the several articles entered or charged
in any such account; and that all such articles as shall have been of more
than two years’ standing, when the suit or action was commenced, shall
be disallowed and rejected, and verdict shall be given or judgment rendered
for no more than the amount of such articles as appear to have been actually
charged or delivered within two years next, before the commencement of the
suit or action as aforesaid, except as above excepted.—a. 2, 3, 4; a. 6, § 4.

12. Allowance for Absence out of the State. If any person or persons
against whom there is, or shall be any cause of action, as is specified in the
preceding sections of this act (except for the recovery of lands, tenements or

ereditaments), is or are, or shall be out of this state at the time of the cause
of such action accruing, or any time during which a suit might be sustained on
such cause of action, then the person or persons who is or shall be entitled to
such action, shall be at liberty to bring the same against such person or persons, after his, her, or their return into this state ; and the time of such
persons absence, shall not be accounted or taken as a part of the time limited
y this act.——a. 6, § 11.

13. Debt against Executor or Administrator, on Judgment within Sir Years.
No action of debt shall be brought against any executor or administrator, or
other person having charge of the estate of a testator or intestate, upon a
judgment obtained against his testator or intestate, nor shall any scire facias,
be issued against any executor or administratar, or other persan having charge
of the estate as aforesaid, to revive such judgment after the expiration of SIX
years, from the qualification of such executor or administrator, or of such
other person having charge of the estate and all such judgments, after the
expiration of six years, upon which no proceedings shall have been had, shall
be deemed to have been paid and discharged; saving to all persons non compos mentis,femmes covert, or infants, who may have been entitled to the benefit
of §such judgment, three years after their several disabilities are removed.—a.
6, 12.

14. Removal of Action, after Arrest or Reversal of Judgment within One
Year. If in any of the said actions specified in any of the preceding sections
of this act, judgment be given for the plaintiff, and the same be reversed
by writ of error ; or if a verdict pass for the plaintiff, and upon matter alleged
in arrest of judgment, the judgment be given against the plaintiff, then the said
plaintiff, his or her heirs, executors or administrators, as the case shall require,
may commence a new action within one year after such judgment reversed, or
given a ainst the plaintiff, and not after.

15. ill of Review in Two Years. N 0 bill of review shall be granted by the
Supreme Court, or any judge thereof, or by the Superior Court of Chancery, to
any decree pronounced in a cause which shall be finally decided, unless the
same be applied for within two years, next after such final decision, saving to
infants, femmes covert, and persons of insane mind, a rioht to obtain such abill
of review, within two years after their res ctive disabilities are removed.

16. l’Vrit of Error or Supersedeas in we Years. No writ of error or supersedcas shall be granted to any judgment of a court of law, after the expiration of two years from the time when such judgment shall have been made
final; savin to all persons non compos mentis, infants and femmes covert, two

{afars after t e several disabilities are removed.-—Within three years, c. 63, class

., a. 4, s. 4.

Am‘. 2. From an Amendment of the Circuit Court Act——Feb. 8, 1827.

§ 2. All Actions except that on a Promissory Note, named in a. 1, s. 4, to
be Brought within Three Years. The limitation of six years, mentioned in
the fourth section of the act entitled ‘ an act for the limitation of actions, and
certain proceedings in civil cases, and for preventing frivolous and vexatious
suits,’ Passed June the 7th, 1822, is hereby repealed; and in lieu thereof, all
actions enumerated in the said fourth section, except actions on promissory
notes, shall be prosecuted in three 'ears next after the cause of such action
shall have accrued, and not after ‘ee a. 3. 4, 6, s. 4.

3. Action for Goods, <5-c., Sold within Three Years. The limitation of two
years mentioned in the eleventh section of the act, mentioned in the second
section of this act, is hereby repealed; and in lieu thereof, all actions founded
upon any account for goods, wares, and merchandize, sold and delivered, or
for any article charged in any store account, shall be commenced and prosecuted in three years, and not after.

ART. 3. From an Amendment of an Amendment of the Former Circuit Court
Act—Feb. 16, 1828.

§2. The Fourth Section of Article One Revived. The fourth section of
the act, entitled “ An act for the limitation of actions, and certain proceedings

in civil cases, and for preventing frivolous and vexatious suits,” passed June
7th, 1822, is hereby revived.—-See a. 4, 6, s. 4.

ART. 4. An Act Explanatory of Certain Statutes of Limitation-Jan. 29, 1829.

Whereas, doubts have arisen as to the true intent and meaning of the second
section of the eighty-fifth chapter of the acts passed in the year 1827, and also
of the second section of the ei hty-ninth chapter of the acts passed in the year
1828, the provisions of the said act of 1827, having been erroneously construed,
as operating a repeal of the statute of limitations of 1822, in the several actions
enumerated in the fourth section of the twenty-first chapter of the revised code:
And whereas, the period of time barring the said several actions enumerated in
the said fourth section of the twenty-first chapter of the said code was alone
intended to be altered by the said act of 1827, namely: from six to three years,
excepting actions on promissory notes, as to which the provisions of the said
act of 1822 remained unchanged: And whereas, the said act of 1827, was repealed, and the original provisions of the said fourth section of the twenty-first
cha ter of the said code, revised by the said act of 1828: Therefore,

he said act of 1827, shall be so construed as not to repeal the act of limitations of 1822, in the several actions embraced in the fourth section of the
twenty-first chapter of the revised code, but only as an alteration of the time
required to bar said actions, and that the said act of 1827, shall not be so construed as to revive any cause of action which was barred under the said
fourth section of the twenty-first chapter of the said code, at the time of the
passage of the said act of 1827.

The said act of 1828, repealing the said second section of the act of
1827, and reviving the said fourth section of the twenty-first chapter of
the revised code, shall not be so construed as to revive any cause of action barred or intended to be barred under either of the said acts of 1822,
or 1827, at the time of the passage of the said act of l828.—See a. 5, 6, s. 4.

ART. 5. An Act concerning the Statutes of Limitations, and for preventing
Frivolous and Vexatious Suits—Feb. 5, 1830.

§ 1, 2. Certain Actions Barred within Twenty Days; and the Ninth Section
of Article One extended to embrace all Judgments. All claims which under
and by virtue of the fourth section of the act, entitled “ An Act for the limitation of actions, and certain proceedings in civil cases, and for preventing frivolous and vexatious suits,” passed June 7th, 1822, were barred of recovery prior
to the pass e of an act, entitled “An act to amend the forty-fifth section of
the act entit ed an act to reduce into one the several acts concerning the
establishment, jurisdiction and powers of the Superior Courts of law, and for
other purposes,” passed June 28, 1822, and which have been revived by the
second section of the last recited act, passed 1827, are hereby for ever barred,
unless suit be instituted for the recovery thereof, within twenty days after the
passage of this act.

The ninth section of the said act of 1822, shall be extended so as to include
judgments recovered in any Court of Record, as well without as within this
state.

A111‘. 6. An Act to Amend the several acts of Limitations—Feb. 24, 1844.

§ 1. Actions to be commenced within Seven Years. From and after the passage of this act, every possessory, ancestral, mixed, or other action for any lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or lease for a term of years, shall be commenced
within seven years next, after the right or title thereto, or cause of such
action accrued, and not after; Provided, That the time during which the person who has, or shall have, such right of action, shall have been under the age
of twenty-one years, femme covert, insane, without the limits of the United
States, or personally imprisoned, shall not be taken or computed a part of the
said limited period: Provided, also, That nothing in this act shall be so construed as to affect or interfere with the primary disposal of the lands of the
United States within this state.

2. Right of Entry Barred after Seven Years. N 0 person who now has, or
hereafter may have, any right of entry into any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or leases, for a term of years, shall make entry therein, but within seven
years next after such right of entry shall have accrued, and such person shall

e barred from any right of entry afterwards: Provided, That the time during
which the person who has or shall have such right of entry, shall have been
under the age of twenty-one years, femme covert, insane, without the limits of
the United States, or personally imprisoned, shall not be taken or computed
as a part of said limited period of seven years.—See a. 1, s. 2; c. 42, a. 3, s. 3.

3. Ten Years’ Adverse Possession to give Title. Ten years’ actual adverse
possession by any person or persons claiming to be the owner or owners for
the time aforesaid of any lands, tenements, or other real estate, uninterruptedly continued for the space of ten years, by occupancy, descent, conveyance,
or otherwise, in whatever way or manner such occupancy may have been
commenced or continued, shall vest in every actual possessor or occupant of
such lands, tenements, or other real estate, a full and complete right and title ;
and shall be a good and suflicient bar to all claims that may be made or actions
commenced, by any person or persons whatsoever, for the recovery of any
such lands, tenements, or other real estate: Provided, That the time during
which the person or persons who have, or claim titles to said lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or other real estate, or who has or shall have a right of action
for such lands, tenements, hereditaments, or other real estate, shall have been

under the a e of twenty-one ears, femme covert, insane, without the limitsof
the United tates, or persona ly imprisoned, shall not be taken or computed a
part of said limited period: And provided, That such persons as may labor
under any of the above disabilities, shall commence suit within ten years after

the disability was removed.
4. What Actions commenced within Three and Six Years. All actions of

trespass, quare clausam fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue, and trover, for
taking any goods and chattels, actions of debt, founded upon an ' contract not
under seal, or far arreara es of rent, due on parole demise, and l actions upon
the case, and of account or the recovery of money, except actions on promis‘ sory notes, and except as between merchant and merchant, their factors,

agents, and servants, shall be commenced within three years next after the
cause of such action shall have accrued; actions on promissory notes, and
bills of exchange, shall be commenced and prosecuted within six years after
the right of action shall have accrued; and actions between merchant and
merchant, founded on account, shall be commenced within four years, after
the ri ht of action shall have accrued.

5. %Vhat Actions barred to recover Realty of Decedent or Jllinor sold by decree,  That in all cases in which lands, tenements, or other real estate of
a deceased person, or of a minor under the age of twenty-one years, has been,
or hereafter shall be, sold by any executor, administrator, guardian, or other
person, under and by virtue of any order or decree of any court of Probate or
Chancery of this state, which sale has been, or shall be, bona _/ide and fairly
made, and the purchase money paid by the vendee, the person or persons
claiming right of entry upon such lands, tenements, or other real estate, b
descent or inheritance from such deceased person or persons, or from suc
minors, shall be barred from all right of entry upon such lands, tenements.
or other real estate after the expiration of three years (in the case of persons
now of full age of majority), from the passage of this act ; and in the case of
minors under the age of twent -one years, femme coverts, persons insane.
without the limits of the Unite States, or‘ personally imprisoned, after the
expiration of five years next after the removal of such disability.

6. What Actions to be commenced within One Year. All actions or tespass
for assault, menace, batter , maiming and imprisonment, or any of them, and
every action on the case, libr slanderous words, or libellous publication, shall be
commenced within one year next after the cause of such action shall have twcrued, and not after.

7. Suits {for Rent and on Specialties, <5-c., in Seven Years. Every action of
covenant or rent, or arrearages of rent, founded on an lease under sealand every action of debt upon any single or penal bill, or the payment Of
money or any other thing, or upon any condition for the payment of mone)’
or any other thing, or upon any award of arbitrators under seal, for the
payment of money or any other thing, shall be commenced and prosecuted
within seven years next a ter the cause of such action shall have accrued, 8“_d
not after; but if any pa ment shall have been made on any such lease, s.P8°_"
alty, covenant, or awar , after the said period of seven years, an action IHSU‘
tuted on such lease, specialt , covenant or award, within five years next after
such payment, shall be go and effectual in law, and not after: Provided»
That the rights of minors, femme coverts, persons insane, without the lim1tS_°f
the United States, or personally imprisoned, to institute any such actions With’
in five years after the removal of their respective disabilities, shall, in all C8595

be saved and reserved.
8. J udgmezzts not to be Revived by scire facias, after Seven Years. Judgmenls

in any Court of Record in this state, shall not be revived by scirefacias ; nor
shall any action of debt be instituted thereon after the expiration of seven
years next after the date of such judgment; nor shall any person sue out an
execution on any judgment or decree after seven years from the time the last
execution issued on such judgment or decree: Provided, That the time that
the person who is or shall be entitled to the benefit of ‘such judgment or decree,
shall have been under the age of twenty-one years, femme covert, insane, or

rsonally imprisoned, shall not be taken or computed a part of said period of
imitation.-—See a. 8.

9. Suits against Sureties of public ojicers, in Three Years,  N o suit shall
be commenced or maintained against the surety or sureties on any bond or recognizance of any public oflicer, on such bond or reco nizance, unless the same
shall be commenced within three years next after t e cause of action shall
have accrued ; and no recovery shall be had against any sheriff} coroner, constable, or their sureties on their oflicial bond by motion, unless such motion be
made, or notice of the causes of motion be served upon the party intended to
be held liable, within one *ear after the cause or causes of said motion shall
have happened or accrued.

10. Actions to be commenced within Three Years. All actions founded upon
any account for goods, wares, and merchandize, sold and delivered for work
and labor done, and for money had and received, for money lent or advanced,
laid out and expended, and upon an account stated, shall be commenced and
prosecuted within three years next after the cause of action shall have accrued,
or the delivery of such goods and merchandize, and not after, except that in
case of the death of the creditor or debtor before the expiration of the said
term of three yea.rs, the further time of one year, from the death of such creditor or debtor, shall be allowed for the commencement of any such suit or
action ; and in the cases of actions on accounts of goods, wares and merchandize, sold and delivered, or for work and labor done, the before-mentioned limitation shall commence from the time or date of delivery of the last item of
such account.

11. When persons out of the State. If any person orpersons ainst whom
there is, or shall be, any cause of action, as specified in the preceacfing sections
of this act (except for the recovery of lands, tenements, hereditaments, or
leases, for a term of years), is, are, or shall be, out of the state at the time of
such cause of action occurring, or at any time during which a suit might be
sustained on such cause of action, then the person or persons who are or shall
be entitled to such action, shall be at liberty to commence the same against
such person after his, her, or their return to this state ; and the time of such
person’s absence shall not be computed a part of the time limited b this act.

12. Suit or Scire Facias not to issue after four years, against xecutor or
Administrator. N 0 action or suit at law, or in equity, shall be brou ht against
any executor, administrator, or other person or persons having the c arge and
management of the estate of a testator or intestate upon an judgment or
other cause of action, against his testator or intestate ; nor shal any scire facias be issued against any executor, administrator, or other person or persons
having the charge or management of the estate of a testator or intestate, to
run any judgment or other cause of action, after the expiration of four years,
from the qualification of such executor, administrator, or other person, having
charge or management of the estate; and all such judgments or other causes
of action, after the expiration of four years, as aforesaid, upon which no proceeding shall have been had, shall be deemed to have been paid and discharged ;
saving to all persons non compos mentis, femme covert, under twenty-one years

of age, without the limits of the United States, or personally imprisoned, who
may be entitled to the benefit of such judgment or other cause of action, two
years after their several disabilities are removed, within which to commence
their action.

13. Judgment Liens when to expire. No judgment hereafter rendered in
this state, shall be a lien on the property of the defendant or defendants, for a
longer time than seven years; nor shall any judgment heretofore rendered,
operate as a lien on the property of the defendant or defendants, for a longer
time than two years from the passage of this act.—-See a. 7.

14. Actions upon Judgments obtained out of the State to be commenced in
Six Years. No action founded upon anv judgment or decree obtained in any
court out of the limits of this state, shall be maintained in any court of this
state, unless the same shall be commenced within six years after the rendition
of said judgment or decree: Provided, That in all cases of such judgments or
decrees heretofore obtained, which are not now barred by the statute of limitations, the plaintiff or plaintiffs may maintain an action thereon, if the same be
commenced within two years after the passage of this act, and not afterwards.
—See a. 8.

15. How this Act to applj/_to Leases of School Lands. Each and all the provisions of the preceding sections of this act, applicable to lands, tenements.
hereditaments or leases for a term of years, shall be applicable to the leases
of sixteenth sections, or other school lands, in this state, whether the same may
have been leased in pursuance of an act of the Congress of the United States.
or of the Legislature of this state: Provided, however, That the same shall not
operate against the original lessor of the land.

16. No Promise or Acknowledgment to Revive cause of Action. N o promise
or acknowledgment, either express or implied, shall operate to revive at law
any action, or cause of action, from the bar and limitations contained in the
provisions of this act : unless such promise or acknowledgment be in writing
and signed by the party, to be charged thereby: Provided, however, That the
promise or acknowledgment to save the bar, may be made without writing, If
it be proved that the very claim sued on, was presented and acknowledged 30
be due and unpaid.

17. No Constructive Salvo or Exception. In the construction of this act. 130
cumulative or additional disabilities shall be added or allowed to persons {OT
whose benefit the savings and provisos in this act have been inserted.

18. Periods of Limitations when to commence running. The periods Of
limitations established by this act, shall commence running from the date Of
the passage thereof; and that all acts and parts of acts conflicting with, and
contrary to the provisions of this act, be, and they are hereby repealed: P70‘
vided, however, That the repeal of such acts of limitation, as are contrary 10
the provisions of this act, shall not be construed so as to run any cause Of
action which has been barred by any of said acts; nor shall the passage Of
this act stop the running of the limitations contained in any other act, when
the same may have commenced before the passage thereof.

19. Operation of Act. This act shall take eflect and be in force from and
after its passage.

ART. 7. An Act to Settle the Construction of the Thirteenth Section 0 an Ac‘

entitled an Act to Amend the several Acts of Limitations, approve 1785- 24*
1844-—Feb. 19, 1846.

That the thirteenth section of the above cited Act shall not be so construed
as to affect ‘_the right or impair the lien of any judgment where the plain“

bills, or any other action of debt, grounded on a penalty where the balance
due on such bond or penal bill, or other action of debt as aforesaid, is of less
value than the sum herein before-mentioned to be limited for bringing suits in
said courts.

19. In what County Suit Commenced. All civil actions and causes which
may be instituted in any of the courts aforesaid, shall be commenced in the
Circuit Court of the county in which the defendant may be found, or if it be a
real action, action of ejectment, or trespass quare clausum fregit, then in the
county in which the cause of action arose; and all actions so commenced, may
be brought to issue, according to the rules that may be established for the
orderly conducting and arrangement of business in the said courts; and if the
said issue be an issue in fact, the same shall be tried by the jurors attending
the said courts at the next succeeding term, if there be time for the trial thereof, and the same be not continued by order of court: Provided always, That
if a freeholder of this state, is sued out of the county of his freehold and residence, unless in the actions enumerated in this section, the venue shall be changed, by order of the court, to the county of his residence and freehold: and no
freeholder of the state shall be held to bail, out of the county of his freehold and
residence.

20. Style; Test; Date ; Execution and Return day of Process; {or want
osf any of these Requisites to be abated. The style of all processes shall , “The

tate of Mississippi,” and shall be tested in the name of the judge assigned to
the circuit, within which the same may issue, and bear test on the first day
of the term next preceding that to which the same may be made returnable ;
and the clerk issuing the same shall mark thereon the day on which it shall be
issued ; and the Sheriff or other ofiicer receiving the same, shall mark thereon,
in like manner, the day he shall have received it; and every clerk, sheriff, or
other officer neglecting so to do, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred
dollars, to be recovered by action of debt in any Court of Record having cognizance thereof, with costs, by any person who shall sue for the same. And all
original process, and all subsequent process thereupon to bring any person or
persons to answer to any action, suit, bill, or plaint, in any court in this state
(subpoenas for witnesses excepted, which may be issued in term time, and made
returnable immediately), shall be issued and si ned by the clerk of such court,
with the seal of ofiice thereto affixed, and shall e returnable on the first day of
the term next succeeding that at which the same shall bear test, and shall be
executed at least five days before the return day thereof; and any writ or
process, except as aforesaid, which shall issue within five days before the commencement of the term of any court, shall be made returnable to the term next
after that to be held within five days, as aforesaid, and not otherwise; and all
writs and process issued, made returnable, or executed in any other manner,
or at any other time, than is herein-before directed, may be abated upon the
plea of the defendant.

2]. Test when Judge a Party. VVhenever the Judge of any Circuit Court
shall be either plaintiff or defendant in any suit or action commenced within
the circuit to which he is assigned. all process in such suit or action shall bear
test in the name of the judge assigned to any adjoining circuit, anything in
this act to the contrary notwithstanding.

22. Cause of Action endorsed; and whether Bail or not; Rule on Sherzjf to
return Writ. It shall be the duty of the clerk or plaintiff’s attorney to endorse
on all writs to compel the appearance of any person or persons, to answer any
civil suit or action, instituted in said courts, the nature of the suit or action.
whether founded on bond, bill, promissory note, or other writren contract, covenant or agreement, or on open account, and the amount of the sum actually
demanded, or whether the same be brought to recover damages for wrongs and
injuries done to the person or property of the plaintiff, and also, whether bail
be or be not required, and the sum for which bail is required; and the sheriff
or other officer, on executing such writ, shall deliver to the defendant or defendants a copy of the same, and the endorsement made thereon as aforesaid.
And if the sheriff or other officer shall fail or necrlect to return any writ to him
directed, on the first day of the term to which the same is returnable, he shall
be liable, on the expiration of a rule for the return of such writ, to be fined
for a contempt of the court, in such sum as the said court shall think just and

reasonable.
23. In Suits on Fiducial or Ojicial Bonds, Name Ef Prosecutor or Usee

endorsed, and he Liable as on Recognzzance in Court for ‘osts if Cast. In every
suit which shall or may hereafter be ordered or directed on any administration,
testamentary, collector’s, or sheriff ’s bond, or any other bond made payable to
the Governor and his successors in office, or to the judge or judges of any
court in this state, for the faithful performance of any trust, duty, or office, the
clerk or plaintiff ’s attoruey shall, and he is hereby directed to endorse on the
writ the name or names of the party or parties at whose instance, and for
whose use, the said suit was instituted; and in case the said action shall or may
be struck off, discontinued, or nonprossed, or in case there be a judgment or
verdict in favor of the defendant, the party or parties, at whose instance the
action was instituted, shall be answerable for the legal costs of suit, and may
be proceeded against, by attachment against the person or property of such
party or parties, for the recovery of the same, in the same manner as if he, she,
or they had been entered, by a rule of court, the security for such costs of suit:
Provided, That nothing in this act shall be construed to alter the present existing laws of this state relative to the payment of costs by executors or administrators.

24. Counterpart PVrits to different Counties. Whereas joint obligors, and
other persons against whom a joint cause of action may exist, frequently reside in different districts or counties, so that the same process cannot reach
both or all such persons, whereby parties having just demands are greatly delayed in receivin the same. For remedy thereof:

Be it enacted, hat where an such joint cause of action shall exist, it shall
be lawful for the plaintiff in such suit or action, to sue out two or more writs,
directed to the sheriff or other proper officers of the different counties where
such defendants or parties jointly chargeable may be found; which process
such sheriff or other officer shall execute accordingly, and return to the court
from which the same issued, as in other cases; and such writs, so issued and
returned, shall be filed together, and shall have the same force and effect, and
the same proceedings and recovery may be had thereupon, as if one writ only
had issued against all the defendants jointly, but it shall be the duty of the
clerk issuing such process, or of the attorney to endorse thereon, that both or
all of the said writs are for one and the same cause of action, or otherwise
the same shall abate on the plea of the defendant,

25. On Death of Joint Contractor Action Survives against his Executor,
Administrator, and Heirs. In case of the death of one or more joint obligor or
obligors, the joint debt or contract, shall and mav survive against the heirs,
executors and administrators of the deceased obligor or obligors, as well as
against the survivor or survivors: and when all the obligors shall die. the debt

or contract shall survive against the heirs, executors, and administrators, of all
the Sald joint obligors.

26. Joint Obligations and Contracts rendered Joint and Several. Everyjoint bond, covenant, bill, or promissory note, shall be deemed and construed
to have the same effect in law, as a joint and several bond, covenant, bill,
or promissory note; and it shall be lawful to sue out process and proceed
to judgment against any one of the obligors, covenanters, or drawers of such
bond, covenant, bill, or promissory note, in the same manner as if the same
were joint and several; any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.—Extended a. 6, 7.

27. IV/zen’ Bail Required. In all actions to be commenced in any court of
record in this state, and founded on any specialty, bill, or note in writing,
signed by the defendant, or on the judgment of any court, foreign or domestic, or, upon any penal statute expressly requiring bail to be taken, the nature
of such action being endorsed on the writ as hereinbefore directed, the defendant or defendants shall be held to hail of course, for the sum or sums so endorsed; and in all actions of account, covenant broken, and actions founded
on verbal contracts and assumpsits in law, in which the plaintiff or other credible person can ascertain the sum or sums due, or damages sustained, and
either of them make affidavit thereof to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief, before the clerk of the court in which such writ issues, or one of the
judges or justices thereof, or before any justice of the peace, the clerk of such
court, or the attorney for the plaintiff shall endorse on the writ the sum so
sworn to, and the defendant or defendants shall be held to bail for the sum so
endorsed; and it shall be the duty of the plaintiff or his attorney, or the clerk,
to file such aflidavit forthwith, in the clerk’s office from which such writ may
issue, and in actions sounding merely in damages, where the same cannot be
ascertained as aforesaid, the defendant or defendants shall not be held to bail,
except by order of the court, or some one of the judges or justices thereof, upon
sufficient cause shown by affidavit, and such order and the sum for which
bail is required to be endorsed on the writ, as aforesaid.—-See a. 2, 3, 4. Nearly
abolished, c. 38, a. 9, 10.

28, 29. W’/ten Bail Discharged; Bail-Bond; Assignment of it; VV7zen
Slzerzf liable as Bail. Every person unlawfully to bail, may be discharged
therefrom, on motion to the court, into which the writ is made returnable, on
filing common bail. And in every action wherein bail is not required, the
process may be by capias ad respondendum, and the clerk or plaintiff ’s attorney shall endorse thereon, that “no bail is required.” And when any writ
shall issue from any court of record in this state, whereon bail is required,
the sheriff or other officer, to Whom the same may be directed, shall take
a bail-bond, with suflicient security, or securities, in the penalty of double
the sum for which bail is required by the endorsement on such writ ; and
the sheriff or other officer shall return such writ, with the name or names
of the bail by him taken, endorsed thereon, and the bail-bond shall be filed by
nim on the day of appearance. And in case the sheriff or other officer neglect
.0 take such bond, or the bail returned be held insufficient, on exception taken
and entered of record during the term to which such writ shall be made returnable, the sheriffor other officer, having reasonable notice of taking such exception, shall in either case be deemed and stand as special bail; and the plaintiff
may proceed to judgment against such sheriff or other officer, as in other cases
against special bail.

_ All bail-bonds, returned and filed as aforesaid, shall be assigned by the
sheriff or other officer returning the same, by endorsement thereon, in the
following form, to wit: “I , sheriff (or coroner, as the case may be), of

the county of , do hereby assign the within obligation and condition, to
, his executors and administrators, to be sued for according to the statute
in such cases made and provided. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this day of , in the year of our Lord .” And
any sheriff or other officer, failing to make ‘such assignment, shall be deemed
and held as special bail, in the same manner, as if no ail had been taken.

30. Such Bail to be Special Bail ; May Surrender or Arrest, and Secure his
Principal. All bail taken according to the directions of this act. shall be
deemed, held and taken, as special bail, and as such, be liable to therecovery
of the plaintiff. But the plaintiff shall not proceed against such bail, until a
capias ad satisfaciendum hath been returned by the sheriff, that the defendant
is not found in his proper county, when the plaintiff may proceed against such
bail on scirefacias as in other cases. And the bail shall have liberty at any
time before the return of the first scire facias against him or them. returned
scirefeci, or of the second returned nihil, or at any time before final judgment obtained against him or them, to surrender the principal to the court
from which the process issued, or to the sheriff of the county, during the
sitting of such court, or to the sheriff in the recess of such court, in discharge
of himself or themselves, on pa ment of costs, however, in either case of such
scirefacias; and such bail shal , at any time before such final judgment, have
full power and authority to arrest the body of the principal, and secure. him,
until he shall have an opportunity to surrender him to the sheriff or the court,
as aforesaid, and such sheriff is hereby required to receive such surrender, and
hold the body of the defendant in custody as if bail had never been iven.
And such surrender and commitment, duly certified to the clerk by the S%|eI'lfl:
in vacation, or being entered of record in open court, in term time, shall, in

either case, discharge the bail. _
31. Scirefacias against Bail and Proceedings thereon; When Liable for

Costs. When any scirefacias shall be returned by the sheriff or other officer, to have been made known to the bail, and they in consequence thereof

shall appear, they shall be obliged to plead, and the issue shall be tried during
the term to which the process shall be returned, unless sufficient cause
be shown to the court to the contrary; but the bail shall not be admitted to
plead non est factum, unless they first file an affidavit of the truth of such plea:
Provided nevertheless, That if any sheriff shall return on any scire facias, to
him directed, that the principal is imprisoned by virtue of any process, civil or
criminal, the court to which such scirc facias is returnable, shall, on motion
of the plaintiff or bail, order and direct that such principal be retained where
he shall be a prisoner, until the plaintiff’s judgments and costs be satisfied, or
he or she otherwise discharged by due course of law; a copy of which order
being served on the keeper of such prison, before such prisoner’s release,
shall be sufficient authority for him to retain such prisoner, until such
order be complied with, and shall be deemed a surrender of the principal, and a discharge of the bail. And the bail in any action shall have
I right to plead in bar to any scire facias against him, her or them, the death
of the principal at any time before final judgment thereon; and if, on the trial
of any such issue, it shall be found that the principal is not living, judgment
shall be given in favor of the defendant, but he shall, nevertheless, be liable for
the costs on such scirefacizzs.

32. Bail may Defend the Suit; Bail in Detinue. In all actions where bail
is required, and the original process is returned executed, and the defendant
shall fail to appear according to the commands thereof, the bail in such action,
may, if he think proper, defend the suit, and shall, in that case, be subject to

 

the same judgment and recovery as the defendant might or would have been
subject to ; and in actions of detinue the bail shall be subject to the restitution
of the thing sued for, whether animate or inanimate, or the alternate value
according to the judgment of the court ; and the bail-piece shall be so altered
in such cases as to authorize the bail, in addition to the rivileges already
allowed him by law, to restore the thing sued for, and if t e sheriff, in suc

cases, shall not take or return bail as required of him, or the bail returned, shall
be adjudged insuflicient by the court, and the defendant shall fail to appear and
give bail, in’ such case, the sheriff, in additionto the privileges already allowed
him by law, shall have the like liberty of defending such action, and be subject
to the same recovery as is provided above in the case of bail; and if the bail
or sheriff depart this life before judgment be confirmed against him, in that case
the judgment shall be confirmed against his executors or administrators, or in
case there be no executor or administrator duly appointed, then judgment may
be confirmed against his estate, and a writ of jieri facias may, in either case,
be issued against such deceased bail or sheriff as if he were living, and levied
on his estate. And in all cases wherein the bail being adjudged insufficient,
judgment shall be rendered against the sheriff, his executors, administrators, or
estate, such sheriff and his representatives shall have the same remedy against

the estate of the bail, as ainst the estate of the defendant.
33. Appearances and lea for Defendant when Committed. Where any

sheriff shall return that he hath taken. the body of any defendant and committed him to the prison of the county in which the arrest was made, which is
hereby declared to be the proper prison for confinement, the plaintiff may enter
that defendant’s appearance, and he shall be at libert to plead as if such
appearance had been entered by himself, and the plainti may proceed to judgment as in other cases. Nevertheless, the defendant shall not be discharged
out ofcustody, but by putting in bail, or by rule of court, or special order of
fine of the judges thereof.

34. Recognizance of Bail; Objection to Bail. Any judge of the Supreme
Court, Justice of the County Court, or Justice of the Peace, may take recognizance of bail in any action depending in any Court of Record within this
state ; which shall be transmitted by the person taking the same before the next
succeeding court, to the clerk of said court, to be filed with the papers in such
action ; the form of which recognizance shall be in substance as follows,
to wit: “———— county to wit: -—————, Memorandum, that upon the
day of ————-, in the year ————, E. F ., of the county of —————,
personal appeared before me, one of the judges of the Supreme Court (or
justice the County Court, or a Justice of the Peace, as the case may be,)
and undertook for C. D., at the suit of A. B., in an action of , now
depending in the -——— (here name the court where the suit is depending),
that, in case the said C. D., shall be cast in the said suit, he, the said C. D., will
pay and satisfy the condemnation of the court, or render his body to prison in
execution for the same, or that he, the said E. F., will do it for him.

“ Given under my hand, this —————- day of ———————— G- H-'_’

To which bail, so taken, the plaintiff may object at the next succeeding
term of the court in which the suit or action is depending, on giving the
defendant reasonable notice of such objection; and if the court shall be of
opinion that the bail is insufficient, the defendant shall be again ordered into
custody, and the suit or action remain in the same situation, as if no such bail
had been given. _

35. Defendant Committed may give Bail. Any defendant surrendered into

custody, or committed by his bail, in manner herein provided, may, at any time,

before final judgment shall have been rendered in the action, discharge himself
from such surrender or commitment, by 'ving other good special bail: Provided, That the sufficiency of such bail sffall be verified on oath, to the satisfaction of the court, judge, or justice, taking the same; and the recognizance
thereof shall be duly filed with the clerk of the court wherein the suit is

depending, before such defendant shall be discharged.
36. Bail Discharged, when Principal is Removed out of State. If any

defendant, having given special bail in any action, shall afterwards be lawfully
arrested and delivered over to the executive authority of the United States, or
of any state or territory thereof, upon a charge of any crime committed out of
the jurisdiction of this state, and shall thereupon be carried beyond the limits of
this state, such bail shall be discharged from his recognizance in the same manner, as if such defendant had died at the time of such arrest and delivery.

37. So when Principal takes Oath of Insolvency. When any defendant
shall be in custody on a capias ad satisfaciendum, and shall deliver in a schedule of his whole estate, and take the oath of an insolvent debtor, according to
law, and be discharged from prison, a certificate of such discharge, from the
authority lawfully granting the same, shall entitle the bail of such defendant,
in all cases, to an exoneretur, to be entered in court, which bail shall thereafter
be discharged from his recognizance in the same manner, as if he had surrendered his principal in court, or to the sheriff, as herein-before provided.

38. When Objection to Bail Decided. Objections to the sufficiency of bail
shall be decided by the court, without dela , on such evidence as it may deem
sagiisfactory, and the burden of the proof should be on the party affirming the
su cienc .

39. Reinedy of Bail. In all cases where judgment hath been or shall hereafter be entered up in an Court of Record in this state, against any person or
persons as bail for anot er, and the amount of such judgment or any part
thereof, hath been paid or discharged by such bail, his, her or their heirs, executors or administrators, to obtain judgment by motion against the person or
persons for whom he, she or they were bound, his, her or t eir heirs, executors
or administrators, for the full amount of what shall have been paid by the said
bail, his or her heirs, executors or administrators, in any court where judgment
may have been entered up against such bail.

40. Alias, Pluries, Testatum Capias, Judicial Attachment. When the
sheriff or other proper officer shall return on any writ of capias, to answer in
any civil action, that the defendant is not found within his county, the plaintiff
may either sue out an alias or pluries capias, until the defenda shall be
arrested, or a testatum capias, where the defendant shall have Dane into
another count ; or may, at his election, sue out an attachment against the
estate of the defendant, to force an appearance; and if the sheriff or other
officer shall return that he hath attached any goods, and the defendant shall not
appear and replevy the same, by entering his appearance and giving special
bail, in case he shall be ruled so to do, the plaintiff may file his declaration, and
proceed to final judgment, in the same manner as if the defendant had been
arrested. The goods attached shall remain in the hands of the officer, until
such final judgment be entered, and then be sold in the same manner as goods
taken upon a fierifacias. And if the judgment shall not be thereby satisfied,
the plaintiff may sue out execution for the residue ; and in case more goods be
attached, than will satisfy the judgment, the surplus shall be returned to the
defendant.

Capias abolished, except in one case.——c. 38, a. 9, 10.

41. On Return of Kept of by Force, Plaintif may Proceed. Where any

sheriff or other oflicer shall return, on an original writ to him directed, that
he has been kept off by force of arms, it sfiall and may be lawful for the plaintiff in the action in which the process so returned was issued, either to issue an
alias or plaries, as the case may be, or to proceed in the said action against
the defendant or defendants, as if such process had been returned executed.

42. What Sheriff to do with alias, <§~c., when the prior Process was served
but not returned. If an writ of process shall be executed, and for want of a
return thereof to the 0 cc from which it issued, an alias, plaries, attachment
or other process be awarded, the sheriff shall not execute such subsequent process, but shall return the first process by him executed, if it be in his possession ;
but if it be not in his possession, then he shall return the subsequent process, with
an endorsement of the execution of such first process, and the name of the
bail, if any were taken; and shall also return a copy of the bail bond, on
which there shall be the same proceedings, as if the said first process had been
duly returned.

43. When Revivor of Judgment on Scire Facias or two Nihils. On writs
of scirefacias for the renewal of judgments, no judgment shall be rendered
on the return of two nihils, unless the defendant resides in the county, or unless he be absent from the state, and hath no known attorney therein. But
such scire facias may be directed to the sheriff of any county in the state,
wherein the defendant or his attorney shall reside or be found, which being returned served, the court may proceed to judgment thereupon, as if the defendant had resided in the county.

44. When Service may be by Copy left. All writs of scire facias and of
capias ad rcspondendum, where no bail is required, may hereafter be served in
the following manner: VVhere the defendant cannot be found, it shall be deemed a sufiicient service of such writ, for the sheriff or other officer to whom
the same is directed, to leave a copy thereof with the wife of the defendant,
or some free white person above the age of sixteen years, then and there being
one of the family of the defendant, and found at his usual place of abode, or
to leave a copy thereof at some public place at the dwelling-house, or other
known place of residence of such defendant, he being from home, and no such
free white person being found there willing to receive the same.

46. A Summons against certain Ojicers instead of ordinary process. In all
suits or actions which may be commenced ainst the Governor of the state,
any Judge of the Supreme Court, or Court if Chancery, or the sheriff of any
county, during his continuance in office, instead of the ordinary process, a
summons shall issue directed to the sheriff or other proper ofiicer, reciting the
cause of action, and commanding him to summon such defendant to appear,
and answer the same, on the proper return day ; and if such defendant being
summoned, or after a copy shall have been left at his usual place of abode,
five days before the return day, shall not appear to answer the same, the court
shall proceed against such defendant, in the same manner as if he had been
taken upon a capias ad respondendum: Provided always, That after judgment and the return of a fieri facias, by the sheriff of that county where the
defendant in such case resides, that no effects, or not sufficient, are to be found
in his county, to satisfy the judgment as aforesaid, a capias ad satisfaciendum may be issued as in other cases.

47, 48, 52, 53. Death of Party pending Suit, and proceedings to revive.
VVhen any suit or action shall be dependin in any court of this state, and
either of the parties shall die before final jurfgment, the executor or administrator of such deceased party, either plaintiff or defendant, shall have full
power (in case the cause of action by law survive), to prosecute or defend

such suit or action to final judgment, and the defendant is hereby obliged to
answer thereto accordingly. And the court before which such suit or
action may be depending, is hereby empowered and directed to hear and determine the same; and to render judgment for or against such executor or
administr‘ator, in the same manner as if the original party or parties to the
suit of action were in existence ; and if such executor or administrator, havin
been duly served with a scirefacias, or citation from the office of the clerk of;
the court where such suit or action is depending, fifteen days before the meeting thereof, shall neglect or refuse to become a party to the suit or action, the
court may proceed to render judgment against the estate of the deceased party
in the same manner as if the executor or administrator had voluntarily made
himself a party to the suit or action ; and the executor or administrator who
shall become a party as aforesaid, shall, upon motion to the court wherein the
suit is depending, be entitled to a continuance of the same until the next term
of the court.

If any suit or action shall be commenced in any Court of Record in this
state, in the name of any person, for the use and benefit of another, the same
shall not abate by the death of the nominal plaintiff, but shall progress to final
judgment, and execution may be awarded thereon, in like manner as if brought
1n the name of the person or whose use and benefit such suit or action was
instituted, who shall be liable for the costs of suit as in other cases ; and in
case the party for whose use and benefit a suit or action shall be brought, shall
die before final judgment, it shall be lawful for the party representing such deceased person, as executor or administrator, to be entered on the records and
papers of such suit or action in the place of such deceased person.

VV here any action, real or mixed, is now or shall be depending in any court
of this state, for the recovery of any lands or tenements, and any party thereto
shall die before verdict rendered, such action shall not abate, if the same be
maintainablc by or against the heir or devisee of the deceased party. But the
plaintiff, or if he be dead, his heir or devisee, may have a scire facias against
the defendant, or if he be dead, against his heir or devisee, to show cause generally why such action shall not be proceeded in to a final judgment. I pon
the return of such scire facias executed, if no good cause be shown to the
contrary, such heir or devisee shall be made a party to the action, and the
cause shall proceed in the same manner as if such heir or devisee had been
originally a party thereto: Provided, That such heir or devisee shall have
liberty to plead de novo, or to amend the pleadings in such manner as the nature of the case may require ; and that he shall be entitled to a continuance of
the action for one term after such scirefacias returned executed. i

In suits or actions, real, personal, and mixed, if there be two or more plaintiffs or defendants, and one or more of them should die, if the cause of action
should survive the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants,the suit or action shall proceed in the name of the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, against the surviving defendant or defendants; and
in all suits or actions commenced and prosecuted in any court of law in this
state, where either party shall die between verdict and judgment, such death
shall not be suggested in abatement, but judgment shall be entered as if both
parties were living; and if on the death of any plaintiff, in actions which
survive, before verdict, the heir, legatee, or devisee, executor, administrator or
other legal representative of such deceased party shall not appear voluntarily,
on the return of a scz'refac2'as executed, and become a party to such action,
as hereinbefore provided, on or before the second term of the court next after

the death of such party shall have been suggested on the record, such action
shall be discontinued, unless good cause be shown to the cont ary.

70. Plaintzf ruled to Security for Costs, and  not give , Suit Dismissed,
and Execution against him or Attorney for Costs. When any original process shall issue out of any court of law in this state, by the direction of any
attorney for any person or persons residing therein, the plaintiff or his attorney,
at the return of such process, or at any time thereafter before final judgment,
shall, upon the motion of any person interested, be ruled to give sufficient security for all costs accruing in such suit or action; and if such laintiff or his
attorney shall fail to give such security, being thereto require , as aforesaid,
the suit shall be in fact dismissed, and execution may issue against the plaintiff or his attorney for all such costs.

This section, though repealed Dec. l830..9l, had been extended to the

Superior Court of Chancery by act 1828, c. 54, a. 8.

71. Sixty Days’ notice to Non-resident Plainltéf for Security for Costs ;
or Clerk may require it before Issuing Writ. very suit or action at law,
commenced in the name of any person residing out of this state, shall be dismissed, if security be not given with the clerk of the court from whence the
process shall issue, or wherein it shall be depending, within sixty days after
notice shall, at any time during such non-residence, have been given to the
plaintiff or his attorney, by some person interested, that such security is required for the payment of the costs which may be awarded to the defendant,
and also of the fees that are or may become due to the ofiicers of the court ;
and after security shall be so given, if the fees be not paid at the time the
same become due, it shall and may be lawful for the court in which the
suit or action was commenced, to enter up judgment on motion against such
security, and award execution accordingly. And any clerk may require security for costs, of non-residents, before he issues any original writ. In all
cases where security for costs may be required under the foregoing provisions,
and a question shall arise as to the residence of the plaintiff, the burden of
proving such residence shall be upon him.—See a. 5.

72. Costs when Pleadings adjudged Insujicient. When any plea in abatement shall, upon argument in any court 0 law, be adjudged insufficient, the
plaintiff shall recover full costs to the time of overruling the plea, the attorney’s
fee only excepted: and when by an interlocutory judgment, any other part of
the pleadings shall be adjudged insufficient, all costs occasioned by such insufiicient pleading shall be adju ged against him who committed the fault.

9Q. IV:-it duly Served, though not Directed, Good. An execution, writ, or
other process, appearing to be duly served in other respects, shall be deemed
good, although it be not directed to any sheriff.

173. Where Judge is Interested, Suit in Adjacent Circuit. If any judge

of the said courts be interested in any suit, which in the case of any other
person would have been proper for the jurisdiction of such judge, it shall be
awful to institute such suit in any court within an adjacent circuit; and the
process from such adjacent court, may be served in the circuit to which such
judge shall be allotted, or in which he shall reside, and proceedings shall be
thereupon had.

ART. 2. Thirteenth Section of Act further to Extend Relief to Debtors—Jan.
23, 1824.

Farther ./Ijidavit to Hold to Bail. Hereafter no citizen.of this state, or
other person who has signified his or her intention of becoming a citizen by
procuring a residence in this state, shall be held to bail in any civil action,

unless the plaintiff, his a ent or attorney, shall, by oath or affirmation, declare.
that he is apprehensive t at the defendant or defendants are about to leave the
count , and theriay prevent legal recovery of his debt.

Vfirtually superseded c. 38, a. 9, 10.

ART. 3. Fifth Section of Amendment of Circuit Court Act—Feb. 8, 1827.

Judge of Probate may Grant Bail. The powers vested in the judges of the
Circuit Courts of this state, in and by the twenty-seventh section of the act,
entitled “An act to reduce into one the several acts and parts of acts con, cerning the establishment, jurisdiction, and powers of the superior courts of

2

law,’ in relation to bail in certain cases, be, and the same are hereby extended
to, and vested in the judges of Probate, in and for the several counties of this

state.—Virtually superseded, c. 38, a. 9, 10.

ART. 4. An Act to provide for holding to Bail in certain Cases—February
12, 1828.

Bail Pending Suit. In all actions in which a capias ad respondendum shall
have issued in the first instance, from any Court of law in this state, and no
bail shall have been required from the defendant or defendants; if at any time
before judgment in such cause, the plaintiff shall be apprehensive that the defendant or defendants is or are about to remove from the county or state, and
affidavit thereof be made, and of the amount of plaintiffs claims, or of the
damages believed to have been sustained, the clerk of the Court in which such
suit is pending, shall issue a second writ in such cause, returnable to the next
succeeding term of the Court, after the date of such writ, and endorse thereon,
“ Bail to be taken for the amount sworn to ;” which shall be executed by the
sheriff, in the same manner as other writs requiring bail, and be returned accordingly; and, upon the return of such writ executed, the cause shall progress
to a final judgment, in the same manner as if such writ, requiring bail, had
been issued in the first instance.—Virtually superseded, c. 38, a. 9, 10.

ART. 5. Amendment of the Circuit Court Law—Dec. 16, 1830.

§6, 7. Farther Rules concerning Security for Costs. When any process
shall issue out of any Court of law or equity in this state, at the suit of any
person residing therein, the plaintiff or plaintiffs in such suit or action shall,
upon motion made by any person interested, be ruled to give sufficient security for all costs accruing in such suit or action, within sixty days from the entering of said motion: Provided, The party making such motion shall make
oath or affirmation that he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in said action will not be able to pay the costs of the
same : And provided also, That every such motion shall be regularly entered
on the motion docket of the Court upon the first day of the term at which said
motion is made; and if such plaintiff shall fail to give security, being thereto
required as aforesaid, such suit shall be dismissed, and execution may issue
against the plaintiff for all costs which may have accrued.

When any suit or action shall be commenced, in any court of law or equit *
in this state, by any person or persons residing out of the state, the plainti
or plaintiffs, in such suit or action shall, on the application of any persons interested, be required to give sufficient security for all costs which may accrue
or have accrued in said suit or action, within sixty days after service of notice
upon the plaintiff or his attorney, of the requisition of such security by the
party applying for the same : Provided, The party applying for such security

shall make oath or aflirmation, to the best of his knowledge or belief, that the
plaintiff is a non-resident of this State, and shall regularly enter his motion for
that purpose on the motion docket of the Court in which such suit is pending,
on the first day of the term thereof at which said application is made, in the
same manner as is required in the case of resident plaintiffs.

8. Ajidavit of Agent or Attorney concerning Suit, cj«c., sujicient. In all
cases in law or equity which are now pending, or which may hereafter be instituted, where the oath or affirmation of the party or parties to said suit is required, or may be hereafter required, in order to the taking of any step in the
institution, prosecution, or defence of said suit, or in the preparation of the
same for trial, such oath or affirmation, if made by the agent or attorney of
such party, shall be as valid, and have the same effect to all intents and purposes, as if made by the party to such suit.

ART. 6. An Act to authorize the holders of Covenants, Bonds, Bills, and Promissory Notes, to sue any number of the Drawers in the same action.—Dec.

19, 1831.

§ 1, 2. Any of Joint Contractors may be sued ; but  more than one Suit be
brought, they to be consolidated. It shall hereafter be lawful for the holder or
holders of any covenant, bond, bill, or promissory note, signed by two or more
persons, to sue any number of the covenanters, obligators, or drawers thereof
in one and the same action.

If the holder of any covenant, bond, bill, or promissory note, signed by more
than one person, shall hereafter sue the covenanters, obligors or drawers in
more than one action, returnable to the same Court, for the purpose of accumulating costs, and without sufficient reason, it shall be lawful for the Court,
on application of the defendants in the several actions, to order a consolidation thereof, at the costs of the plaintiff.

ART. 7. Promises, cj-c., of Partners, joint and several—Feb. 27, 1836.

§ 1. All promises, contracts and liabilities of co-partners, shall hereafter be
deemed and adjudged joint and several. The other sections of this Act are in

c. 59.

Anr. 8. References to other Chapters.

I
Process issuable by a Jusflce of the Peace, see c. 50; by Police Court,
c. 51; by Probate Court, c. 52; writ of Liberty, c. 65, a. 1; by Superior
Court of Chancery, c. 54; by High Court, c. 55; by militia ofiicer, &.c.,
c. 16.
Penalties and Remedies against sheriff for failing to execute or return
original or mesne process; his action endorsed on it, c. 28, a. 3, s. 7, 9.
rocess not in general to be served or executed on the Sabbath, c. 64,
a. 4, s. 6.
Bail in civil suits at law abrogated by the abrogation of imprisonment
for debt except in the case specified, c. 38, a. 9, 10.
Process in ejectment according to common law, c. 61, a. l, s. 84.

tor, or grantor of a deed, shall be admitted or received, unless the truth thereof
shall in like manner be proved by oath or affirmation ; and where any person,
other than the obligor, covenantor, or grantor, shall be the defendant, such defendant shall prove by oath or affirmation, that he or she verily believes that
the deed on which the action is founded, is not the deed of the person charged
as oblicror, covenantor, or grantor. See a. 3, 4. 8.

51. In Real or Mixed Action, Plea that Defendant holds Jointly with Another. In all actions, real and mixed, which shall hereafter be brought for the
recovery of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments within this state, the defendant may plead in abatement to the writ, that he holdeth the lands, tenements, and hereditaments, jointly with some other person not named in the
writ, and if such plea be overruled, judgment shall be entered for the plaintiff,
and if a writ of inquiry be awarded, the party pleading such false plea, shall
pay the plaintiff double damages; but if the plea be sustained, the writ shall

e abated, and the defendant shall recover of the plaintiff full costs: Provided,
That no such plea shall be admitted or received, unless the party offering the
same, shall make oath or affirmation, as the case may be, of the truth thereof.

58. Pag/ment—Consideration Impeachable. In any action of debt on a
single or penal bill, or in debt or scire facias upon a jud ment, or in debt upon
a bond, if before action brought, the defendant hath pai the principal and interest due by the defeasance or condition, he may plead payment in bar; and
it shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants in any suit or action,
founded on any writing under seal by a special plea to impeach, or go into the
consideration of the same, in the same manner as if the said writing had not
been sealed, any law to the contrary notwithstandigg.

59. Actions on Writings filed in other Suits-—— opy Declared on. If any
action be brought on a bond or other writin , filed in any suit brou ht thereupon in any other court of this state, it shal be sufficient for the plaintiff to
file with this declaration a copy of such bond or other writing attested by the
clerk of the court in which the original may be filed; and the defendant or
defendants shall be obliged to plead thereto, in like manner as if the original
bond or writing was filed, and such copy shall be admitted as evidence on the
trial. If, however, the defendant or defendants shall plead that the original
bond or writing is not his, her, or their deed, the clerk of the court having such
original paper in custody, shall, on being summoned as a witness, attend with
the same, on the trial of the issue, for the inspection of the jury.

60. Account in Indebitatns Assumpsit to be Filed. In every action of indebitatns assumpsit, the plaintiff shall file with his declaration, an account stating distinctly the several items of his claim against the defendant; and in
failure thereof, he shall not be entitled to prove before the jury, any item which
is not so plainly and particularly described in the declaration, as to give the
defendant full notice of the character thereof.

61. Account filed when Payment or Set—oj' is Pleaded. In every action in
which a defendant shall desire to prove any payment or set-off} he shall file
with his plea an account, stating distinctly the nature of such payment or setoff, and the several items thereof; and, in failure to do so, he shall not be entitled to prove before the jury, such payment or set-off, unless the same be so
plainly and particularly described in the plea, as to give the plaintiff full notice
of the character thereof. See a. 10; also, c. 61, a. l, s. 63.

62. Certain Actions Transitorg/. All actions of debt for rent in arrear,
all actions on the case for the use and'occupation of lands and tenements, and
all actions of waste, may hereafter be sued and prosecuted in the Circuit

Court of the county in which the defendant may reside or be found, in like
manner as transitor actions may now be sued and prosecuted therein.

69. In Action on I-llenal Statute, General Issue szljicient. If any information,
suit, or action shall be brought or exhibited against any person or persons, for
any offence committed, or to be committed, against the form of any penal law,
on behalf of any informer, or on behalf of the state and any informer, it shall
be lawful for such defendant or defendants to plead the general issue, and ive
any special matter in evidence to the jury, which shall be as available to %1im

.or them, as if he or they had sutiiciently pleaded the same matter in bar, or

discharge of such information, suit, or action.

85. Tenant in Ejectment on receiving Notice to notify Landlord. Every
tenant, to whom any declaration in ejectment shall be delivered for any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, shall forthwith give notice thereof to his or her landlord or landlords, or his, her or their agent or lawful attorney, under the penalty
of forfeiting the value of three years’ rent of the ‘premises so demised or holden
in the possession of such tenant, to the person o whom he or she holds, to be
recovered by action of debt, in any court of record in this state, having jurisdiction thereof.
86. Landlord to be Admitted Defendant—-— When Judgment against Casual

Ejector. It shall and may be lawful for the court where such ejectment shall
be brou ht, to suffer the landlord or landlords to make himself, herself, or themselves, fefendant or defendants, b joining with the tenant or tenants, to whom
such declaration in ejectment sh 1 be delivered, in case he, she or they shall appear; but in case such tenant or tenants shall refuse or neglect to appear, judgment shall be signed against the casual ejector for want of such appearance;
but if the landlord or landlords of the whole, or any part of the lands, tenements
or hereditaments, for which such ejectment was brought, shall desire to ap
by himself, herself, or themselves, and consent to enter into the like rule, that
by the course of the court the tenant in possession, in case he or she had apeared, ought to have done, then the court wherein such ejectment shall be
hrought, shall and may permit such landlord or landlords so to do, and order a
stay of execution upon such judgment against the casual ejector, until they shall

make further order therein.
91, 92, 93, 99. When and what Amendments qf the Pleadings Allowable—

Costs in such Case. No judgment, after the verdict of twelve men, shall be
stayed or reversed, for any defect or defects in the writ, original or judicial ; or
for a variance, in the writ, from the declaration or other proceedings; or for
any mispleading, insufficient pleading, discontinuance, misjoining of issue, or
lack of warrant of attorney; or for the appearance of either party, bein under
the age of twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict be for him, and not to
his prejudice ; or for not alleging any deed, letters testamentary, or of administration, tobe brought into court ; or for omission of the words, with force and
arms, or against the peace ; or for mistake of the christian name, or surname of
either party, sum of money, quantity of merchandize, day, month, or year, in
the declaration or pleading (the name, sum, quantity or time being right in any
part of the record or proceeding) : or for omission of the averment, this he is
ready to verify ; or, this he is ready to verify by the record ; or for not alleging,
as appeareth by the record; or for omitting the averment of any matter, without proving which, the jury ought not to have given such verdict; or for setting
forth, by way of recital, any matter which ought to have been set forth by averment ; or for not alleging that the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction of
the court; or for not alleging that the property in the declaration mentioned is
the property of the plaintiff; or for any mistake or misconception of the form of

the action ; or for any other defect whatsoever, in the declaration or pleading,
whether of form or of substance, which might have been taken advantage of
by a demurrer, and which shall not have been so taken advantage of; or for any
informality in entering up the judgment, by the clerk; neither shall any judgment,
entered by nil dicit, or non sum informatus, be reversed, nor a judgment after
inquiry of damages, be stayed or reversed, for any omission or fault, which
would not have been a good cause to stay or reverse the judgment, if there had
been a verdict.

When there are several counts, one of which is faulty, and entire damages
are given, the verdict shall be good; but the defendant may apply to the court
to instruct the jury to disregard the faulty count.

If, in detinue, the verdict shall omit price or value. the court may, at any
time, award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the same. If, on an issue concerning several things in one count, in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them,
it shall not be error, but the plaintiff shall be barred of his title to the things
omitted.

The courts of law shall have full power and authority to order and allow
amendments to be made in all proceedings whatsoever before verdict, so as to
bring the merits of the question between the parties fairly to trial, and if amendment is made after the jury is sworn, a juror shall be withdrawn ; and in all
cases where amendments are made, the adverse party shall have time allowed
him, in the discretion of the court, to prepare to support his case upon the state
of the proceedings so amended, and such costs shall be allowed the party
against whom such amendment may be made, as the court shall think just.

165. Poor Person to have Counsel assigned and be Exempt from Costs.
Every poor person, who shall have cause of action against any person within
this state, shall have, by the direction of the court, before whom he would sue,
writ or writs original, and writs of subpoena, according to the nature of his cause,
nothing paying for the same; the said court shall direct their clerk to issue the
necessary process, shall assign him counsel learned in the laws, and appoint all
other ofhcers requisite and necessary to be had for the speed of thejsaid suit,
who shall do their duties without any reward for their counsel, he] and business in the same. And all and every such poor person or persons, eing plaintiff or plaintiffs in any such action or suit, so admitted by the court, shall not
be compelled to pay any costs.

166. Action by next Friend of Minor. In every case, where such ersons as
be within age, may have cause of action, their next friend shall be mitted to
sue for them.

167, 168, 169, 1'70, 171, relate to the former superintending control of the
Circuit Court, which being incompatible with the new constitution, are omitted, P. 143, 144.

172. Change of Venue in Civil Case. Each jud_ge of the said courts shall
have power, on the motion made in open court, and for good cause shown, to
change the venue in any cause depending in either of the courts hereby established within his circuit, so that such change be to some other court within the
same circuit ; and it shall be lawful for any judge of the said courts in vacation, to remove any cause from one court in his circuit to another court in his
circuit; or to remove a cause depending in any court within his circuit, to
the most convenient court in any adjoining circuit, in the same manner that
he might remove the same in term time : Provided, That such removal in
vacation shall only be by consent of parties, or upon the application of one
party, reasonable notice thereof being given to the other party. See a. 2, 5 ;

ART. '2. An Act to Prescribe the Mode of Changing the Venue in Civil Cases
—Jan. 20, 1823.

§ 1. When either party to any civil action instituted in a Circuit Court of
this state, shall desire to chan e the venue, he, she, or they shall make oath
before one of the judges of t e Supreme or Circuit Courts, that he, she, or
they, has or have good reason to believe that from the undue influence of the
adverse party, prejudice existing in the public mind, or for some other sufficient cause to be described by such party, he, she, or they could not obtain a
-fair and impartial trial in the county wherein the action may be depending,
and that the application is made as soon as could be after being advised of

. such undue influence, prejudice, or other cause as aforesaid, and not to delay
the trial, or to vex or harass the adverse party.

2. The party applying for any change of venue, shall present to the judge a
written petition, setting forth the reasons, and shall produce proof of a reasonable notice in writing to the adverse party, of the time and place of making
the application, and thereupon the judge shall hear the parties and examine
the evidence which either may adduce, and if, on such hearing and examination, he shall be of opinion that the party applyin cannot have a fair and impartial trial in the county wherein the action is gepending, it shall be his duty
to award a change of venue to some adjoinin county in which neither party
resides, and if practicable, in which a Circuit ourt may next be held.

3. The judge awarding a change of venue according to this Act, shall, if
in vacation, issue an order under his hand and seal, to the clerk of the court
wherein the suit may be depending, to transmit the papers belon ing to, and
filed in the cause, to the clerk of the court to which the venue shall changed.
which order shall be returned with the petition, and filed with the other
papers in the suit.

4. The clerk to whom such order shall be issued, shall make out a descriptive list of all the papers filed in the cause in his ofiice, a copy whereof he
shall send with said papers, first notin on the declaration, or other leading
paper, all the steps which shall have ieen taken by the parties, and all the
orders made by the court, with their dates, and shall carefull%eand safely put
all of said pa rs, with said descriptive list, into a package, to well covered.
sealed up, an directed to the clerk of the court to which the suit may be removed, and shall (if not otherwise ordered by the judge) take the receipt 91'
the party obtaining the change of venue, for the papers contained on said
list, and deliver the package to said party, to be carried to the clerk of the
court to whom it may be directed. But if the court or judge granting the
change of venue, shall have any sufficient reason suggested to him why either
party should not have the care of the papers to be transmitted, the said court
or judge shall direct in said order, that the party applying, previously to a 1'6moval of the papers, shall pay to the clerk the sum of two dollars and seventyfive cents for every twenty miles of distance from the place where the suit 18
depending to that to which it is ordered to be removed, and it shall be the duff
of the clerk, on the payment of said sum of money, to carry the papers, 01‘ to
employ some trust-worthy person to carry them to the clerk of the court lo
whom they may be directed. And the party obtaining a change of venue {Inder this Act, shall pay to the clerk all costs, an attorney’s fee excepted, whlcll
may have accrued in the court wherein the suit is depending, before the p3P°”
shall be transmitted. See a. 5.

5. The clerk to whom the papers may be transmitted according to this A?“
shall open the seal of the package, and compare the papers with the des0“P‘

tive list, and shall give to the party or person delivering the same, a receipt
therefor. He shall then enter the cause in his docket, as if it had been commenced in the court of which he is clerk, and issue subpoenas for witnesses as
in other cases.

6. No civil suit shall be removed more than once, or in any other manner
than that prescribed by this Act, and in no case where it shall appear to the
judge to whom application for removal may be made, that there has been any

unnecessary delay or negligence of the Earty in making such application : Pro-,

vided, That nothing herein contained s

all be construed to alter the law pro-'

viding for the removal of suits commenced out of the county of the residence"

and freehold of defendants.

ART. 3. Amendment of the Circuit Court Law——Jan. 13, 1824.

§ 1, 2, 3. In a Suit on, any Written Instrument, it shall be Received as Evidence of the Debt or Duty, unless its Execution, (}~c., be denied by Plea, and
that Verified. Whenever any suit shall be commenced in any of the courts
in this state, founded on any writing, whether the same be under seal or not,
the court before whom the same is de nding, shall receive such writing as
evidence of the debt, promise, underta ing, or duty, for which it was given ;
and it shall not be lawful for the defendant or defendants, to deny the execution
of any such writin , unless it be by plea, supported b aiiidavit of the truth
thereof, to be filed t erewith, at the time such plea is fi ed.

In all suits which are now depending and undetermined in the several courts
in this state, having jurisdiction thereof, founded on any such writing, the
court before whom the same is depending, shall receive such writing as evidence of the debt, promise, undertakin ,or duty, unless the defendant or defendants in any such suit, shall, within tie time limited for pleading in the said
court at the next term after the passage of this Act, deny the execution of such
writing, by plea accompanied by atiidavit as prescribed in the foregoing sect1on.

Whenever any person or persons, other than the person or persons purporting to have executed any such writing, shall be defendant or defendants, the
court before whom such suit is depending, shall receive such writin , as evidence as aforesaid, unless the defendant or defendants shall make oat that he,
she or they, verily believe, that the said writing was not executed by the person
or persons by whom it is alleged to have been executed.

Arrr. 4. Amendment qf the Fiftieth Section of the Circuit Court Law—Feb.
4, 1828.

From and after the passage of this Act, pleas in abatement shall be admitted
and received, without oath or affirmation of their truth, in all cases where the
abateable matter appears on the face of the record.

ART. 5. Amendment of Article Two-—Feb. 5,1830.

Costs on Change of Venue to abide Event of Suit. So much of the Act recited in the title of this Act as requires the party making application for the
change of venue to pay to the clerk an costs which may have accrued, shall be
and the same is hereby repealed. An the costs shall abide the final termination
of the action, as if the venue had not been changed.

ART. 6. An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act,
entitled an Act to reduce into One, the several Acts and Parts jgf Acts coner

cerning the Establishment, Jurisdiction, and Powers of the In ior Courts
of Law, Passed 13th January, 1824—Feb. 27, 1836.

§ 2, 3. Any Signature of Partnership well Pleaded not Denied but by Plea or
Oath. That in all suits founded on promises, agreements, or contracts in writing made by two or more persons, as co-partners, and signed by any one or
more of them, or by any person as agent in their behalf, whether the several

, names of such co-partners be signed at length or abbreviated, or whether the

name of an firm be used at length or abbreviated, it shall be lawful and sufficient to declare or complain against any one or more of them, either severally
or as co-partners, alleging the liability of him or them, each to arise by his or
their promise, agreement or contract in writing, signed or executed by such signature as the writin in fact imparts ; and to sustain such averments of liability against the defen ants, it shall onl be necessary to exhibit in evidence to
t e court or jury (as the case may be the written agreement, promise or contract declared on and executed in the name or by the signature averred. And
it shall not be lawful for any of said defendants, being sued as provided for in
this section, to deny the name or names or signature to such writing, promise.
agreement, or contract, unless by plea, supported by the oath of the party denyingrthe same, or by the oath of some credible witness attesting its truth.

his rule of proof as herein- before provided, shall extend to all pleas of paymerit, and other pleas and legal proceedings whenever the same can be made to
31313 Y4. Pleas to the Action, Admit the Parties and the Characters of the Parties.
All pleas to the action shall be deemed and adjudged as admitting the parties
and the character of the parties sueing; and in no case shall the plaintiff or
complainants be required to prove any written signature, identity of persons,
description of character, or the persons comprised in any partnership which
maybe set forth in their respective bills, declarations, writs or pleadin ,- either
as plaintiffs or the parties through whom the plaintiff or plaintiffs may c aim, unless the signature, person, artnership, or description of character be denied by
plea, and its truth attested y oath.

ART. 7. An Act to Amend the Laws re ecting Suits to be brought against
Endorsers of Promissory otes—May 13, 1837.

§ 1. Resident Parties to Bill or Note must be Sued in one and the same 110'
tion or Absolved. In all actions founded upon bills of exchange and promissofll
l10t6S. the plaintiff shall be compelled to sue the drawers and endorsers, liVing
and resident in this state, in a joint action; and such suit shall be comm611°‘?‘l
in the county where the drawer or drawers reside, if living in the state ; and ‘l
the drawer or drawers be dead, or reside out of the state, the suit shall be
brought in the county where the first endorser resides.

2. Separate Action against Representative of Deceased Party. In all cases
where any drawer, acceptor or endorser shall have died before the commence;

ment of the suit, a separate action may be brought against the representative 01
such drawers, endorsers, and acceptors.

3. In this Action Non-Assumpsit, to cover all Defensive lllatter and Verdict
according to Liability. The court shall receive the plea of non-assumpsit allfl
no other, as a defence to the merits in all suits brought in pursuance of ill”
Act, and all matters of defence may be given in evidence under the said plea?
and it shall be lawful for the jury to render a verdict against part of the d3‘

fendants, and in favor of the others, if the evidence before them require such
a verdict; and the court shall enter up the proper judgment in such verdicts

against the defendants, which jud ments and verdicts shall not be reversed,
annulled, or set aside, for want of orm.

4. When New Trial in such Case. New trials shall alone be granted to
such defendants as the verdicts may have been wrongfully rendered against,

and judgments shall be entered against all the other defendants, in pursuance
of the verdict.

5. Duplicate Writs in such Case. ._ The clerk shall issue duplicate writs to
the several counties where the various defendants may reside, and shall endorse

on all executions the names of the drawers and endorsers, particularly specifying the first, second, and third endorsers.

6, 7. How Execution in such Case Levied; but one forthcoming Bond. It
shall be the duty of the sheriff, in all cases, to make the money on executions
out of the drawer or drawers, acceptor or acceptors; and in no case shall a
levy be made on the property of any surety or sureties, endorser or endorsers,
unless an aflidavit from some credible person be made and filed among the
papers in the cause, setting forth that the principal or principals have no property in this state, out of which the plaintiff ’s mone and costs can be made ,
and in such event, the plaintiff may roceed witht e executions against the
defendants next liable, and so on, until) his executions be satisfied.

No sheriff or other ofIi'cer shall take more than one forthcoming bond in
any case for the same cause of action.

8. What Discontinuances Allowed. Any plaintiff shall have the right to
discontinue his suit against any one or more of the endorsers or sureties that

he may sue in any joint action, before verdict, on payment of the costs that
may have accrued by joining said defendant in such suit.

9. Defendants not to Sever in Pleading. In all suits brought under the
provisions of this Act, the defendants shall not be allowed to sever in their
pleas to the merits of the action ; and no plea of abatement shall be allowed to
be filed in any cause, unless affidavit be made of the truth of the facts pleaded
in the lea of abatement. P

10. evy on Surety when rincipal has Property, Cause of Action and
Escemplary Damages. If any plaintiff or plaintiffs shall cause to be levied
an execution on any surety or endorsers, or their property, when the principal has sufficient roperty in this state to satisfy such execution, the
party so offending shall be deemed a trespasser, and shall be liable to an action

from the party aggrieved, and exemplary damages shall, in such cases, be
awarded by the jury trying the same.

ART. 8. An Act in Relation to Pleas in Abatement—Feb. 9, 1838.

§ 1. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall not be necessary to
verify any plea in abatement, in any court of this state by affidavit, when the

abateable matter is apparent upon the face of the record. any law or usage to
the contrary notwithstanding.

2. It shall hereafter be lawful for the defendant or defendants in any suit to
plead as many pleas in bar of the action as he shall choose, although some of
said pleas may be to the party, or to the character of the party suing.

ART. 9. An Act to Regulate the Practice of the Circuit Courts—February
22, 1840.

§ 1. Issues made up at Return Term. Hereafter all suits or actions brought
to any of the courts of law of this state, shall stand for pleas and issues only

at the return term of the writ; and no trial shall be had of said cause or judgment
rendered thereon at the return term unless the defendants shall refuse or neglect to plead to said action, or to do what is required in relation to the pleadings, or shall confess or allow judgment thereon, or unless upon the state of

the pleadings the court may render judgment upon matter of law.
2. Demurrers and Points of Law etermined at Return Term. At the

return term of every such action, all demurrers, pleas in abatement. leas to
the jurisdiction of the court, statute of limitations, or other dilatory p eadings

or defences, not requiring the action of a jury to decide them, shall be disposed of by said court at the return term, and the issues on which case is
finally to be put to a jury (as far as can be ascertained), shall, at said return
term, be made u and stand for trial at the succeeding term.

3. Issues of Igact tried at Second Term or Continued, §~c. At the succeeding term of said court the said issues shall be tried and disposed -of or
continued; and if it shall be discovered at the trial term that the pleadirgs are
defective, or issues tendered and accepted are immaterial, it shall be the duty
of said court, and the judge holding the same is hereby required to cause the
same to be amended and perfected instanter, so that the merits of the controversy, shall be fairly put to the jury at said second term if reached on the

docket
4. Clerk to Issue Execution on Judgment or Decree unless directed

otherwise. In all judgments rendered in courts of law, or decrees in chancery,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court (unless ordered by the plaintiff to
the contrary) to issue executions thereon within thirty days from the adjournment of court, and place the same in the hands of the sheriff of his county, if
either of the defendants reside therein ; and if said defendant or defendants all
reside in a county different from that in which the judgment is rendered, then
said execution 13 to be placed in the hands of the plaintiff or plaintiff’s
attorney.

5. Attachments and Trials of Right to Property Triable at Return
Term. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to extend to suits instituted b
attachment, or issues tendered for the trial of the right of property; but l
such issues for the trial of the right of property and suits by attachments shall
have precedence over all other civil causes, and shall be finally disposed of at

the return term thereof, if practicable.
6. Operation of Act. This Act shall take effect and be in force from and

after the 1st day of March, 1840 ; and all acts or parts of acts conflicting with
the provisions of this are hereby repealed.

Am. 10. An Act to Amend and Define the Law in Relation to Set-of and
Mutual Dealings in certain cases—Feb. 22, 1840.

Hereafter, in all cases where there shall have been mutual dealings between
two or more persons, and one or more such persons shall die before an adjustment of such mutual dealings, the lawful claim or claims, or demand of the
survivor or survivors, shall be a good and sufficient payment and set-off to the
amount thereof, against the claim or claims, or demands of the deceased person
or persons, whether the estate of the deceased person or persons shall or shall
not be insolvent ; any statute, law, decision, custom, or usage to the contrary
notwithstanding.

Aer. 11. An Act to Authorize the Citizens of this State to Prosecute or
Defend their Suits without the Aid of an Attorney/——Feb. 28, 1842.

§ 1. Any citizen or citizens of this state, who is or are the bonajide owner or

owners of an bill or bills single or wri ting obligatory, promissory note or notes,
bill or bills 0 exchange, order or orders in writing, check or checks: and said
instruments are for money, absolutely, against any person or persons, bank or
other corporation, as obligor or obligors, maker or makers, drawer or drawers,
acceptor or acceptors, endorser or endorsers, and it shall become necessary to
institute a suit against the parties to any such instrument of writing for the
recovery of the sum of money mentioned in such instrument of writing, or the
balance due thereon, it shall be lawful for such person or persons, without the
trouble and expense of employing a lawyer, to file, with the clerk of the Circuit
Court of the county where the principal defendant shall reside, his, her,
or their bill or bills single or writing obligatory, promissory note or notes,
bill or bills of exchange, order or orders in writing, check or checks (as the
case may be), without any declaration being filed thereon, for the filing of such
instrument of writing, by the proper owner thereof, for suit, shall be taken,
deeméd, and held as equal to a declaration in any stage of the case. i

2. Upon such instrument of writing being filed for suit, as aforesaid, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of such court to issue the proper process, with an
endorsement thereon of the nature of the instrument of writin and endorsement thereon, if any, upon which the process is founded, to %ring into said
court all the parties to said instrument of writing, resident in this state, or to
be found in this state, as defendants to the action.

3. Upon the process being served upon the said defendants, or any of them,
any or all of them may file his, her, or their plea in proper person, or by
attorney, as he, she, or they may choose ; and no other plea in any such case
shall be allowed to such instrument of writing filed, without declaration, as
aforesaid, but the plea of payment to a sealed instrument, and non-assumpsit to
all instruments not under seal; and said defendant or defendants may avail him,
her, or themselves, of any defence under said plea which would be available to
him, her, or them, under any special plea or pleas in abatement, or in bar of
said action.

4. All such causes shall be tried and determined upon their merits, without
any intricacy or perplexity of pleading; and the court trying any such cause
shall see that impartial justice is done between the parties, and the verdict of
the jury and the judgment of the court shall be according to the strict justice
of the case.

5. This mode of proceeding shall not be allowed to any plaintiff who shall
appear by attorney, but only where such plaintilf or plaintiffs appear and
prosecute in pro er person.

6. This Act s all not be so construed as to prohibit any person from employing an attorney after the commencement of a suit.

ART. 12. An Act to Authorize the Revival of Suits and Judgments at Law

by Scire Facias, and in Equity by Bill of Revival‘ in certain cases—
March 3, 1846. A

§ 1, 2. Revivor of Suit at Law against Executor or Administrator by
Scire Facias, and of Suit in Equity by Bill of Revivor. Whenever any
suits shall have been, or may hereafter be instituted, by any administrator ad colligendum, or by or against any executor or administrator having plenary powers,
and the powers of such administrator ad colligendum, executor or administrator
having plenary powers, shall cease, or be determined, and afterwards letters of
administration or testamentary, shall be granted, such suits shall not abate at
law, or be dismissed in equity, but shall continue and may be revived by sczre
facias at law, or by bill of revivor in equity.

When any judgments or decrees shall have been, or may hereafter be rendered, at law or in equity, in favor of an administrator ad colligendum, or in

favor of, or against an executor or administrator, having plenary powers, and
the powers 0 such administrator ad colligendum, executor or administrator

having plenary powers, shall cease or be determined, and letters testamentary
or of administration, shall afterwards be anted, such judgments or decrees

may be revived by scire facias at law, or ill of revivor in equity.
3. Writs of Replevin, Attachment, Injunction, c}~c., and the Bonds taken

under them to continue in force as if the Power of such Executor, if-c,

-had not Ceased. All writs of replevin, attachments, injunctions, and other

restraining orders or process, and all bonds taken by virtue of them shall
continue in force in all such cases, in as full and ample a manner as if the
powers of such administrator ad colligendum, executor or administrator having
plenary, powers, had not ceased or been determined; and that this Act take
effect and be in force from and after its passage: Provided, That any execution
issued upon such judgment shall on] be levied upon the lands and tenements
so recovered, and that a sale of suc lands and tenements, by said execution,
shall satisfy said execution and judgment, whether the amount of money
realized from said sale shall equal the amount of the judgment or not.

ART. 13. An Act to Regulate the Practice and Proceedings in the Action of
Ejectment, and for other Pu1poses—March 5, 1846.

§ 1. Value of Improvements when Assessed and Set-of against Damages
for Mesne Profits. In actions of ejectment, or other possessory or real action,
in the courts of law in this state wherein the plaintiff shall recover, it shall and
may be lawful for the jury to allow, by way of offset to an damages assessed
by them in favor of such plaintiff; the value of all valuable, hut not ornamental
improvements made upon the lands and premises recovered, and remaining
thereon at the time of such trial; provided, that such improvements have been
made anterior to any written notice of the intention of such plaintiff to institute
such action, having been served on the defendant; and in case no such notice
has been given them, provided that such improvements have been made one
year rior to the commencement of such action.

2. 11 case of any separate suit or action for such damages, or for mesne
profits or rents, issues and profits, instituted after an such recovery as is
s cified in the foregoing section, the same right of oflhet shall exist and be

owed to the extent named in said section.

3. If it shall be proved to the jury trying an such question of damages, 0?
mesne profits, or rents, issues and profits, according to the second section hereof, that the value of such improvements of a permanent and valuable character
exceed the amount of such damages, mesne profits or rents, issues and profits.
then it shall and may be lawful for said jury to certify that fact, and the amount
of such excess with their verdict or finding, and thereupon the court shall give
judgment in favor of the defendant for such excess, which shall operate 8.53

ien upon the land and premises recovered by the plaintiff in preference to all

other liens against him; and executions may issue therefor as on other judgments: Provided, however, That an execution issued upon any such judgment,
shall only be levied upon the land and tenements so recovered; and if the
money so realized from such sale, under said execution, shall not equal the
amount of said judgment, the same shall nevertheless be satisfied in full, and "0
execution shall ever after be sued out upon the same.

4. This Act shall not apply in favor of any defendant who may have entered
into or upon the lands or premises so recovered, without color of title, 01‘ With

a strong band, but only in favor of a bona fide purchaser of the land from
which he may be ejected, who has made such improvements without notice of
the ri hts of the plaintiff in the action. '

5. 1 o writ of possession or other writ, or order for restitution of any kind or
description, shall issue, after the recovery prescribed for in the first section of
this Act, when it appears that the value of said improvements exceeds the
amotfrlnt of damages assessed until each excess shall have been fully paid and
satis ed.

6. It shall be lawful for any defendant in any of the actions named in the
first section of this Act, to notify the plaintiff or his attorney of record at the
return term of the process, that said defendant will claim an allowance before
the jury, for the improvements embraced by the provisions of this Act; and after suc notice, the defendant shall be entitled to prove the value of such improvements on the trial, and the jury shall find and certify the same with their
verdict; and if the jury shall find no damages for the plaintiff, or only nqminal
dam es, then the writ of haberefqciaspossessionem, or other order of restitution s all be sta ed until the full amount so found and certified by the jury,
shall be paid an satisfied in manner herein-before provided for.

7. The provisions of this Act shall extend to all cases of recovery by one or
more joint tenants, coparcenors or tenants in common, or any person or persons claiming by, through or under them, or either of them, against any other
joint tenant, coparcenors or tenants in common, or any person or persons
claiming by, throu h or under them, or either of them.

8. This Act sh 1 take effect and be in force from and after its ass e.

The Act of Dec. 13, 1816 . .96 : T. 475, by being excluded rom oindexter’s Digest, ceased to operate from and after 1822, and therefore was not inserted in this compilation. It required appraisement after judgment of the
improvements.

certificate to maintain any action thereon ; and the same shall be received in
evidence as such, in an court in this state.—See a. 3; a. 11, s. 2; a. It}.

102. Subpoena for Vgitnesses ; Service and Return thereof. For taking the
testimony of witnesses, in all causes, which ma be depending in any court of
law of this state, the following rules shall be observed and put in practice, _to
wit : In all suits or actions, where witnesses are to appear at any of the said
courts, the clerk, at the request of either party, shall issue a subpoena, directed
to the sheriff or other officer, of the county where such witness or _witnesses
are said to reside, mentioning the time and place for his, her, or their appearance, the names of the parties to the suit wherein the testimony is to be given,
and the party at whose instance such witness or witnesses is, or are summoned. Every subpoena made returnable immediately, shall be issued only in term
times, and shall be personally served on the witness or witnesses therein named.
A copy of every subpoena, issued by the clerk in vacation, in case the witness
or witnesses therein named, is, or are not to be found, may be left at their usual
places of residence ; and such copy certified by the‘ sheriff or other officer, left
as aforesaid, shall be deemed a legal summons, and the witness or witnesses

therein named, shall be bound to appear in the same manner as if personally
summoned.

103, 104. Witness to Attend until Discharged; Liability for Non-attendance.
Every witness being summoned to appear at an of the said courts, in manner
as herein-before directed, shall appear accordingfy, and continue to attend from
day to day, until discharged by the court, or the part at whose instance such
witness shall be summoned. And if it shall happen, t at the suit so depending
shall, in the vacation, be accommodated and settled by the parties, and any
witness shall be summoned to appear, and give evidence in such suit, and the
part at whose instance such witness was summoned, shall neglect or omit to
discharge him or her from further attendance, and he or she, for want of such
discharge, shall attend at the next term ; then, and in that case, the witness, upon oath made of the facts, shall be entitled to a ticket from the clerk, in the
same manner as other witnesses, and shall receive from the party, at whose instance he was summoned, the same allowance which by this act is given to
witnesses for their attendance at said courts.

If any person, duly summoned as a witness, shall fail to appear and attend as
herein required, he may be fined by the court in a sum, not exceeding one
hundred dollars, to the use of the party at whose instance he was summoned,
and a scire facias shall issue, as in the case of defaultin jurors; and he
shall be further liable to the action of the party; for the fufl damages which
may be sustained for want of the testimony of such witness: Provided
always, That if sufficient cause be shown by the person so summoned and
failing to appear before final judgment on such scire facias, of his or her
incapacity to attend at the time and place mentioned in the subpazna, then
no fine or nalty shall be incurred by such failure.

105. itness in a Criminal Prosecution, how paid; when Prosecutor
taxed with costs. Every witness summoned to appear in any of the said
courts, on a criminal prosecution, or plea of the state, shall appear accordingly, and continue to attend from day to day, until discharged by the
court, the Attorne -General, or District Attorney, or by the arty at whose
instance he shall summoned; and in default thereof, shal be fined by
the court in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, for the use of the
state, or the partysummoning him, as the case may be; unless on the return of a scire facias made known, and before final iudgment, sufiicient
cause be shown for such failure; and such witnesses s iall be allowed the

same compensation for their daily attendance, and the same mileage as is
allowed to witnesses attending in civil suits ; and such compensation, together with all costs of prosecution, shall be paid by the defendant on conviction. And, in case the state shall fail in the prosecution of any offence of
an inferior nature, the court may order the costs to be paid by the prosecutor’,
if the prosecution shall appear to have been frivolous or malicious : and, if on
conviction, the defendant shall be unable to pay the costs of prosecution, or if
the defendant be acquitted, and the costs be not taxed on the prosecutor, the
witnesses appearing on behalf of the state, shall be paid the compensation afore' said, out of the Treasury of the state ; and the certificate given by the clerk of

the court in which such prosecution was determined, to any witness, specifying
the amount of compensation to which he is entitled, with an endorsement
thereon, by such clerk, that the defendant is unable to pay the costs of prosecution, or that he was acquitted, and the costs not taxed on the prosecutor, as
the case may be, shall be a sufiicient voucher to authorize the auditor to issue
his warrant on the treasurer, for the sum mentioned in such certificate.—As to
pay, see c. 65, a. 4; c. 61, a. 15.

106, 107. Pay of Witnesses, Proof of Attendance ; Pay when demandable.
For every mile any witness shall travel, either going to, or returning from the
court to which such witness shall be summoned to appear, there shall be paid
to him by the party, at whose instance the subpcnna shall have issued, six cents
per mile, together with the necessary ferriages, and one dollar and fifty cents
for every day he shall attend, until he shall have given testimony, or shall be
discharged. And the attendance of any witness as to the number of days,
mileage, and ferriages, shall be determined by the oath or affirmation of such
witness, which oath or affirmation, the clerk of the court to which such witness
is summoned, is hereby authorized to administer, either in vacation or term
time, who shall thereupon grant a certificate of the same to such witness ; and
if any witness shall swear falsely in order to obtain such certificate, he or she
shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty of perjury, and shall suffer, as in the
case of wilful and corrupt perjury. And each witness summoned in any cause
as aforesaid, shall be authorized to demand of the party at whose instance he
or she was summoned, at the expiration of each term, his or her compensation
for attending at such term, and if the party shall refuse or neglect to pay such
Witness, he or she shall not thereafter be compelled to attend as a witness for
the party so refusing or ne lecting, until the compensation due for the attendance previously given, shal be paid; and, moreover, such witness may sue for
and recover the amount specified to be due in the certificate of the clerk, before any Justice of the Peace, or in any court having jurisdiction thereof. And
the party paying any witness may file the certificate given by the clerk as
aforesai , with the receipt of the witness thereon, in the clerk’s oflice, to be
de osited among the papers in such cause.

0 witness shall be permitted to charge his attendance in more than one
suit at the same time ; but, if he be summoned to attend in several suits, he may
charge his attendance to either of the parties b whom he shall be summoned,
at his election. And there shall not be allowe in the bill of costs, the charge
of more than two witnesses for the proof of any one particular fact.—Amended
a. 5, 13.

108, 109. Witness Privileged from Arrest; Committed for not Testifying.
Witnesses shall be privileged from arrests in all cases, except treason, felony,
and breaches of the peace, during their attendance at any court, or other place
where their attendance shall, by subpoena first duly executed by a sworn oilicer, or by some indifferent person who shall have made oath to the due execution thereof, have been required; and in comin to, and returning from
thence, allowing one day for every twenty—five mi es from their places of
abode: Provided always, That no person whatsoever, attending any of the
courts in this state, or at any other place where their attendance may be
lawfully required, shall be privileged from an arrest, by original or other

‘process, unless such person shall be actually a witness in the cause or

matter in such subpoena expressed.

If any person summoned and attending, in any cause or matter, where his or
her attendance may be lawfully required, shall refuse to give evidence upon
oath or afiirmation (as the case may be), to the best of his or her knowledge,
every person so refusing shall be committed to prison by the court, commissioners, referees, or other persons authorized to take or receive his or her deposition or testimony, there to remain without bail or mainprise, until he or she
shall give such evidence.

110, 111. Negroes, Mulattoes, and Indians, and Descendants to third Generation, and certain Convicts incompetent. All negroes, mulattoes, Indians,
and all persons of mixed blood, descended from negro or Indian ancestors, to
the third generation, inclusive, though one ancestor of each generation may
have been a white person, shall be incapable in law, to be witnesses in any case
whatsoever, except for and against each other.--Who deemed aslave, c. 37, a.
2, s. 1. Perjury in slave, &c., charge to him before sworn—ib. s. 59.

N 0 person convicted of treason, murder, or other felony whatsoever, shall be
admitted as a witness in any case whatsoever, unless he be first pardoned, or
shall have received such punishment as lliy law ought to be indicted upon such
conviction. And no person convicted o rjury, although he be pardoned or
punished for the same, shall be capable of eing a witness in any case. Modified as to convicts, c. 64, a. 12, title VIII., s. 18.

112. Ajirmation admitted ,- False A rmation, Perjury. The liberty of giving testimony by way of solemn a rmation, shall be admittedin all cases
whatsoever, criminal as well as civil ; which afiirmation shall be as good and
effectual in law, as an oath taken in the usual form. And if any person shall
falsely, wilfuUy and corruptly affirm any matter or thing, which, if the same
had been sworn or deposed in the usual form, would have amounted to wilful
and corrupt perjury, then such person so offending, shall be deemed and adjudged to be guilty of wilful and corrupt perjury, and on conviction thereof,
shall be punished accordingly. 113. Deposition 0 Witness about to depart the State, or aged, sick, or unable
to attend Court. hen any witness shall be about to depart the count , or
by age, sickness or otherwise, shall be unable to attend the court; upon a davit thereof, in open court, or before the clerk in his otiice, or before any judge,
justice of the county court, or justice of the peace, of this state, the clerk of
the court in which any suit is or shall be depending, may, on request of either
party, issue a commission for taking the deposition of such witness, de bene
esse, to be read as evidence at the trial, in case the witness should be unable to
attend; but the party obtaining such commission shall give reasonable notice
to the other party, of the time and place of taking the deposition, otherwise the
same shall be void.

114. W7zere Claim or Defence, depends on a single Witness ,- Deposition
how Taken. If any party in a suit at common law, or in chancery, shall make
oath that he verily believes his claim or defence (as the case may be), or
a material point thereof, depends on a single witness, the court, or the clerk,
in vacation, ma award a. commission to take the deposition of such witness,
de bene esse, although he or she be not about to depart the country, nor under

any disability; the party, in such case, giving reasonable notice of the time
an(1il[hlacl3)Ofoti?t]ihrhg;"1cdl g:l)1(,:¢:tb(7)'n,0t_;i:i:]1('3  Duties preclude his
0  ,
Attendance. When any plaintiff or defendant, in any suit depending in any
court of law within this state, shall wish to have the benefit of the testimony
of an of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or Court of Chancery, or any
otherlbflicer of the government of the state, or of the United States, who, on
account of his ofiicia duties, cannot attend court to give testimony on the trial
of such suit, the party wishing the benefit of the testimony of such judge or

-other oflicer, may, on application to the clerk of the court in which such suit

is depending, obtain a commission to take the deposition of such judge or other
officer, which commission the said clerk is hereby authorized to issue; and any
deposition or de ositions of such judge or other ofiicer, taken before any two
Justices of the lgeace, in the county in which such witness or witnesses reside,
shall be read in evidence on the trial of such suit: Provided, The adverse
party have reasonable notice of the time and place of taking such deposition
or depositions.

116. Deposition on Interrogatories of Witness out of State. Whenever
any party to a suit, depending in any court of law in this state, shall desire to
take the deposition of any witness absent from, or residing without the limits
and jurisdiction of the state, such party may take the same by interrogatories,
on making oath or affirmation, as the case may be, of the absence or residence
as aforesaid, of such witness, before any one of the judges, justices, or clerks
of the court, where such cause is depending (and also that he believes the testimony of the witness to be material to his claim or defence); and such clerk
shall, if the oath or affirmation be taken before him, or if taken before a judge
or justice, and properly subscribed and certified to him, issue a commission,
authorizing and directing the commissioner or commissioners to cause the witness or witnesses named in such commission, to appear before him or them, at
a time and place, by him or them to be appointed: Provided, That the party
applying for such commission, shall file his interrogatories in the clerk’s office,
and serve the opposite party with a copy thereof, with notice of the day on
which such commission will issue, at least ten days before the same shall issue ;
in which time the opposite party may file his cross interrogatories; and a certified copy of such interrogatories and cross interrogatories, if any there be, shall
accompany such commission; and if any deposition taken as aforesaid, shall
contain any testimony, but the answers to such interrogatores, the same shall
be deemed surplusage, and shall not be read in evidence. And any question
put to the witness or witnesses, in such interrogatories, and the answer thereto,
shall be subject to all legal objections, on the trial of the cause, in which any
deposition is taken as aforesaid, and may be admitted or rejected by the court
in the §same manner as if the witness or witnesses were present in court.—See
a.. ll, 3, a. 14.

117, 118. How Depositions under this Act taken and Certified, and the efect
thereof. All depositions taken by virtue of this act, shall be sworn or afiirmed
to, by the witness or witnesses named in the commission, and examined, and
shall be certified by the commissioner or commissioners, or a majority of them,
to whom the commission for taking such deposition may be directed, according to the laws, customs, and usages of the country, state or territory in which
the deposition is taken ; and the same so certified, together with every exhibit
or voucher, relative thereto, in the possession of such commissioner or commissioners, or a majority of them, shall be by them sealed up and directed to
the court, or the clerk of the court, where the cause is depending, and from

which such commission issued, and transmitted in the most safe and convenient
manner; and the said court, or one of the judges thereof, shall open and deposit
the same in the clerk’s office, there to remain among the papers in the cause;
and every deposition taken, returned, or opened in any manner other than as
herein-before provided, shall not be received in evidence, except by consent of
parties.

Every examination or deposition, so taken and returned by virtue of this
act, shall be read, used and deemed as good 'and competent evidence in the
cause in which it shall be taken, as if such witness had been present, and sworn
or affirmed, and examined, viva voce, in open court, if it appear to the satisfaction of the court, that such witness is absent from, or resides out of this state,
or is dead, or by reason of age, sickness, or bodily infirmity, or any other cause
whatsoever, is unable to attend said court, but not otherwise; and unless the
same shall be made to appear to the said court, then such examination or
deposition shall not be admitted or used in the cause.

119. Subpoena for W'itness to be Examined before a Commissioner, Referee,
4}-c. Whenever any witness shall be required to attend any commissioner or
commissioners, for the pur ose of having his or her deposition taken, in a cause
depending, or which may he depending, in any court of law in this state ; or
to attend referees, or on any survey of lands, which may be made by order of

court, the clerk of such court, on the application of either party, or of any one .

of the commissioners or referees, or of the proper surveyor, s all issue a sub[menu for the witness whose attendance may be desired, expressing therein the
particular day and place, when and where, he or she shall appear and give
testimony, the names of the parties to the suit, and in whose behalf summoned;
which subpcena shall be executed and returned in theisame manner, and the
witness appearing shall be entitled to the like compensation, as in the case of
a summons to appear and testify in open court; and if any witness so summoned, shall fail to appear and give evidence according to his or her knowledge,
he or she shall be subject to the same penalties as are provided for failin to
attend and ive evidence in a cause depending in any of the said courts. nd
when the eposition of a witness, resident, or bein in this state, shall be
directed to be taken, by the order of the court ofg any state, territory, or
district in the United States, or in any foreign country, it shall be lawful for
the commissioner or commissioners, or any one of them, to issue a subpoena
for such witness to appear before him or them, on a day and at a place therein
named, which shall have the same effect, in all respects, as if the same had
been issued by the clerk of any court in this state.

120. Publication of Notice when adverse party is a non-resident, and has
no resident Agent or Attorney. When any commission shall be obtained to
take the deposition of a witness, in a suit depending in any of the courts of
this state, where the plaintiff or defendant in such suit doth not reside within
the same, or hath not an agent or attorne therein to whom notice of the time
and place of taking such deposition can e given, then the person obtaining
such commission, having published in any public newspaper in this state, four
weeks successively, the time and place, when and where, the witness is to be
examined, and the name of the witness, together with the names of the parties
to the suit in which such witness is to be examined, it shall and may be lawful
for any plaintiff or defendant as aforesaid, to proceed to take any deposition
authorized by the commission issuing from the court, agreeably to law, where
the suit depends as aforesaid ; and such deposition, when taken, and returned
to the clerk’s oflice eeably to the rules of law and of the court from whence
the commission issue , shall there be filed and allowed to be read in evidence,

in the same manner and under the like restrictions as if notice had been duly
given to the opposite party, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary, in any
wise, notwithstanding. And the printer may demand and receive his usual
allowance for publishing such advertisement four weeks, which shall be taxed

in the bill of costs, as other costs of suit.
121. Warrant or Attachment to compel Attendance of Witness. If any

witness residing within this state, after being duly summoned according to law,
to appear before any court, or at any other place, where his or her attendance
may be lawfully required, shall fail or refuse to appear and testify, such court.

"or other authority before whom such witness is summoned to appear, shall issue

a warrant or attachment directed to the sheriff or other proper oflicer of the
county where such witness is to be found, to compel his or her attendance.
175. Subpoena duces te cumin Vacation. Any judge of the said courts, in vacation, for good cause shown, by afhdavit, shall have power to order a subpena duces te cum to be issued, to be returnable to any court to be holden by
him, in like manner as the same could be ordered by him holding a session of

the court.

ART. 2. An Act concerning the manner of Authenticating foreign Deeds, Records, and other Instruments in Writing—Jnne 10, 1822.

All deeds and other instruments in writing, foreign jud ments, specialties on

. record, registers of births, and marriages, made, execute , entered into, given

and registered by and between persons residing in any forei n kingdom, state,
nation, or colony, Without the jurisdiction of the United tates, if acknowledged by the party making the same, or proved by the number of witnesses
requisite, before any court of law, or the mayor, or other chief magistrate, of
any city, town, or corporation of the country in which the party shall dwell,
certified by such court, or mayor, or chief magistrate, in the manner such acts
are usually authenticated by them; and all policies of insurance, charter
parties, powers of attorney, foreign judgments, specialties on record, registers
of births and marriages, as have blen or shall be made, executed, entere into,
given and enregistered in due form, according to the laws of such foreign
ingdom, state, nation, province, or colony, and attested by a Notary Public,
with a testimonial from the proper oflicer of the city, county, corporation, or
borough, where such Notary Public shall reside, or the great seal of such kingdom, state, nation, province, or colony, shall be evidence in all the Courts of
Record within this state, as if the same had been proved in the said courts.
Register of home marriages.—-c. 34, a. 1.

ART. 3. An Act Providing for admitting Copies of Land Ojice Records, as
Evidence in the Courts of this State-—./une 29, 1822.

Hereafter copies of the records appertaining and belonging to the land oflices
of the United States established in this state, duly authenticated by the proper
ollicer having charge of the said records, shall be admitted as evidence in suits
depending in the courts of this state, in all cases where the original or sworn
copies could be admitted, without further or other proof of such record, in the
same manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same rules and
regulations as in cases of certified copies of records of any court of this state.

See a. ll, 16, § 2, Keeper and translator of Spanish Records, T. 390, 491.

ART. 4. An Act to enable Claimants of Lands, in the State of Jllississippi, to
Perpetuate the Evidences of their Claims—Jan. 20, 1823.

§ 1 to 4. Application to County Surveyor, to Establish Boundaries of Land ,Proceedings ; Depositions Taken. Whereas many and serious injuries and
inconveniences arise to many citizens of this state, from the decay or removal
of landmarks: Be it enacted, That anv person or persons within this state,
who is or may be in lawful possession of any tract or parcel of land, either by
himself, herself, or themselves, as owner or owners, agent or agents, executor
or administrator (where no suit in law or equity, is then existing, concerning,
or in any manner affecting the title), may apply to the county surveyor of his,
her, or their respective county, requesting him to re-survey, re-mark, and
establish the several boundaries thereof.

The county surveyor of the county where such survey is to be made, shall
give notice, by setting up the same on the door of the court-house of his
county, by inserting the same in some newspaper printed in his county, or by
giving personal or written notice to all persons in possession of the adjoining
lands, of the time and place of commencing such surveys ; and that he will
then and there take in writing, the depositions of such persons as he shall
therein name, as material in identifying and establishing the true boundaries of
the lands to be surveyed, which said notice shall be given at least twenty days

previous to making such surveys.
The county surveyor, as aforesaid, or his deput , shall attend at the time and

place so appointed, and shall, on oath (which cat the said surveyor is hereby
authorized to administer), receive all information relative to the corners, lines,
or whatever may be of importance in truly establishing the original boundaries
of said land, or the adjoining tract or tracts ; and the surveyor shall take down,
in writing, all such important information so given on oath, which shall be subscribed by the person or persons so deposing, by the chain carriers, and other
persons present, and certified by the surveyor; and thesame shall be annexed
to the plat and field notes of the survey, and recorded in the office of the
County Court; the testimony so taken, and the surveys so made, shall be
admitted and read in any suit or controversy, which mayhereafter arise concerning the premises, and have the same effect, as if the some had been taken
in any court of law or equity in this state :~ Provided, The person or persons
so deposing be not then residing within the limits of this state, at the time such
testimony may be offered or intended to be introduced.

The County Surveyor shall be entitled to demand and receive from the person or persons at whose instance such surveys are made, the same fees as are
established by law, with such charges for printing, serving notices, and making
records, as may accrue necessarily from the same.

ART. 5. Amendment of Section 107 of Article 0ne—-Jan. 23, 1824.

A witness may Sue for his Pay. Hereafter it shall and may be lawful for
any witness to sue for and recover from the party at Whose instance the subpaana issued, the compensation to which he or she may be entitled for attendance as a Witness.

ART. 6. An Act to authorize and Compel Discoveries in Courts of Law in certain cases--Feb. 16, 1828.

§ 1. From and after the passa e of this Act, when the arties to any action
at law shall reside in the State 0 Mississippi, the Circuit ourts of law therein
shall be, and the same are hereby, vested with full and complete power to compel discoveries in aid of actions at law, depending therein, whenever, by the
rules of equity, a discovery would be compelled in a Court of Chancery, subject to the provisions herein-after expressed. _
2. Whenever an application shall be made for a discovery under the provisions of this Act, the party making the same shall embody the facts in relation
to which a discovery shall be grayed, with the reasons for such discovery in
the form of a petition, _to the ourt in which such action may be depending,
substantiated by oath; and the said Court, on inspectin the same, shall determine whether a discovery shall be had or not; and if t e said Court shall determine that a discovery shall be had, the person or persons, liable to make the
same, shall, forthwith, or at such other time as the said Court may direct, make
in writing, full and complete discovery, on oath, and deliver the same to the
said Court, relative to the matter concerning which a discovery shall be or. dered; and if the said person or persons be not in attendance on said Court,

then and in that case a subpoena shall be ordered by the said Court, commanding said person or persons to attend the same forthwith, or at the next succeeding term, as the Court shall deem most just; and then and there make the
discovery ordered, in manner aforesaid; and if the said person or persons so,
by the order of the said Court, rendered liable to make discovery as aforesaid,
on the return of a subpoena duly served, shall ne lect or refuse to make the
same as by this Act is required, the facts stated y said petition, concerning
which a discovery was prayed, shall be taken as confessed, and go to the jury
as though the same had been admitted by such person or persons under oath.

3. If any person or rsons shall think himself or themselves ag rieved in
the order of any such ourt, for or against a discovery, the same shal and may
be reviewed by the Supreme Court, on appeal taken by either party, under the
same provisions and restrictions now required by law in cases of appeal to the
Supreme Court.

4. Any person or persons knowingly makincr a false statement in the petition required by this Act, shall be deemed and lield guilty of perjury, and being thereof convicted, shall suffer all the pains and penalties of wilful and corrupt perjury.

5. A discovery made by one defendant shall not operate against his or her
co-defendant or defendants, who shall, on a like discovery, deny the same facts
discovered by such defendant.—Enlarged by a. 15.

ART. 7. An Act to regulate the taking of Documentary Testimony in certain
cases, and for other purposes—Dec. 13, 1830.

§ 1, 2, 3. Newspaper publications how proved by Ajidavit on Comparison,
<§~c.; Fees for the same. In all cases where it may be necessary to substantiate and make proof before any Court of record within this State, of the publication of any notice or notices, of whatever description, which have been
made in any public newspaper, either in pursuance of the direction of any law
of the state, or by order of any Court, or Courts within the same; and when
proof of the publication of any such notices may be deemed necessarv, for the
illustration of any cause, pending and undetermined before any such Courts,
either by the Court or by any party, plaintiff, or defendant, before the same; it
shall and may be lawful for such party or parties, on whom the burden of such
proof may lie_, to produce before any such Court or Courts a copy of the publication or documents required, which said copy certified under oath or affirmation of the printer or publisher of such newspaper or gazette, in which such
publication may have been made (or by the clerk or superintendent of such
newspaper or gazette), specifying the respective dates and numbers of said
newspaper, in which said publication, as affixed, hath been made, together with
the certificate of the Justice of the Peace (or other competent person to administer such oath or aflirmation), that the newspaper containing such publication
or publications, has been produced before him, and compared with said copy;

and that the same is correct and truly made, and which said copy authenticated as aforesaid shall be deemed and taken, to be as full evidence of the said
publication or order so directed to be made by said Court or otherwise.

2. It shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, on whom the burden of any such proof aforesaid may lie, or who may deem such proof necessary, either for the prosecution or defence of any cause, in which he may be
interested, to make application to any Justice of the Peace, residing in the
vicinity of the publisher, clerk, or superintendent of any such newspaper, as
aforesaid, in which such matter may have been published, or other person, to
appear before said Justice, on a day to be appointed by him, and to bring with
him the newspaper or gazette containing the publication required, and the said
Justice or other person shall then and there take the deposition or affirmation,
of said publisher or other person, to the matter of fact required to be certified
to said Court; and shall also compare said publication with the copy or copies
so deposed to, or affirmed, before him; and certify the same, under his hand
and seal as aforesaid, and the said copy or copies, together with his said certificate, shall be immediately endorsed and sealed by the said Justice, and be by
him transmitted to the clerk of the Court, before whom the suit is pending
Where the same is required to be used, in the same manner and form as is required for the return of depositions.

3. There shall be allowed to said person, making such copy of publication
and certificate, and for their attendance before said justice with said newspaper, to compare and depose to the same. the sum of two dollars, in full for all
his services therein, to be paid by the person making application for the said
proof; and it shall and may be lawful for the justice, taking such deposition or
afiirmation, to charge the accustomed fees allowed by law for administering
said oath or affirmation ; and the further sum of twelve and a half cents for
comparing said copies.

4. Extended this act to notaries ; but that was repealed, Feb. 27, 1833.. 168,

Am. 8. An act to Exempt Females from attending as Witnesses in certain
cases-—Dec. 19, 1831.

From and after the passage of this act, no female shall be compelled to
attend any of the courts in this state, to give testimony in civil cases.

Whenever the plaintiff or defendant, or either of their attorneys, in any civil
action, wishes the testimony of a female, he may, by giving ten days’ notice to
the adverse party of the time and place, take the testimony of such female
before any of the judges of the county court, or Justice of the Peace of the
proper county ; which testimony, so taken, shall be as good and lawful as if
the same had been given in open court, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, however, That when any deposition or depositions of any female shall have been taken, pursuant to this act, either party
may obtain process, as usual heretofore, to compel the personal attendance of
said female or females, on his, her, or their agent or attorney filing in the
clerk's office, in vacation, or in a reasonable time before the time of trial, in
open court, an affidavit that the personal attendance, in open court, of said
female or females is necessaryefor the ends of justice; and the person so applying for said process, shall liable for the payment of the cost of such witness or witnesses.

ART. 9. Amendment of Article Seven—Feb. 26, 1833.
§ 1, 2, 3. Protests and other Ojicial Acts of Notaries Provable by their Copies

‘court, in behalf of the holders or parties, plaintiff or de

of their Records ; when Deposition of Notary taken. In all cases when it
may be necessary to have the testimony of any Notary Public in any suit or
controversy in any court of law or equity in this state, arising on or touching
any protested promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument of writing,
the official act of such notary public, certified under his hand, and attested by
his notarial seal, shall be deemed, held, and taken to be conclusive evidence of
the protest of such note, bill, or other writing on the day it purports to have
been made ; and the said Notary Public shall not be required by any subpoena

to go beyond the limits of the county of his residence, to give evidence in any
endant in any such

suit.
When any Notary Public shall protest any such instrument as is described in

the foregoin section, he shall make and certify, on oath, a full and true record
of what shali have been done thereon by him in relation thereto, according to
the facts, by noting thereon whether demand for the sum of money mentioned
in the same was made, of whom and where ; when the requisite notice or notices
were served, and on whom; where the same were mailed, if such be the case,
when mailed, to whom and where directed ; and every other fact in any manner
touching the same, shall be distinctly and plainly set forth in his notarial record ;
and when so made out and certified, it shall have the same validity, force, and
effect, in all courts of record within this state, as if the said notary were personally present, and interrogated in court. And if any Notary Public shall false]
and wilfully set down and certify any matter untruly, in his notarial recorcl:
such Notary Public, on conviction thereof before an r court of competent jurisdiction, shall be deemed and held guilty of wilful an corrupt perjury, and shall
be liable to the punishment prescribed by law for the crime of perjury 2 Provided, however, Every Notary Public shall be, and they are hereby required to
attend the courts of the counties of their respective residence, when thereto
rerwred by subpoena.

hen any person or persons, being party litigant on or concerning any such
protested note, bill, or other writing, having any suit in law or equity in any
court of this state, out of the county of the residence of said Notary Public,
shall so desire, it shall and may be lawful for the party or parties aforesaid, or
either of them, to take the testimony of such Notary by deposition, or interrogatories before some justice of the peace of the county in which the said notary public shall reside, on filing a copy of the said interrogatories with the
clerk of the court in which the suit is depending, and serving the opposite
party or counsel with a copy, with notice of the time and place of taking the
same, giving at least ten days’ previous notice ; but in term time, when application of the kind is made, the court shall have power to order and direct the
deposition of said Notary to be taken on such shorter notice as the court shall
deem reasonable.—See a. l2,—Justices of the Peace are ea: ojicio notaries, c.
50, a. 15.

ART. 10. Nineteenth Section of the Circuit Court Act of March 2, 1833.

The Statute Laws of the several States, as Printed by Authority, Evidence.
The printed statute laws of the several states of the United States, published
by the authority of the states respectively, shall be received and read as evidence of the statutory regulation of the state of which they purport to be the
law, in all the courts of law and equity in this state, any law, custom or practice to the contrary notwithstanding.

ART. 11. An Act declaring certain Copies competent Testimony, and for other
purposes—]l/Iay 13, 1837.

§ 1. Recorded Instruments ,- Evidence by Copy. Copies of all recorded
deeds, conveyances, bonds and other instruments of writing, which are now,
or may hereafter, by the laws of this state,'be required or permitted to be recorded, shall, when certified by the clerk, in whose ofiice the record of the
same is kept, be received in evidence in any court of law or equity in this
state ; and be as available, without accounting for the absence of the original,
as if the original deed, conveyance, bond, or other written instrument were
there and then produced and proved.

2. What Copies of Land Certificates Evidence. Hereafter, copies of all
certificates issued in pursuance of any act in Congress, by any board of commissioners, register, or receiver of any land office, or any other person or persons
duly authorized to issue such certificate, founded on an warrant or order of
survey, or in right of donation, pre-emption, or pure ase from the United
States, for any land in this state. shall be taken and received as competent evideuce in any court of law or equity in this state, without accounting for the
absence of the ori inals, and be as available in law or equity, as if the ori inal
certificates were t en and there produced and read : Provided, however, hat
such copies be certified by the ofiicer or his successor by whom the originals
were issued, or by the officer in whose ofiice the origina s, or a reéord of the
same are kept.

3. Ajidavit for Commission to take Deposition of Non-resident Witness not
required. Hereafter, commissions to take the depositions of witnesses residing beyond the limits of this state, may issue without an affidavit of the nonresidence or materiality of such absent witness : Provided, however, That interrogatories be filed, and a copy thereof be served upon the opposite party, or

his attorney, as heretofore required.
4. What Ajidavit for Continuance to contain as to Absent Witness.

Hereafter on the first application, as well as all subsequent applications, for the
continuance of any suit or motion pending in any court of law or equity of
this state, it shall be necessary for the party making such application, to set
forth in his afiidavit the facts which he expects to rove by his absent witness
or witnesses, in order that the court may judge of t e materiality of such facts;
to the issue or issues in the case.

The first and second sections of this act were repealed by act 1840 . . 79,

but that was repealed, and the first section revived by act 1844, a. 16.

ART. 12. Amendment of Article Seven—May 13, 1837.

§ 1, 2. Ojicial Certificate of Judge, Clerk, Justice, or Notary, to be Evidence;
their Depositions when and how taken. In all civil cases, when it may be necessary for plaintiff or defendant to have the testimony of the jud e or clerk of
any Circuit Court, or of any Probate Court, of the c erk of the Igligh Court of
Errors and Appeals, clerk of the Chancery Court, or of any Justice of the
Peace, or Notary Public, in any suit, action, or controversy, pending in
any court of law or equity in this state, arising on, or touching any promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writi_ng; the official
act of any such Judge, or clerk, Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public, certified under his hand and attested by his seal of office, shall be deemed and
taken to be evidence, as competent and conclusive as if the same were
given by such Judge, Clerk, Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public, rsonally in any such court of law or equity; and the said Judge, Clerk, ustice of the Peace, or Nota Public, shall not be required to go beyond
the limits of the county of is residence, to give evidence in any court 01
law or equity, in behalf of the holders or parties, plaintiffs or defendants in
any‘ such suits.

he said Judge or Clerk, Justices of the Peace, or Notaries Public, shall not,
nor shall any of them be compelled or required, to go beyond the limits of the
county of his residence, to give evidence in any court of law or equity, in any
civil cause whatsoever; but in all such cases, in any suits, actions, or controversies, it shall be, and may be lawful, for the party or parties therein, or either

‘of them litigant in such suits, actions, or controversies, to take the testimony

of such Judge, Clerk, Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public, by deposition or
interrogation, before some Justice of the Peace of the county in which said
Judge, Clerk, Justice of the Peace. or Notary Public, may reside, on filing a copy
of said interrogatories with the clerk of the court in which such suit, action,
or controversy, may be depending, and serving the opposite party or counsel with a cop thereof, with notice of the time and place of taking the same,
and giving at least ten days’ previous notice: but in term time, when application shall be made, the court shall have power to order and direct the deposition
of such Judge, Clerk, Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public aforesaid, to be
taken on such shorter notice as the said court may deem reasonable.

Arr. 13. An Act to increase the Compensation of Jurors and Witnesses—
Jllay 13, 1837.

§ 2. Pay of Witness. Each witness summoned to attend any court within
this state, shall be allowed the sum of two dollars for each and every day he
shall attend in any of said courts, and the same rate of mileage now allowed,
as a witness, to be taxed, and paid in the manner now prescribed by law.

5. Pay of lVitness and Juror before Justice. The rovisions of this act
shall not apply to witnesses and jurors attending before ustices of the Peace,
but such witnesses and jurors shall be allowed the sum of one dollar and fifty
cents per diem.

ART. 14. Amendment of Article One-.May 13, 1837.

. Service of Copy of Interrogatories to be by certain Ojicers. So much of
the one hundred and sixteenth section of the act aforesaid as relates to the
manner of taking depositions, which requires the parties to serve a copy of
the interrogations, filed with a notice of the day upon which such commission,
as Provided in said act, shall issue, be, and the same are hereby repealed.

t shall hereafter be the duty of the sheriff, coroner, and constable of each
and every county in this state, whenever required by either party, their agent
or attorney, or the clerks of the several courts of law, to serve a copy of the
interrogations or notice, or both, upon either party or their attorney: or by
leaving a copy thereof at the usual place of abode of such party, in any cause
which is now pending, or which may hereafter be depending in the several
courts of law and chancery of this state, to execute and return the same, as
other duties appertaining to their respective oflices; for which service they
shall be entitled to demand and receive the fees now allowed by law for the
service, and return of a writ of capias ad rcspondendum, and the same shall be
charged to the bill of costs, as in cases of original process. .

By the authority aforesaid, all returns made by the several sheriffs, coroners.
or constables of the several counties of this state, pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this act, shall be prima facie evidence of the fact.

Am. 15. Amendment of Article Six, allowing Discovery from Non-resident
parties on publication—Feb. 24, 1844.

§ 1. The provisions of the act to which this is an amendment are hereby extended so as to include cases in which either of the parties to the suit shall
reside out of the state of Mississippi; and in such cases, if the party from
whom a discovery is sought, shall reside out of this state, the court in which
suit is pending, or any circuit judge in vacation, may direct publication to be
made in any newspaper printed within this state, which, in the opinion of the
court or judge, is best calculated to apprise the absent party of the fact that a
bill of discovery has been filed: Provided always, That such publication shall
be made once a week, for two months successively.

2. Upon proof of publication, as aforesaid, in the manner now required by
law against absent defendants, the court in which such suit may be pending,
may proceed with it in the same manner as if personal service of process had
been effected.

3. This act, and the one to which this is an amendment, shall be considered
as authorizing the defendants in such suits to compel discoveries in defence in
the same manner as the plaintiffs are allowed to compel them, in aid of the actions at law.

Am. 16. An Act to Repeal certain Provisions of an Act passed February the
6th, 1840, Repealing the First and Second Sections of an Act approved 1lIay
13th, 1837, entitled “An Act declaring certain Copies Competent Testimony, and for other purposesT’—Feb. 24, 1844.

§ 1. So much of the above-recited act as repeals the first section of the act
of 1837, is hereby repealed, and the said first section of the act of 1837 is
hereby revived, and declared to be in full force and effect.

2. A certified copy, under the hand and seal of the ofiicer having custodv of
any of the land office books, copied from the books of entries of land, shall be
as good evidence, and of the same legal import, in the courts of this state, as
the original certificate of entry.

Am‘. 17. An Act to authorize the Governor of the State of .Mississippz to appoint Commissioners in other States—Feb. 18, 1846. .

§ 1. The Governor may appoint in each of the United States, one or more
commissioners, to continue in office during the term of oflice of the Governor
for the time being; and every such commissioner shall have power to administer oaths, and take depositions and affidavits, to be used in this state, and also
to take the acknowledgment of any deed or other instrument to be recorded in
this state.

2. All oaths administered by said commissioners ; all depositions and affidavits taken by them, and all acknowledgments of deeds or other instruments
certified by them, shall be as effectual in law, to all intents and purposes, as if
done and certified by any officer thereunto duly authorized in this state.

3. VVhen any grantor shall refuse to acknowledge his deed, or other instrument, the same may be proved in like manner, and the like proceedings shall
be had for that purpose, before the commissioner, as are required by law in
like case, before any ofiicer thereunto duly authorized in this State.

4. Before any commissioners, appointed as aforesaid, shall proceed to perform any of the duties of their ofiice, they shall take and subscribe an oath,
before any Justice of the Peace, or other officer authorized to administer
oaths, in the state for which such commissioner may be appointed, that they

Am‘. 1. From the Circuit Court Act—June 28, 1822.

§45. Suits Triable at Return Term. All suits or actions founded on any
bond, note, bill, cotton receipt, accounts for goods, Wares, and merchandises
sold and delivered, money had and received, money lent and advanced, money
paid, laid out, and expended, shall be put to issue and tried in the manner heretofore provided, at the term to which the writ shall be returned executed:
Provided, The declaration in such suit or action be'filed in the clerk’s office at
the time of issuing the writ, and the writ be executed at least twenty days
before the term to which the same is returnable ; and the clerk or plaintiff ’s
attorney shall endorse on such writ, that judgment will be required at the return
term thereof: And provided also, That the court may, on cause shown by
affidavit, continue any such suit or action, on the same grounds as continuances are usually granted.—See a. 5, also c. 53, a. 4, 5 ; c. 59, a. 9.

55. Assignment (of Breaches and Judgment for what is Proved. In all
actions on any bon , or on any penal sum for the non-performance of covenants or zfifgreements, in any in enture, deed or writing contained, the plainti&'
or plainti s may assign as many breaches as he or they may think fit ; and the
jury, upon tria of such action or actions, shall and may assess damages for
such of the breaches as the plaintiff shall prove ; and on such verdict the like
judgment shall be entered as heretofore has been usually done in such actions.
And where judgment on a demurrer, or by confession, or nihil dicit, shall be
given for the plaintiff, he may assign as many breaches of the covenants or
agreements as he may think fit; upon which a jury shall be summoned, to
inquire of the truth of every one of those breaches, and to assess the damages
the plaintiff shall have sustained thereby ; and execution shall issue for so much;
and the judgment shall remain as a security to the plaintiff, his executors and
administrators, for any other breaches which may afterwards happen ; and he
or they may have a scirefacias against the defendant, his executors or administrators, and assign any other breach ; and thereupon, damages shall be assessed, and execution issue as aforesaid.

56. Judgments on Bonds for Payment of Money for what is Due ; or Money
brought into Court. In all actions which shall be brought upon any bond or
bonds for the payment of money, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, judgment
shall be entered for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by the payment
of the principal and the interest due thereon, and the costs of suit, and execution shall issue accordingly; or if, before judgment, the defendant shall bring
into court the principal and interest due upon such bond, he shall be discharged,
and in that case judgment shall be entered for the costs only.

63. Defendant may Plead Payment of all or part, and give Bond, Bill,
Receipt, or Account in Evidence; and if Residue be found for him, it is a Debt
of Record, c§~c. If two or more, dealing together, be indebted to each other
upon bonds, bills, bargains, promises, accounts, or the like, and one of them
commences an action in any court, if the defendant cannot gainsay the deed,

bar ain or assumption upon which he is sued, it shall be lawful for such defengant to plead payment of all or part of the debt or sum demanded, and give
any bond, bill, receipt, or ‘account in evidence ; and if it shall appear that the defendant hath fully paid or satisfied the debt or sum demanded, the jury shall
find for the defendant, and judcrment shall be entered that the plaintiff shall
take nothing by his writ, and sfiall pay the costs. And if it shall appear that
any part of the sum demanded be paid, then so much as is found to be paid,
shall be defalked and deducted out of the plaintiff’s demand ; and the plaintiff
shall have judgment for the residue only, with costs of suit. But if it appear to
the jur that the plaintiff is overpaid, then they shall give in their verdict for
the defiindant, and withal, certify to the court how much they find the plaintiff to be indebted or in arrear to the defendant more than will answer the debt
or sum demanded. And the sum or sums so certified shall be recorded with
the verdict, and shall be deemed a debt of record ; and if the plaintiff refuse to
pay the same, the defendant, for the recover thereof, shall have a scirefacias
against the plaintiff in the said action, and have execution for the same, with
the costs of that action. See c. 47, a. 2, s. 9; c. 59, a. l, s. 60, 61.

64. What Court to regard in Case of Demurrer. When- a demurrer shall
be joined in any action, the court shall not regard any other defect or imperfection in the writ, return, declaration or pleadings, than what shall be specially
alleged in the demurrer, or causes thereof, unless something so essential to the
action or defence, as that judgment according to law, and the very right of the
cause cannot be given, shall be omitted.

65. When Demurrer overruled ; Frivolous Demurrer. In all suits or actions, founded on any writing obligatory, bill, promissory note, or other writing
for the payment of a sum certain, if the defendant shall demur to the declaration, and the demurrer be not sustained on joinder and argument, the court
shall proceed to enter up final judgment for the plaintiff, for the sum due and interest; and no plea to the suit or action shall be admitted, unless the defendant
make oath or affirmation, as the case may require, that he hath a good and substantial defence, in law, setting forth fully the nature of such defence, that the
court may judge whether the plea shall be admitted or not. And in case such
suit or action be not for a sum certain, founded on a writing obligatory or other
writing as aforesaid, a writ of inquiry shall be awarded, and executed forthwith, in case the defendant be not allowed to plead on the oath or affirmation
before required. And the court may, in all cases, except in a demurrer to
evidence, refuse, on motion, to receive a demurrer manifestly frivolous and intended for delay, and proceed to trial as if the same had not been offered.

66. Judgment on Demurrer to Plea; Respondeat Ouster. If the plaintiff in
any suit or action, shall demur to the plea of the defendant, and the demurrer
be sustained on joinder and argument, the judgment of the court shall be respondeat ouster; but in such case, the defendant shall be compelled to plead to
the merits of the suit or action, and the plaintiff shall not thereby be delayed
of his trial. '

67. When Judgment Final or Interlocutory ; Inquiry of Damages. All
judgments, on demurrer, confession, non sum informatus, nil dicit, or by default, in actions of debt, for a sum certain, and in actions founded on any instrument of writing, ascertaining the sum due, and not set aside during the
term of the court at which they are entered, shall be final on the last day of
the term, and executions may issue thereon for the amount of such judgments,
with legal interest, by way of damages, to be calculated by the clerk of such
court, up to the time of renderin the same, and made a part of the original
judgment, with costs of suit. An in all actions where the sum due does not

appear by any instrument of writing as aforesaid, and all actions sounding in
damages, if the defendant do not appear and plead, answer, or demur, according to the rules which may be established by the court, interlocutory judgments
may be taken, on which writs of inquiry shall be awarded, which may be executed at the same term of the court at which such writs of inquiry shall be
awarded, by the jurors attending said court, and executions may issue for the
damages assessed b the jury, and costs of suit as in other cases. And after a
writ of inquiry shal be executed, and judgment rendered thereon by the court,
the same shall not be set aside, unless good cause be shown therefor, on oath

I or afiirmation, as the case may require, and in such case, the defendant shall

plead to issue immediately, and the plaintiff shall not thereby be delayed of his

trial.
68. Court’s Control over Proceedings in Vacation. The court shall have

control over all the proceedings in the Clerk’s Oflice, during the preceding vacation, and may correct any mistakes or errors which may have happened
therein, and may, for good cause shown, set aside any of the said proceedings,
and make such order concerning the same, as may be just and right, and may,
also, for good cause shown, reinstate any suit or action discontinued during

such vacation.
73. New Trial ; how Granted. Every new trial granted at law, shall be on

such terms and conditions as the court shall direct, and no more than two new

trials shall be ranted to either party in the same cause.
74, 75, 76. ules concerning Costs, and Tax: on Law Process. In all cases,

in civil suits or actions, the party in whose favor judgment shall be given, or
in case of nonsuit, dismission or discontinuance, the defendant shall be entitled
to full costs, except when it is or may be otherwise directed by law.
The laws of costs shall not be interpreted as penal laws.
fAll taxes imposed on law process or proceedings shall be included in the bill
0 costs.
77. Nonsuit not sufered after Jury retire. Every person or persons desirous of suffering a nonsuit on trial, shall be barred therefrom, unless he or they

do so before the jury retire from the bar.
78. Possession of Part not construed Possession of whole. In controversies

affecting lands, tenements, and hereditaments, possession of part shall not be
construed as possession of the whole, when an actual adverse possession can

be proved.
79. Private acts of Legislature given in evidence without being pleaded.

Private acts of Assembly may be given in evidence without being specially
pleaded, and as printed with t e general acts of the Legislature.

80, 81, 82. What papers taken out by Jury; Interpreter ; scroll a seal. Papers read in evidence on the trial of any cause, though not under seal, may be
carried from the bar by the jury.

Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret when necessary.

Any instrument, to which the person making) the same, shall afiix a scroll,
by way of seal, shall be adjudged and holden to e of the same force and obli-i
gation as if it were actually sealed.

83. All Papers pertaining to a Suit Filed. All declarations, pleas, evidences,
and other papers relating to any cause in court, shall be carefully preserved

by the clerk, and be filed together in his oflice.
84. In Ejectment Process according to Common Law ; Defence under General Issue; two Verdicts a Bar. In actions of ejectment the process shall be
according to the course of the common law, except that the return thereof shall
be made according to the laws of this state; and in all such actions, the defendant or defendants being duly summoned, and appearing in lieu of the casual
ejector, shall be allowed to plead the general issue only, and may make such
defence, and may give such, special matter in evidence, under such plea, as
would be good and valid in law, if the same had been specially pleaded in bar
of the action ; and where two verdicts shall be given in succession, for the plaintiff or defendant, and judgment be rendered thereon, no new ejectment shall
be brought; but where there may be verdict against verdict between the same
parties, and judgment thereon, a third ejectment in such case, and verdict and
judgment thereon, shall be final and conclusive as to the rights of such parties.

88. [f in Trial in Ejectment Defendant have a Growing Crop, Rent to allow time to gather it. assessed, and Writ of Possession not to issue if Bond be
given. In all actions of ejectment in any of the courts of this state, if the jur
find the defendant guilty of the trespass and ejectment complained, and it shall
be made to appear to their satisfaction that the defendant has a crop then
planted or growing upon the premises in question, they shall assess in their
verdict, such rent as shall be reasonable and just for the plaintiff to have and
receive for the use of said premises, during such time as shall in their opinion,
be sufiicient to enable the defendant to gather and secure his crop from off
said premises ; and no writ of haberefacias possessionem shall issue upon any
such verdict, until the expiration of the time so allowed by the jury, if the defendant in such action shall enter into bond at any time during the term of
the court at which the same was tried, with suflicient security to. be approved
by the said court, in the penalty of double the amount of the rent so assessed
by the jury, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned for the payment of the rent assessed as aforesaid, at the expiration of the time fixed by the jury for the defendant to hold possession of said premises. And all bonds taken as aforesaid,
shall be filed in the clerk’s office of the proper court, and shall have the force
and effect of a judgment ; and if the same be not discharged according to the
condition thereof, execution may issue thereon against the principal and his security for the sum therein mentioned as upon other judgments in said court.

89, 90. In what cases Declaration not to abate for want of Form. In all
personal actions, where the declaration shall plainly set forth sufiicient matter
of substance for the court to proceed upon the merits of the cause, the suit
shall not abate for want of form.

After issue joined in an ejectment, on the title only, no exception to form or
substance shall be taken to the declaration, in an court whatsoever.

94. Cognovit equal to Release of Errors; Pyower of Attorney to Confess
Judgment, <§~c., Void. A judgment, on confession, shall be equal to a release
of errors; but all powers of attorne for confessing, or suffering judgment to
pass by default, or otherwise, and all’ general releases of error, made or to be
made, by any person or persons whomsoever, within this state, before action
brou ht, shall be, and are hereby declared to be, absolutely null and void.

%‘or oflice confessions of judgment, see a. 6.

96, 97, 98. Jllista/res in Judgment, c}~c., how Corrected. Where, in the re-.
cord of any judgment or decree of any superior court of law or equity, there
shall be any mistake, miscalculation, or misrecital, of any sum or sums of
money, quantity of merchandise or other thing, or of any name or names, and
there shall be, among the records of the proceedings in the suit in which such
judgment or decree shall be rendered, any verdict, bond, bill, note, or other
writing of the like nature or kind, whereby such judgment or decree may be
safely amended, it shall be the duty of the court in which such judgment shall
be rendered, and of the judge thereof in vacation, to amend such jud ment or
decree thereby, according to the very truth and justice of the case, rovided,

That the opposite party, his agent or attorney in fact, or at law, shall have had
reasonable notice of the application for such amendment. And, if the transcript of such judgment or decree, at the time of such amendment, or at any
time thereafter, shall be removed to the Supreme Court, it shall be the duty of
that court, upon the inspection of such amended record (to be brought before
it by certiorari, if need be), to aliirm such judgment, if there be no other error
apparent on such record.

97. VVhere any bond, taken by virtue of any execution, by miscalculation or
mistake, shall be conditioned for the payment of a larger sum of money, than

" by law ought to have been required thereby, or where a verdict shall be rendered for more damages than the plaintiff shall have demanded by his suit, and
jud ment shall be rendered accordingly, and the court in which such judgment
shal be rendered, shall have adjourned to another term, without release of such
excess havin been made, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff, at any time before
the record olg such judgment shall be removed into an appellate court at any
future term of the court in which such judgment shall be rendered, to release
in open court any such excess; or, he may in vacation release the same b
deed under his hand and seal, witnessed by the clerk or deputy clerk of suc
court, and filed of record among the papers of the cause; and such release.
made in either of the forms aforesaid, shall cure any error growing out of such
excess.

98. If the record of any such judgment be removed into an appellate court,
before such release shall be made, it shall be competent for the defendant in
error to make such release as aforesaid, in the appellate court; and thereupon the said court, after reversing the judgment, shall proceed to give
such judgment as the court below ought to have given, if the release had
been filed therein. _

128. 129, 130, 131. Grand Jury ; Oath of Foreman and Jurors ,- their pr!vilegc ; Presentments; Non-attendance after being sworn. From the whole
number of Grand Jurors, drawn as aforesaid, the court shall appoint _3
foreman, to whom an oath in the following words shall be administered, 111
the presence of the rest of the grand jurors :

“You, as foreman nf this and inquest, shall diligently inquire into, and
true presentment make of alfrsuch matters and things as shall be giV8n
you in charge, or otherwise come to your knowledge, touching the presfml
service ; you shall present no person through malice, hatred, or ill-Willi
nor shall you leave any unpresented, through fear, favor, or affection. 01'
for any reward, hope, or promise thereof; but in all your presentments y0I1
shall present the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, according to the best of your skill and understanding : So help you God.” _

129. And the following oath shall be administered to the Grand Jurors, to W1“

“The same oath, that A. B., your foreman, has now taken before you
on his part, you and each of you, shall well and truly observe and k6eP»
on your respective parts: So help you God.”

Grand jurors shall be privileged from arrest in all cases, except treason. f°l°'
ny, and breaches of the peace, during their attendance at court, coming t0 and
returning from thence, allowing one day for twenty-five miles from their Place
of abode; and all such arrests shall be void.

130. When the grand jury make any presentment, they shall write at the
foot thereof, the name and surname of the prosecutor or informer, if there 
one ; and the name of the town or county, in which he shall reside, with W9
title or profession, for the more effectual prosecution of such presentment"
When a presentment shall be made upon the knowledge of one or more °f

their own body, the names of the grand jurors giving the information, shall be
written at the foot of the presentment; and when a presentment shall be made
on the testimony of a witness called on, either by the court or the grand jury,
to give testimony concerning the same, the name of such witness shall likewise
be written at the foot of the presentment.

131. In case of the sickness, death, or non-attendance of . any rand juror or
grand jurors, after he or they shall be sworn or aflirmed, it shall lawful for
the court, at their discretion, to cause another or others to be sworn or aliirmed,
in his or their stead.

132. Pctit Jurors; their Oath. After the grand jurors have been drawn,
sworn, or affirmed, the residue of the jurors, summoned and attending said
court, shall serve as petit jurors during the term; and the clerk of the court
shall, on the first day of such term, administer to them the following oath, to
wit:

“You, and each of you, do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be),
that you will well and truly try all issues, and execute all writs of inquiry, that
may be submitted to you, and left to your decision by the court, during the
present term, and true verdicts give, according to the evidence: So help you
God.” Which oath or affirmation shall authorize the said jury to try all issues,
and execute all writs of inquiry which may be submitted to them during that
term of the said court ; and talesmen, if any be summoned, shall, in like manner,
take an oath to try all issues, and execute .all writs of inquiry, which maybe
submitted to them, during the day for which they are summoned.

133. When the Title to Land is in Issue the Jury to be F-reeholders. The
petit jury, where the title of land is in issue, shall be composed of freeholders;
and in all cases, when, from challenges or other causes, there shall be a deficiency of jurors, the sheriff or other proper oflicer attending such court, shall, by
order of the court, summon a suflicient number of qualified bystanders to complete the panel ; but if the sheriff or other ofiicer be interested, the return of
qualified bystanders shall be made by such disinterested person as the court
shall appoint : Provided, That all persons who have made the first payment on
purchase of lands from the United States, together with donation and pre-emption claimants, shall be deemed and held, to all the purposes of this act, freeholders.

134. Talesmen fined for Non-attendance. It shall be lawful for the court to
fine any person summoned as a talesman, who, being present, when he is
called, does not appear in court, or who, after appearance, wilfully withdraws
himself during the same day, in any sum not exceeding thirty dollars.

135. Jury de Zllediatate Linguce. A jury de mediatate linguce may be directed by any of the said courts, whenever, in the opinion of the court, it may
be necessary.

136. Juror, if Testifying, must be Sworn. Jurors knowin anything relative
to the point in issue, shall disclose the same, on oath or a ' mation, in open
court. .

137. Sherif not to Converse with Juror. No sheriff shall converse with a
juror, but by order of the court, after the jury have retired from the bar.

138. Who Competent or Not as Jurors. N 0 person under the e of twentyone, or age of sixty years, nor any person who is not a citizen 0 the United
States (except where a. jury de mediatate lingure, may be directed), nor any
person who has been convicted of felony, perjury, forgery, or other offence
punishable with stripes, pillory, or burning in the hand, shall be capable to
serve on a jury for the trial of an cause, civil or criminal, whatsoever.

139. Juror may be Fined for Climtempt. Any grand or petit juror, who shall

be guilty of a contempt of the court, may be fined by such court, in any sum
not exceeding thirty dollars. _

140. Fines on Jurors, how Collected and Paid over. ‘All fines imposed on
any juror under this act, shall be collected by the sheriff, and paid into the
county treasury of the proper county, for county purposes. _ _ _

142. Peremptory Challenge to Four Jurors in Civil Cases. In all civil suits
hereafter to be tried in any of the Circuit Courts of this state, each plaintiff and
defendant shall have the privilege of peremptory challenge to the number of
four of the jurors called to try such suit or suits; any law, usage, or custom to
the contrary notwithstanding. _ _ _

143. Compensation of Jurors. Each petit juror of the original venzre shall
be allowed the sum of one dollar for each and every day he shall attend in any
of the said courts as a juror, to be paid by the county treasurer at each term
of the court, out of the money-collected on taxes on law process, which is hereby set apart for that purpose, and out of no other fund in the county treasury ;
that each grand juror shall be allowed the same compensation as is allowed to
petit jurors ; which compensation shall, on the certificate of the clerk, be paid
out of the state treasury, or received in payment of state taxes, and not out of
any jury or county l'und.—See a. 4, ll, 15. _

144. Charge to the Jury. N o judge of any of the said courts, shall charge
the jury as to the weight of evidence in any cause, civil or criminal, but such
judge may sum up the testimony and declare any matter of law arising thereon.—Repealed—See a. '7, 9, 13, 17. _

145, 146. Bill of Exceptions in Civil or Criminal Case. If in the trial of any
cause in any circuit court, either the plaintiff or defendant shall think himself
or herself aggrieved by the charge, direction, or decision of the judge, the party
so considering himself or herself aggrieved, may in person, or. by his or her
counsel, tender to the judge giving such charge, direction, or decision, a _bill of
exceptions to his opinion, stating therein the matters of law wherein he is supposed to err, and the judge shall be bound to sign and seal the same, and the
bill of exceptions so signed and sealed, shall be made and considered a part of
the record in the cause; and in case the judge shall refuse to sign and seal a
bill of exceptions, so tendered, if the facts therein be duly stated, he shall be
deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor in office. _

In the prosecution of any person or persons for any crime or misdemeanor,
in any court of law of this state, it shall be the duty of the judge or j_ust1CeS.
before whom such prosecution is pending, to sign and seal any bill of exceptions tendered to the court, during the progress thereof: Provided, The truth
of the case be fairly stated in such bill of exceptions. And thereupon, the said
exceptions shall, by the clerk of the said court, be entered in the record of such
prosecution, and become, to all intents and purposes, a part thereof.—See a.
5 6.

147. What Judgment the Court may render—Ea:ecution thereof coextensive
with the State—may pronounce Sentence and have it earecuted. The said courts
may grant judgments according to the principles and usages of law, in all cases
cognisable before them, and award executions, directed to the sheriff or other
proper officer of any county in this state, which shall be executed and returned
according to the commands thereof ; and said courts are authorized and required to try all offenders indicted or presented by agrand jury. and ‘1P011_ legal
conviction of the accused, by the verdict of a petit jury, or on confession of

guilt in open court, to proceed to judgment and award execution thereon, as
the law directs.

ART 2. From the Act of Limitations—./une 7, 1822.

§ 17.  in Action for Assault or Slander verdict be under 310, no cost-i-what
to be done in other F rwolous Actions—in what Cases one or mdre Defendants may
recover Costs. In all actions of assault and battery, and slander, commenced and
prosecuted in any court of law in this state, if the jury find for the plaintiff under the sum of ten dollars, he shall not recover an costs. And in all actions
of trespass quare clausum fregit, where the court fore whom the trial shall
be, shall not be satisfied, and enter upon the minutes, that the freehold, title, or
interest of the land mentioned in the plaintiffs declaration, was or might have
been in good question, or that the trespass was wilful or malicious; and in all
other actions of trespass, where the court before whom the trial shall be, shall
not be satisfied, and enter upon the minutes, that the trespass was wilful or malicious; and in all actions upon the case, actions of covenant, and actions of
debt for a penalty intended to secure the performance of a covenant or condition, where the court before whom the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied, and
enter upon the minutes, that the action was neither frivolous nor vexatious, if
the jury find under ten dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover more costs than
the sum so found ; and if more costs are awarded, the judgment shall be void,
and shall be amended upon a motion at any time, by the court who awarded
the same ; and the party injured shall be redressed as to such costs so wrongfully awarded, in case the same be levied upon him. And where several persons shall be made defendants in any action of trespass, assault, false imprisonment or ejectment, and upon the trial thereof any one or more of them shall be
acquitted by verdict, every defendant so acquitted, shall have and recover his
costs of suit, in like manner, as if a verdict had been given against the plaintiff
or plaintiffs, and acquitted all the defendants ; unless the court, before whom
such cause shall be tried, shall be satisfied that there was reasonable cause for
making such person or persons defendant or defendants to such action, and shall
order it otherwise.

18. In trespass quare clausumfregit, or Plea of Disclaimer, <}~c.—and in what
cases Plaintiff to be barred. In all actions of trespass quare clausumfregit,
wherein the defendant or defendants shall disclaim, in his or their plea, to make
any title or claim to the land in which the trespass is by the declaration supposed to be done, and the trespass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant or defendants shall be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass
was by negligence or involuntary, and a tender, or offer of sufficient amends
for such trespass before the action brought ; whereupon, or upon some of them,
the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall join issue ; and if the said issue be found for the
defendant or defendants, or the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be nonsuited, the
plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be clearly barred from the said action or actions, and
all other suits concerning the same.

Airr. 3. From the Act farther to extend Relief to Debtors—-Jan. 23, 1824.

§ 12. Execution on Confessed Judgment not to issue until Stay is expired.
All Judgments a lien on defendanfs property. The clerks of the different
courts, in each county in this state shall not issue execution in any case when
judgment has been confessed, until after the expiration of such stay of execution: Provided also, That if the debtor will go forward to the clerk and exhibit to him the receipt of the plaintiff, 01 his attorney, for the amount of the
judgment any time before the expiration of such stay, and pay such sum
as may be due for the costs thereon, no commission for collection shall be
taxed in the bill of costs; and that in all cases the property of the defendant shall be bound, and liable to any judgment, that may be entered up,
from the time of entering such judgment.—But see a. 14, 16, 18.

ART. 4. An Act better to provide for the Payment of Jurors of the several
C'ourts—Feb. 4, 1825.

§ 1. Jurors‘ Tax on Suits. The sum of three dollars shall be imposed as a
tax on each original suit; and on each case coming up by appeal or certiorari,
the sum of two dollars ; and be taxed in the bill of costs, on each judgment
hereafter to be rendered in the several Circuit Courts within this state, for the

. purpose of payin the petit jury, attending the said courts.

2. How blzeri to account therefor. It shall be the duty of the sheriffs of
the several counties within this state, to account for and pay to the county
treasurer of his county, all sums of money which he may have received as tax
for the jury on judgments rendered in the courts of his county, on the first day
of each term of the Circuit Court of said county, and make oath that the said
sum contains the true amount of all the tax for the jury which he has received, which has not been before accounted for, and paid over to the clerk or
county treasurer.

3, 4. How Clerk to account or that Tax. The clerks of the several Circuit
Courts within this state, shal, on the first day of each term of the Circuit
Court of his county, account for and pay to the County Treasurer of his count , all tax which he may have received for the use of the jury, and make oath
that the said sum contains the true amount of tax for the use of the jury which
he has received, and which has not been accounted for before, and paid to the
County Treasurer.

‘The clerk 'of each Circuit Court shall, within ten da 's after the end of each
term of said court, return to the County Treasurer 0 his county, a list of all
judgments rendered at the said term, on which a tax for the jury is imposed;
and shall annually, in the month of December, make out and deliver to the
said County Treasurer, a list of all judgments on which the tax for the jury
has been paid, during the said year, noting opposite to the names of the parties, the amount of tax, and to whom paid.

5, 6. Pay of Petit and Grand Jurors. Hereafter, the compensation of the
petit jurors shall be one dollar and fifty cents per day, to be paid on the presentment of the clerk’s certificate out of any money in the county treasury not
otherwise appropriated. And it shall be the duty of the County Treasurer to
attend at his oflice on the last day of each term of the court, for the purpose ot
payjng the jurors.

ereafter the pay of grand jurors shall be‘ one dollar and fifty cents per day,
and the tax collector of each county shall pay the rand jury of his county, the
amount of their certificates, so soon as he has col ected so much of the state
tax in each year; and the certificates of the grand jury, so paid, shall be allowed by the auditor of public accounts in the settlement of the said tax collector.
§ 6, repealed Jan. 31, 1826 . . 50, but this repealing act repealed Feb 8,

1827 . . l2'7.—See a. ll, 15.

7. Proceedings against Sherzf or Clerk for not Paying over Jurors’ Tax.
If any sheriff or clerk shall fail to account for and ay to the County Treasurer
of his county, the tax for the jury as required by t e second and third sections
of this act, the said Circuit Court shall, on the motion of the County Treasurer,
Attorney-General, or District Attorney of the district, enter up judgment
against such sheriff or clerk, as the case may be, and their securities, for the

.sums received respectively, with thirty per cent. damaiges ; and the said Circuit Court shall cause to be produced, on the hearing 0 the motion, any books

or records of the court or sheriff’s oflice which will afford evidence in the case,
which judgment shall bear and be collected with interest, at the rate of thirty
per cent. per annum until paid. The coroner or sheriff shall note on the execution the da and date on which the same was made or received.

8. No Ticzet paid but on Oath of Full Value given for it. No certificate
of a juror shall be received by the County Treasurer, in settlement with any
sheriff or clerk, unless such sheriff or clerk make oath that he received the
same in payment of the tax for the use of the petit jury, without any discount
or abatement of the sum expressed on the face of it; nor shall any grand juror’s certificate be allowed by the auditor of public accounts to any collector
of the state tax, until such tax collector shall have made oath that he either received the same in payment of taxes, or the full amount of money expressed on
the face of the same, was paid by him to the holder of the same, in good faith,
agreeably to the provisions of this act.

9. Penalty on Clerk and County Treasurer for Neglect, cf-c., of Duties how
recovered. If any clerk of the Circuit Court shall fail to return to the County
Treasurer, the lists required by the fourth section of this act, he shall be fined
by the Circuit Court of which he is clerk, in the sum of one hundred dollars for each neglect, for the use of the said county, on motion of the County
Treasurer, Attorney-General, or District Attorney. And if any County Treasurer shall fail to perform any of the duties required of him by this act,
he shall in like manner be fined in the sum of one hundred dollars for the
use of the said county. '

10. Provision for tickets now due.—0bsolete.

ll. Repealing Section. So much of the sixth section of the act, entitled
“An act establishing the fees of certain officers therein named,” as requires
the plaintiff to pay two dollars to the clerk at the time of issuing the writ,
and all acts and parts of acts coming within the purview and meaning of
this act, are hereby repealed : Provided, That nothing herein contained,
shall prevent the recovery of any of the former taxes for the use of jurors
now due.—Only thirty-six jurors for Wayne and Amite—Feb. 5, 1827 . . 76.

ART. 5. An Act to Amend the Forty-Fifth Section of the Act entitled “An
Act to Reduce into one the several Acts concerning the Establishment, Jurisdiction, and Powers of the Superior Courts of Law,” passed June 28th, 1822,
and for other purposes—Feb. 8, 1827.

§ 1. From and after the passage of this act, the forty-fifth section of the act
to which this is an amendment, shall be so construed as to embrace all actions
on the case, for work and labor, care and diligence, and materials found, or
either, and all other actions of assumpsit, whether the same be specially enumerated herein, or in the act to which this is an amendment.

An Act to Amend an Act entitled “ An Act to Amend the Forty-Fifth Section

0£ the Act entitled an Act to Reduce into one the several Acts concerning the

stablishment, Jurisdiction, and Powers, of the Sn erior Courts of Law,”
passed 28th of June, 1822, and for other purposes-Iileb. 16, 1828.

The first sections of the act, to which this is an amendment, shall be so construed and extended, as to make all actions at law, whether sounding in damages
merely, or founded on contract except real and mixed actions, triable at the first
term of the court before which such action may be commenced: Provided,
The declaration in such action shall be filed in the clerk’s office at the time of
issuing the writ, and the writ be served at least twenty days before the term
of the court to which the same is returnable: And provided, also, That the

clerk or plaintiff ’s attorney shall endorse on said writ, that "judgment will be

required at the return term.”
But the first is the term to make and perfect the pleadings, except as

excepted, and the second the trial term.——c. 59, a. 9.

ART. 6. An Act further to Amend the several Acts and parts of Acts relating
to the Powers and Jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Law of this State,
and for other purposes—Feb. 10, 1830.

§ 1 to 8. Ojice Confessions of Judgment; Forms thereof; Docketed; Con‘ firmed at next Term; of Lien last day 01’? Term; Clerk's Fees in such case.

Hereafter, when any person or persons s all be indebted to any other person
or persons, in a sum or sums of money, within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of any county of this state, on any bond, bill, promissory note, cotton
receipt, or other written contract, covenant, or agreement, it shall and may be
lawful for such person or persons, so indebted, to sign an office confession of
judgment, in the clerk’s office of the Circuit Court of the county in which he,
she, or they, may reside, under such restrictions, and on condition that such
person or persons to whom he, she, or they may be so indebted, will comply
with the requisitions of this act, hereinafter mentioned.

On application of any person or persons, who is or may be at the time of
such application, the legal holder or holders, assignee or assignees, bearer or
bearers, of any such bond, bill, promissory note, cotton receipt, or other written contract, covenant, or agreement, as mentioned in the first section of this
act, to the clerk of the Circuit Court of any county of this state, in which the
maker or makers, endorser or endorsers of such bond, bill, note, receipt, or
other written contract, covenant, or agreement may reside, it shall be the duty
of such clerk to furnish him, her, or them, with a statement or form of the following tenor and effect, viz. :—The State of Mississippi, in the Circuit Court
of_ the county of —————, to —-—:- term, 18-—, A. B. says, on oath, that
C. D. is justly indebted to him, to the amount of dollars and
cents, or thereabouts, on an instrument of writing, in the following words and
figures, viz. : [here copy the same] and iii case of endorsement say, endorsed
as follows, viz. : [here copy the endorsement] which remains due and unpaid.
and was not given for a fraudulent or usurious consideration. Sworn to and
subscribed before me, the day of , 18-—.

I do hereby acknowledge myself indebted to the above named A. B. in the
sum of -dollars and cents, including interest, up to the first day
of the next term of the court aforesaid, and give my consent for judgment to
be rend gred against me, at the next Circuit Court, for said amount, and all
legal cost accruing thereon, with or without stay of execution, as may be
agreed on in writing by the parties. C. D.

Signed and acknowledged before me, the day of .

It shall be the duty of the clerk aforesaid, on the application of any person
or persons, as aforesaid, to take the statement of the plaintiff or plaintiffs. 0“
oath, to be administered by himself or deputy, in the manner and form or effect
prescribed by the second section of this act. And it shall be the duty of the
said clerk, on the application of the defendant or defendants, to take his, he!‘ 01'
their acknowledgment in writing, and witness the same in the manner and form
or to the effect prescribed by the preceding section of this act.

It shall_ be the duty of the clerk, on the filing of the bond, bill, 110"?»
receipt, or other written contract, covenant, or agreement, on which suit 15
intended to be instituted, and when a statement is made out, sworn to, and
subscribed by the plaintiff or plaintiffs, his, her, or their authorized agent 0‘

   

attorney, and acknowledged by the defendant or defendants, to docket such
causes, in the order in which the same are filed in his oflice, in a bound book,
to be by him kept for that purpose.

It shall be the duty of the court, at the next term, on the second, or such
other day of the term as the said court may think proper, to take up the
docket, and render judgment thereon, in the order in which said causes stand
arranged on said docket, for the amount acknowled ed to be due b ' the defendant, with such stay of execution, as may be agree on in writing between the
parties ; and such judgments, so rendered, shall be final, on the last day of the
term of the court at which the same are rendered ; unless it shall be made to
appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that some error or mistake has been
committed, or that fraud has been intended; in either case, the court shall
direct an issue to be made up, a jury empanneled, and the cause tried at the
same term of said court, unless good cause be shown for continuance, as in
other cases.

The judgments, so rendered, under the provisions of this act, shall, on the
last day of the term, be as binding and as obligatory, and answer all the purposes of a judgment rendered according to the provisions of the act to which
this is an amendment.

It shall be the duty of the clerk to make up, and enter in his record book,
a full and complete record of all the proceedings in such suits, within the time,
and under the penalty prescribed by the one hundred and fifty-sixth section of
the act to which this is an amendment.

For the services rendered under the provisions of this act, the clerk shall
receive and charge in the bill of costs, the following and no other fees. For
making out the papers in the cause, fifty cents. For docketing, twelve and a
half cents. For filing the papers relating to the cause, twelve and a half cents.
For entering judgment thereon, twenty-five cents. For making up final
record, one dollar. For issuing execution and services rendered, subsequent to
the rendition of judgment, the clerk and sheriff shall be entitled to the same
fees now allowed by law in other cases, and in no case whatever shall any
attorneys’ fees be taxed in the bill of costs.—See a. 1, § 94.

ART 7. An Act to Amend an Act entitled “ an Act to Reduce into one the several

Acts and parts of Acts concerning the Establishment, Jurisdiction, and Powers
of the Superior Courts of Law,” passed June 28, l822.—Dec. 16, 1830.

§ 1. Bill of Exceptions on Refusal of .New Trial—Supreme Court may allow it
—Charge of Court below limited to Disputed Points of Law. Hereafter whenever a new trial shall be granted or refused by any Circuit Court in this state on
a motion made for such new trial by either party to a cause tried in said court,
if the party against whom a decision may be made under said motion, or his
counsel, shall conceive such decision of the court to be contrary to the law of
the land, such party may except to the opinion of the court, and may reduce
the reasons offered for said new trial, together with the substance of the evidence in such case, and also the opinion of the court on said motion, to writing;
and it shall be the duty of the judge before whom such motion is made to allow, sign, and seal the same, and to make said bill of exceptions, so taken, a part
of the record in said cause.

2. Hereafter on the trial of any cause in the supreme court on appeal or
writ of error, the appellant or plaintiff in error may assign as error in said cause,
that the judge who tried the cause in the court below, improperly granted or
refused a new trial in said cause, and in all cases where the record sufficiently

sets forth the case, the Supreme Court shall have power to grant new trials, or
to correct any errors of the Circuit Court in granting or refusing the same.
3. For the better preservation of the sanctity of the right of trial by jury, no
judge or justice before whom any issue or issues of fact may hereafter be tried
y a jury, shall sum up or comment on the evidence properly and legally before said jur ; nor shall said judge or justice charge said jury on points or
principles 0 law, applicable to the case before them, unless the parties to such
issue or issues or the counsel differ in opinion as to the same, or, unless one of
the parties to such issue or issues shall ask the charge of said judge or justice

‘upon some point or points of law, pertinent to such issue or issues, which shall

be distinctly specified by the persons asking such charge.—See a. 9, s. 14»a. 10, 13.

ART. 8. Amendment of the Circuit Court Act of 1822-—-Dec. 16, 1830.

§ 1. Assessor to procure and return once in each year to Clerk of Circuit
Court a List of the Jurors of the County. From and after the passage of this
act, it shall be the duty of the assessor of taxes within each county of this state,
once in every year, to take and return to the Circuit Court, in term time, or to
the clerk thereof, at his office, in vacation, a list of the names of all freeholders,
being citizens of the United States, within his county, and house-holders, liable to serve as jurors, and for the better ascertaining who are liable, the said
assessor, whenever he shall have doubts as to such liability, is hereby authorized
and required to take the statement of such person or persons under oath, to be
administered by him, as to his or their liability to serve. See a. 9, s. 8, a. 10, ll.

2. How the Jurors to be drawn, for Service semi-annually, and the number
for each County. The list of names so taken and returned shall be set down
by the clerk of the said court, in a book to be kept by him for that purpose;
also set down said names on separate slips of aper, and shall be put in a box
to be kept by him for that purpose, marked 0. 1; and there shall be drawn
by such clerk, and the sheriff of each county respectively, from the aforesaid
box, in open court, at each regular term thereof, of list so taken and returned.
one by one, the names of thirty-seven persons for the counties of Covington,
Jones, and Simpson; for the counties of Wayne, Jackson, Madison, Rankin.
Hancock, Washin ton, Perry, Monroe, Lowndes, and Green, thirty-six; f01'
the counties of arren, Claiborne, Pike, Marion, Lawrence, Jefferson, and
Yazoo, forty; for the counties of Copiah, Amite, Franklin, and Hinds, fortyeight; for the county of Wilkinson, fifty-five; and for the county of Adams, the
names of sixty persons, to serve as jurors for the said counties, respectively.
according to law; and the names of the jurors so drawn, shall be entered 011
the minutes of said court; and when the assessor makes his return at any subsequent period, as specihed in section first, the clerk and assessor shall diligently compare the book in which are recorded the names that have been deposited
in said box, with the list so returned; and deposit in said box the names of all
persons whose names were not previously deposited, and no others, until all
the tickets shall be drawn as aforesaid. The clerk, at each return of the assessor, as aforesaid, shall record such names as are deposited in the jury box, N01, in the aforesaid box. VV hen all the tickets are exhausted from the box, if
there is not sufficient to complete the panel, the clerk and sheriffs shall replenish
said box by depositing all the names in said book, liable to serve on juries, and

proceed to draw as aforesaid. See a. 9, s. 8, a. 10, ll.
3. 4. How Drawn when Drawing omitted by Circuit Court. In case aCircuit Court shall not have been holden, in any county in this state, as required
by law, or if held, the clerk and sheriff thereof should omit or neglect to draw

the number of jurors required by this act, in the manner aforesaid, then in that
case, such clerk shall notify the county court of his county thereof, at their
next regular term, after the time said Circuit Court shall have been holden. or
after the rising of the court at which said clerk and sheriff shall have omitted
to draw the number of jurors, as aforesaid: and the said county court shall
thereupon cause the number of jurors required by this act, to be drawn as aforesaid; and in case the requisite number of jurors shall not be drawn in either
of the courts aforesaid, in the manner aforesaid, then, in that case, the clerk
and sheriff, in presence of the Judge of Probate, or any one of the associate
Justices of the proper county, at least sixty days before the next succeeding

term of said Circuit Court, shall proceed to draw the said number of jurors, in.

the manner aforesaid.

When the number of jurors required as aforesaid, shall be drawn in any
county court, as prescribed by this act, the list of names so drawn shall be entered in the minutes of said count court, and the clerk of said Circuit Court
shall appear and be present, in such county court, at the time of such drawing,
and shall immediately thereafter require a certified copy of the list of names so
drawn, from the clerk of said county court, whose duty it shall be to furnish
the same; and after the names shall be drawn as aforesaid, they shall be carefully and safely kept by said clerk, until the sitting of the court for which they
are so drawn; and then the names of all persons that are retained and required
to serve as jurors, at such court, shall be put in a box, marked No. 2, to be
kept by the clerk of said Circuit Court, for that purpose; and none of the
names so drawn shall be returned into the box marked No. 1, until the entire
number therein be drawn out in the manner aforesaid, (except such as fail to
appear when so drawn, or appearing, shall be excused by the court) : Provided,
however, That whenever the court, or the clerk and sheriff, at the time of drawing any jury, in the manner aforesaid, shall be fully satisfied that any person or
persons so drawn shall be dead, or hath removed out of the county, or bath become exempted by law from serving, as aforesaid, said court, or clerk and sheriff, as the case may be, shall destroy the name or names of all such persons so
drawn, and shall proceed to draw another or other names, so as to complete
the number of jurors required by this act.

5. Venire Facias ; Jurors not Attending Fined. Immediately after the requisite number of jurors shall be drawn in the manner prescribed by this act,
the clerk of the said Circuit Court shall issue a venire acias, according to law,
returnable to the next term of said court, and it shall e the duty of the sheriff,
at least five days before the term, to summon the jurors named in suchtvenire
facias, either by giving them personal notice, or by leaving a written notice,
at their usual place of abode, to attend according to such summons, and any
juror being summoned as aforesaid, who shall not attend, shall be liable to a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, unless good cause for his non-attendance
be shown, on or before the first day of the regular term of the Court next after
such default, or before final judgment on-scire facias issued according to law,
against such defaulting juror; and if good cause be shown, the fine so imposed
shall be remitted without payment of costs.

6, 7. Drawing and Number of Grand Jurors. From the whole number of
jurors, summoned as aforesaid, and attending any Circuit Court, there shall be
drawn by lot, not less than thirteen, nor more than eighteen, who shall constitute the grand jury, for the term of the court to which they are summoned,
and shall be sworn to inquire and present all treasons, murders, felonies, or
other misdemeanors whatever, which shall have been committed or done,
within the county for which they are empanneled.

From the whole number of grand jurors drawn as aforesaid, the court shall
appoint a foreman, to whom the oath that is now prescribed in the 128th section of the 13th chapter of the revised code, shall be administered in the presence of the rest of the grand jurors.

8. Pay to Talesmen in certain Counties. In the counties of Wilkinson,
Adams, Yazoo, Claiborne, Perry, Jefferson, Jackson, and Amite, whenever any
tales-juror or jurors shall be summoned, who shall be required to serve on one
or more juries, or for a longer time than the adjournment of the court of the
day for which such tales-juror or jurors may be summoned, all such tales—jurors

. thus serving shall be entitled to, and receive the same compensation as is now
_ allowed by law to the jurors of the regular venire.

ART. 9. From Circuit Court Act ..March 2, 1833. What number qf Jurors to
be drawn; Judge not to Charge the Jury but on Contested Points reduced to
Writing.

§ 8. In the several counties of this state, except the count of Monroe,
where the term of the court continues for more than one week,t e sheriff and
clerk shall draw for the first week in the manner now prescribed by law, thirtysix jurors, out of which the grand juries shall be drawn, and shall serve for one
week, except the grand 'urors, who shall serve until they are discharged by the
court; and they shall aiso draw in the same’ manner, and summons twentyfour additional jurors for each subsequent week, who shall attend the first court
theregf, and serve as such during the week for which they were summoned.
ee a. 10.
14. For the better preservation of the sanctity of the right of trial by jury
pure and unintluenced, no judge before whom any issue of fact may hereafter
e tried by a jury, shall sum up or comment on the evidence, nor shall said
judge charge the jury on points or principles of law applicable to the case before them, unless the parties to such issue or their counsel differ in opinion as
to the same ; or one of the parties or counsel shall ask the charge of said judge
to be given upon some point in controvers in said issue; which shall be distinctly specified in writing by the party asliing such charge; and the judge
shall gharge to no other point than that to which his opinion is required.
ee a. 13, 17.

Arr 10. An Act to amend the Jury-laws of this State ——Feb. 27, 1836.

§ 1. No Challenge to the Array, nor any venirefacias to be quashed—-save in
Capital Cases, and there a venire instanter. Hereafter, no challenge to the array
shall be sustained, nor shall any venire facias be quashed by any court of justice in this state for any cause whatsoever: Provided, however, That in capital cases any special venire facias may be quashed for partiality or corruption
in the officer summoning the jury, by virtue of such special venire facias, but
for no other cause whatsoever ; and if any special venire facias shall be
quashed as aforesaid, in any capital case, the court in which the case may be
pending shall immediately award another special venire facias, which shall be
immediately executed, and the trial of the cause "progress in the same manner
as if the first special venirefacias had not been quashed.

2. When special venire to be awarded. If at any regular or special term Of
any court in this state there shall not be in attendance any of the regular jurors, summoned to such term, it shall be the duty of the court to award forthwith, a special venire facias, directing the proper oflicer to summon without
delay, persons, freeholders or householders of the county in which the court
shall be sitting, to serve as jurors at such term of the court; which special 1:6‘

nire facias the officers to whom the same shall be directed shall execute with
all convenient speed, and make return thereof, and the court shall proceed with
as little delay as possible to empannel and organize a grand jury and petit juries, from the jurors so summoned and in attendance, in the same manner as is
prescribed by law for empanneling and organizing juries, and any juror so summoned and failing to attend, shall be subject to all the fines and penalties to
which other jurors are now subject by law for non-attendance ; and shall be
entitled to pay as regularly summoned.

3. Twenty-four jurors for each week after the first. In all cases, when the
court shall sit more than one week, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to summon
at least twenty-four jurors for each week.

4, 5. PVho exempt from jury-service—Talesmen entitled to per diem. All
officers in the executive department of the government, all judicial officers, and
officers of the several courts of this state, all justices of the peace, all teachers,
and all keepers of public ferries, actually engaged in their respective employments, shall be exempt from serving on juries; but no other freeholder or
householder shall be excused from serving as a juror in his proper county, except for special cause, shown to the satisfaction of the court at that time, and
in no case shall a juror, summoned as a talesman, be compelled, by being resummoned, to serve more than one day, unless the case in which he is thus
summoned shall continue a greater length of time: Provided, That the talesmen empanneled as grand jurors shall serve until discharged by the court.

In all cases tales jurors shall be entitled to the same per diem allowance as
jurors of the regular venire.—See a. 15.

AM 11. An act to increase the Compensation of Jurors and W7itnesses——May
13, 1837.

§ 1. Pay of Jurors. Hereafter each petit juror of the original venire summoned to attend any court within this state, shall be allowed the sum of two
dollars for each and every day he shall attend in any of the said courts, and
each grand juror shall be allowed the same compensation as is allowed to petit

jurors ; the compensation of each to be paid in the manner now prescribed by
aw.

Am. 12. An Act to authorize the discontinuance or dismission of Suits before
the Clerk, out of Term Time——Jan. 30, 1839.

§ 1, 2. Dismission in Vacation on payment of Costs; efect of Satis action,
pendente lite, or Dismission or Non-suit, without Satisfaction of Deman . Hereafter an ' party, plaintiff in any suit depending in any of the courts of this state,
may suffer a non-suit, or dismiss any cause before the clerk of the court in
which such suit may be depending, out of term time, upon his paying or securing to the satisfaction of the clerk all such costs as may have accrued.

It shall be the duty of the clerks of the different courts in this state, upon application being made to them by the plaintiff or his attorney, to permit him to
take a non-suit or dismiss any cause he may have depending in any court of
which he may be clerk, upon his paying or securing the costs which have
accrued; and it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter upon the writ in
any such cause, the disposition made of the same, with the date; and where
the plaintiff receives satisfaction for the cause of action, he shall be required,
either by himself or his attorne , to enter such satisfaction upon the writ or
declaration, and sign the same w en such cause is dismissed out of term time ;
and such satisfaction shall be a bar to an suit or suits brought thereafter
to recover fdr the same cause of action: rovided, That where the plaintiff dismisses his suit or suffers a non-suit without satisfaction, he shall stand
in the same situation as though he had never instituted such suit: Provided,
That the plaintiff shall not renew his suit to the same term of said court.

See a. 21.

AM. 13. An Act Authorizing Bill of Exceptions to be signed by Counsel in
certain cases, and for other purposes—-Feb. 22, 1840.

Hereafter when any judge of any Circuit Court, Court of Probate, or other
Court of Record, of original jurisdiction established, or which may be by law

V established within the State of Mississippi, shall refuse to sign and seal any bill

of exceptions to any opinion, decision, or charge, by such judge given or made
on the trial of any suit, cause, motion, or plaint, which may be tried in such
court, when such bill of exceptions is tendered to such judge in writing, it shall
and ma be lawful for any two attorneys at law, duly licensed and qualified
agreeablyy to law, who may be by—standers and present at the time of the giving or making of any such opinion, decision, or charge, and refusal of such

judge to si n and seal such bill of exceptions as aforesaid, to sign and seal the

same, whic bill of exceptions so signed and sealed by two by-standers as aforesaid, shall be made part of the record, and shall have the same force and
effect, to all intents and purposes, as if the same had been signed and
sealed by such judge.

Am. 14. An Act to Regulate the Liens of Judgments and Decrees——Feb.
16, 1841.

§ 1, 2, 3. Judgments to be of Lien in the County in which rendered ; and in
the Counties where enrolled only. (But see a. 16, 18.) All judgments and decrees of any Superior, Circuit, District, or Superior Court, of law or equity,
holden within this state, shall operate as liens from the date of their rendition
upon the property of the debtor, being within the county in which the sitting
of such court may be holden, and not elsewhere, unless upon compliance with
the conditions hereinafter enacted.

2. Any judgment or decree heretofore rendered shall be a lien from the date
of its rendition upon the property of the debtor, situated in any other county
than that in which the same was rendered, on the condition that an abstract
thereof, on or before the first day of July next, be filed in the office of the
Circuit Court of the county in w ich said property may be situate, in pursuance of the subsequent section of this act.

3. N o judgment which may hereafter be rendered in this state, shall operate as
a lien except upon the property of the defendant situate in the county in which
the same is rendered, but the same may be made to operate as a lien upon the
property of the defendant, situate in any other county of this state, on there
being filed for record in the ofiice of the clerk of the Circuit Court of such
county, an abstract of such judgment or decree, certified either separately
or jointly with other judgments by the proper clerk, and containing a statement of the names of the parties to the judgment or decree, its amount and the
date of its rendition, which abstract, together with similar statements of the
judgments and decrees of the court of which he is clerk, shall be recorded
by the clerk of each Circuit Court in a separate book, plainly indexed, to be
kept for that purpose, noting therein also the day on which such abstract
was filed for record as aforesaid, from and after which day the judgments
and decrees rendered out of said courts, shall take effect as liens aforesaid.

ART 15. Sixth and Seventh Sections of the Act reducing the Expenses of the
Government——Feb. 14, 1842.

Pay of Grand Jurors, Witnesses for the State—of Petit Jurors—and Witnesses attending an Legislature. Hereafter grand jurors and witnesses in behalf of the State shall each receive one dollar and fifty cents for their services
per day, while they shall be required to attend on their respective courts, and
six cents per mile for travelling from and to the respective places of their residence, computing the distance y the usually travelled route. Petit jurors, or
the original venire, shall each receive one dollar and fifty cents per day while
they shall be required to attend on their respective courts, and six cents per
mile for travelling from and to their respective places of residence, estimatin
the distance by the usually travelled route ; and the tales jurors shall not herea ter receive any compensation. Witnesses attending on the Legislature under a
subpoena, for each day the may be required so to do, shall receive two dollars: and six cents per mi e for travelling to and going from the State Capitol,
estimating the distance by the usually travelled route; but no payment shall
bemade by the Treasurer of the State on account of services rendered by any
of the officers of the State mentioned in the fourth, fifth, and sixth sections
pf this act, until they shall have been duly certified and audited according to
aw.

If any talesman juror shall be detained more than one day in any one cause,
such talesman shall be entitled to the same pay and mileage as is prescribed by
this act for jurors belonging to the original venire. Additional pay of jurors in

Lawrence and Marion—Feb. 23, 1848 . . 260. As to pay of state witnesses,-—
See.

ART. 16. Amendment of Article Fourteen—Feb. 24, 1844.

But see a. 18.

§ 1. Clerks of Circuit Courts to keep Book to Enter Names of Defendants
to Judgment. The Clerks of the Circuit Courts of the several counties in this
State, shall each procure and keep in their several offices, as part of the records
thereof, one or more well bound books appropriately divided under the several
letters of the alphabet, in which book or books the said several clerks shall, upon
the application of any plaintiff or plaintiffs, his, her, or their attorney or attorneys, agent or agents, from time to time, as such applications may be made, enter alphabetically the name or names of each and every defendant to any judgment or judgments, decree or decrees, of any Superior, Circuit, District, or
Inferior Court of law or equity holden within this State, provided the same is a
Court of record; and also the names of the parties to any forfeited forthcoming bond ; and they shall also enter the amount of the judgment or decree, the
date of its rendition, or if a forthcoming bond, the date of its forfeiture, the
county in which such judgment is rendered or bond forfeited, and the day
when the same are so entered and enrolled as herein provided for ; which boo
or books shall be styled “ The Judgment Roll” of said court.

2. Judgments and forthcoming Bonds to be Enrolled. Judgments or decrees
rendered, and forthcoming bonds forfeited in any county in this State, may be
enrolled upon an abstract thereof under the provisions of the first section hereof, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules and restrictions as if they
had been rendered or forfeited in the county in which the application for enrolment is made.

3. Clerks to receive Compensation. The several clerks shall be allowed to demand and receive as compensation for the enrolment of any judgment, decree,

or forfeited forthcoming bond, the following fees, to wit ;——one dollar, when there
is but one defendant, fifty cents for each defendant when there are two, and
twent -five cents for each defendant when there are three or more.

4. 'ees to be paid. Said clerks shall not be required to make said entry and
enrolment until the fees thereof, as above provided, are paid.

5. Clerks to enrol and enter judgment, <5-c.—The said several clerks shall immediately upon application, as aforesaid, and payment of the fees aforesaid, enter
and enrol under the provisions hereof, any judgment, decree, or forfeited forthcoming bond, as may be required to be enrolled under the provisions of this act,
and shall so enter and enrol the same according to the priority in which the
said applications for entry and enrolment shall be made: and upon a failure
so to do, shall forfeit and pay to the party making the application, the sum of
five hundred dollars, to be recovered in an action of debt, and besides shall be
liable in an action upon the case for all damages occasioned by such failure or
neglect; and shall furthermore be guilty of a misdemeanor in ofiice, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to imprisonment for not less than ten nor
more than thirty days.

6. Judgments to cease to Operate as Liens. Any judgment or judgments,
decree or decrees, that have heretofore been rendered, or that hereafter may
be rendered, and any forthcoming bond or bonds, heretofore forfeited, or that
may hereafter be forfeited, shall cease to operate as a lien or liens upon any
property of the defendant or defendants thereto, or any obligor in said bond or
bonds, until the same shall be entered on said “ Judgment Rol ,” and the lien
thereof shall be from such enrolment, instead of from the rendition of thejudgment or decree, or forfeiture of the bond, as is now the case.

7. Sales under Elder or Junior Executions. The purchaser or purchasers
of any property sold at execution sale by the sheriff or coroner, shall take the
same discharged of all liens of judgment and decrees, and forfeited forthcoming
bonds, whether the same be sold under an execution issued upon the elder or
junior judgment, decree, or forfeited forthcoming bond.

8. Liens to Operate in favor of Judgment Creditors. The liens of judgments, decrees, and forfeited forthcoming bonds, shall onl operate in favor of
the judgment creditor, against the judgment debtor or de tors, and purchasers
from such judgment debtor or debtors, and then only from the day of their enrolment as between them.

9. Priority of Lien. After a sale of any property by the sheriff or coroner.
on execution, before the money is paid over by him, he shall examine the
“ Judgment Roll,” to ascertain if there be any elder judgment or judgments,
decree or decrees, forthcoming bond or bonds, forfeited therein, enrolled agalnsf
the defendant or defendants in said execution, having a priority of lien, and If
there be, he shall apply the proceeds of such sale to such elder judgment, de‘
cree, or forfeited forthcoming bond, so havin priority of lien, and return such
application upon the execution on which suclfi sale shall have been made: but
should there be any dispute as to which judgment, decree, or forfeited forthcoming bond has the priority of lien, then the sheriff shall make a statement0f
the fact of such dispute, and return the same, with the execution and the money
raised thereon, into the court to which the same is returnable, and the C011!‘
shall upon motion and examination of the facts, determine to whom the money»
so raised upon execution, shall be paid.

10. Copy of Entry to be Evidence. A copy of such entry and enrolmellt»
certified under the seal of the court, shall be full evidence of the facts therein
set forth, and entered upon said “Judgment Roll.”

11. Limitation of Lien. All liens of judgments, decrees, and forfeited forthcoming bonds, shall cease and determine, as against purchasers or creditors, of
the debtor or debtors, unless the same shall be enforced by execution within
five years from the date of the entry and enrolment of the same, on the judgment roll under the provisions of this act.

12. Form of Books. The book or books required to be procured, as a judgment roll, under the provisions of the first section of this act, shall be divided

' into twenty-six equal parts, each part containing an equal number of pages ; at

the head of each page of the first part, shall be placed the first letter of the al- '
phabet, and so on at the head of each page of each part, until the several parts
are appropriately arranged under the several letters of the alphabet; and on
each page under the letter thereon, shall be placed the following caption, to
W1t:——

          

  

  

:De7feiio3ant’s Amount qfjudg- Date of rendi- County in which Date of Plainnames. ment, decree, or tion or for- rendered or enrol- tif ’s
bond. feiture. ' .

   

     

13. Liens when to Cease and Determine as to Decedent’s Estates. All liens
against any purchaser or purchasers of any property, purchased at any sale of
a decedent’s estate, now given by law, shall cease and determine, as to creditors of such purchaser or purchasers, or the vendee of said purchaser or purchasers, unless such lien is enforced within two years after the maturity of the
debt, to secure the payment of which such lien is given.

14. IVhen Act to take Efect. This act shall not operate upon judgments or decrees heretofore rendered, or forthcoming bonds heretofore forfeited,
until after the first day of July next, nor upon those hereafter rendered or forfeited, until sixty days after its approval ; but as to the other provisions thereof, it shall be in force and effect from its passage, and all laws in conflict herewith are repealed.

ART. 17. An Act to Regulate the Practicejxnof the Circuit Courts of this State
a

in certain cases——- 7'. 3, 1846.

§ 1, 2. Charges of the Judge to the Jurg/.—In the trial of all civil suits in
the Circuit Courts of this State, the judges of said courts, when the counsels
or attorneys differ as to the law, shall give instructions, or charge the juries
on the points or principles of law applicable to the case either before or after
the argument, or both when requested so to do, by either party; and the said
judges shall not give any instructions or charge until the same are first reduced
to writing, and when so reduced to writing, they shall be given or refused, in
the words and figures so written, and if the judges shall alter, change, or give
other charge or instructions than those asked for by the parties, such charge,
alteration, or other charge or instruction, shall be first reduced to writing and
read by the judge to the jury; and in no case shall any judge give oral or verbal charge or instruction, but all charges or instructions shall be written and
read to the jury, unless by consent of both parties : and the juries shall in all
cases, at the request of either party, take the charge or instructions given by
the judge to their room; and when charges or instructions are given or refused, as aforesaid, the same shall be noted by the clerk at the time, as given
or refused, and shall be, when so noted or endorsed, a part of the record
without any bill of exception either on appeal or writ of error, to the High
Court of Errors and Appeals.

That said judge shall give any charge that he may deem necessary for the

better administration of justice, whether requested to do so or not, provided
he render the same in writing.

ART. 18. An Act to Amend the Laws of the State in relation to the Enrolment
and Liens of Judgments at Law and Decrees in Chancery-—Mar. 5, 1846.

§ 1. The several clerks of the Circuit and Chancery Courts of this State,
shall, within thirty days after the adjournment of the courts of which they are
clerks, enrol all judgments and final decrees of said Courts hereafter rendered,
in the order of time in which such judgments shall have been rendered, unless
otherwise ordered by the plaintiff or complainant, his, her, or their attorney; and
the liens of all judgments and decrees so enrolled, shall take effect from the date
of the rendition of such judgment or decree, and according to priority of time
of such rendition.

2. Said clerks shall also, within thirty days after the adjournment of the
courts of which they are clerks, enrol all judgments, or forthcoming bonds,
returned forfeited to said courts; and all liens of judgments upon forfeited forthcomin bonds, shall take effect from the day of the forfeiture thereof; and in
case 0 forfeiture of two or more bonds, of the same defendant on the same day,
the liens of judgment thereon shall have equal force and effect.

3. For the enrolment of any 'udgment or decree of any of said courts, or
any 'udgment on a forthcoming ond, the said clerks shall be entitled to receive
the ollowing fees, to wit: one dollar, if there be but one defendant, and twenty-iive cents for each additional defendant, which shall be taxed in the bill of
costs, and collected as other fees of said clerks.

ART. 19. Fourth Section of the Act concerning the Collection of C'osts—Feb.
16, 1846.

Witness entitled to his Pay Each Day. The provisions of this act shall not
apply to witnesses’ fees, but that all witnesses attending under subpazna, shall
have a right to demand and receive their fees from the party at whose instance

he, she, or they were subpcnnaed, at the end of each and every day he, she. 01' '

they shall have attended.

Am‘. 20. An Act to change the Practice of the Circuit Court of Yazoo
County, in relation to Juries—March 5, 1846.

§ 1. Hereafter there shall be drawn and summoned, in the manner now prescribed by law, fifty jurors for the first week of the term of the Circuit Court
of Yazoo county, and for each subsequent week, forty jurors, who shall attend
and serve as such during the week for which they were summoned.

2. The judge of said court shall cause to be empanneled on the first day of
each week of the term, the number of jurors now required by law; and if it
shall appear that there shall be in attendance a greater number of jurors than
is necessary, he shall dismiss the same, and each juror so dismissed shall receiV°
no compensation, unless he shall travel a greater distance in gain and returning than thirty miles, in which case he shall receive for every ditional mile
the milage compensation now allowed by law.

_3. Hereafter it shall not be lawful for the judge of said court to take 01' 1'9‘
celve any substitute in lieu of any regular juror, but in all cases where there
shall not be a sufficient number of jurors in attendance to form the requisite

Pamlel. the same shall be supplied by talesmen, and summoned from day to daft
who shall not receive compensation for their services.

ART. 1. An Act to Reduce into One the Several Acts concerning Executions,
and for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors—June 22, 1822.

§ 1. Executions how Issued and Returned-—Forms thereof. All persons who
have, or shall hereafter recover any debt, damages, or costs, by the judgment
of any Court of Record within this state, may, at their election, prosecute
writs of fieri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum, within the year, for taking
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, or body of the person or persons
against whom such jud ment is obtained, which_ writs shall bear teste in the
same manner as ori ina or mense process, shall be returnable to the first day
of the next term 0 the court, in which such judgment shall have been rendered, so that there be at least fifteen days between the date of the writ, and
the return thereof; and the clerk who shall issue any writ of eri facias or
capias ad satisfaciendum, shall mark thereon the day on whic he issued the
same: Provided, That if the plaintiff shall desire an execution to issue, returnable at a farther day, the clerk shall issue the same accordingl , so as the
return day thereof be upon a court day, within ninety days next afier the date
of such writ. And the forms of said writs shall be as follows, mutatis mutandis :
A Fieri Facias, in Debt.

“ The State of Mississippi, to the sheriff of county, greetin : We
command you, that of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, 0 A. B.,
late of your county, you cause to be made the sum of , which C. D., lately in our court, hath recovered against him for debt, also the sum of ,
which to said C. D., in the same court, were adjudged for his damages, by reason of the detention of the said debt, with interest on said sums, at per
centum per annum, from the day of , until paid, and the sum of
for his costs by him about his suit in that behalf expended, whereof the said A.
B. is convicted, as appears of record; and that you have said moneys before
the judrre of our said court, on the day of next, to render to the
said C. if), for his debt, damages, and costs aforesaid; and have then there this
writ, witness, &c.”

 

 
     

   

The same in Case, upon a Promise.

As before, unto for his damages which he hath sustained, by reason of

the non-appearance of a certain promise and assumption, by the said A. B., to’

the said C. D., lately made, with interest on said sum, at per centum per

     

annum, from the day of , until paid, also the sum of , for his
costs by him about his suit in that behalf expended, &c.
In Trespass.

As before, unto for his damages by occasion of a certain trespass, by
the said A. B. to the said C. D. offered, with interest on said sum, at per
centum per annum, from the day of ———, until paid, also the sum of ,

for his costs, &c.
If for the Defendant, say,

For his costs about his defence in a certain action, at the suit of the said.
&c.

   

In Covenant.

As before, unto , for his damages, &c., by reason of a breach of a certain covenant, between the said A. B. and C. D., lately made, with interest on
said sum at per centum per annum, from the day of , until paid,
also —- for his costs, &c.

A Capias ad Satisfaciendum.

“ The State of Mississippi, to the sheriff of county, greeting : We command you, that you take A. B., late of said county, if he be found therein, and
him safely keep, so that you have his body before the jud es (or justices) of
our court, &c., the day of next, to satisfy C. . the sum of in
which the said C. D., lately in our court, hath recovered against him for
debt, also, &c.” As before in case, trespass, or covenant, as in the jieri facias.
Which said writs, so issued, shall be executed by the sheriff, or other oflicer, to
whom the same shall be directed; and shall be returned, according to the respective forms hereafter mentioned, to wit:

The Return of a Fieri Facias.

By virtue of this writ, to me directed, I nave caused to be made the withinmentioned sum of , of the oods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the
within-named A. B., which salt? sum of , before the judges (or justices)
within-mentioned, at the day and place within contained, I have ready as that
writ requires.

 

Or,

The within-named A. B. hath no goods or chattels, lands or tenements within my county, whereof I can make the sum within-mentioned, or any part
thereof.

Or,

By virtue, &c., I have caused to be made of the goods and chattels, lands
and tenements, of the within-named A. B., the sum of , whichl have
ready to render to the within-named C. D., in part of the debt, damages, and
costs, within-mentioned. And I do further certify, that the said A. B. hath no
more goods and chattels, lands or tenements, within my county, whereof at
present I can make the residue of the said debt, damages, and costs, as by the
said writ is required.

' Return of a Capias ad Satisfaciendum.

By virtue of this writ, to me directed, I have taken the within-named A. 13-.
whose body, before the judges (or justices) within-named. at the day and place
within contained, I have ready to satisfy C. D. of the debt, damages and costs.
within-mentioned.

Or,

The within-named A. B. is not found in my county.

Capias ad satzlgfaciendum abolished except in case of fraud found by jut)’:

c. 38, a. 9, 10.

2. When Execution to Issue after Stay, Injunction or Supersedeas. Excel!‘
tion may issue on any judgment rendered, or to be rendered in any court of record, in this state, with stay of execution, at any time within one vear next
after the expiration of such stay: Provided, That the stay of execution be en‘
tered upon the minutes of the court, at the same court when the judgment shall
be rendered; and also after the dissolution of any injunction of or from the 5"‘
perior Court of Chancery, or the discharge or expiration of any supersedeas 0“
appeal. 01‘ any writ of error at any time within one year after dissolution 0f
such injunction or discharge, or expiration of such supersedeas.

3. Terms of Issuing a Second before return Day of prior Execution. VVhen
any execution shall issue, and the party at whose suit the same is issued, shall
afterwards desire to take out another writ of execution, at his own proper costs
and charges, the clerk may issue the same, if the first writ be not returned and
executed: and where, upon a capias ad satisfacienclum, the sheriff, or other officer, shall return that the defendant is not found, the clerk may issue a fieri
facias, and if, upon a jieri facias, he shall return that the party hath no goods
and chattels, lands or tenements, or that only part of the debt is levied ; in such
case it shall be lawful to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum, upon the same judgment; and where one judgment is obtained against several defendants, execution thereon shall issue, as if it were against one defendant and not otherwise.

4. IV/ten Debtor dies in Prison, how farther Execution may Issue. If any
person being in prison, charged in execution shall happen to die in execution,
the party or parties at whose suit, or to whom such person shall stand charged
in execution, for any debt or dam es recovered, his or their executors or administrators may, after the death 0 the person so dying in execution, lawfully
sue forth and have new execution against the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements. or any of them, of the person so deceased: Provided, That this Act
shall not extend to give liberty to any person or persons, their executors or administrators, at whose suit any such party shall be and die in execution, to have
or take any new execution against any of the lands, tenements or hereditaments,
of such party dying in execution, which shall at any time after the said judgment or judgments be by him sold bonafide, for the payment of any of his creditors, at whose suit he shall be in execution, and the money paid, or secured to
be paid to any such creditors, with their privity, in discharge of his or their debts,
or some part thereof.

7. Execution to any County. When the judgment shall be obtained in any
Court of Record within this state, for any debt or damages, and the person against
whom such such judgment shall be obtained, shall remove himself or his effects,
or shall reside out of his limits of the jurisdiction of such court, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the court where judgment was given, at the request of the
party for whom the same was rendered, to issue any writ of jieri facias, or capias ad satisfaciendum, or any other leoal or proper writ of execution, or attachment for the non-performance of a decree in chancery, (as the case may require,) in the form and under the teste hereinbefore prescribed, and to direct
the same to the sheriff, or other proper officer, of any county within this state,
where the defendant or debtor, or his oods and chattels, lands or tenements
shall be found; which said sheriff or ot er officer, to whom the same shall be
directed, is hereby empowered and required to serve and execute the same, and
shall make return thereof to the court where the judgment was given, in the
manner hereinbefore prescribed and directed.

8. Property of Defendant Bound from the Time of the Delivery of Execution
to the Ojicer. N o writ of fierifacias, or other writ of execution, shall bind the
property of the oods, lands, and tenements, against which such writ is sued
forth, but from t e time that such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff, under
sheriff, coroner, or other officer, to be executed; and for the better manifestation of the said time, such sheriff, or other officer, his deputy or agent, shall,
upon the receipt of any such writ, without fee for doing thesame, endorse thereon, the day of the month and year when he received the same; and if two or
more writs shall be delivered against the same person on the same day, that
which was first delivered shall be first satisfied. If any sheriff, coroner, or other
officer, to whom any execution shall be delivered, shall fail or neglect to endorse thereon, the day of the month and year when he received the same, every

such person, for every such failure, shall be liable, on a motion to be made before the court from which the execution issued, to a penalty not exceeding
fifteen per centum, upon the amount of the said execution, if it be for money.
and if it be for a specific thing, one hundred dollars, to the use of the party injured, upon giving ten days’ previous notice of such motion; and shall, moreover, be liable to the action of the party grieved, for all damages arising from
such failure. But property bound from date of judgment. See c. 61, a. 3, &c.

9, 10, 11. When Slaves taken in E2:ecution—T/teir Names Returned—E.rpenses of Slaves and Live Stock taken out of Product of Sale. No sheriff or
other officer, to whom any writ of jferi facias shall be directed, shall take in
execution any slave or slaves, unless the debt and costs mentioned in such

ri facias shall amount to the sum of one hundred dollars: Provided, There

, shown to such sheriff or officer, by the defendant or any other person, sufiicient other oods and chattels of such defendant, within the county of such
sheriff or o cer, upon which he may levy the debt, damages, and costs mentioned in such jieri facias.

Where any slave or slaves shall be taken in execution, and sold, the names
of such slaves shall be certified on the back of such execution, and returned to
and recorded among the records of the court from which such execution
shall issue.

When any sheriff or like officer shall serve any writ of execution on slaves,
horses, or other stock, and the same shall not be immediately restored to
the debtor, on his executing a forthcoming bond as hereinafter provided,
it shall and may be lawful for such officers, and the are hereby required
to provide sufficient sustenance for the support of such slaves or live stock.
until such slaves or stock be sold, or otherwise legally discharged from such
execution; and upon the return of any execution, the court may and shall,
upon the motion of the officer serving the same, settle and adjust what such
officer serving the same, shall be allowed for his expenses incurred by
supporting such slaves or stock; and the said officer shall and may be
allowed to retain the same out of the money arising from the sale of the
said slaves or stock.

12, 13, 14. Bond of Indemnity to Sherijf—Remedy on It--How far a Protestation to the Ojicer. If any sheriff or other officer shall levy an execution
on property, and a doubt shall arise whether the right of such property is in
the debtor or not, such sheriff or other officer may apply to the plaintiff, his
attorney or agent, for his bond, with good security, payable to the sheriff of
the county or other officer, and conditioned to indemnify the said sheriff or
other officer against all damages which he may sustain in consequence of the
seizure or sale of the property on which the execution shall have been levied;

and, moreover, to pay and satisfy to any person or persons claiming title to.

such property, all damages which such person or persons may sustain in consequence of such seizure or sale ; which, if the plaintiff, his agent or attorney;
shall refuse or fail to give, on or before the day of sale, the sheriff or other
officer shall be justifiable in delivering such property to the party from whose
possession it was taken: Provided, however, That such property shall not be so
restored, unless the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall have reasonable notice
before the time of sale, that such bond and security would be. required of
him.

If such bond and security be given, it shall be returned, with the execution.
to the officer of the court from which it issued ; and any person claiming such
property, may, in the name of such sheriff or other officer, prosecute his or he!‘
suit upon the bond, and recover such damages as a jury may assess.

The party claiming such property shall, after the due execution of such bond,
be barred of his right of action against the sheriff or other officer levying such
execution, unless the obli ors in the said bond shall become insolvent.

15. Defendant when ta%en on Capias ad Satisfaciendum may be Discharged
by Surrendering Property. Where any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum has
been or shall be served on any debtor, it shall be lawful for such debtor to tender to the sheriff or other officer serving the same, slaves, or personal property,
lands and tenements, to the value of the debt, damages and costs, for which
such execution has issued, or may hereafter issue, which property the said
sheriff or other officer may and shall receive, and proceed to sell in like manner as is directed by this Act, in the case of goods and chattels, lands and tenements, taken in execution, upon a writ of jieri facias; and shall thereupon
discharge such debtor out of custody: Provided, always, That if such property so tendered, shall not be sufficient to satisfy the debt or damages and
costs, or shall be under any lien or incumbrance, so that the whole cannot be

sold, a new capias ad satisfaciendum or jieri facias, at the option of the plain-‘

tiff, shall issue for any balance, and the clerk of the court from which such execution originally issued, shall, upon return of the sheriff or other ofiicer, of
the insufiiciency or incumbrance, as aforesaid, issue a new capias ad satisfaciendum or /ierifacias, if required. But, where such property shall have been
under any incumbrance, the debtor shall not be at liberty to tender such slaves,
or other personal property, lands and tenements, on a second capias ad satisfaciendum being served, or, in case of a jieri facias issued in consequence of
such return, to_avail himself of the privileges of this Act.

16. ‘Money Levied Restored on Grant of Injunction. When any sheriff or
other officer, under any execution, shall receive the whole or any part of the
money, for which the said execution was issued, and the person against whom
such execution may have issued, his executors or administrators shall obtain an
injunction to such execution, or any part of the money mentioned therein, before the money received by such sheriff or other officer is paid to the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, or his executors or administrators : in every such case,
the sheriff or other officer, his executors or administrators, shall repay the person or persons against whom such execution issued, his or their executors, administrators, or agent, the money so received, or such part thereof, as may be
enjoined ; and if any sheriff or other officer, his or their executors or administrators, shall fail or refuse, when required, to pay such sum of money so received and enjoined, to the person having a ri ht to demand the same, such
sheriff or other officer, and his securities, his an their executors and administrators, and every of them, shall be liable to the like penalty and judgment in
favor of the person, his executors or administrators, by whom the said injunction is obtained, as is directed by law, in favor of the plaintiff, against the
sheriff, for not paying the money levied on an execution.

17. Surplus Levied to be paid to Defendant. Wheresoever on a sale made
under any execution, the amount of such sale shall exceed the debt or damages,
interest and costs, for which such execution issued, the sheriff} or other ofiicer,
shall pay such excess or surplus to the debtor, his executors, administrators, or
agent; and if any sheriff or other ofiicer shall fail or refuse to pay such surplus
or excess, when required, such sheriff or other officer, his surety or sureties, his
and their executors or administrators, shall, each and every of them be liable to
the like penalty and judgment in favor of the said debtor, as is prescribed and
directed by law, in favor of the plaintiff, against the sheriff} for not paying over
money levied on an execution. '

18. Venditioni Exponas when to Issue and Form thereof. If the goods and

chattels, lands and tenements, taken by any sheriff‘ or other officer, or any part
thereof, shall remain in his hands unsold, he shall make return accordingly;
and thereupon the clerk of the court from which the execution issued, shall and
may, and he is hereby required, to issue a venditioni ezmonas to such sheriff or
other officer directed; whereupon the like proceedin s shall be had, as might
and ought to have been had on the first executions: hich writ of venditioni
eajionas shall be in the form followin r:

“ The State of Mississippi, &c. Erecting: We command you, that you
ex se to sale those goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of A. B. to the

- va ue of , which, according to our command, you have taken, and which

remain in your hands unsold, as you have certified to our judges (or justices)
of our court, to satisfy C. D. the sum of , whereof, in our said
court, he hath recovered execution against the said A. B. by virtue of a judgment in the said court, and that on have, &c.

19. Repealed, Jan. 21, 1823, . 214. Feb. 6, l828..l5.

20. No Levy on Lands If Goods be Tendered. No writ of fieri facias shall
be levied on lands and tenements, if personal property sufficient to satisfy such
execution be tendered to the sheriff, or other officer, by the debtor.

21, 22. Time, Place, Mode, and Notice of Sale—When and How Adjourned.
No sheriff, or other officer, shall sell any property, by virtue of any execution
or other process whatsoever, in a private or retired part of his county; but he
shall sell the same at the court-house thereof, on the first Monday or third
Monday of every month; which sale shall not commence sooner than eleven
o’clock in the morning, nor be continued later than four o'clock of the same
day; and the sheriff, or other officer, shall give, in’ the case of personal property.
at least ten days’ public notice; and in the case of lands and tenements, at least
thirty days’ public notice of such sales, by advertisement at the door of the
court-house of his county, and at two other public places within the same, one of
which shall be in the vicinage or neighborhood at which the property wits
taken, and also in one of the public gazettes, if there be one published in his
county ; and on such sale day, the sheriff, or other officer, shall proceed to sell.
by auction, the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, to the highest bidder,
or so much thereof, as shall be sufficient to satisfy the execution, and all costs
accruing thereon.

It shall be lawful for the sheriff, or other officer, on the application of the
defendant, in execution, where the same shall be levied on personal property.
to call upon three respectable, disinterested freeholders of his county, and If
they should unanimously certify, on oath, to be administered by the sheriff. 01'
Other 035081‘, that the property so levied on will not command a reasonable
price, in consequence of a defect of bidders, arising from inclement weather, 01’
other cause, to adjourn the sale of such property to the next regular sale day;
and such sheriff, or other officer, shall give notice of such adjourned sale,111
the manner hereinbefore required. See a. 4, 5, 9, 14, 18. Redemption a. 20In particular counties a. 10, ll. 12, 13,- 16, 19.

23. What Property Exempted from Execution,  The agricultural implements of a farmer, necessary forlone male laborer; the tools of a mechanic»
necessary for carrying on his trade; the books of a student, necessary for the
completion of his education; the wearing apparel of each and every perS0113
one bed and bedding, one plough-horse, provided the value thereof shall I10‘
exceed one hundred dollars, and one cow and calf of every housekeeper ;_‘!"_d
the arms and accoutrements of each and every person of the enrolled militia
of the state, shall be exempted from all executions and distresses whatsoeverBut see a. 17, 21, 23.

24. Goods on Leased Premises not Liable to be Taken until Rent in Arrear
is Paid or Tendered. No goods or chattels whatsoever, lying or being in or
upon any messuage, lands or tenements, which are or shall be leased for life or
lives, term of years, or at will or otherwise, shall at anv time hereafter be liable
to be taken by virtue of any writ of execution, or other process whatsoever,
unless the party so taking the same, shall, before the removal of the goods off such
premises, pay or tender to the landlord or lesser thereof, or his or her agent, all
money due for the rent of the said premises, at the time of taking such goods and
chattels in execution: Provided, nevertheless, That the money so due do not
amount to more than one year’s rent ; and if more be due, then the party suing
out such execution, paying or tendering to such landlord, or his agent, one
year’s rent, may proceed to execute his judgment, and the sheriff or officer
levyinrr the same is hereby empowered and required to levy, and pay to the
plainti , as well the money so paid for the rent, as the execution money

25. Claim of Property by Claimant and Bond—Ajidavit and Trial of t ze Right.
“When any sheriff or other officer shall levy any writ of _/ieri facias on property
claimed by any person, not a party to such execution, or when any person taken
b virtue of a writ of capias ad satislfaciendum, shall surrender property in discharge of such writ, which shall be c aimed by any person or persons not named
in the execution, such person or persons, his, her or their executors or administrators, may make oath or affirmation to his, her or their right and title to the property so levied on, or surrendered as aforesaid, and on the claimant or claimants entering into bond, payable to the plaintiff in the execution, with one or more
good and sufficient sureties, in the penalty of double the amount of the execution, and costs, conditioned for the payment to the plaintiff in the execution, of
all such damages as mav be assessed against the claimant or claimants, by a
jury, in case his. her or their claim shall not be sustained, or shall appear to have
been made for fraudulent purposes, or for delay, and that he, she or they will
well and truly deliver the same property to the sheriff, or other officer, if the
claim thereto should be determined against the claimant or claimants, it shall
and may be lawful for the sheriff, or other officer, to postpone the sale of the
property so claimed as aforesaid, until the next term of the court, from which
such execution issued, and deliver the same to the person or persons making
the claim and giving bond with security as above required; and it shall be the
duty of the sheriff, or, other officer, to return the bond with the execution to the
clerk’s office from which such execution issued, and the court shall thereupon
direct an issue to be made up between the parties, to try the right of property,
before a jury, at the same term, unless good cause be shown for a continuance;
and the jury shall give such damages against the claimant or claimants, not less
than ten per cent. on the amount of the execution, as may, in their opinion, be
reasonable and just, to the plaintiff, in case they shall be of opinion that such

claim was fraudulent, or intended for delav only: Provided, That the burden.

of the proof shall be upon the plaintiff in the execution; and in case the right
of property should be determined against the. claimant or claimants. and the
same be not immediately thereafter delivered to the sheriff or other officer, the
bond taken by the sheriff or other officer, and returned as aforesaid, shall have
the force and effect of a judgment, and execution may issue thereon against all
the obligors therein, for the amount of the plaintiff ’s demand and all costs, and
the damages which may be assessed by the jury trying the right of property as
hereinbefore provided. Modified, see a. 8.

26. Consequences of not trying at return term. Repealed, Dec. 15, 1830.
()4, 125.

27. Suggestion on Return of Nulla Bona, that the Defendant has Fraudulently

Conveyed his Property—Scire Facias, and Proceedings thereon. When the
sheriff or other proper officer, of any county, shall return on any execution,
that there is no property to be found in his county belonging to the defendant,
and it shall be suggested by the plaintiff, that the defendant hath property in his
own right, but hath fraudulently conveyed the same for the purpose of defrauding his creditors, or to avoid the payment of the execution, notice in the nature
of a scire Jacias shall be directed by the court, to issue to the person or persons
in whose ands such property is supposed to be, or havin such fraudulent conveyance, and on the return of the scire facias, execute . as in other cases, an
issue shall be made up, and tried by a jury ; and if the jury shall find the conveyance to be fraudulent, or without valuable consideration, the groperty thus
fraudulent] conveyed or made over, shall be subject to the plainti ’s execution,
in the hands of the defendant, or the person or persons thus notified.

28. W'as. the first provision authorizing a forthcoming bond. and was the
same as that of 1827, except that the former allowed execution immediately
on the forfeiture. P. 203; see a. 6.

30, 31. Forthcoming Bond, when Faulty and Quashed—E2:ecution on Origi.
nal Judgmen.t—Sheri may Include his Fees in Bond. If a forthcoming bond
be, at any time, quas ed as faulty, the obligee or obligees in such bond, besides
his or their remedy against the sheriff or other officer, may, moreover, have execution on his or their judgment, in the same manner as if such forthcoming
bond had never been taken.

Every sheriff or other ofiicer may include his commission and fee for taking
the bond, in any forthcoming bond, taken by virtue of any writ of execution,
but he shall not demand or receive such commission, unless the same shall be

forfeited.
32. No Security to be taken on Executions against Sherifs, 4}-c., or Sureties

for Collected Jiloneys. When execution shall issue against the estate of any
sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or constable, or their sureties, or the heirs, execu- _

tors, or administrators of either of them, u on a judgment obtained against
such sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or consta le, or sureties, or the heirs, executors or administrators of either of them, for money received by such sheriff;
under-sheriff, coroner or constable, by virtue of any execution or process, levied
or executed by him or them, or for any money collected or received by him or
them in any manner as sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or constable, no security
for the payment of the money mentioned in such execution at a future dav, or
to have the property forthcoming at the day of sale, shall be taken or received,
but the officer taking such estate in execution, shall proceed immediately to the
sale thereof, notwithstanding such security be tendered, and for the better direction of such officer, the clerk issuing such execution, shall endorse thereon,
that “no security of any kind is to be taken.”

_ 45. Distringas in Detinue. If a distringas issue in detinue, the court for
good cause shown, may direct_ it to be superseded, so far as it relates to the
specific thing, and to be executed for the alternative price or value, if fixed in
the judgment, or if the same shall afterwards be fixed by a writ of inquiry.

48, 49. Remedies against Ojicer for Failing to Return Execution or Attachment out of Chancery, or not Paying Collected Moneys. Where any writ of
execution or attachment for not performing a decree in Chancery, shall come
into the possession of any sheriff, coroner, or other officer, and he shall fail to
return the same to the office whence it issued, on or before the return day
thereof, it shall be lawful for the court, two days previous notice being given,
upon the motion of the party injured, to fine such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, or the executors or administrators of such sheriff, coroner, or other officer,
as well as the sureties of such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, and the executors or administrators of such sureties, at their discretion, in any sum not exceeding five dollars per month, for every hundred dollars contained in the judgment or decree, on which the execution or attachment, so by him detained,
was founded; and so in proportion for any greater or less sum, counting the
aforesaid months, from the return day of the execution or attachment, to the
da of rendering judgment for the said fine.

' f any sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer, shall make return upon any writ
of fieri facias or venditioni exponas, that he hath levied the debt, damages, or
costs. as in such writ is required, or any part thereof, and shall not immediately
pay the same to the party to whom the same is payable, or to his attorney, or
shall return upon any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum. or attachment, for not
performing a decree in chancery, for payment of any sum of money that he hath
taken the body or bodies of the defendant or defendants, and hath the same,
ready to satisfy the money in such writ mentioned, and shall have actually
received such money of the defendant or defendants, or bath suffered him, her,
or them to escape, with the consent of such sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer,
and shall not immediately pay such' money to the party to whom the same is
payable, or his attorney ; or s all make any other return, upon any such execution, as will show that such sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer, hath volun- tarily, and without authority, omitted to levy the same, or as would entitle the

plaintiff to recover from such sheriff, or other officer, by action of debt, the
debt, damages, or costs in such execution mentioned, and such sheriff or other
officer shall not immediately pay the same to the party to whom it is payable,
or to his attorney, then, or in either of the said cases, it shall and may be lawful for the creditor, at whose suit such eri facias, venditioni exponas, capias
ad satisfaciendum, or attachment, shal issue, upon motion made before the
court from which such writ issued, to demand judgment against such sheriff,
under-sheriff, or other officer, and the sureties of either of them, or their legal
representatives, jointly, for the money mentioned in such writ, or so much as
shall be returned levied on such writs of _/ieri facias or venditioni exponas,
with interest thereon at the rate of thirty per centum per annum, from the
return day of the execution, until the judgment shall be discharged; and
such court is hereby authorized and required to ive judgment accordingly,
and to award execution thereon : Provided, Such s eriff or other officer have
two days’ previous notice of such motion. .

50. Fines on Executor or Administrator of Ojicer to Afect Assets of Decedent only. VVhere any fine or penalty is infiicted on the executors or administratorsof any sheriff or other officer, under authority of this Act, the same
shall be considered to affect only the assets in their hands, as executors or adminstrators.

51. Remed against Ojicer for not Endorsing his Action on Execution, 
—What his Iieturn shall Specify. N o sheriff or other officer shall return any
execution or attachment, for not performing a decree in chancery, to the office
whence it issued, without noting thereon how he hath executed the same, unless
by the express directions, in writing, of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney;
and, if any sheriff or other officer: having no such directions, shall return such
execution or attachment to the office whence the same issued, without noting
or endorsing thereon how he hath executed the same, such sheriff or other
officer, and his sureties, and the executors or administrators of all and every
of them, shall, in every such case, be liable to the like fine, and recoverable in
the same manner as a recovery may be had against a sheriff failing to return

an execution; and, moreover, every sheriff and other officer whatsoever, in
returning all executions by them levied or settled, and the moneys thereon received, or any part thereof, shall make a statement on every execution of the
amount thereof, including their own fees and commissions, and return the
same, with the execution, to the office from which it issued.

52, 53. Where Ojicer Dies before Sale, a Venditioni Erponas may IssueProceedings where Representative of Ojicer refuse to Deliver the Property
taken. In all cases where the sheriff or other officer taking property under
execution, shall die before he sells such property, it shall be lawful for the clerk
of the court from which such execution issued, and he is hereby required to
issue a venditioni exponas, directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of the
county in which the property was taken in execution ; and the said sheriff or
other officer, shall, under the said venditioni exponas, receive the propert from
the representatives of the former sheriff or other officer, who are herehy required to deliver such property to the said sheriff or officer, upon his producing to them the venditioni exponas, and executing to them a receipt for the
property ; and such sheriff or other officer shall proceed to sell such property,
in the manner prescribed by law, in other cases of venditioni ezponas.

If the representatives of the deceased sheriff or other officer shall refuse or
neglect to deliver to the sheriff or other officer, the property so taken under
execution by their testator or intestate, upon such officer producing the venditioni ezponas, as aforesaid; or if, after the expiration of three months from
the death of the sheriff or other officer, there be no executor or administrator
of the same, he shall return the truth of the case on the said writ, upon which
return the plaintiff may have an execution, by virtue of which the sheriff or
other officer may seize the property taken by the former sheriff or other officer,
wherever it may be found and sell the same in manner prescribed by law, under similar executions ; or the said plaintiff may move in the court from which
the original execution issued, against the representatives of the deceased
sheriff or other officer, upon which motion judgment shall be entered up
against the representatives of the deceased sheriff or other officer, for the
amount of the execution, which came to the hands of their testator or intestate, with lawful interest thereon, and the costs of the said motion : Provided.
always, That the execution issuing on such judgment shall be levied on the
estate of the said deceased sheriff or other officer, in the hands of his representatives, who shall in all cases have two days’ previous notice of the time and
place of making such motion ; and the sheriff or other officer, discharging the
duties aforesaid, shall have the same powers, receive the same fees and commissions. and be liable to the same penalties as in other cases.

54. When Execution goes to a County where Creditor does not Reside, he to
Appoint an Agent there. And ‘whereas it is unreasonable that sheriffs should be
obliged to go out of their counties, to give notice to creditors at whose suit any
person may be in the custody of such sheriff, or to pay money levied by execution: Be it therefore further enacted, That where any execution shall be delivered to the sheriff or other proper officer or any other than that where any
creditor resides, such creditor shall name some person in the county where the
execution is to be levied, to be his, her, or their acrent, for the particular purpose
of receiving the money on such execution‘, antf for giving to, and receiving
from, the sheriff, or other officer, any notices which may be necessary relating
thereto; and payments made, and notices given to such agent, shall beas effectual as if made or given to the creditor; and if any creditor shall fail to appoint
such agent, no judgment shall be entered against the sheriff or other officer, fol
non-payment of the money mentioned in such execution, unless a demand

thereof shall have been first made of such sheriff or other officer in his county,
by the creditor or some other person havin written authority from him, nor
in case of failure in appointing such agent sfrall the sheriff or other officer, or
the prisoner, be obliged to give notice previous to the dischar e of such prisoner,
either for want of security for his prison fees, or upon his taiing the oath of an
insolvent debtor ; but such prisoner shall be discharged in those cases respectively, without any notice to be given to the creditor so failing.

55. Ojicer to make Deed for Land Sold. When lands and tenements shall
be sold accordin to the provisions of this Act by virtue of any writ of fieri
facias, capias a satisfaciendum, or venditioni exponas, or other legal process,
it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer, by whom such sale shall be
made, on the payment of the purchase-money, to execute to the purchaser or
purchasers, such deed or deeds of conveyance as may be necessary and proper, to vest in the purchaser or purchasers, all the right, title, interest, claim,
and demand of the debtor or defendant, which he had in and to such lands and
tenements so sold, either in law or equity, and deliver to him or them immediate possession thereof. But see a. 4, s. 3; Redemption, a. 20. ,

56. Execution Book of Cleric, how Kept. The clerk of every court in this
state shall enter in a docket, or book to be kept by him for that purpose, a list
of all executions by him issued, specifying therein the names of the parties, the
amount of the ju ment or decree, interest and costs, distinctly in such execution, the name of t e person to whom it is delivered, to what .county directed,
the date when issued, and the return day thereof; and when the same is returned, shall, without delay, record the return at large, on the same page or
folio on which the execution is entered, and shall constantly carry the said book
to the court of which he is clerk.

57. This Act not to Extend to Distresses for Rent. Nothing in this Act
contained shall be construed to extend to any proceedings that may be had in
consequence of any distress made, or to be made, for any rent reserved and
due, or which may hereafter become due upon any demise, lease, or contract
whatsoever.

Am‘. 2. An Act for the Collection of Fines, Penalties, Fozfeitures and
Amercements—June 18, 1822.

§ 1, 2, 3. Fines, <§«:., Assessed at each Term of any Court, haw Collected and
Reparted—Remedy against Sherif, c§~c.—Clerk to Account. The clerks of the
several courts in this state shall, immediately after the adjournment of every
term of their respective courts, issue executions of fieri facias, capias ad satisfacicndum, or venditioni exponas, according to the nature of the case, and the
directions of the Attorney-General or District-Attorney, for all fines, penalties,
forfeitures and amercements, which may have been assessed by said courts, or
shall have accrued to the state, or any county within the state, and which shall
remain due and unpaid at the time of the adjournment of said courts respectively; and said clerks shall, within ten days thereafter, transmit a list of the
executions so issued to the Auditor of Public or County Treasurer, as the case
may require, noting therein the name or names of the defendant or defendants,
the amount of each execution, and the name of the sheriff or other oflicer to
whom the same was delivered, so that the said Auditor, or County Treasurer
may be enabled severally to perform the duty required of them, in compelling
such sheriff or other officer to account for and pay into the state or county
treasury, as the law directs, all such fines, penalties, forfeitures and amercements as he shall have received on any execution to him delivered as aforesaid.
And every clerk who shall fail or neglect to issue executions, and transmit a list

thereof as herein required, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred dollars
for ever such offence, to be recovered by action of debt or information, in the
name o the Governor of the state for the time being, or the presiding justice
of the County Court, as the case may require, in the Circuit Court of the
proper county, and paid into the treasur of the state, in case the action or information be brought in the name of t e Governor, for the use of the state;
and if in the name of the presiding justice of the County Court, for the use of
the county, to be paid into the county treasury of the proper county; and the
clerk so failing or neglecting shall, moreover, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and may for the same be removed from office: Provided, That if the
clerk of any Circuit Court shall be prosecuted for a violation of the provisions
of this Act, such prosecution shall be commenced, heard and determined in the
Circuit Court of an adjoining county ; and in such case, the clerk issuino the
process shall direct the same to the sheriff of the county wherein such defaulting clerk shall reside. ‘

If any sheriff or other oflicer, to whom such writ of jieri facias, capias ad satisfaciendum or venditioni exponas may be directed, shall return thereon that he
hath levied the fine, penalty, forfeiture or amercement, as in such writ is required, or any part thereof, or shall return upon an writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, that he hath taken the body or bodies of t e defendant or defendants,
and hath the same ready to satisfy the fine, penalt , forfeiture or amercement
in such writ mentioned, and shall have suffered suc defendant or defendants to
escape ; or if an person be committed to the custody of such sheriff or other
officer, by an o the courts of this state, until the fine, penalty, forfeiture or
amercement or which he, she, or they were committed, shall be paid, and shall
suffer him, her or them to escape, or if such sheriff or officer shall actually have
received such fine, penalty, forfeiture or amercement, or any part thereof, and
shall not, in every such case, immediately account to the Auditor of Public
Accounts or County Treasurer, and pay the same into the treasury of the state,
or county treasury, where the same shall be payable by law, then in either of the
cases above specified, it shall be the duty of the Auditor of Public Accounts or
County Treasurer, as the case may require, to notify the Attorney-General or
District-Attorney of the proper district, of such defaultinrr sheriff or other officer. who shall thereupon, on motion, at the next term of: the Circuit Court of
the proper county, demand judoment crainst such sheriff or other oflicer and
their sureties, for the fines, enafties, forafeitures and amercements mentioned in
such writ, or for so much t ereof as he shall have received on such execution
or commitment, or for the whole amount thereof, in case he shall have suffered
such defendant or defendants to escape as aforesaid ; and the court is hereby
authorized and required to give judgment accordingly, and award execution
thereon, and the clerk issuing such execution, shall endorse thereon, that “ no
security of any kind shall be taken.”

The clerks of the several courts in this state shall account for and pay to the
treasurer of the state or county treasurer, according to law, all fines, penalties,
forfeitures and amercements which may be assessed in their respective courts,
payable into the state or county treasury; and which shall be received by such
clerks from the person or persons against whom the same may be assesse ; and
if any clerk shall fail or refuse to account for and pay any money which he
may receive as aforesaid, within thirty days after the same 5 all have been paid
into his office, it shall be the duty of the Auditor of Public Accounts or county
treasurer, as the case may require, to notif the Attorney-General or DistrictAttorney of the proper district, of such degulter, who shall, thereupon, on motion to the next term of the Circuit Court of the proper county, demand judgment against such clerk and his sureties, for the amount so received by him ;
and the court shall grant judgment, and award execution thereon accordingly ;
and the clerk so failing or refusin shall, moreover, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and may for the same ge removed from office : Provided, That such
clerk shall have ten days’ previous notice of such motion: And provided, also,
That when such motion shall be made against the clerk of any Circuit Court,
the same shall be cognizable in the court of an adjoining county. See a. 3.

A111‘. 3. Amendment of Article Two—Jan. 21, 1823.

§ 1 to '7. Clerks in Reports of Fines to Embrace the Returns on Preceding
Executions for Fines—Auditor to Report Failure to Attorney-General—Clerk’s
Account as to Fines, <§-c., received—State of County Treasury Posted HaifYearly. The several clerks of courts in this state shall, at the same time they
are required‘ to transmit a list of all executions for fines, penalties, forfeitures
and amercements, according to the first section of the Act of which this is an
amendment, transmit statements of the return made by the sheriff on executions for fines, penalties, forfeitures, and amercements, returnable to the last
term of their respective courts, with remarks thereon, to the Auditor of Public
Accounts ; and if an clerk shall fail or neglect to transmit such statement, he
shall forfeit and payt e sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered by action
of debt, or information in the name of the Governor of the state for the time
being, for the use of the state, to be paid into the treasury thereof.

It shall be the duty of the Auditor of Public Accounts, immediately on the
failure of any clerk to transmit a statement of the returns of executions, as
required by the first section of this Act, or to transmit a list of executions as
required by the first section of the Act of which this is an amendment, to certify such failure to the Attorney-General or District-Attorney, in whose district the defaulter may reside, and to require him to prosecute such defaulter
according to law. ,

The several clerks of courts of this state, in accounting for fines, penalties,
forfeitures, and amercements which may be assessed in their respective courts,
payable into the state, or county treasury, and which shall be received by such
clerks from the person or rsons against whom the same may be assessed,
shall render to the Auditor 0 Public Accounts, or the treasurer of the county,
as the case may require, a detailed account, to be ascertained by the oath of
the clerk rendering the same, of all the moneys so received, exhibiting the
name or names, and the amount received from such person or persons.

The certificate of the Auditor of Public Accounts, or of the treasurer of a
county, of the default of any clerk in transmitting a list of executions, statement of sheriff ’s returns, or in rendering an account of moneys received as
required by this Act, or the Act of which this is an amendment, shall be competent evidence of any such default.

It shall be the duty of the county treasurers of the several counties of this
state, semi-annually, thirty days previous to the sitting of the Circuit Court of
their county, to post up at the court-house door, a detailed account of the state
and situation of the treasury of their county.

Every treasurer failing to comply with the requisitions of this section, shall
forfeit and pay one hundred dollars for the use of the county.

It shall be the duty of the Attorney-General or District-Attorney, as the case
rplay bp, to prosecute such defaulting treasurer in any court having cognizance
t ereo .

ART. 4. An Act to Authorize the Sherifs and other Ojicers of the several
Counties in this State to Sell certain Property where E.2:ecuted——Jan. 31,

1826.

Hereafter, when any sheriff, or other officer, shall execute any personal
property in this state which is too cumbersome to be removed, that the sheriff,
or other oflicer executing such property, shall sell the same on the premises
where executed, under the same provisions as is now directed by law.

ART. 5. Amendment of Twenty-first Section of Article 0ne—Feb. 7, 1827.

That in addition to the days now prescribed by law on which property under
execution may be sold, it shall hereafter be lawful for sheriffs to sell any
property under execution on the first Mondays and Tuesdays of the terms of
the Circuit Courts in their respective counties, such property having been
previously advertised according to law.

ART. 6. Act Authorizing Forthcoming Bond, cf-c.—Feb. 6, 1827.

§ 1. Repealed the 15th section, or repealing clause of the Act farther to

extend relief to debtors of Jan. 27, 1824.

2. Forthcoming Bond—Forfeiture, and Efect of a Forfeiture thereof. It
shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other oflicer, serving an execution on slaves
or other personal property, if the person whose property is levied on, or who
may have delivered up property in discharge of his body, will give sufficient
security, to take a bond from such debtor and sureties, payable to the creditors,
reciting the service of such execution and the amount of money thereon due,
in a penalty equal to double the amount of such execution with all costs, with
condition to have the same property so levied on or surrendered forthcoming
on the da of sale, and the place appointed by the sheriff, or other ofiicer, for
the salet ereof, at twelve o’clock, noon, of such day, to suffer such property
to remain in the possession of, and at the risk of the debtor or debtors, until
that time, and if the owners of such property, or defendant in the execution,
shall fail to deliver up the same according to the condition of the bond, or to
pay the money mentioned in the execution, with all interests and costs, such
sheriff, or officer, shall return the bond so forfeited, with the execution, to the
court from which the same issued, on the return day thereof: and any bond
which shall be forfeited, shall have the force and effect of a judgment, and
thereupon it shall be lawful for the clerk, immediately to issue execution thereon,
against all the obligors therein for the full amount of the plaintiff ’s debt, with
a interest and costs, and upon such execution, the sheriff. or other ofiicer,
shall not take any security, and for the better direction of such officer, the
clerk shall endorse upon every such execution, that no security of any kind
shall be taken.

3. Repealing Clause. That the Act, entitled “An Act to amend an Act to
reduce into one the several Acts concerning executions and for the relief of insolvent debtors,” passed 21st January, 1823; and so much of the fifty-fifth section of
the Act entitled “an Act to reduce into one the several Acts concerning executions, and for the relief of insolvent debtors,” passed 22d June, 1822, as requires
any sheriff, or other oflicer, to deliver to the purchaser possession of lands and
tenements, sold under execution ; also the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth
sections of the last recited Act, be, and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. 7. Amendmentqf Article 0ne—Feb. 3, 1827.
§ 1. Rules Allowing and Regulating Garnishment after Judgment, Sale of

gfects surrendered, Trials of Contested Facts and Righls—Judgment against
arnishee to be a Lien. On all judgments or decrees rendered or hereafter
to be rendered in the several courts of law or equity in this state, it shall be the
duty of the clerks of said courts, respectively, on the suggestion of the plaintiff

‘or plaintiffs in judgment or judgments, decree or decrees, his, her, or their

(zigcfantdor attorney, that any person or persons, otlzier ghag the dedferfidadnt or
e en ants in sai execution, are indebted to the sai de en ant or e en ants,
or have any of the effects of such defendant or defendants in his, her, or their
hands or possession, to issue a summons or garnishment, directed to the sheriff
or other proper officer of the county in which said garnishee or garnishees
may reside, and commanding the said garnishee or garnisheees to appear at the
term of the court to which such garnishment or summons is returnable, and
say on path (which oath the said clerks, under the authority of said courts,
re(sipp)ct:ively,hare hgrgby actlithorizeéi $0 :ltdm1n1ste(i')_whetlher he, she, or they arg
in e te tot e sai een ant or een ants, an in w at sum or sums, an

what effects of said defendant or defendants he, she, or they have in their hands
or ptpssession, 0:: had at the time of serving said summons, and whether he, she,
or t ey know 0 any other rson or ersons who are indebted to said defendant
or defendants, or who may liiiave any oiithe effects of said defendant or defendants
in their hands: Provided, The plaintiff in execution, his cent or attorney, before
the issuing of such summons or garnishments, shaiif be required to make
affidavit, and file the same in the office of the clerk, that he does not
believe that the_ defendant has, in his possession, visible property, upon
which a levy can be made, sufficient to satisf such judgment or execution.

2. Upon the return of any such summons, i it shall appear that said summons or garnishment has been lawfully served or executed upon said garnishee
or garnishees, and he, she, or they shall fail to appear and discover, on oath
or affirmation, as by this Act directed, it shall be lawful for the court, after
solemnly calling such garnishee or garnishees, to enter up a conditional judgment against such garnishee or garnishees, and thereupon a scire facias shall
issue against such garnishee or garnishees, returnable to the next term of the
courlt, to show cause, if any he, she, or they have, why final jll(l%)f;leIlt should
not e entered against him or them ; and u on such scire acias in returned executed, and such garnishee or garnishefes shall fail to iippear and iscover,
as by this Act is directed, the court shall confirm such judgment, and award
execution for the plaintiff ’s whole judgment and costs. 1 h

3. I, upon the examination of an arnishee, it shal ap ar to t e court
that there is any of the defendant oi: defendants’ estate inpfhe hands of any
person or persons who have not been summoned, such court shall, upon motion of the plaintiff, award a summons or arnishment against such person or
persons, having any of the_estate of the efendant or defendants, in his, her,
orhthetr cusltlo y or possession, who shall appear and answer, and be liable as
of er garms ees.

4. Whenever the plaintiff in the execution shall allege that any arnishee
hath not discovered the true account of debts due from him to the efendant
or defendants, or what goods and chattels belonging to the defendant or defendants, is or are in his or her possession, the court shall direct, without the formality of pleading, a jury to be empannelled, unless a good cause be shown by
eithker partyhfor a continuance, to inguire what is the truegdamotginthduelfrom
suc arnis ee to the defendant or de endants, and what go s an o atte s are
in hisgor her possession, belonging to the defendant or defendants. If the finding of the jury shall be ainst such arnishee, the court shall grant judgment
in the same manner as i the facts fgiund by the jury had been confessed by

nim or her, on his or her examination, with the cost thereon, if the jury find in
favor of the garnishee, he or she shall recover costs against the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.

5. When any garnishee shall have any of the goods and chattels of the de—

fendant or defendants. in his or her ssession, and shall surrender the same,

it shall be lawful for the sheriff or of er officer to receive the same, and proceed to sell the same as if they were levied on by virtue of an execution.

6. The garnishee or garnishees shall be allowed by the court, reasonable
satisfaction for his or her attendance, out of the effects in his or her possession; and if there should be no such effects in the possession of such garnishee,
then he or she shall be allowed reasonable satisfaction for his or her attendance
against the plaintiff or plaintiffs.

7. If any person or persons, other than the defendant or defendants, shall
claim the effects in the hands of any garnishee, and shall make affidavit that
the said effects are bonajide, his or her property, the court shall immediately, and
without the formality of pleading, direct a jury to be empannelled, to inquire
into the right of such property between such claimant and the plaintiff, unless
good cause be shown to the contrar ' ; if the finding of the jury shall be
against such claimant, the plaintiff shall recover costs; and if the jury find in
favor of such "claimant, he, she, or they shall recover costs against the plaintiff.

8. All property in the hands of such garnishee or garnishees, belonging to
any such defendant or defendants, at the time of serving any such process of
garnishment, shall be bound by such process, and subject to the lieu of the

judgment on which such garnishment shall have been issued.

ART. 8. Amendment of Article 0ne—Dec. 15,1830.

§ 1. Claimant’s Bond to be in Double the Value of the Property claimed. So
much of the twenty-fifth section of the above-recited Act as requires the person or persons, not party to any execution under which property may be taken
or surrendered as specified in said section, who may claim title to, or an interest in, any such property, to give bond in a penalty of double the amount of
such execution and costs, in order to a postponement of the sale of said property, and the trial of the claimant's ri ht thereto be so amended as to require
said bond to be given in a penalty equa to double the amount of the fair value
of the property so claimed by such person or persons, and in respect to which
a trial of the right of the claimant or claimants, may be desired and sought
under the provisions of said section, which value shall be estimated by the
sound discretion of the officer holding such execution or executions, and said
officer shall endorse on said execution or executions, the estimated value, as
aforesaid, of said property.

2. Proceedings on Judgment Stayed for that Amount. Farther proceedings
under the judgments or executions under which any such claim of property’
may be made as provided by said twenty-fifth section, shall only he stayed til
the final decision of any such claim or claims, for an amount equal to the estimated value of said propert , as endorsed by said officer, on the execution 01'
executions as required in t e preceding section, and on all renewals of such
execution or executions, prior to the final determination of the issue or issues
for the trial of said claim or claims, the amount of the estimated value of the
property for which such execution or executions are so stayed, shall be endorsed by the clerk, for the government of the officers to whom such renewed
executions may be directed. _

3. Issue to be Tried as an Action of Detinue. After an issue or 1sS}l85
may be made up for the trial of the right of any property so claimed as aforesaid, according to the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of the Act to
which this is an amendment, such issue or issues shall be tried and governed
by the same rules which regulate and govern the trial of an issue in an action
of detinue, and either party to such issue shall have all the rights of continuances, new trial, appeals, or writs of error, upon the same terms that such
rights are extended to the parties to an action of detinue ; and the final judgment given on any such issue, shall have the like effect on the rights of the
parties to said issue, as such judgment would receive, if the same had been
given in an action of detinue.
4. Repealed 26th section of article one.

5. If Issue be not made up at Return Term, Claimant discharged from his
Band; or on his Default, Inquiry of Damages, c§~c. The default of the plaintiff or plaintiffs in the execution or executions under which any such claim of
property were made on issue, he not made up for the trial of right of said property, at the first term of court to which such execution or executions were
returnable, said court shall discharge the claimant or claimants from the bond
given as aforesaid, for the trial of such right; and said property shall never
thereafter be subject to such execution or executions ; but if, from the default
of the claimant or claimants, such issue he not made up as aforesaid, at the
first term of said court, then, and in that case, said court shall order a jury to
be empannelled at the instance of the plaintiff or plaintiffs in any such execution or executions, who shall be immediately sworn to execute a writ of inquiry as to the value of the property claimed and specified in the bond of the
claimant or claimants in said case, and" also to inquire whether or not such
claim was made for fraudulent purpose or purposes of delay.

6, 7, 8, 9. Value of Property to be Assessed—Judgment and ExecutionTwenly-jzlfth Section of Article One Repealed in part—T/tat and this Act Extended to all Trials of the Right. In every case of the trial of an issue, under
the provisions of this Act, and the Act to which this is an amendment, the
jury trying such issue, in the event of their finding such issue in favor of the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, in the execution, shall assess the true value of the property so found subject to said execution, and shall also certify whether the
claim of the claimant or claimants of said property was made for fraudulent
purposes, or for purposes of delay.

Whenever a verdict shall be rendered in any such case, either on as issue
joined, or an inquiry by default, in favor of the plaintiff or plaintiffs in such
execution, it shall be the duty of the court in which such verdict may be rendered, to pronounce such judgment as would be pronounced in an action of
detinue for the specific property, if to be had, and if not, for its value, as
assessed by the jury, and execution shall issue accordingly, and in all cases the
assessment made by the jury of the value of the property shall determine the
amount of credit to be given on the execution or executions originally levied
on said property; and in all cases where the value of the property so levied
on, may be assessed at an amount greater than sufficient to satisfy said original execution or executions, the true amount due under said original execution
or executions shall be endorsed by the clerk on any execution that may be
sued out on the judgment against said claimant or claimants, and the amount
so endorsed shall be received in full satisfaction thereof; and in all cases where
the jury find that such claim was made for fraudulent purposes, or purposes of
delay, the plaintiff or plaintiffs in said original execution, shall recover ten per
centum damages on the assessed value of said propert , for which execution
shall issue in addition to the amount for which he is ant orized to have execution by this Act.

So much of said twenty-fifth section as authorizes execution to issue on the
bond given for the trial of the right of propert so claimed, or as makes said
claimant or claimants liable to the plaintiff or phtintilfs in said original execution for the full amount of said execution, and so much of any Act as contravenes the provisions of this Act, are hereby repealed.

The provisions of the twenty-fifth section of an Act entitled “an Act to
reduce into one the several Acts concerning executions, and for the relief of
insolvent debtors,” passed June 22d, l822,be extended so as to include all
cases in which any property may be under an order of sale, or under execution by virtue of proceedings founded upon detachment.

ART. 9. Amendmentof Article 0ne—Dec. 9, 1833.

Advertisement of Personalty (except Slaves) not Published. So much of
the twenty-first section of the twent -seventh chapter of the revised Code of
the State of Mississippi, as requires t e sheriff to advertise in a newspaper the
sale of personal property, except in the case of executions levied on slaves, is

hereby repealed.
Tlus Act shall not apply to the county of Adams and the county of Warren. See a. 18.

Arr. 10. Sales and Returns by Sherzf of Hinds—May 3, 1837.

The sheriff of Hinds county shall have, until the second Monday of each
and every court, to make his returns on all executions that may come to his
hands, and he is allowed the first six da's of said court as sale days. He
shall also be authorized to continue his sale on the present days appointed by
law, and the day following each of said regular sale days.

Arr. 11. Sales by Sherz_'f of Willcinson—Feb. 16, 1838.
Hereafter sheriffs’ sales in the county of Wilkinson, shall be holden on the

first and third Tuesdays in each and every month: Provided, That this Act '

shall not be construed as to extend to any sale or sales already advertised.

Am‘. 12. Return Days and Sales in Madison and nine other Counties—Feb.
16, 1838.

§ 1. Hereafter the sheriff of the county of Madison shall have, until the
middle of each term of the Circuit Court of said county, to make a return of
all executions returnable to said court; and he shall also have the power to sell
any property under execution, on each and every day, between the usual hours
of sale, during the same space of time, Sundays only excepted, under such

restrictions as already provided by law.
2. Whenever the sheriff of the said county shall levy on any fine household

furniture, in any town or village in said county, which would be liable to injury
by removal to the court-house, he miy have the power to sell it in the said

town or village where it may be locat
All the rovisions of this Act shall extend to the sheriffs of the counties of

Rankin, olmes, Co iah, Warren, Jasper, Yazoo, Yallabusha, Jefferson, and
Adams: Provided, hat nothin in this Act contained shall be so construed
as to ive to the sheriff of Copia longer than to the second Monday of the tem.

to ma e return of ex_ecutions_in_ his hands.

AM‘. 13. An Act to Amend an Act entitled “An Act in Relation to the Sherif
of the County of Madison, and for Other Purposes,” passed February 16,
l838—Feb. 15, 1839.

The third section of the above recited Act, so far as the same ives time to
the sheriff of Yazoo county, until the middle of each term of the ircuit Court
of said count ,to make return of all executions returnable to said court, is
hereby repea ed.

Hereafter the sheriff of Yazoo county shall have until the second Monday of
the term of the Circuit Court of said county to make returns of executions

returnable to said court.

ART 14. An Act to Provide for the Valuation of Property, and in Relation to
Mortgages and Trust Dceds—Feb. 21, 1840.

§ 1, 2. Property Levied on or Surrendered in Ercecution to be Appraised.
Hereafter whenever any sheriff, or other officer, by virtue of any writ of
execution issuing out of any court of this state, shall levy on any property, real
or personal, or whenever any property, real or personal, shall be surrendered to
any sheriff or other officer in discharge of the person, it is hereby made competent, and full authority is hereby given to any such person, whose property,
real or personal, shall be so levied on or surrendered, to notify in writing such
sheriff, or other officer, that he claims to have the same appraised according to
the provisions of this Act; whereupon three persons, entirely disinterested and
unconnected either by consanguinity or affinity, shall be chosen as appraisers;

one to be chosen by the person whose property is to be appraised, a second by
the plaintiff or his agent, or by the sheriff or other officer, if both plaintiff or
agent be absent, or neglect, or refuse to choose, and a third by the sheriff or

other officer. .
The appraisers appointed, as indicated in the first section of this Act, after

first having made oath before some judge or justice of the peace well and impartially to perform the duty imposed upon them, shall proceed to examine the
property required to be appraised and shall appraise the same, and the appraisement when made shall transmit, under their hands and seals, to the sheriff or
other officer, within a reasonable time before the day designated by such
sheriff} or other officer, as the da of sale of such property so appraised ; a copy
of which valuation so made shallbe furnished the defendant or defendants by
the sheriff aforesaid.

3. If not Sold for Two-thirds of A praised Value, no Execution for Sale
thereof until Expiration of flioelve Mfnths. It shall be the duty of the sheriff;
or other officer, on the designated sale day to proceed to offer at public sale to
the highest bidder, at the place and in the manner prescribed b law, the
property _so levied on or surrendered, ‘and should the same not sel for twothirds of its appraised value, the sheriff or other officer shall announce that
there is no sale, and such sheriff or other officer shall return on the first day of
the return term of the writ of execution, for the satisfaction of which such
property was intended to be sold, the same, to ether with the certificate of
appraisement and that the property offered wou_l not sell for two-thirds of the
appraised value, and thereafter ‘no other writ of execution or other process for
the sale of such unsold appraised property shall issue until the expiratioh of
twelve months from the time when such writ of execution shall have been

returned as hereinbefore required.
4. Venditioni Ezponas and Absolute Sale after Twelve Months. After

the expiration of twelve months from the term at which any writ of execution,

shall have been returned, as hereinbefore provided for, the clerk into whose
office the same shall have been returned shall issue a writ of venditioni ezponas
directed to the sheriff or other officer, who shall proceed to re-advertise the
property, and in the manner, and at the place provided for by law, re-offer and
sell the same peremptorily and absolutely, and every such last sale shall create
a total divesture of all the right, title, and interest of the person whose property

has been sold.
5. Yet Band for Delivery of Property before Restored to Defendant.

Whenever the property offered at public sale shall not bring two-thirds of its
appraised value, the same, if real estate, shall be permitted to continue and
remain in the possession of the person claiming the same; if personal property,
before the same shall be restored to the possession of the claimant he shall give
bond in double the amount of the value of the appraised property, payable to
the person to whom the debt is going, as may appear of record, with three
undoubted securities, to be approved of by the sheriff or other officer taking the
same, and conditioned for the safe-keeping and prompt delive of the property.
so restored, to the sheriff or other officer on the first day of t e term but one
next succeeding that to which the writ of execution shall be returnable, which
bond shall be returned with the writ of execution, and in case its condition be
not complied with, it shall have the force and effect of judgment, and after
execution thereon the obligors shall be required to pay the money without
bonding or dela ing the same in any way.

6. When S era] to Appoint Appraiser for Plaintif——-Sale without
Appraisement Void. Should the plaintiff refuse or neglect to appoint an
appraiser the sheriff or other officer may do it for him; or should the sheriff or
other officer refuse either to appoint one for himself or one for the plaintiff
where he is required so to appoint, or both, any sale made by such sheriff or
other officer, shall be utterly void and invalid, and the party aggrieved may
have an action against the person obtaining the propert for its specific recovery, and also against the sheriff or other officer, and w en against the sheriff
or other officer, the measure of damages shall be the actual value of the property’
so sold; and, also, any such sheriff or other officer shall be deemed and taken
as guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be removed from office8. On Failure to give the Bond under Section Five,Sherifto Sell on Tweh‘€
Months’ Credit on Bond, on Forfeiture of which Execution to Issue. Should
any person required to give bond, as provided for in the fifth section of this
Act, be unable to do so, the sheriff or other officer shall proceed to offer and
sell the personal property so levied on or surrendered up, on a credit of twelve
months, taking bond to plaintiff, with undoubted security, and conditioned for
the punctual payment of the purchase money ; which bond, from the day of 115
execution and delivery, shall operate as a lien upon the property purchased.
and such other property as the purchaser may own, and which bond shall be
returned with the execution, and if not paid, it shall have the force and effect
of a judgment, upon which the clerk shall issue an execution against all the
obligors, and endorse thereon that no security of any kind is to be taken. _

9. Growing Crop not to be Levied on. It shall not be lawful for any sheriff
or other officer to levy on and sell, by virtue of an execution or other process
issuing from any court in this state, any crop of cotton, corn, or other product:
while the same is under cultivation and before it matures and is gathered. 599
Resolution Feb. 22, l840..2'72.

Am‘. 15. Sherifs to Return Executions, cf-c., to the Spring Terms, 1840, as 
the Terms of the Circuits had not been C'hanged——Feb. 22, 1840 . . 238.

The several sheriffs of this state have permission and be allowed to make
returns of the several writs of execution in their hands, returnable to the
several spring terms of the Circuit Courts under the organizations of the
Circuit Courts prior to the session of the Legislature commencing on the first
Monday of January, 1840, to be returnable according to the demand
of the said writs of Executions ; and that they have until the return
day named therein for the levy and sale of property, and shall not be required
to make return according to the present arrangement of the Circuit Court
until after said spring terms.

ART. 16. An Act in Relation to Sherifs’ Sales in the Counties of Warren,
Madison, Hinds, Holmes, Yazoo, Copiah and Rankin—Feb. 22, 1840.

The sheriffs of the counties of Warren, Madison, Hinds, Holmes, Yazoo.
Copiah and Rankin, have authority, and they are hereby permitted, in
cases where they are unable, from lapse of time, to sell property levied on
and advertised to be sold, to continue their sales from day to da , for the
space of four days, and no longer: Provided, this act shall not app y to sales
during term time.

Arr. 17. An Act to Exempt from Sale, under Execution, certain Property
therein mentioned—Jan. 22, 1841.

§ 1. That every free white citizen of this state, male or female, being the
head of a family, shall be entitled to own, hold and possess, free and exempt
from sale by virtue of any judgment, order or decree of any court of law or
equity in this state, founded on any contract made after the passage of this
act, or any process emanating from the same, one hundred and sixty acres of
land, Provided the same or any part thereof shall not be the site of any city,
town, or village.

2. That when any head of a family shall own a greater quantity of land
than one quarter section, the one hundred and sixty acres exempt from sale,
shall be so reserved as to include the dwelling-house and im rovements of the
owner, if there be any thereon ; and in case such head of a amily shall be the
owner of more than one hundred and sixty acres of land in several tracts, he
or she shall designate in writing to the sheriff or other officer, in whose hands
the process directing a sale may be, which tract or tracts he or she wishes to
reserve from sale, and it shall not be lawful for such sheriff or other officer to
sell the tract so designated.

3. That every head of a family who shall reside in any cit , town or
village in this state, shall be entitled to own, hold and possess, free fiiom sale as
aforesaid, lands within such city, town or village, of the value of fifteen hundred dollars, exclusive of the buildings and improvements thereon, which value
shall be ascertained by the cash valuation of three discreet disinterested freeholders of the county under oath, to be summoned for that purpose by the
sheriff or other officer.

4. That in case any head of a family residing in any city, town or village,
shall own but one lot or parcel of land therein, and the whole lot exclusive of
the buildings shall be of a greater value than fifteen hundred dollars, to be
ascertained as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other oflicer to
sell the portion thereof, above the value of fifteen hundred dollars, if the same
can be conveniently divided, or so much of said portion as will be sufficient to
satisfy the process of sale in his hands, and in case the same cannot be divided,
the owner thereof may pay to the sheriff or other oflicer, the surplus of valuation above fifteen hundred dollars towards the satisfaction of the judgment,

order or decree, and the sale of the same shall not be made ; and in the event
of the inability of the owner to make payment of such surplus, the sheriff
or other oflicer shall sell his or her interest in said lot, above the sum
of fifteen hundred dollars, and the purchaser shall become tenant in common
with him or her, to the extent of such surplus according to the valuation made,
aisf herein before directed, and shall receive from the sheriff a deed to that
e ect.

5. That when any head of a family shall own more than one lot or parcel
of land in any city, village or town, which together shall be of greater value
than fifteen hundred dollars, exclusive of improvements, he or she shall designate to the sheriff or other officer, as is provided in section second, which lot
or parcel he or she desires to reserve, and it shall not be lawful for such
sheriff or other oflicer to sell the lot or parcel so designated; Provided, the
same shall not exceed in value, exclusive of improvements, the sum of fifteen
hundred dollars.

6. That this act shall not take effect and be in force until the first day of
July, eighteen hundred and forty-one. See a. 21, 23.

ART. 18. An Act to Prevent unnecessary Charges against Debtors—Jan. 25,
184].

§ 1. Notices of Sherifs’ Sales to be Posted, though may be Advertised in
Newspaper. That all laws and parts of laws requiring sheriffs or other officers
to advertise in any public gazette or other news aper, the sale of any property
taken or surrendered in virtue of any writ ofp execution, attachment, or tax
claim, be repealed, and in lieu thereof such officers shall give notice of such
sales, in cases of sales of real estate, thirty days, and of personal property, ten
days, by postin up such notice in at least five public places in the county, one
of which shall be the court-house door.

2. That any person pulling down or destroying any such advertisement, so
posted up, shall be deemed guilt of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, in the Circuit or Crimin Court of the count , shall be fined in any
sum in the discretion of the court, not exceeding doubfe the value of the property described in such notice so pulled down or destroyed.

3. That the provisions _of this Act shall not extend to, or prohibit the publication of any such sale in any newspaper when the defendant may request
such publication, and when so ublished, the same shall be taxed in the bill of
costs: And provided further, hat such request is made at the time of the
levying of the execution.

AM. 19. An Act for the Extension of the Time now Prescribed by Law f0!’
Returning Errecutions in the County of VVilkinson, and for other Purposes
—Feb. 5, 1841.

That hereafter the sheriff of Wilkinson count shall have, until the second
Monday of each and every Circuit Court of said’ county, to make his returns
on all executions that may come to his hands, returnable to such court, and
that he be allowed the first six days of said court as sale days ; he also shall be
authorized to continue his sale on the present days appointed by law, and the
day succeeding each of said sale days.

Aer. 20. An Act to Prevent the S'acr—i/ice of Real Estate Sold under E55961!‘
tion, Decrees in Chancery, and Deeds of Trust—Feb. 14, 1842.

§ 1. Rules and Time within which Debtor or His other Creditors mall
redeem Property Sold. That it shall be lawful for any debtor, whose interest

in any real estate may be hereafter sold under execution, at any time within
two years ‘after such sale, on payment, or tender thereof, to the purchaser or
pure asers, or payment or tender thereof, to any one claiming _under such purchaser or purchasers, the principal money bid at such sale, with ten per cent.
interest per annum thereon, together with all such lawful charges, if any there
ge, ti redefem the; interest that may have been sold, and upon payment or tener t ereo as a oresaid, it shall be the dut of the then claimant to re-conve
said interest to said debtor, but at the costsyand charges of such debtor. Y
b 2. 1'(Ii‘hat whenever it shall hereafter happen that any interest in lands shall

e so at an execution sale, and the individual whose interest is so sold shall
have other bdria jide creditors, whose debts are not secured, or paid, such bona
fide creditor may, at any time within two years after such sale, redeem such
interest as may have been sold from the purchaser thereof, or from any one
claiming under such purchaser, and on payment or tender thereof of so much
money as was bid for said land at said execution sale, and such further sum as shall
be equal to ten per cent. per annum on the purchase-money, and shall further.
offer and agree to credit the person whose estate was sold, with the further
sum of ten per cent. or more, on the amount bid at the execution sale, it shall
be the duty of such purchaser, or person claimin under such purchase, to convey said interest, so purchased, to such bona fife creditor, at the proper costs
and charges of such creditor, unless such purchaser, or those claiming under
him shall pay, or secure to be paid, within six months thereafter, to such bona
jide crediltor, the] sur: piippolsled ftio be advanced by him on the bid at such execution sa e or sa es t e s eri .

3. That if such pulrchaser at execution sale, or the person or persons claiming under him, shall also be a bona _/ide creditor to the amount pro osed to be
advanced on the bid at execution sale, at the time that any bona de creditor
may propose tp make the advance, it_ may be at the _option of such purchaser,
or those claiming under him, to credit the debtor with the sum proposed to be
advanced on the bid, and keep the property, or surrender the same, in the manner aforesaid, to such person offering to make the advance.

4. That it shall be lawful for any other bona fide creditors of him whose
estate has been sold at execution sale, to redeem from any band jide creditor
who may have Previously redeemed from the purchaser at execution sale, upon
the same terms and under the same rules and regulations that is herein provided
for a bona fide creditor to redeem from the purchaser.

5. That if any person or persons shall absent him, her, or themselves, from
his, her, or their usual place of residence, or shall reside out of the county
where such sale was made, so as to prevent a tender of the money due upon
the redemption of any real estate sold as aforesaid, then, and in all such cases,
it shall and may be lawful for such person or persons desiring to redeem, to
pay the redemption-money to the sheriff of the county where the judgment
was rendered, who shall hold the same for the benefit of the person entitled
thereto, and the payment so made shall be good and valid to all intents and
purposes.

6. That if any sheriff shall fail or refuse to pay over such money to the per«
son entitled, on application, the same’ ma be recovered, by motion, in the
same way as moneys paid on executions, when not paid over by him.

'7. That all real property sold under deeds of trust and decrees in Chancery,
shall, and may be subject to redemption in the same way as the like propertv
when sold under execution sales. '

8. That this Act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.

Arr. 21. An Act to Amend the several Acts now in force concerning Insuvent Debtors—Feb. 25, 1842.

§ 1. Other Property exempt from Execution or Distress. That in addition
to the property already exempt from execution or distress, to each head of a
famil or house-keeper, the following shall be exempt, viz. : Instead of one bed
and dding, as the law now provides, there shall be exempt three beds and
bedding, two spinning-wheels, two pair cotton cards, one loom, one pot, one
oven and lid, one spider or skillet and lid, half a dozen of plates, half a dozen
knives and forks, one dish. half a dozen cups and saucers, half a dozen spoons,
one coffee pot, one churn, one milk pail, one water bucket, one wash tub, half
a dozen common chairs, one dining table, two cows and calves, instead of one,
as now allowed by law. Also, twenty head of stock hogs, fifty bushels of corn,
five hundred pounds of pork or bacon. That each regularly admitted attorneyat-law, and ractising physician, be entitled to have books to the amount of
two hundred and fifty dollars in value, exempt from levy and sale under exEcution; and that the growing crop shall be excepted from seizure for any

ebt.

2. That this Act take effect and be in force from and after the first day of

May next See a. 1, s. 23, and a. 1'7 ; also, a. 23.

ART. 22. An Act to Insure the Collection of Jury Tax Fees, and for other
pu2y2oses—Feb. 24, 1844.

§ 1. Whereas, many suits are brought by non-residents and others, in the
different counties of this State, wherein no security has been given for costs,
and other expenses, or where the security has been given, the sureties have
been compelled to pay costs, in which the suits, judgment having been obtained.
nothing can or has been made upon the executions, by reason of the insolvency
of the defendant or defendants; and whereas, the plaintiffs in many of said
suits, particularly living at a distance, and having no property in the State,
have failed and neglected to pay the jury tax fees, the clerk’s fees, sheriffs
fees, commissions and other costs, and have failed to indemnif the sureties, by
reason of which great in'ustice has been done to the said clerks, sheriffs.
sureties, &c., and their la or and trouble have been without remuneration:
wherefore to prevent and remed said evil— 2. Judgments to be sold by herzf. That where any judgment or decree
has been heretofore rendered in any Court of Record in this state, or Where
any may hereafter be rendered, and an execution has been, or may hereafter
be returned nulla bond, and if the sheriff ’s and clerk’s fees, and commissions, and all other costs and fees thereon, have not been paid by the plaintiff of
plaintiffs ; or if they should not be paid on or before the first day of the succeeding term of the court hereafter, or after the return of said execution, it shall 
lawful for the court in which said judgment or decree is rendered, at the said
term, or any.succeedin term, upon the motion of an sheriff, clerk, coroner 01‘
any other person entit ed to cost, commissions, or fees on said judgment 91'
decree, to order the said judgment of decree to be sold by the sheriff, at public
auction, to the highest bidder, for cash : Provided, That said order shall set ford’:
particularly, the precise amount of costs, commissions and fees, and to the clerk.
sheriff, or other officer or rson for which the same may be ordered to be 80“:
Provided, That the plaintige whose judgment may have been sold, shall have “V0
years to redeem such judgment ; and the payment or tender by him, to the P111‘
chaser of said judgment, of the amount of the purchase money, with ten per C6!“-v

shall revive the said judgment in his favor, as though the same had never been
sold: And provided, That if the owner of a judgment, subjected to be sold for
costs, under the provisions of this Act, is a resident of the State of Mississippi, that
no such order of sale shall be made, until an execution be first directed to the
proper officer of the county in which such owner may reside, and a return of
nulla bmza be made thereon by such officer.

2. Sherif to transfer Judgments. That it shall be the duty of the sheriff,
upon payment of the bid, to transfer to the purchaser, by an assignment in
writing, all the right, title and interest of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, or of the
person or persons for whose use the suit was brought, in and to said judgment
or decree ; and the said purchaser shall have the a solute control and management of said judgment or decree, and may order execution to issue thereon in
the same manner as if it had been recovered in his name: Provided, That
said purchasers shall be liable for all costs accruing subsequent to his purchase:
And provided, also, That no person shall have execution upon said judgment
so transferred, until he make oath, and file with the clerk of the court, to be
placed among the papers in said cause, and to constitute art of the record in
said case, that said judgment or decree was purchased or his own use and
benefit, and not in trust, or for the use and benefit of any other person.

3. Sale to vest Title in Purchaser. That such sale and assi nment of such
judgment or decree, as is provided for in the second section 0 this Act, shall
vest in the purchaser thereof, all interest in the cause of action upon which
said judgment or decree was recovered, in the same manner as if transferred
to him by plaintiff or plaintiffs, or person or persons, for whose use the suit was
brought, and shall authorize such purchaser to enter satisfaction of said judgment, or to withdraw the cause of action from the record, in the same manner
that the Piaintiff or plaintiffs, person or persons, for whose use the suit is
brought, could do : Provided, however, that there be more than one judgment,
decree or suit, on the same cause of action, the purchaser of the judgment shall
take the same subject to the plaintiff or plaintiffs’ right in such other judgment
or decree, but such purchaser shall have the right of discharging such other
judgment or decree, and becoming the owner of said cause of action.

4. When to operate as Extinguishment. That the defendant, where there is
but one, or where there are more defendants than one, who are principals,
shall be the purchaser, the sale and assignment by the sheriff to said defendants
or either of them, if more than one, shall operate as a complete satisfaction and
extinguishment of said judgment or decree : Provided, That each principal
defendant shall be liable to contribute his proportion of the sum bid and paid
by the others: And provided, also, That when the judgment or decree is
against principals and sureties, if the sureties, or either of them, bid and
purchase the judgment or decree, the sale and assignment shall operate as
also an extinguishment and satisfaction of the jud ment or decree, but such
surety or sureties may recover the amount of the bi and purchase money from
the principal or principals in said judgment or decree, with lawful interest from
the time of such purchase : And provided, also, That each surety shall contribute
and pay his or her rateable or proportionate part of the bid and purchase
money to the surety who purchased and bid for the judgment or decree.

5. Clerk to Issue Execution. That the clerks shall issue an execution,
founded upon said order of sale, directed to the sheriff} commanding him to sell
said judgment or decree, particularly specifying the said judgment, and the
day of its rendition, and the sum for which the same is ordered to be sold;
and the said sheriff shall give ninety days notice by publication in some newspaper of this state, when the plaintiff in said judgment shall be a non-resident,

and sixty days notice when the plaintiff in said judgment shall be a resident
of the state, and by advertisement in three or more public places of the county: Provided, That no clerk shall issue an execution on any such order of
sale, until sixty days after the same is made, and not at all, if, before the expiration of sixty days the plaintiff or plaintiffs, or person or persons, having the
benefit or interest in such judgment or decree to be sold, shall pay off and
satisfy the amount for which the same is so ordered to be sold.

6. Sheri] to Return Execution. That the sheriff shall return said execution
issued u n the order of sale afore-mentioned, to the succeeding term of the
court, a ter the issuance thereof, and shall state the notice of sale and the purchaser thereof; and for failure to make said sale, or to make due return thereof,
the said sheriff shall be subject, on motion, to pay the whole amount on said
order of sale, and shall further be liable to indictment for a misdemeanor in
office, and on conviction, shall be fined in a sum not less than five hundred
dollars: Provided, That the returns of such sheriff, that due notice of the
time and place of sale was given, pursuant to the provisions of this Act, shall
be conclusive evidence of that fact in favor of the purchasers.

7. Order of Sale and Execution to form part of the Record. That said
order of sale, and the proceedings thereon, together with the execution issued
thereon, and the sheriff ’s return thereon, when returned into court, shall constitute and compose a part of the record in the original suit, the judgment or
decree in which has been ordered to be sold, and the clerk of the court shall
not give or certify a copy or transcript of record in such original suit to complete record, unless it contain the aforesaid order of sale, and the proceedings
thereon, and the affidavit, as aforesaid.

8. Clerk subject to Fine—For what. That if an clerks, or deputy clerks,
shall make out and certify the transcript or copy of the proceedings in such
original suit, as a full and perfect transcript of the record, without.also transcri ing as a part of said record, the order of sale, said original judgment or
decree, and the proceedings thereon, or shall, in any respect, violate the provisions of this Act hereafter, or hereafter to be incorporated herein, he shall be
subject to indictment, and on conviction, shall pay a fine of five hundred dollars, and also be liable to suit at the instance of the party aggrieved or injured
by his act or omission.

9. Plaintifs not to withdraw Cause of _ Action. That no clerk or clerks.
deputy clerk or deputy clerks, on order of sale of any judgment or decree shall
have been made under this Act, shall permit the plaintiff or plaintiffs, or party
or parties, for whose use the suit is brought, to withdraw the original cause of
action from the record, nor shall he permit his, her, or their attorney or attorneys so to withdraw the same : Provided, however, That before the expiration
of sixty days, limited in this Act, from said order of sale, that such party, 01'
the attorney or attorneys of such party, may withdraw the same upon the
payment of the amount for which said order passed.

10. Forthcoming Bonds. That all the provisions of this Act shall apply and
extend to judgments on forfeited forthcoming bonds, and all the bonds the forfeiture of which is made to operate as a judgment or decree.

11. Writs by what Judges Issued. That when any assignee of any judgment (or any assignee of such assignee) which has been sold and transferred
as aforesaid, shall levy an execution arising from any such jud ment or decree,
upon any property, real or personal, it shall and may be lawfu for any per-“>013
or persons interested in said property, if he, she, or they have good reason I0
believe that said judgment or decree was not purchased b the said assignee
for his own use and benefit, but for the use and benefit an interest for some

other person, to make application to any jud e of the High Court
of Errors and Appeals, ‘judge of the Circuit ourt of the chancellor

of the state of Mississippi, for a writ of error, coram nobis, or '

supersedeas upon said judgment, returnable to the court to which
the execution so levied is returnable; and it shall be the duty of
any such jud e of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, judge of
the Circuit ourt, or chancellor of the state, upon the application
made as aforesaid by petition, and -sworn to, to grant the same,
returnable as aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the court before whom said writ of error or supersedeas is- returned, to cause
an issue to be made up as to whether the said judgment was purchased for the use and interest or benefit of any person other than
the said assignee as aforesaid, and the said issue shall be tried as
other jury trials are had; and if the issue shall be found for the
person or persons interested in said pro rty so levied upon, the
court shall forthwith cause satisfaction to e entered of record upon
said judgment: Provided, however, That the burthen of proof shall
always be on the party applying for the supersedeas, on every such
issue made up under the provisions of this Act: And provided,
also, That no judge or chancellor, as aforesaid, shall grant any such
writ of error or supersedeas, until the party making application shall
have made a good and sufficient bond, condition for the payment of all
costs, in the event that issue should be determined against them.
12. Plaintifs may show Defendant to be Possessed of Property.
That it shall and may be lawful in all cases of purchase by any
person or persons, of any judgment against himself or themselves
under any order of sale made in pursuance of this Act, for the plaintiff or plaintiffs in such judgment on a scire facias ainst such
person or persons, in the court in which the original ju gment was
rendered, at any time within three ears after such purchase, to
show that at the time of such purchase, either the defendant or
defendants making the same, or some other person or persons, for
his or their benefit, was possessed, either in this or some other state,
of property, effects, or credits, other than the money with which
such purchase was made, out of which, if found, said judgment, or
some part thereof, might have been made; and upon such showing, it shall be the duty of such court to vacate, and set aside
such order of sale, and thereupon the lien of such judgment against
the defendants therein, shall be revived and re-instated as fully, to
all intents and purposes, as though such order of sale had never

been made.
13. That this Act shall take effect and be in force from and after

its passage.

ART. 13. An Act to Exempt from Sale, under Execution, the Libraries
of Ministers of the Gowel, and for other pu7poses—March 1, 1848.

That the libraries of ministers of the gospel, together with such
globes, maps, and books as are used by teachers of public schools, aca
demies, or colleges, shall be exempt from attachment and sale under
execution.

ART 1. From the Act Establzshinga Court of Chancery/—Nov. 27, 1821.

§ 46. Transcript to be filed within first four days of term of Appellate Court.
If either party shall enter an appeal from an sentence, judgment, or decree,
pronounced in any Court of Probate, in this tate, to the Superior Court of
Chancery, and shall fail to file the record with the clerk of such Superior
Court of Chancery before or during the fourth day of the term of such Court,
next after the same shall have been granted, such appeal shall be dismissed with
costs, unless good cause be shown to the contrary, in which case the same may
be docketed, and heard, as if the record had been filed in proper time.—See a. «i.

Arr. 2. References to the Act of Wills.—182l.

Appeal and Issue of Fact ordered by Appellate Court—c. 49, a. 1, s, 12.
Proceedings on Appeal from Grant of Letters, ib.—§ 13.
See a. 4, 5. Arr 3. Reference to the Act of Feb. 1830.

Appeal to Chancery or Supreme Court—-c. 49, a. 10, § 1, 2—But see a.
4, 5.

ART. 4. An Act to Amend an Act entitled “ an Act to carry into effect that part
of the Fourth Article of the Constitution which provides for the establishment
of a Court of Probate in the several Counties of this State,” and for other
purposes.—Feb. 23, 1824.

§ 1 to 4. A peal to Chancery disallowed—to be to the High Court—withz.'n
three 3/ears—.l7udgment on Ajirmance against Appellant and Sureties. That
so much of the 20th section of the above recited act as provides for an appeal
from any judgment, decree, decision, or order of the Orphan’s Court to the Snperior Court of Chancery, be, and the same is herebg repealed; and that hereafter no appeal shall be allowed from the Probate ourt of any count in this
State to the Superior Court of Chancery, or to any other Court but the High
Court of Errors and Appeals.

2. That any person or persons feeling himself or themselves aggrieved by
any judgment, decree, or final order of any Probate Court, shall be entitled to
an appeal to said High Court of Errors and Appeals, as a matter of right, at
any time within sixty days after the passing of any jud ment, decree, or final
order, on petition therefor to the clerk of such Probate ourt: Provided, That
such appeal shall not operate as a stay of further proceedings under such judgment, decree, or final order, unless the appellant shall give bond, with surety
to be approved of by the judge of said Probate Court, in accordance with the
provisions of the said twentieth section of the above recited act.

3. That the High Court of Errors and Appeals, or any judge thereof in vacation, may, on petition of any party to any jud ment, decree, or final order of
any Probate Court of this State, grant an appe to said High Court of Errors

and Appeals, at any time within three years from the date of said judgment,
decree, or final order: Provided, said court or jud e shall be of opinion, from
an inspection of the record, that there is reasonab e ground for such appeal;
but such appeal shall not operate to stay further proceedings under such judgment, decree, or final order, unless the appellant shall give bond with sureties,
to be approved by the Judge of said Probate Court, in such penalty as the said
High Court, or judge granting such appeal shall prescribe, conditioned as required by the said twentieth section of the above recited act.

4. That when the High Court of Errors and Appeals shall afiirm any judgment, final order, or decree, of any Probate Court, for the payment of money,
it shall be the duty of said High Court of Errors and Appeals to render judgment ainst the appellant and sureties, if any be given, for the amount of
moneyague on such judgment, final order, or decree, with interest thereon from
the date of such judgment, final order, or decree, at the rate of ten per centum
per annum, until the same be paid. '

ART. 5. From an Amendment of the Probate Laws—March 5, 1846.

§ 15. Appeal Bond may be to" Judge or Appellee. That any appeal bond
executed in an of the Probate Courts of this state, under existing laws, may
be made payab e to the Judge of Probate, or to the adverse party, or appellee,
as the Probate Court, granting the appeal, may direct.

CLASS IV. Ajgeals and Writs 0 Error from the Circuit Court and Chancery
Court to the igh Court; an Appellate Practice.

ART. 1. From the Act Establishing a Supreme Court—-June 29, 1822.

§7. On Reversal, the Proper Judgment or Decree rendered, or Cause Remanded. When, on any appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, the judgment,
sentence. or decree of the court below shall be reversed, the Supreme Court
shall proceed to render such judgment,.or pass such sentence, or decree, as the
court below should have rendered or passed : except it be necessary, in consequence of the decision of the Supreme Court, that some matter of fact be
ascertained, or damages be assessed by a jury, or where the matter to be
decreed is uncertain; in either of which cases the suit, action, or prosecution, as the case may be, shall be remanded to the court from which it was
brought, for a final decision.

8. 1VIandate,on Final Decision, to the Court below; Duty of Clerk therein ; Penalty for Neglect, <§~c. When a final judgment or decree shall be rendered or passed, in any cause brought before the Supreme Court by appeal,
writ of error, or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court to
certify the final jud ment or decree to the clerk of the Circuit Court of law, or
Superior Court of hancery, or Register of the Orphans’ Court (as the case
may be) from which such cause was brought, within twenty days after the
adjournment of the Supreme Court at which such final judgment or decree was
rendered or passed, together with a bill of all costs, which shall have accrued,
and damages, if any, assessed, in the said Supreme Court; and it shall be the
duty of every clerk of a Circuit Court of law, from which such cause was
removed, on receiving such certificate, to issue execution on such final judgment at law, if the same be for the plaintiff in the original cause, for the
amount of money or other thing adjudged to the plaintiff] and all costs which
shall have accrued both in the Supreme Court and the court below; and if
judgment be rendered for the defendant in the original cause, then, on the
receipt of the certificate thereof, as aforesaid, execution shall issue against the

plaintiff in such cause, for the defendant’s costs, as in other cases; and any
decree, certified as aforesaid, to the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery,
or Re 'ster of the Orphans’ Court of any county in this state, shall be carried
into e ect, in the same manner, in all respects, as if such decree had passed in
the court below. And if the clerk of the Supreme Court shall fail to certify
any final judgment or decree as herein required, he shall forfeit and pay to the
party aggrieved, one hundred dollars for eve such failure, to be recovered by
motion, before the Supreme Court, reasonab e notice of such motion having
been first given to such clerk.—See c. 33, a. 26, § 2.

9. Sentence of Supreme Court how Executed. The sentence of the Supreme
Court, in all criminal prosecutions brought before such court from any Circuit
Court of law, shall be executed in like manner, in all respects, as if such sentence had been passed in the court wherein the prosecution originated; and
the sheriff of the proper county shall be charged with the execution of such
sentence.

10. Appeal from Interlocutory Decree in Chancery ; Appeals, <5-c., from
Circuit Court Dismissedfor not Filing Transcript. All appeals allowed from
interlocutory decrees of the Superior Court of Chancery, by the Chancellor,
or by the Supreme Court, or any judge thereof in vacation, shall be heard and
determined by the said Supreme Court, at the next succeedin term of the
Supreme Court after such appeal shall be allowed : and it shall the duty of
the clerk of the Superior Court of Chancery, when appeals shall be allowed
from such interlocutory decrees, to make out a copy of the record, without
delay; and should the party or parties at whose instance such appeal may be
allowed, fail to file, with the clerk of the Supreme Court, a cop ' of the record.
on or before the first day of the next succeeding term of the Supreme Court.
after the allowance of such appeal, such appeal shall be dismissed, unless good
cause be shown to the contrary. And in all appeals taken from, and writs of
error or supersedeas, granted to, the final judgments or decrees of any Circuit
Court of law, or Superior Court of Chancery, in case the copy of the record
in the cause below, shall not be filed with the clerk of the Supreme Court, 011
or before the first day of the term, to which such appeal was taken, or writ of
error or supersedeas may be returnable, it shall be lawful for the court. On
motion of the defendant in error, and on producing a copy of the citation duly
served on the defendant, to dismiss the cause ; but the same may be reinstated
at any time during the term, if good cause be shown to the satisfaction of the
COUI‘t, Why 8 copy of the record was not filed in due time.—See c. 54, 8- ‘J. i
37.

17. Cases docketed in the Order Received, and so Heard. The clerk of the said
court shall carefully preserve the transcripts of records certified to his court, and
all papers relative thereto; docketing all causes brought by appeal, writ of ‘error,
or otherwise, in the order he shall receive them, that they may be heard in the
same course, unless the court for good cause shown, direct any to be heard 0l_l1
of its turn; and shall faithfully record the proceedin s and decisions of Sfild
court, and certify the same to the proper courts. Anti all causes shall be tried
by the said Supreme Court, at the return term, unless satisfactory cause
shown for a continuance.

19. Clerks below, to Receive and Pay Costs above. The clerk of CVCVY,
Circuit Court, Superior Court of Chancery, and Register of every Orphans
Court, in this state, shall receive and pay to the clerk of the Supreme COW’
all costs which ma have accrued in said court, in any cause or contr0Y9’5l"
which may have een brought into the Supreme Court, from such C1_T°“"
Court, Superior Court of Chancery or Orphans’ Court wherein a final N58’

mentor decree shall be rendered or passed, and certified to the court below, to
be carried into effect, by execution or otherwise, as the case may be; and any
clerk or register failing to pay such costs, on demand, after he shall have
received the same, may be proceeded against, by motion, in the Supreme Court,
in the same manner that sheriffs may be proceeded against, for money received
on executions.——See a. 4, § 3. .

20. Copy of Appeal or Writ of Error Bond sent up ; and in case of A17irmance, Judgment above against Principal and Surety. A certified copy of the
bond required by law, to be given by the appellant or plaintiff in error, on all
appeals, writs of error or supersedeas, shall be transmitted by the clerk of the
court below, with the transcript of the record of the cause in which such
appeal was taken, or writ of error, or supersedeas granted, and in case the
judgment or decree of the court below shall be affirmed, or the appellant or
plaintiff in error shall fail to prosecute the same to effect, the Supreme Court
shall enter up judgment or decree, against all the obligors in such bond, both
principal and surety, for the debt, damages, and costs, which may be adjudged
to the appellee or defendant in error; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the court below, on the certificate of the ‘clerk of the Supreme Court, to issue
execution thereon, accordingly.

24. Citation to Defendant in Error. It shall be the duty of the clerk below,
at the time of issuing any writ of error or supersedeas, to issue a citation to
the defendant in error, to appear and answer such writ at the next term of
the Supreme Court, which shall be served on such defendant or his attorne
of record, at least ten days before the term of the Supreme Court, to which
the writ of error is returnable, and shall be sent up with a transcript of the
record, and filed among the papers in the cause ; and if such citation be not
issued and served as aforesaid, the writ of error or supersedeas shall be
dismissed, unless the court shall be satisfied that such failure did not happen in
consequence of the negligence or default of the plaintiff in error, his agent or

attorne .
25. Feste of Process; Alias; Process of Revivor in Supreme Court. All

writs and processes issuing from the Supreme Court shall bear test of the presiding judge of such court, and shall be under the seal of said court, and sigxned
by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to the sheriff or other proper o cer
of any county in the state, and shall be by him executed according to the
commands thereof, and returned to the court from which they emanated. And
whenever such writ or process shall not be executed, the clerk of said court,
is hereby authorized and required, to issue another like writ or process upon
the application of the party suing out the former writ or process; and where
any person, plaintiff or defendant, in any suit depending in the said court,
shall be dead, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the said court, during the recess
of the court, upon application, to issue proper process, to enable the court to
proceed to a final judgment or decree, in the names of the Representatives of

such deceased person.
33. No Appeal, <j~c., after Dismission. After the dismission of an appeal,

writ of error or supersedeas in the Supreme Court, no appeal, writ of error or
supersedeas shall be allowed.

ARTICLE 2. From the Circuit Court Act-—June 28, 1822.

§ 149. How Writs of Error allowed—-how Judgment or Decree superseded
—Damages of A_[7irmance. N o writ of error shall be allowed by the Supreme
Court, or any judge thereof, unless such a court or judge shall  of opinion
from an inspection of the record, judgment, or decree, that there is good cause

to reconsider the said judgment or decree ; and no writ of error shall operate as
a supersedeas ; nor shall any supersedeas be granted of any judgment or decree,
unless the plaintiff or plaintiffs in error first enter into bond, to the adverse party, with good and sufficient security, to be approved of by the court or judge
granting the writ, conditioned that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ
to effect, and for the payment of the judgment or decree, damages, interests
and costs in case such judgment or decree shall be affirmed, and also, for the
performing of the sentence, judgment, or decree, which the Supreme Court may
render therein; And in case the Supreme Court shall affirm entirely, an ' judgment or decree brought before them, if such judgment or decree be for the payment of mone , the plaintiff in error, if he be the defendant below, shall
pay to the de endant in error, ten per centum damages on the amount due,
besides interest from the time of rendering the original judgment or decree.But see a. 4, s. 4, a. 5, c. 54, a. 19, s. 8.

§ 150. Appeal from Circuit Court only in Term-—No Appeal or Writ qf
Error until after Final Judgment. No appeal shall be taken from the judgment of any Circuit Court, unless the same be prayed for, and allowed, during
the term at which such judcrment was rendered; and no writ of error or supersedeas shall be granted in any case until final judgment in the Circuit

ourt. - _ j

§ 151. Clerk below to give the Transcript on anwal, cj-c.—his Dutg/—Pen.
alty for Refusal or Insujficient Transcript. hen any appeal, writ of error
or supersedeas shall be granted on an judgment or decree of a Circuit Court
or Court of Chancery, the clerk of such court shall immediately make up a full
and perfect record of all the proceedings in such cause, and shall, on the application of either party, give to such party, an attested copy of such record,
with a taxation of all costs, which have accrued therein, and shall endorse on
such copy, the day on which the same was demanded, and the day on which
it is delivered, and sign his name as clerk thereto; and if by reason of the
neglect or delay of any clerk, to give a transcript of a record in any cause as
aforesaid, the same shall not be filed in the Supreme Court in due time, or if
the record be erroneously or incorrectly made up, so that the Supreme C0011
cannot proceed thereon to a final decision, such clerk shall in either case, upon
conviction thereof, before an court of competent jurisdiction, be adjudged
guiltv ofa misdemeanor in office, and shall be fined in a sum not exceedin
two hundred dollars, to the use of the party entitled to such attested copy. 3"
shall, moreover, be liable to an action on the case for all damages, which such
party may sustain by reason of such neglect or delay: Provided, That if the
Supreme Court should be of opinion, that there is sufficient matter of substance
in the transcript of the record and proceedings on any appeal, writ of error or
supersedeas, to enable them to proceed thereon to a final decision, the same
shall not be dismissed for want of form, any thing herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding.

§ 52. Damages of Ajirmance on Failure to prosecute Appeal, <§~c. If any
party praying, and obtaining an appeal, writ of error or supersedeasgon any
judgment or decree of a Circuit Court or Court of Chancery, to the Supreme
Court, shall fail to prosecute such appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, or shall
dismiss the same, after the record shall be filed with the clerk of the Supreme
Court, such party shall, if he be the defendant in the court below, pay to the,
appellee or defendant in error, the like dam es on the jud ment or decree Of
the court below, in case the same be for lathe payment 0 mone ,as if such
judgment or decree had been entirely aflirmed, and the clerk 0 such 0011“
shall issue execution thereon accordingly.—See c. 54, a. 19, § 8.

ARTICLE. 3. An Act to provide for giving notice to Absent Defendants in certain
cases —Jan. 29, 1829.

§ 1. Whenever a cause shall bere moved
to the Supreme Court, by writ of error, and the court is satisfied, that the defendant in error is a non-resident, and has no attorney of record within this
state, it shall be the duty of the said court, to cause notice of the pendency of
said cause to be published for three weeks in some public newspaper, the first
of which, shall be at least three months before the sitting of the next term of
the court in which the case is pending, within this state, on proof of which
publication, the court shall proceed to hear and determine said cause, in the
same manner, as if process ad been actually served upon the said defendant.

ARTICLE. 4. An Act to Amend the 54th section of an Act entitled “ an Act to establish a Court of Chancery in this State, and to prescribe the Rules of Proceeding therein-Passed November 27, 1821; and for other purposes’’—Feb. 10, 1830.

§ 1. So much of
the act as authorizes the clerks of the respective Courts of Chancery, after a
determination of any suit, to record the depositions or other testimony taken
in such suit, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed: Provided, That this
act shall not be construed to ap ly to copies of records required to be made out
of cases taken to the Supreme ourt by Appeal.

§ 2. The first section of this act shall govern the clerk of the Supreme Court of
the State of Mississippi, in all cases which have been, or may be transferred
to that court from a Court of Chancery, before a final decision in a Court of
Chancery.

§ 3. Clerk may issue Execution for Costs. In all cases which have been, or
may hereafter be determined in the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi,
it shall be lawful for the clerk to issue execution or executions for the costs
which shall have accrued in said court, in the same manner that clerks of
the Circuit Courts are by law authorized to issue executions for costs which
accrue in the Circuit Courts.

§ 4. Writ of Error demandable of Right within three years—supersedeas at
any time pending the Writ-—but no Writ of Error on a Confessed Judgment.
Hereafter writs of error shall be demandable as a matter of right, upon the
party applying for such writ filing in the ofiice of the clerk of the Supreme
Court, a transcript of the record from the court below : and upon such application, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the Supreme Court to issue a writ
of error, and also a citation to the defendant in error; but such writs shall not
0 rate as a supersedeas, unless by an order of the judge of the Supreme
Cibeurt, nor until bond with security shall be given, as may be required by such
judge, and a supersedeas may be granted at any time during the pendency of
such writ: Provided, That no writ of error shall issue unless within three
years from the rendition of the 'udgment or decree, sought to be reversed:
And provided, also, that no writ 0 error shall issue to reverse any judgment
rendered by confession.

§ 1. Writs

of error and citations, now issuable by the clerk of the Supreme Court,
shall hereafter be issued by the clerk of the Circuit Courts and Courts of

Chancery respectively, returnable to the Supreme Court: and that so much
of the fourth section of an act, passed the 10th day of February, 1830, as anthorizes the clerk of the Supreme Court, to issue said writs and citations, is
hereby repealed.

ARTICLE. 6. From the Act of hlarch 2, 1833, Organizing the Present Circuit
Court.

§ 15. In all controversies in law and equity depending in the Circuit Courts,
every suitor or party litigant deeming himself or herself aggrieved by the opinions of the court, in matters of law, whether given by char e or instruction
to the jury, or as a specified sentence, 'udgment or decree o the court, may
thereon appeal to the High Court of rrors and Appeals, and shall forthwith tender a bill of exceptions to such charge or instructions, sentence,
judgment or decree ; which bill of exceptions shall truly state the
charge or instructions to the jury, or the sentence, judgment or decree
of said court, and the same shall be signed by the judge; and the clerk of
said court shall make out the transcript of the record and all papers therein.
and shall certify the same, under his hand and seal of office ; and deposit them
in the clerk’s oflice of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, on or before the
next term of said court ; and the clerk of the Circuit Court shall be entitled to
three dollars for the transcript and deposit aforesaid, to be taxed in the bill of
cost; and the clerk of the High Court of Errors and Appeals shall receive
and file said apers in his otiice, and shall enter the suit on his docket,
and such furt er proceedings and judicial measures shall be had herein in
the High Court of Errors and Appeals as are had on appeals in the Supreme Court, and are conformable to the provisions contained in the act
of Assembly, passed June 29th, 1822, entitled “An act to establish and organize the Supreme Court, and to define the powers and jurisdiction thereof ;” and the said suit shall so be proceeded on until final judgment and
execution shall be had therein.

ARTICLE. 7. An Act in Relation to Writs of Error—]lIay 13, 1837.

§ 1. Hereafter, when any party,
plaintiff, or defendant to any judgment or decree rendered in any court in this
state. shall desire to have such judgment or decree revived by the High Court
of Errors and Appeals, he, she, or they, may apply by petition, to the clerk of
the court where such judgment or decree was made or rendered, for the issuance of a writ of error; which writ of error it shall be the duty of such clerk
to issue, to operate as a supersedeas ; the petitioner or petitioners giving bond.
with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved of by said clerk.
conditioned in the manner now prescribed by law. And said clerk shall thereupon, also issue a citation to the adverse party, directed and returnable in the
manner now directed b law.

§ 2. The stifliciency of such security taken as aforesaid, may be excepted to in vacation,
before any judcre of said High Court of Errors and Appeals; and if such exceptions shall be sustained, and security be not immediately thereafter p6f°
fected, such writs of error shall cease to operate as a supersedeas, and 83'
ecution may immediately issue on such judgment or decree. A

§ 4. No writ of error shall be granted in a case where a forthcoming bond shall have been given and forfeited ; and upon all affirmances of
the judgments under this act, the same damages shall be allowed, as are now
recognised on appeal cases.

ARTICLE. 8. From the Act Regulating the ‘Proceedings in the High Court—Feb.
14, I839.

§ 6. Whenever by law, or the rules of the said High Court of Errors and
Appeals, it shall be necessary to assign errors or plead to such assignments to
enter the appearance of either arty or any motion on the first day of any
term, or within a limited time a ter, it shall be sufiicient if the same be done
on the day prescribed for taking up the docket on which ma be placed the

case in which such proceeding shall be necessary, or within t e same limited
time after.

ARTICLE. 9. An Act to Secure the Right of Appellants and Plaintifs in Error,
and for other purposes—Feb. 6. 1841.

§ 1. Hereafter no writ of error shall be dismissed
by the High Court of rrors and Appeals of this state, at the term to which the
same is returned into said court, for want of citation, or service, or for improper service thereof, upon the defendant or defendants in error; but in case no such
citation shall appear from the record or papers filed therewith to have been issued, or havinrr been issued not to have been served, or to have been improperly served, t e said High Court of Errors and Appeals shall, upon motion of
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in error, or his or their attorney of record, order a
citation to be issued b the clerk of said court, directed to the sheriff of the
proper county, returna le to the next term of the said court; and shall continue the cause to such next term : Provided, That if, in the opinion of the ‘court,
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in error have not used due diligence to have the
defendant or defendants in error duly cited to the first term, it may discharge the supersedeas. Hereafter no writ of error shall be dismissed for want of assignment of error,
but it shall be the duty of the Court, in all cases, to examine the record and determine the cause according to law, whether the error, if any, be assigned or
not.

ARTICLE 10. An Act supplemental to an Act entitled “ an Act to secure the ri hts

of Appellants and Plaintiffs in error, and for other purposes, approved ebruary 6th, l84l.”—July 25, 1843.

§ 1. Either of the parties in an cause taken into the
High Court of Errors and Appeals of this State, shall ave the right to file
among the papers in any such cause, a brief or written argument at any‘ time
before the cause is taken out for final decision by the court; and it s all be
the dury of said court to take up said cause for consideration whenever the
same shall be regularly reached on the docket, whether such cause be formally
submitted or not, and carefully examine the whole case, and decide the same
upon its real merits; any rule of said court requiring the personal presence of
any party having filed such written brief or argument, or his counsel to the
contrary notwithstanding: Provided, That any such cause may be continued
for good cause shown by either party.

