Sectio• 1. Title a•d divisio• of t!,is vol"•e. 
Sec. 1. This act shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of Montana,
and is divided into five parts, as follows: 
Part I. Courts of Justice.
Part II. Civil Actions.
Part III. Special Proceedings of a Civil Nature. 
Part IV. Evidence.
Part V. Definitions and General Provisions. 
Chapter
Be ii nacted /Jy t!,e Legislative Asse11thly of t!,e State of Mo,,ta11t1. 
I.
II. 
III. 
IV. 
v. 
VI. 
VII. 
To Establish a Code of Civil Procedure. 
ORGANIZATION AND JURISDICTIO~. 
Co,,rts of '7,ut,'ce ;,. Gneral.
Co,,rt of .f m;eacl,ment.
Supreme Court,
District Courts, 
'Y"sticel Courts.
Police Courts. 
Geserat Prooisioes Res/ecti11g Courts of 'Y"stic•. 
COURTS OF JUSTICE IN GENERAL. 
Section 1. TN• seuerat courts of tkis State.
3. Courts of record. 
Sec. 2. The following are courts of justice of this State: 
I. The Court of Impeachment. 
2. The Supreme Court.
3. The District Courts. 
4- The J ustices' Courts. 
5. The police courts, and such other inferior courts as the Legislative As­ 
sembly may establish in any incorporated city or town.
PART I. 
COURTS OF JUSTICE. 
TITLE I. 
CHAPTER I. 

Sec. 3. The courts enumerated in the first three subdivisions of the last 
preceding Section, and only those courts are courts of record, 


Sec. 6. The Court of Impeachment is the Senate ; when sitting as such
court, the senators must be upon oath or affirmation. No person shall be con­
victed without a concurrence of two-thirds of the senators elected. 
Sec. 7. The court has jurisdiction to try impeachments, when presented by
the House of Representatives, of the Governor and other State and judicial
officers, except justices of the peace, for high crimes and misdemeanors or mal­
feasance in office. 
Sec. 8. The officers of the Senate are officers of the court.
Sec. 9. Proceedings on trial of impeachments are provided for in the Penal 
Code. 
CHAPTER II
Sectio11 1 a. 
13.
14. 
~&: 
'".f estice«, e/e-:tions, and terms of office.
Computlltio11 of years of office,
Vacancies,
Wl,o sl,a/1 preside. 
Terms of Supreme Coert; etc. 
17. Decisions to l,e ;,. writing.
18. 7uri"sdiction.
19- Originlll j•risdictio11. 
20. App,llate. 
COURT OF IMPEACHMENT. 
SUPREME COURT. 
::n. Powers i11 appealed cases. 
CHAPTER II. 
CHAPTER III. 
22. Concerrence necessarv,
23. Pending appeal S11preme Coert may co11ti1111e 1"njH11rt1"011, a11d •ay grattl ;,,. 
junctions -wje,. rigkt., of /1,e puhlt'c require. 
Sec. 12. The Supreme Court consists of a chief justice and two associate
justices, who shall be elected by the qualified electors of the State at large, at
the general State elections next preceding the expiration of the terms of office
of their predecessors respectively, and hold their offices for the term of six
years from and after the first Mondays of January next succeeding their elec­
tion ; provided, that of the justices elected at the general State election of 1889,
the chief justice shall go out of office on the first Monday of January, 1893.
and the two associate justices shall go out· of office on the first Mondays of
January, 1895 and 1897, respectively. 
Sec. 13. The years during which a justice of the Supreme Court is to hold
office are to be computed respectively from and including the first Monday of
January of any one year to and excluding the first Monday of January of the
next succeeding year. 
Sec. 14. If a vacancy occur in the office of a justice of the Supreme Court,
the Governor must appoint an eligible person to hold the office until the elec­
tion and qualification of a justice to fill the vacancy, which election must take
place at the next succeeding general election; and the justice so elected holds
the office for the remainder of the unexpired term of his predecessor. 
Sec. 15. The chief justice presides at all sessions of the Supreme Court,
and in case of his absence, the associate justice having the shortest term to
serve presides in his stead. A majority of the justices is necessary to form a 
quorum or pronounce a decision, but one or more of the justices may adjourn
the court from day to day or to a day certain. 
Sec. 16. Four terms of the Supreme Court must be held each year at the
seat of government, commencing on the first Tuesdays of March, June, Octo­
ber and December. The chief justice or any two justices has power to call a
special term at any time. If proper rooms in which to hold the court, and for
the accommodation of the officers thereof, are not provided by the State, to­
gether with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and suffi­
cient for the transaction of business, the court, or any two justices thereof,
may direct the clerk of the Supreme Court to provide such rooms, attendants,
furniture, lights, fuel and stationery ; and the expenses thereof, certified by
any two justices to be correct, must be paid out of the State treasury, out of
any funds in the State treasury not otherwise appropriated. 
Sec. 17. In the determination of causes, all decisions of the Supreme Court
must be given in writing, and the grounds of the decision must be stated. 
Sec. 18. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is of two kinds: 
1. Original ; and, 
2. Appellate,
Sec. 19. In the exercise of its original jurisdiction the Supreme Court has 
power to issue writs of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition, injunction, and
kabeas corpus,- also has power to issue all other writs necessary and proper to
the complete exercise of its appellate jurisdiction. 
Sec. 20. The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court extends to all
cases at law and in equity. 
Sec. 21. The Supreme court may affirm, reverse or modify any judgment
or order appealed from, and may direct the proper judgment or order to be
entered, or direct a new trial or further proceedings to be had. The decision
of the court must be given in writing and a syllabus thereof must be prepared
by the court and filed with the opinion ; and in giving its decision, if a new
trial be granted, the court must pass upon and determine all the questions of
law involved in the case, presented upon such appeal, and necessary to the
final determination of the case. Its judgment in appealed cases must be
remitted to the court from which the appeal was taken. 
Sec. 22. The concurrence of two justices of the Supreme Court is necessary
for the issuance of any writ, or the transaction of any business, except such as
can be done at chambers; provided, that each of the justices has power to
issue writs of kabeas corpus to any part of the State, upon petition by or on
behalf of any person held in actual custody, and may make such writs return­
able before himself or the Supreme Court, or judge thereof, or before any
District Court in the State, or any judge thereof. 
Sec. 23. The Supreme Court may continue in force an injunction order
made by a District Court, or judge, or grant an injunction order and writ 
pending an appeal to the Supreme Court from an order of a District Court, or
judge, refusing or dissolving an injunction, upon such terms and under such
rules as the Supreme Court may establish. No action to obtain an injunction
must be commenced in the Supreme Court, except in cases where the State is
a party, or in which the public is interested, or the rights of the pubJic are in­
volved, but the proper District Court, has jurisdiction of all injunctions, and
the commencement of all actions therefor, except as in this Section provided.
The Supreme Court may provide rules for the commencement and trial of
actions for injunctions in that court. 
CHAPTER II
Sectio" 30. Districts.
31. Additio,,al districts. 
CHAPTER IV. 
DISTRICT COURTS. 
31. Electioe and terms of judges. 
Set:tio• 33. Terms of ojfit:e. 
3+ Computntio• of years of ojfit:e. 
35. Vacancy,
36. District Coerts hy i•dges of ot!,el' t:ou•ties.
37. '711dges, pro tempore. 
38. Sessio•s and terms. 
39· Adjonrnment«, 
40. 'J•risdit:tio11 of two lti11ds. 
41. Origi•al j•risdit:tio•.
42. Appellate jurisdit:tio11. 
43. Process.
4+ Addita'ot1al j•dges in a district, t!,eir d1dt'es and powers. 
45. Eleve,atl, ':Judicial District created. 
46. 7•dge to le appo1'11ted.
47. Powers a11d t:ompe,uatt'o• of judge.
48. Te11tlt '711dict'a/ Di1trict ho•11ded. 
49. Limitatio11. 
Sec. 30. In this State there are eleven judicial districts, constituted as fol.
lows: 
First District, Lewis and Clarke county.
Second District, Silver Bow county.
Third District, Deer Lodge and Granite counties.
Fourth District, Missoula and Ravalli counties.
Fifth District, Beaverhead, Jefferson and Madison counties.
Sixth District, Park and Meagher counties.
Seventh District, Yellowstone, Custer and Dawson counties.
Eighth District, Cascade county.
Ninth District, Gallatin county.
Tenth District, Choteau, Fergus and Valley counties.
Eleventh District, Flathead and Teton counties. 

Sec. 31. That from and after the passage of this Act the Sixth Judicial
District shall consist of the counties of Park, Sweetgrass and Carbon. The
Seventh Judicial District shall consist of the counties of Yellowstone, Custer
and Dawson. The Ninth Judicial District shall consist of the counties of Gal­
latin and Meagher. 

Sec. 32. In each judicial district there must be a judge of the District
Court who must be elected by the qualified electors of the district, and whose
term of office is four years. In the first and second districts there must be
two judges in each district. 

Sec. 33. The term of office of judges of the District Court begins on the
first Monday of January next succeeding their election. 
Sec. 34. The years during which a judge of a District Court is to hold of.
fice are to be computed respectively from and including the first Monday of
January of any one year to and excluding the first Monday of January, of the
next succeeding year. 
Sec. 35. If a vacancy occur in the office of judge of a District Court, the
Governor must appoint an eligible person to hold the office until the election 
and qualification of a judge to fill the vacancy, which election must take place
at the next succeeding general election, and the judge so elected holds office
for the remainder of the unexpired term. 
Sec. 36. A judge of the District Court of any judicial district may hold the
District Court in any county of another district than his own, at the request of
the judge thereof, and, upon the request of the Governor, it is his duty to do
so; and in either case the judge holding the court has the same power either
in court or chambers as a judge thereof. 
Sec. 37. A civil action in the District Court may be tried by a judge pro 
tempore, who must be a member of the bar of the State, agreed upon in writ­
ing by the parties litigant, or their attorneys of record, approved by the court, 
and sworn to try the cause; and in such case any order, judgment or decree
made or rendered therein by such judge pro temport, shall have the same force
and effect as if made or rendered by the court with the regular judge presid­
ing. A judge pro ltmpore shall, before entering upon his duties, be sworn to
try the cause. 
Sec. 38. The District Court of each county which is a judicial district by
itself has no terms, but must be always open for the transaction of business, 
except on legal holidays and non-judicial days, and must hold its sessions at the
county seat. Juries for the trial of causes must be called on the first Monday
of every alternate month, if the judge so direct, and oftener, if public business
requires. In each district where two or more counties are united, the judge
thereof must fix the terms of court in each county in his district, which must
be held at the county seat, and there must be at least four terms a year in each
county. The judge of such District Court must, within ten days after the tak­
ing effect of this Code, and thereafter, within ten days after the first day of
January in each year, make an order which must designate the times at which
the terms of court are to be held in each county in his district during the year,
and must cause said order, or a copy thereof, to be filed in the office of the
clerk of the District Court in each county in his district, and such clerk must
cause the same to be published in some newspaper printed in his county, once
a week for four successive weeks, immediately after the filing of such order,
the cost of which shall be a county charge, and no change in the time of hold­
ing the terms so fixed in any county must be made during the year. A dis­
trict judge may adjourn a term of court in one county to a future day certain,
and in the meantime hold court in another county. 
Sec. 39. Adjournments from day to day, or from time to time, are to be
construed as recesses in the sessions or terms, and shall not prevent the court
from sitting at any time. 
Sec. 40. The jurisdiction of the District Court is of two kinds: 
I. Original ; and, 
2. Appellate.
Sec. 41. The District Court has original jurisdiction in all cases at law and 
in equity, including all cases which involve the title or right of possession of
real property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll or municipal
fine, and in all cases in which the debt, damage, claim or demand, exclusive of
interest, or the value of the property in controversy exceeds fifty dollars; and
in all criminal cases amounting to felony, and in all cases of misdemeanor not
otherwise provided for ; of actions of forcible entry and unlawful detainer ; of
proceedings in insolvency; of actions to prevent or abate a nuisance ; of all
matters of probate ; of actions of divorce, and for annullment of marriage, and
for all such special actions and proceedings as are not otherwise provided for.
And such courts have the power of naturalization, and to issue papers therefor,
in all cases where they are authorized to do so by the laws of the United States.
Said courts. and judges thereof have power also to issue, hear and determine
writs of mandamus, quo warranto, certiorari, prohibition, injunction and other
original remedial writs, and also all writs of kabeas corpus, on petition by, or on
behalf of any person held in actual custody in their respective districts.
Injunctions, writs of prohibition and habeas corpus, may be issued and served
on legal holidays and non-judicial days. 
Sec. 42. The District Court has appellate jurisdiction in such cases arising
in justices' and other inferior courts in their respective districts, as may be pre­
scribed by law, and consistent with the Constitution. 
Sec. 43. The process of the District Court extends to all parts of the State,
provided that all actions for the recovery of, the possession of, quieting the title to, or the enforcement of liens upon real property, must be commenced
in the county in which the real property, or any part thereof, affected by such
action or actions, is situated. 
Sec. 44. Whenever the number of judges in any judicial district is increased
by the addition of one or more judges, the judges of such court may hold as
many sessions or terms of said court at the same time as there are judges
thereof, and must apportion the business among themselves as equally as may
be. They may divide the court into departments, prescribe the order of busi­
ness, and make any rules for the government of such court, not inconsistent
with the Constitution or laws of the State, as may seem proper. 
The salaries of such additional judges are the same in amount, and must be
paid in the same manner as the .salaries of other judges of the District Court
in such district. 
Sec. 45. That there be and hereby is created a new Judicial District of the
State of Montana, to be known as the Eleventh Judicial District, and that the
same embrace and comprise the entire territory within the counties of Flathead
and Teton, which, from and after the passage and approval of this Act shall
constitute the Eleventh Judicial District of the State of Montana. 

Sec. 46. That within thirty days after the passage of this Act the Gov­
ernor of this State shall duly appoint some fit and qualified person Judge of the
said Eleventh Judicial District to hold his office until his successor shall be
duly elected and qualified. 

Sec. 47. The compensation, powers and duties of the Judge of said Eleventh
Judicial District shall be the same as are provided by law and the Constitution
of the State for District Judges. 

Sec. 48. The Tenth Judicial District of the State of Montana shall here­
after be composed of the territory within the counties of Choteau, Valley and
Fergus. 

Sec. 49. The provisions of this Act shall not work the removal of the
Judge of the said Tenth Judicial District, nor of any Clerk of the District
Court of any of the counties of Choteau, Valley, Fergus, Teton or Flathead,
but each of the Clerks of the said District Courts shall continue to hold his
office and enjoy the emoluments thereof as if this Act had not been passed. 
CHAPTER II
Sectio• 6o. 
61. 
6~.
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
~: 
CHAPTER V. 
JUSTICES' COURTS. 
7,uticu' courts and justices.
Courts, w/,ere /,eld.
W!,a/ justice may /,old court for a•ot!,er.
Territorial extent of cioil jurisdictio11.
Terms of office.
Vacancies,
Civil jurisdictio11.
Coscer rext jurisdictio11.
Criminal jurisdt'clio1t. 
Sec. 6o. There must be at least two justices' courts in each of the organized
townships of the State, for which two justices of the peace must be elected by
the qualified electors of the township at the general State election next pre­
ceding the expiration of the term of office of his predecessor. 
Sec. 61. A justice's court may be held at any place selected by the justice
holding the same, in the township for which he is elected or appointed; and
such court is always open for the transaction of business, except on legal
holidays and non-judicial days. 
Sec. 62. A justice of the peace of !ny township may hold the court of any
other justice of the peace of the same county at his request, and while so
acting is vested with the power of the justice for whom he so holds court, in 
which case the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending justice,
subscribed by him, must be made in the docket of the justice for whom he so
holds the court. 
Sec. 63. The civil jurisdiction of justices' courts extends to the limits of
the county in which they are held, and mesne and final process of any justice's 
court in a county may be issued to and served in any part of the county. 

Sec. 64. The term of office of justices of the peace is two years from the
first Monday in January next succeeding their election. 

Sec. 65. If a vacancy occurs in the office of a justice of the peace, the
county commissioners of the county must appoint an eligible person to hold
the office for the remainder of the unexpired term. 
Sec. 66. The justices' courts have civil jurisdiction: 
1. In actions arising on contract for the recovery of money only if the sum
claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars. 
2. In actions for damages for injury to the person, or for taking, detaining,
or injuring personal property, or for injury to real property, where no issue is
raised by the verified answer of the defendant involving the title to or posses­
sion of the same, if the damages claimed do not exceed three hundred dollars. 
3. In actions to recover the possession of personal property, if the value of
such property does not exceed three hundred dollars. 
+ In actions for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, not exceeding three hundred
dollars, given by statute, or the ordinance of an incorporated city or town, 
where no issue is raised by the answer involving the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal fine. 
5. In actions upon bonds or undertakings conditioned for the payment of
money, if the sum claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars, though the
penalty may exceed that sum. 
6. To take and enter judgment for the recovery of money on the confession
of a defendant, when the amount confessed does not exceed three hundred
dollars. 
Sec. 67. The justices' courts have concurrent jurisdiction with the District
Courts within their respective townships, in actions of forcible entry and
unlawful detainer. 
Sec. 68. The justices' courts have jurisdiction of the following public
offenses committed within the respective counties in which such courts are
established : 
1. Petit larceny. 
2. Assault in the third degree, as defined in Section 402, of the Penal
Code. 
3. Breaches of peace, riots, routs, affrays, committing a willful· injury to
property, and all misdemeanors punishable by fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. 
Sec. 69. Police Courts are established in incorporated cities and towns, and
their. organization, jurisdiction, and powers are provided for in the Political
Code. 
CHAPTER VII . 
. GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING COURTS OF JUSTICE • 
Article 
I. Publicity of proceedings.
II. Incidental powers and dldies of courts, 
Ill. 711dicial days. 
CHAPTER VI. 
POLICE COURTS. 

. 
.A rticl« IV. Prou•di11gs ;,, case of ahse•ce of i,uJKe,
V. Provisio11s resJecti11g /lace of l,o/di11g court», 
VI. Seals of caerts, 
Sect,011 100. Si'lli•g.s, Jdlic. 
PUBLICITY OF PROCEEDINGS. 
101. Sitti11g.s, wl,e,, private. 
Sec. 100. The sittings of every court of justice must be public, except as
provided in the next Section. 
Sec. 101. In an action for divorce, criminal conversation, seduction, or
breach of promise of marriage, the court may direct the trial of any issue of
fact joined therein to be private, and exclude all persons except the officers of
the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel; provided, that in any cause
the court may, in the exercise of a sound discretion, during the examination of
a witness, exclude any or all witnesses in the cause. 

Sec. 110. Every court has power: 
I. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence. 
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or per­
sons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority. 
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it or its officers. 
+ To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and process, and to the
orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding pending therein. 
5. To control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial offi­
cers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceed­
ing before it, in every other matter appertaining thereto. 
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in an action or proceed­
ing pending therein, in the cases and manner provided in this Code. 
7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending therein, and in
all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise of its powers and 
duties.
8. To amend and control its process and orders so as lo make them con­ 
formable to law and justice.
Sec. 111. Every court of record may make rules not inconsistent with the 
laws of this State, for its own government and the government of its officers :
but such rules must not impose any tax or charge upon any legal proceeding,
or give any allowance to any officer for services. 
Sec. 112. Rules adopted by any court take effect thirty days after their
publication. 

ARTICLE I. 
ARTICLE II. 
ARTICLE III. 
JUDICIAL DAYS. 
Ill. Appoinlme11t.s o• 11011j11dicial days. 
Sec. 120. Courts of justice may be held and judicial business transacted on
any day, except as provided in the next Section. 
Sec. 121. No court must be open, nor must any judicial business be trans·
acted on Sunday, on the first day of January, on the twenty-second day of
February, on the fourth day of July, on the twenty-fifth day of December, on 
the thirtieth day of May, on the first Monday of September, on a day on which
an election is held throughout the State, on a day appointed by the President
of the United States, or by the Governor of this State, for a public fast,
thanksgiving, or holiday, except for the following purposes: 
1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury when deliberating on
their verdict. 
2. To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury.
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate ih a criminal action, or in 
a proceeding of a criminal nature; but injunctions, writs of prohibition and
habeas corpus may be issued and served on any day. 
Sec. 122. If any day mentioned in the last Section happen to be the day
appointed for the holding or sitting of a court, or to which it is adjourned, it
must be considered appointed for or adjourned to the next day. 
ARTICLE IV. 
PROCEEDINGS IN CASE OF ABSENCE OF JUDGE. 
Seclio11 130. Adj011rt11net1I for ah.""c, of j#dge. 
131. Adjo#r1111u11l lill 11ed r,gwlar sessio«. 
Sec. 130. If no judge attend on the day appointed for the holding or sitting
of the court, or on a day to which it may have been adjourned, before noon,
the sheriff or clerk may adjourn the same, until the next day, at ten o'clock
a. m., and if no judge attend on that day, before noon, the sheriff or clerk may
adjourn the same until the following day, at the same hour, and so on, from
day to day for six days, unless the judge, by written order or telegram, directs
it to be adjourned to some day certain, fixed in said order or telegram, in which
case it must be so adjourned. 
Sec. 131. If no judge attend for six days, and no written order or telegram
be made or sent, as provided in the last Section, the sheriff or clerk must 
adjourn the term until the time appointed for the holding of the next regular
term. 
ARTICLE V. 
PROVISIONS RESPECTING PLACES OF HOLDING COURTS. 
Sectio11 140. C"a•ge ;,, cerlai11 cases of I/ace of l,o/di11g coert, 
141. Parties lo ajjear al place appoi11ted. 
14:J. W"•• derilf to provid• coert rooms, etc. 
Sec. 140. The judge of the District Court authorized to hold or preside at 
a court appointed to be held at a particular place, may, by an order filed with 
the clerk, and published as he may prescribe, direct that the court be held or
continued at any other place in the county than that appointed, when war,
insurrection, pestilence, or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, or the
destruction or danger of the public building appointed for the holding the
court, may render it necessary; and may, in the same manner, revoke the
order, and in his discretion, appoint another place in the same county for hold­
ing the court. 
Sec. 141. When the court is held at the place appointed, as provided in the
last Section, every person held to appear at the court must appear at the place
so appointed. 
Sec. 142. If suitable rooms for holding the District Court and chambers of
the judge of said court be not provided in any county, by the Board of County
Commissioners thereof, together with the attendants, furniture, fuel, lights, and
stationery, sufficient for the transaction of business, the court or the judge 
thereof, may direct the sheriff of the county to provide such rooms, attend­
ants, furniture, fuel, lights and stationery ; and the expenses incurred, certified
by the judge to be correct, are a charge against the county treasury, and must
be paid out of the general fund thereof. 
Sectio« 150. Wkat courts .lave seals, 
151. Seal of Supreme Court.
152. Seals of District Courts,
153. Clerk of court to keep seal.
154. Seals of courts to wkat doc"me•ts a'!fi:ied. 
Sec. 150. Each of the following courts shall have a seal : 
1. The Supreme Court. 
2. The District Courts.
Sec. 151. The seal of the Supreme Court is circular in form and not less 
than one and three-fourths inches in diameter, on which is engraved the words
"Supreme Court, State of Montana," with the word "Seal" in the center
thereof, which seal must be procured by the clerk of the Supreme Court at the
expense of the State, and an impression thereof, certified to by the clerk, must
be filed with the Secretary of State. 
Sec. 152. The seals of the District Courts are circular, not less than one
and three-fourths inches in diameter, and having in the center the word "Seal"
and the following inscription surrounding the same: " District Court,
---- County, Montana," inserting the number of the district and the
name of the county, which seal must be procured by the clerk of the court at
the expense of the county, and an impression thereof, certified by the said
clerk, filed with the Secretary of State. 
Sec. 153. The clerk of the court must keep the seal thereof.
Sec. 154. The seal of a court need not be affixed to any proceeding therein 
or document, except: 
1. To a writ. 
2. To the certificate of probate of a will, or of the appointment of an ex­
ecutor, administrator or guardian. 
3. To the authentication of a copy of a record, or other proceeding of a
court or of an officer thereof, or of a copy of a document on file in the office
of the clerk. 
TITLE II. 
JUDICIAL OFFICERS. 
Cka/ter I. 7•dicial offerers ;,. general.
If. Powers and duties ofj11dges at dambers. 
I I I. Disqualiftcations of judges. .
IV. I11cidental powers and duties of judicial officers. 
V. Miscel/aneou., provisions respecting courts attd j•dfrial officers, 
CHAPTER I. 
JUDICIAL OFFICERS IN GENERAL. 
Section 16o. ~•aliftcations of justices of Supreme Court.
161. !2uali/icatiotts of distrirt judges.
162. RcsiJcncc of distric_t judges.
163. Residenc« and qut1lipcation of justices of tl,e peace. 
164,. 'Judges kolding District Courts at request of Governor. 
Sec. 160. No person shall be eligible to the office of justice of the Supreme
Court unless he shall have been admitted to practice law in the Supreme Court
of the Territory or State of Montana, be at least thirty years of age, and a cit­
izen of the United States, nor unless he shall have resided in the State at least
two years next preceding his election. 
Sec. 161. No person shall be eligible to the office of judge of the District
Court unless he be at least twenty-five years of age, and a citizen of the United 
States, and shall have been admitted to practice law in the Supreme Court of
the Territory or State of Montana, nor unless he shall have resided. therein at
least one year next preceding his election. He need not be a resident of the
district for which he is elected at the time of his election, but after his election
he shall reside in the district for which he is elected during his term of office. 
Sec. 162. Each district judge must reside at some county seat in his district.
Sec. 163. Every justice of the peace must reside in the township in which 
his court is held, and no person is eligible to the office of justice of the peace
unless he shall have been a citizen of the United States and a resident of the
county in which he is to serve, for one year next preceding his election or
appointment. 
Sec. 164. If, by reason of sickness, absence, disability, or other cause, a
District Court cannot be held in any county by the judge thereof, or by a dis­
trict judge, requested by him to hold such court, a certificate of that fact must
be transmitted by the clerk thereof to the Governor, who may thereupon
require some district judge to hold such court. 
CHAPTER II. 
POWERS OF JUDGES AT CHAMBERS. 
Sectio« 170. Powers of )•slices of S•/reme Court at cllamhers.
171. Powers oj district }"dges at cl,amhers. 
Sec. 170. Each of the justices of the Supreme Court shall have power to
issue writs of habeas co,:pus to any part of the State, upon petition by or on
behalf of any person held in actual custody, and may make such writs return­
able before himself, or the Supreme Court, or before any District Court of the
State or any judge thereof; and such writs may be heard and determined by
the justice or court, or judge, before whom they are made returnable. Each
of the justices of the Supreme Court may also issue and hear and determine
writs of certiorari in proceedings for contempt in the District Court. 
Sec. 171. The judge of the District Court may at chambers, issue, hear and
determine writs of mandamus, quo uiarranto, certiorari, prohibition, injunction
and other original and remedial writs, and also all writs of habeas corpus on
petition by, or on behalf of, any person held in actual custody in his district,
and grant all orders and writs which are usually granted in the first instance
upon an ex parte application, and, at chambers, hear and dispose of such orders
and writs; and may also, at chambers, make any order, issue any process, and
hear and determine any matter necessary in the exercise of his powers in mat­
ters of probate, or in any action or proceeding provided by law. If a jury is
necessary the judge may open court and obtain a jury as in other cases. 
CHAPTER III. 
DISQUALIFICATIONS OF JUDGES. 
Section 18o. Di.<,quaUjicatio,u to sit or act.
181. Certain jlldges not to practice law. 
181. No judicial officer to ltave partner practicing law.
183. '7udges not lo act in certain cases after term l,as expired. 
Sec. 180. No justice, judge, or justice of the peace, must sit or act as such
in any action or proceeding : 
1. To which he is a party or in which he is interested. 
2. When he is related to either party by consanguinity, or affinity within
the sixth degree, computed according to the rules of law. 
3. When he has been attorney or counsel for either party in the action
or proceeding, or when he rendered or made the judgment order or decision
appealed from. 
But the provisions of this Section shall not apply to the arrangement of the
calendar, or the regulation of the order of business, nor to the power of trans­
{ erring the action or proceeding to some other court. 
Sec. 181. No justice, or a judge of the Court of Record, county clerk, or
clerk of any court, or sheriff, must practice law in any court in this State, nor
act as attorney, agent, or solicitor in the prosecution of any claim or application
for lands, pensions, patent rights, or other proceedings before any department
of the State or general government, or courts of the United States, during his
continuance in office; nor must any justice of the peace practice law before
any justice's court in the county in which he resides. 
Sec. 182. No justice, judge, or other elective judicial official, must have a
partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court of this State. 
Sec. 183. A judge, after the expiration of his term of office, must not act
as attorney or counsel in any action or special proceeding which has been before 
him in his official character. 
CHAPTER IV. 
INCIDENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.
Section 190. Powers of j11dges o•t of court. 
191. Powers of i•dicia/ officers as to co11d11ct of proceedi11gs. 
191. To ;unisl, for co11tempt.
193. To take adt11owledgme11ts aed affidavits.
194. Certificate of /roof. 
Sec. 190. A justice or judge may exercise out of court all the powers ex­
pressly conferred upon a justice or judge, as contra distinguished from the
court. · 
Sec. 191. Every judicial officer has power: 
1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and in pro­
ceedings before him, when he is engaged in the performance of official duty. 
2. To compel obedience to his official orders, as provided in this Code.
3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding before 
him, in the cases and manner provided in this Code.
4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding pending before him, and 
in all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise of his powers and
duties. 
Sec. 192. For the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last Section, a judicial officer may punish for contempt in the cases provided in
this Code. 
Sec. 193. Each of the justices of the Supreme Court and judges of the
District Courts, has power in any part of the State, and every justice of the
peace within his county, to take and certify: 
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of
any other written instrument. 
2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment of any court.
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in this State.
Sec. 194. The certificate of proof or acknowledgment, if made before a jus­ 
tice of the peace, when used in any county other than that in which he resides,
must be accompanied by a certificate under the hand and seal of the clerk of
the county in which the justice resides, setting forth that such justice, at the
time of taking such proof or acknowledgment, was authorized to take the same,
and that the clerk is acquainted with his hand writing, and believes that the
signature to the original certificate is genuine. 
CHAPTER V. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS RESPECTING COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.
Section 200. S11!,seq11e,,t applicatio,,s for orders refesed, u•lu11 ;ro/u"l,ited. 
101. Vio/atio,,s of /recedi11g Sectio«, 
Sectio« 202. Procudi,,gs 110/ atft!(/rd h_v vaca11.c_v ;,, oj/ice. 
103. Procudi11gs lo be ;,, E111rlisk la1'1f"age. 
204. Ahhret•iatio11s a11d fig,,res. 
205. Mea11s lo ca,.,.y jurisdictio" i11to effect. 
Sec. 200. If an application for an order made to a judge of a court in which
the action or proceeding is pending, is ref used in whole or in part, or is granted
conditionally, no subsequent application for the same order shall be made to
any other judge, except of a higher court; but nothing in this Section refers
to motions ref used for informality in the papers or proceedings necessary to
obtain the order, or to motions refused with liberty to renew the same. 
Sec. 201. A violation of the last Section may be punished as a contempt;
and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked by the judge who made
it, or vacated by a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending. 
Sec. 202. No proceeding in any court of justice, in an action or special
proceeding pending therein, is affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any 
-of the judges thereof.
Sec. 203. Every written proceeding in a court of justice in this State must 
be in the English language, and judicial proceedings must be conducted, pre­
.served, and published in no other. 
Sec. 204. Such abbreviations as are in common use may be used, and num­
bers may be expressed by figures or numerals in the customary manner. 
Sec. 205. When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this Code, or any
other statute, conferred on a court or judicial officer; all the means necessary
to carry into effect are also given ; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the
course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute,
any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear
most conformable to the spirit of this Code. 
CHAPTER 1. 711ro,.s.
PERSONS SPECIALLY INVESTED WITH POWERS OF A JUDICIAL NATURE, 
Article
JURORS. 
Section 120.
221. 
22.:?. 
223. 
214.
22,.
216. 
I.
If. 
l/1.
IV. 
v. 
VI.
Vll. 
Vlll.
IX. 
x. 
XI.
... YI/. 
]""o"s ;,, ge11e,.al.
!;l1'aliftcalio11s and e:ien,Jtio,u of )""ors.
Selecti11g a11d ,.et11r11i11g j11ro,.s for court« of record. 
Drawi11g ju,.ors for courts of record,
Summo11ing ju,.ors for courts of record.
Sumn,011ing juro,.s for courts not of record,
Sum,,,011i11g jurors of inq1'est.
Obedience to summons, .iow enforced.
lmpa,,eling grand juries.
lmpa1't!li11g trial j1'riu in courts of record.
Impaneling trial jurin ;,, courts not of record. •
Impant'/i11g- ju,.ies of inqur.,t. 
JURORS IN GENERAL. 
7ury defined.
Different kinds ofjuries, 
Grand i""J' defined.
Trial j11ry defined, 
Number of a trialjury,
711ries of_justices' courts,
7ury oj inquest defined. 
TITLE Ill. 
CHAPTER I. 
ARTICLE I. 
Sec. 220. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected from the citizens of
a particular district, and invested with power to present or indict a person for
public offense, or to try a question of fact. 
Sec. 221. Juries are of three kinds: 
1. Grand juries. 
2. Trial juries.
3. Juries of inquest. 
Sec. 222. A grand jury is a body of men, seven in number, returned in pur­
suance of law, from the citizens of a county, before a court of competent juris­
diction, and sworn to inquire of public offenses committed or triable within the
county. 
Sec. 223. A trial jury is a body of men returned from the citizens of a par­
ticular district before a court or officer of competent jurisdiction, and sworn to
try and determine, by yerdict, a question of fact. 
Sec. 224. A trial jury consists of twelve men ; provided, that in civil actions
and cases of misdemeanor, it may consist of twelve, or any number less than
twelve, upon which the parties may agree in open court. 
Sec. 225. A jury in a justice's court, both in civil cases and misdemeanors,
consists of six persons, but the parties may agree to a less number than six. 
Sec. 226. A jury of inquest is a body of men summoned from the citizens
of a particular district before the sheriff, coroner, or other ministerial officer, to
inquire concerning particular facts. 
CHAPTER I
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS OF JURORS.
Sectio11 ::>30. WJ,o com/ete11t to act as j•ro,,. 
131. Wko Not compelt'Nt lo act as j"ror. 
23::i. WJ,o exempt from jury d"ty. 
233. WJ,o may be 'excused. 
23+ A.ffida·vit of claim to exem/tiot1. 
Sec. 230. A person is competent to act as juror if he be: 
1. A male citizen of the United States of the age of twenty-one and not
more than seventy years, who shall have been a resident of the State one year,
and of the county ninety days before being selected and returned. 
2. In possession of his natural faculties, and of ordinary intelligence, and
not decrepit. 
3. Possessed of sufficient knowledge of the English language. 
4- Assessed on the last assessment roll of the county on, property belong­
ing to him. 
Sec. 231. A person is not competent to. act as juror: 
I. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed by the preceding Section ; or, 
2. Who has been convicted of malfeasance in office, or any felony or other
high crime. 
Sec. 232. A person is exempt from liability to act as juror if he be: 
I. A judicial, civil or military officer of the United States, or of this State. 
2. A person holding a county, township or town office.
3. An attorney at law in practice.
4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomination, or editor, fol­ 
lowing his profession.
5. A teacher in a university, college, academy or school.
6. A practicing physician or druggist actually engaged in the business of 
dispensing medicines. 
7. An officer, keeper or attendant of an alms house, hospital, asylum or
other charitable institution. 
8. Engaged in the performance of duty as officer or attendant of the State
prison, penitentiary, or of a county jail. 
9. An express agent, mail carrier, superintendent, employe or operator of 
a telegraph line doing a general telegraph business in the State. 
10. An active member of the National Guard of Montana, or an active
member of a fire department of any city or town in this State. The number
of firemen hereby exempted must not exceed twenty-eight, including officers
for each company organized; and such members from each company must be
selected from the roll of such company according to the seniority of member­
ship, and a list containing the names of such persons must be made out by the
secretary of each company and filed with the clerk of the Board of County
Commissioners on the first Mondays of December, March, June and Septem­
ber, and any failure to file the list hereby required is considered a waiver of 
such exemption. . 
11. A superintendent, engineer, or conductor on a railroad.
The court must discharge a person from serving as a trial juror in either of 
the following cases :
Where it satisfactorily appears that he is not competent ; and,
Where it satisfactorily appears that he is exempt, and claims the benefit of 
the exemption.
Sec. 233. A juror must not be excused by a court for slight or trivial cause, 
or for hardship or inconvenience to his business, but only when material in­
jury or destruction to his property, or of property intrusted to him, is threaten­
ed, or when his own health, or the sickness or death of a member of his family
requires his absence. 
Sec. 234. If a person, exempt from liability to act as a juror, as provided
in Section 232, be summoned as a juror, he may make and transmit his affida­
vit to the clerk of the court for which he is summoned, stating his office, oc­
cupation, or employment; and such affidavit must be delivered by the clerk to
the judge of the court where the name of such person is called, and if sufficient
in substance, must be received as evidence of his right to exemption and as an
excuse for non-attendance in person. The affidavit must then be filed by the
clerk. · 
CHAPTER I
SELECTING AND RETURNING JURORS.
Sectio« 24o". r.Jury lists, by wko,n and wl1en lo be made. 
241. How selection skall be made. 
242. Lists deliuered lo clerk. 
243. Duty of clerk;jury boxes.
:144. ~ame.
245. r.Jurors to serve 011e year. 
Sec. 240. The chairman of the county commissioners, the county treasurer,
and the county assessor, of each county, must meet at the county seat of each 
county at the office of the county clerk, on the second Monday of January of
each year, for the purpose of making a list of persons to serve as trial jurors
for the ensuing year. If they fail to meet on the day specified in this Section,
they must meet as soon thereafter as practicable. The first meeting of such
officers for the purpose of making such list, is within ten days after this Code
takes effect. 
Sec. 241. At the meeting, specified in the last Section, the officers present
must select, from the last assessment roll of the county, and make a list of the
names of all persons whom they believe to be competent and qualified to serve
as trial jurors, as prescribed in the last Article. . 
Sec. 242. A list of the names of the persons so selected, showing the place
of residence and other proper additions, of each of them, so far as those par­
ticulars can be conveniently ascertained, must be made out, and signed by the
officers, or a majority of them. Within five days after the meeting, the list
must be delivered by those officers to the clerk of the District Court and filed 
by him in his office. 
Sec. 243. Immediately after the list has been delivered to him, the clerk
must prepare suitable ballots, by writing the name of each person so selected,
as contained in the list, with his place of residence, and other additions, on a
separate piece of paper. The ballots must be uniform, as nearly as may be,
in appearance ; and the clerk must deposit them in a box, kept for that pur­
pose, which box shall be known as, and plainly marked, Jury Box No. I. 
Sec. 244. Before depositing the ballots, the clerk must destroy each ballot
remaining in the box and remove all contents therefrom. 
Sec. 245. The persons whose names are so returned are known as regular
jurors, and must serve for one year, and until other persons are selected and 
returned.
CHAPTER I 
ORA WING JURORS FOR COURTS OF RECORD.
Sectto« 16o. Order ofjudge /or drawing of j11ry. 
161. Clerk to draw J"rJ',
161. Drawi11g-, /,ow co,,d•cted. 
163. ~11ry Bo:. No. 1. 
ARTICLE IV. 
164- 11ror.,,, wke11 to be draso« fro,n 711ry Bo» No. 2. 
16.c;. 11ry Bo:i No. 3.
266. erors, wl,en to be draw» tkerefrom. 
167. Two or more j11dges ,nay draw from same box. 
Sec. 260. Whenever the business of the District Court requires the attend­
ance of a trial jury for the trial of civil or criminal cases, and no jury is in
attendance, the court may make an order directing a trial jury to be drawn
and summoned to attend before said court. Such order must specify the
number of jurors to be drawn and the time at which the jurors are required to
attend. And the court may direct that such causes, either criminal or civil,
in which a jury may be required, or in which a jury may have been demanded,
be continued and fixed for trial when a jury shall be in attendance. 
Sec. 261. Immediately upon the order mentioned in the preceding Sec­
tion being made, the clerk shall, in the presence of the court, proceed to draw
the jurors from Jury Box No. I. 
Sec. 262. The clerk must conduct said drawing as follows: 
I. He must shake the box containing the names of the trial jurors, so as
to mix the slips of paper upon which such names are written, as well as possi­
ble ; he must then draw from said box as many slips of paper as are ordered
by the court. 
2. A minute of the drawing shall be entered in the minutes of the court,
which must show the name on each slip of paper so drawn from said jury
box. 
3. If the name of any person is drawn from said box who is deceased or
insane, or who may have permanently removed from the county, or who is
exempt from jury service, and the fact shall be made to appear to the satis­
faction of the court, the name of such person shall be omitted from the list,
and the slip of paper having such name on it shall be destroyed, and another
juror drawn in his place, and the fact shall be entered upon the minutes
of the court. The same proceeding shall be had as often as may be neces- -
sary, until the whole number of jurors required be drawn. After the drawing
shall be completed, the clerk shall make a copy of the list of names of the
persons so drawn, and certify the same. In his certificate he shall state the
date of the order and of the drawing, and the number of the jurors drawn, and
the time when and the place where such jurors are required to appear. Such
certificate and list shall be delivered to the sheriff for service. 
Sec. 263. After the adjournment of the term or session at which trial jurors
have been returned, as prescribed in the last Section, the clerk must deposit the:
ballots, containing the names of those who attended and served, in another
box kept by him known as and marked Jury Box No.2. The ballots containing 
the names of those who dfd not appear and serve, which have not been destroyed,
as prescribed in Section 262 of this Code, must be returned to the box from
which they were taken. 
Sec. 264. If, at the time of drawing trial jurors for a term or session, there
is not a sufficient number of ballots remaining in the box, No. 1, the clerk,
after drawing all the. ballots therein, must draw the necessary number from
box No. 2, containing the names of those jurors who have before served, as
prescribed in the last Section ; and must continue to draw from that box until
new lists of jurors are provided. 
Sec. 265. The clerk must keep, in addition to the two boxes specified in
the last two Sections, a third box, known as and marked, Jury Box No. 3, in 
which he must deposit duplicate ballots, containing the names, with the proper
additions, of all persons selected and returned as trial jurors, who reside in the
city or town where a trial term or session of a court of record is held, pursuant 
to law.
Sec. 266. The ballots kept in Box No. 3, must be destroyed-by the clerk, 
and new ballots must be deposited therein by him, at the same time, and un­
der like circumstances, as prescribed in this Article, with respect to the de­
struction of the old ballots, and the depositing of new ballots, in the first box. 
Sec. 267. In districts where there are two or more judges, each judge may
order jurors drawn and summoned to attend the session or term over which he
presides, as provided in this Article. 
 
Sec. 280. The sheriff, as soon as he receives the list or lists of jurors drawn,
shall summon the persons named therein to attend the court at the time men­
tioned in the order, by giving personal notice to that effect to each of them,
or by leaving a written notice to that effect at his place of residence, with some
person of proper age, and shall return the list to the court at the opening of
the regular session thereof, or at such session or time as the jurors may be or­
dered to attend, specifying the names of those who are summoned, and the
manner in which each person was notified. 
Sec. 281. If a sufficient number of trial jurors, duly drawn and notified, do
not attend or cannot be obtained in the opinion of the court, without great
delay or expense to form a jury, the court may, in its discretion, direct the
clerk to draw from Box No. 3, in the presence of the court, the names of as
many persons as the court deems sufficient for that purpose. 
Sec. 282. The sheriff must forthwith notify each person so drawn and make
a return as prescribed in Section 28o, of this Article. 

Sec. 290. When jurors are required in any of the justices' courts, or in any
police or other inferior court, they must, upon the order of the justice, or of
the judge thereof, be summoned by the sheriff, constable, marshal, or police­
man of the jurisdiction. 
Sec. 291. Such jurors must be summoned from the persons competent to
serve as jurors, residents of the township, city or town in which such court has 
jurisdiction, by notifying them orally that they are summoned, and of the time
and place at which their attendance is required. 
Sec. 292. The officer summoning such jurors shall, at the time fixed in the
order for their appearance, return it to the court with a list of the persons
summoned indorsed thereon. 

Sec. 300. Juries of inquest shall be summoned by the officer before whom
the proceedings in which they are to sit are to be had, or by any sheriff, con­
stable, or policeman, from the persons competent to serve as jurors, residents
of the county, by notifying them orally that they are so summoned, and of the
time and place at which their attendance is required. 

Sec. 310. Any juror summoned, who willfully and without reasonable excuse
fails to attend, may be attached and compelled to attend ; and the court may
also impose a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, upon which execution may issue.
If the juror was not personally served, the fine must not be imposed until,
upon an order to show cause, an opportunity has been offered the juror to be
heard. The court may for good cause rc!tnit, modify or cause any fine collected
to be refunded. 
ARTICLE V
Sectio» J'..IO. 
3'..11.
32i. 
313. 
AR TI CLE VI I. 
SUMMONING JURIES or INQUEST. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
OBEDIENCE TO SUMMONS, HOW ENFORCED. 
ARTICLE IX. 
IMPANELING GRAND JURIES. 
Grand }"rJ', w/,en to he imjandrd.
How co11stit"ted.
Ma11•er of impa,udi11g lre.,cribed ;,, Pe•al Code. 
I• case of two or more j"dges, each may draw a pa#d }"ry, h"t o•ly O#e at a
time, 
Sec. 320. Whenever in the opinion of the district judge a grand jury be
necessary, he must make an order directing a grand jury to be drawn and sum­
moned to attend before the court. The order must specify the number of
such jurors to be drawn, which must not be less than ten nor more than fifteen.
The names of such jurors must be drawn from Jury Box No. 1, mentioned in Section 243, and the list of names certified and summoned, as provided for
drawing and summoning trial jurors, and the names of any persons drawn who
may not be impaneled upon the grand jury must be again placed in said Jury
Box. No. 1. 
Sec. 321. When, of the persons summoned as grand jurors competent and
not excused, seven are present, they constitute the grand jury. If more than
seven of such persons are present the clerk must write their names on separate
ballots, which he must fold so that the names cannot be seen, place them in a
box, and draw out seven of them, and the persons whose names are on the
ballots so drawn shall constitute the grand jury. If less than seven of such
persons are present, the court may order a sufficient number to be forthwith
drawn from either box and summoned to attend the court. And whenever,
of the persons to complete a grand jury, more attend than are required, the
requisite number must be obtained by writing the names of those so summoned
and not excused on ballots, depositing them in a box, and drawing as above
provided. 
Sec. 322. Thereafter such proceedings must be had in impaneling the grand
jury as are perscribed in Part Two, of the Penal Code. 
Sec. 323. In districts where there are two or more judges each judge may
order a grand jury to be drawn and summoned to attend the session or term
over which he presides, as provided in this Article, but no more than one grand
jury must ever be in attendance upon any District Court at the same time. 

Sec. 330. At the opening of court on the day trial jurors have been sum­
moned to appear, the clerk shall call the names of those summoned, and the
court may then hear the excuses of jurors summoned. The clerk shall then 
write the names of the jurors present and not excused upon separate slips or bal­
lots of paper, and fold such slips so that the names are concealed, and there in 
the presence of the court deposit the slips or ballots in a box, which must be
kept sealed or locked until ordered by the court to be opened. 
Sec. 331. Whenever thereafter a civil action is called by the court for trial,
and a jury is required, such proceedings shall be had in impaneling the trial
jury as are prescribed in Part Two, of this Code. If the action be a criminal
one, the jury shall be impaneled as prescribed in the Penal Code. 

Sec. 340. At the time appointed for a jury trial in justices', police or other
inferior courts, the list of jurors summoned, which shall be twelve, or double
the number agreed upon before the trial by the parties, must be called, and the 
names of those attending and not excused must be written upon separate slips
of paper, folded so as to conceal the names, and placed in a box, from which
the trial jury must be drawn. 
Sec. 341. Thereafter, if the action is a criminal one, the jury must be im­
paneled as provided in the Penal Code, if a civil one, as provided in Part Two,
of this Code. 

ARTICLE X. 
ARTICLE XI. 
ARTICLE XII. 
Sec. 350. The manner of impaneling juries of inquest is prescribed in the
provisions of the different Codes relating to such inquests. 
TITLE IV. 
STENOGRAPHERS. 
Section 370. Appoi11tment of ste11ograjkers.
371. Duties of stenographers.
372. Same.
373· To f11r,,isl, copies to parties, etc. 
374. Amount to he paid hy eack party in civil action.
375. Salary. 
376. Stenograpkers pro fem/ore.
377. Stenograpker's report prima farie evidence. 
Sec. 370. The judge of a District Court may appoint a stenographer for
such court, who is an officer of the court, and hold his office during the pleas­
ure of the judge appointing him, and he must subscribe the constitutional
oath of office, and file the same with the clerk of the court. In districts where
there are two or more judges each judge thereof may appoint a stenographer. 
Sec. 371. Each stenographer must, under the direction of the judge, attend
all sittings of the court, take full stenographic notes of the testimony, and of
all proceedings given or had thereat, except when the judge dispenses with his
services in a particular cause, or with respect to a portion of the proceedings
therein. The stenographer must file with the clerk forthwith the original
stenographic notes taken upon a trial or hearing required to be taken by this Section. . 
Sec. 372. All objections made, the rulings, decisions and opinions of the
court, and the exceptions taken during the trial, or hearing, must be written
out at length, or printed in type, by the stenographer and filed with the clerk
forthwith after the close of the trial, or hearing, and thereafter such exceptions
may be settled in a bill of exceptions, as provided in Section 115 5, of this Code. 
Sec. 373. Each stenographer specified in this Title must likewise, upon re­
quest, furnish, with all reasonable diligence, to the defendant in a criminal 
cause, or a party or his attorney in a civil cause, in which he has attended the
trial or hearing, a copy, written out at length or in narrative form, from his
stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceedings, or a part thereof upon
the trial or hearing, upon payment, by the person requiring the same, the sum
of five cents per folio for the copy written out at length, and seven and one
half cents per folio for the copy written out in narrative form. If the County
Attorney or Attorney General or Judge requires such a copy irr a criminal
cause, the stenographer is entitled to his fees therefor, but he must furnish it,
and upon furnishing it he shall receive a certificate of the sum to which he is
so entitled, which is a county charge, and must be paid by the County Treas­
urer upon the certificate like other county charges. If the Judge requires such
a copy in a civil case to assist him in rendering a decision, the stenographer
must furnish the same without charge therefor. If it appears to the Judge
that a defendant in a criminal case is unable ta pay for such copy, the same
shall be furnished him and paid for by the county. 

Sec. 374. In every issue of fact in civil actions tried before the court or
jury before the trial commences, there must be paid into the hands of the
clerk of the court, by each party to the suit, the sum of three dollars, which
sum must be paid by said clerk into the treasury of the county where the
cause is tried, to be applied upon the payment of the salary of the stenog­
rapher, and the prevailing party may have the amount so paid by him taxed
in his bills of costs, as proper disbursements. 
Sec. 375. Every stenographer appointed under the provisions of this Title
receives an annual salary of eighteen hundred dollars, and no other compensa­
tion except as herein provided, payable in monthly installments out of the
contingent funds of the counties comprising the district for which he is ap­
pointed, according and in proportion to the number of suits entered and
commenced in the District Courts of such counties respectively the preceding
year, and it shall be the duty of the judge of such District, on the first of
January of each year, or as soon after as may be, to apportion the amount of
such salary to be paid by each county in his district on the basis aforesaid.
The stenographer is allowed in addition to the salary and fees above provided,
in Judicial Districts containing more than one county, a mileage of ten cents
per mile for the distance traveled by him from one county seat to another in
the performance of his official duties, said mileage to be apportioned and pay­ 
able in the same way as the salary. 
Sec. 376. The stenographer of any District Court must attend to the
duties of his office in person, except when excused for good and sufficient 
reason by order of the court, which order must be entered upon the minutes of
the court. Employment in his professional capacity elsewhere is not a good
and sufficient reason for such excuse. When the stenographer of any court
has been excused in the manner provided in this Section, the court may ap­
point a stenographer pro tempo-re, who must take the same oath and perform
the same duties and receive the same compensation during the time of his
employment as the regular stenographer. 
Sec. 377. The report of the stenographer, or stenographer pro tempore, of
any court, duly appointed and sworn, when written out in long handwriting or 
printed in type, and certified as being a correct transcript of the testimony
and proceedings in the case, is prima f 'acie a correct statement of such testi­
mony and proceedings. 
CHAPTER I. Attornevs and coenselors at law.
I I. 0//ur iersons invested wit" suck Jowers. 
Section J<JO· 
391.
39:z. 
393·
394·
395· 
3g6.
397· 
3g8.
399· 
400.
401. 
40:z.
4o3. 
4104. 
405· 
400· 
407.
4o8. 
40CJ.
410. 
41 I. 
412.
413· 
414.
415. 
416.
417· 
,pS.
419. 
420. 
1,21. 
42:z.
423. 
424.
425. 
426.
427. 
428. 
1-29· 
430.
431• 
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW. 
CHAPTER I. 
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW. 
Wko may he ad,,,itted as attorneys,
~ ealificatioe», 
Certificate of admission and license.
Oat!,. 
Attorneys of ofker States.
Roll of attorneys. 
TITLE V. 
Supre,n• Coert may estaMi!1k r eles.
Penalty for practicing witkout licesse,
A.utkority.
Clta11ge of attorney.
Notice of cltange.
Deatk or removal of attorney.
Remo1.•al and .uujen.,;ion.
Puni.,;kment for deceit.
Puniskmenl for wi/1(111 delay.
Certain loans prol,ibiled.
Penaltv;
Limitation of preceding Section.
Same rule wken party prosecutes iN person.
Partner of cou11ty attorney not to defend.
Former county attorney not to defend, etc.
Partners not lo appear on opposite sides.
Pena ltv,
Party "may appear in person or hy attorney, 
Limitation.
Attorney may sec pri.wner.
Attorney not to become surety on bond. 
Conviction of crime.
Proceedings for removal or suspension.
Accusation,
Verification.
Citation.
Appearance.
Objections lo accusation,
Demurrer.
ANswer.
Trial.
Reference to lllke depositions.
Judgment.
Clerks, etc.; not lo practice.
Lien for compensation.
Attorney may be compelled to sltow !,is autkority. 
Sec. 390. Any citizen or person resident of this State, who has bona fide de­
clared his or her intention to become a citizen in the manner required by law, 
of .the age of twenty-one years, of good moral character, and who possesses
the necessary qualifications of learning and ability, is entitled to admission
as attorney and counselor in all the courts of this State. All persons are
attorneys of the Supreme Court who were entitled to practice in the Supreme
Court when this Code takes effect. 
Sec. 391. Every applicant for admission as an attorney and counselor must
produce satisfactory testimonials of good moral character and a certificate of
one or more reputable counselors at law that he has been engaged in the study
of law for two successive years prior to the making of such application, and
undergo a strict examination as to his qualifications by any one or more of the
justices of the Supreme Court. The form and manner of the examination shall
be as the justices may, from time to time, determine. 

Sec. 392. If upon examination he is found qualified, the Supreme Court
must admit him as an attorney and counselor in all the courts of this State,
and must direct an order to be entered to that effect upon its records, and that
a certificate of such record be given to him by the clerk of the court, which
certificate is his license. 
Sec. 393. Every person on his admission must take an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Mon­
tana, and to faithfully discharge the duties of an attorney and counselor at
law with fidelity to the best of his knowledge and ability. A certificate of
such oath must be indorsed upon the license and a duplicate filed with the
clerk. 
Sec. 394. Every citizen of the United States, or person resident of this
State, who has bona fide declared his or her intention to become a citizen in 
the manner required by law, who has been admitted to practice law in the
highest court of another State, or of a foreign country, where the common law
of England constitutes the basis of jurisprudence, may be admitted to practice
in the courts of this State, upon the production of his or her license, and satis­
factory evidence of good moral character; but the court may examine the
applicant as to his or her qualifications. 
Sec. 395. The clerk of the Supreme Court must keep a roll of the attorneys
and counselors admitted to practice, which must be signed by the person 
admitted before he receives his license.
Sec. 396. The Supreme Court may establish rules for the admission of attor­ 
neys and counselors not inconsistent with this Title.
Sec. 397. If any person practice law in any court, except a justice's court 
or police court, without having received a license as attorney and counselor,
he is guilty of a contempt of court, 
Sec. 398. An attorney and counselor has authority : 
1. To bind his client in any steps of an action or proceeding by his agree­
ment filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes of the court, and not
otherwise. 
2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or proceeding during
the pendency thereof, or after judgment, unless a revocation of his authority is
filed, and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim
or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment. 
Sec. 399. The attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed
at any time before or after judgment, or final determination, as follows: 
I. Upon consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered
uipon the minutes. 
2. Upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attor­
nev, after notice from one to the other. 
Sec. 400. When an attorney is changed as provided in the last Section, 
written notice of the change and the substitution of a new attorney, or of the
appearance of the party in person, must be given to the adverse party. Until
then he must recognize the former attorney. 
Sec. 401. When an attorney dies, or is removed or suspended, or ceases to
act as such, a party to an action, for whom he was acting as attorney, must,
before any further proceedings are had against him, be required by the adverse
party, by written notice, to appoint another attorney or appear in person. 
Sec. 402. An attorney and counselor may be removed or suspended by the
Supreme Court or by the District Court of the State, for either of the following
causes, arising after his admission to practice: 
1. His conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, in
which case the record of conviction is· conclusive evidence. · 
2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of the court requiring him
to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the course of his profession,
which he ought in good faith to do or forbear, and any violation of the oath
taken by him, or of his duties as such attorney and counselor. 
3. Corruptly or willfully and· without authority appearing as attorney for a
party to an action or proceeding, 
4- Lending his name to be used as attorney and counselor by another per­
son who is not an attorney and counselor. 
5. Who is guilty of any deceit, malpractice, crime or misdemeanor.
In all cases where an attorney is removed or suspended by the !>istrict 
Court, the judgment or order of removal or suspension may be reviewed on
appeal by the Supreme Court. 
Sec. 403. An attorney or counselor, who is guilty of any deceit or collusion
or consents to any deceit or collusion, with intent to deceive the court or a
party, forfeits to the party injured by his deceit or collusion, treble damages.
He is also guilty of a misdemeanor. 
Sec. 404. An attorney and counselor who willfully delays his client's cause,
with a view to his own gain, or willfully receives money, or an allowance for 
or on account of money, which he has not laid out or become answerable for,
forfeits to the party injured treble damages. 
Sec. 405. An attorney and counselor must not, directly or indirectly, buy
or be in any manner interested in buying, a bond, promissory note, bill of ex­
change, book debt, or other thing in action, with the intent and for the pur­
pose of bringing an action thereon. 
Sec. 406. An attorney and counselor must not, by himself, or by or in the
name of another person, either before or after action brought, promise or give,
or procure to be promised or given, a valuable consideration to any person, as
an inducement to placing, or in consideration of having placed, in his hands,
or in the hands of another person, a demand of any kind, for the purpose of
bringing an action thereon. But this Section does not apply to an agreement
between attorneys and counselors, or either, to divide between themselves the
compensation to be received. An attorney and counselor who violates either
of the last two Sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and on conviction there­
of, shall be punished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the
Supreme Court. 
Sec. 407. The last three Sections do not prohibit the receipt by an attorney
or counselor, of a bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, book debt, or other
thing in action, in payment for property sold, or for services actually rendered,
or for a debt antecedently contracted ; or from buying or receiving a bill of
exchange, draft, or other thing in action, for the purpose of remittance, and
without intent to violate either of those Sections. 
Sec. 408. The last four Sections apply to a person prosecuting an action in
person, who does an act which an attorney and counselor is therein forbidden
to do. 
Sec. 409. An attorney and counselor must not, directly or indirectly, advise 
concerning, aid, or take any part in, in the defense of an action or special pro­
ceeding, civil or criminal, brought, carried on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted,
as Attorney General, county attorney, or other public prosecutor, by a person
with whom he is interested or connected, either directly or indirectly, as a law
partner; or take or receive, directly or indirectly, from a defendant therein or
other person, a fee, gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, consideration,
pretence, understanding, or agreement whatever, express or implied, having
relation thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof. 
Sec. 410. An attorney and counselor, who has brought, carried on, aided,
advocated or prosecuted, or has been in any wise connected with an action or
special proceeding, civil or criminal, as Attorney General, county attorney, or
other public prosecutor, must not, at any time thereafter, directly or indirectly,
advise concerning, aid or take any part in the defense thereof ; or take or re­
ceive, either directly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other person, a
fee, gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, consideration, pretence, under­
standing, or agreement, either express or implied, having relation thereto, or to
the prosecution or defense thereof. 
Sec. 411. Whenever a law partnership, or any member thereof, accepts em­
ployment to prosecute or def end any action, civil or criminal, or to advise in
relation thereto, no member of said partnership is permitted, then or afterward,
to act as attorney or counselor on the side opposite to that upon which such
original employment was had. But this Section does not prevent a person,
who has been employed as attorney and counselor in an action or proceeding
before becoming a member of a partnership, from appearing and acting therein
until its completion. 
Sec. 412. An attorney and counselor who violates either of the last two Sections is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be pun­
ished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the Supreme or Dis­
trict Court. 
Sec. 413. A party to a civil action, who is of full age, may prosecute or de­
fend the same in person or by attorney, at his election, unless he has been
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs. Each provision of
this Chapter, relating to the conduct of an action, wherein the attorney for the
party is mentioned, includes a party prosecuting or defending in person, unless
otherwise specially prescribed therein, or unless that construction is manifestly
repugnant to the context. If a party has an attorney in the action he cannot
appear to act in person where an attorney may appear or act, either by special
provision of law, or by the course and practice of the court. 
Sec. 414. This Article does not prohibit an attorney or counselor from de­
fending himself in person, if prosecuted either civilly or criminally. 
Sec. 415. All public officers, sheriffs, coroners, jailers, constables or other
officers or persons, having in custody any person committed, imprisoned or re­ 
strained of his liberty, for any alleged cause whatever, must admit any practic­
ing attorney and counselor at law in this State, whom such person restrained of
his liberty may desire to see or consult, to see and consult such person so im­
prisoned, alone and in private, at the jail or other place of custody. Any
officer violating this provision shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars to the
person aggrieved, to be recovered by action of debt in any court of competent
jurisdiction. 
Sec. 416. No attorney and counselor at law shall become security in any
bond or recognizance of any sheriff, constable or coroner, or in any bond or
recognizance for the appearance of any person or persons charged with any
public offense, or upon any bond, undertaking or recognizance authorized by
any statute to be taken for the payment of any sum of money into court in
default of the principal, without the consent of the judge of the District Court
first had, approving said security. 
Sec. 417. In case of the conviction of an attorney and counselor of a 
felony or misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude, the clerk of the court in
which such conviction is had shall, within thirty days thereafter, transmit to
to the Supreme Court a certified copy of the record of conviction. 
Sec. 418. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and counselor
under the first subdivision of Section 402, must be taken by the court on the
receipt of a certified copy of the record of conviction. The proceedings un­
der the second, third or fourth subdivision of Section 402, may be taken by
the court for the matters within its knowledge, or may be taken upon the in­
formation of another. 
Sec. 419. If the proceedings are upon the information of another, the ac­
cusation must be in writing. 
Sec. 420. The accusation must state the matters charged. and be verified
by the oath of some person to the effect that the charges therein contained
are true. 
Sec. 421. Upon receiving the accusation, the court must make an order
requiring the accused to appear and answer it at a specified time, and cause a
copy of the order and of the accusation to be served upon the accused at least
five days before the day appointed in the order, 
Sec. 422. The accused must appear at the time appointed in the order and
answer. the accusations, unless for sufficient cause the court assign another day
for that purpose. If he do not appear the court may proceed and determine
the accusation in his absence. 
Sec. 423. The accused may answer to the accusation either by objecting to
its sufficiency or denying it. 
Sec. 424. If he object to the sufficiency of the accusation, the objection
must be in writing, but need not be in any specific form, it being sufficient if
it presents intelligibly the ground of the objection. If he deny the accusa­
tion, the denial may be oral and without oath, and must be entered upon the
minutes. 
Sec. 425. If an objection to the sufficiency of the accusation be not sus­
tained, the accused must answer within such time as may be designated by
the court. 
Sec. 426. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer the accusation,
the court must proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If he deny the
matters charged, the court must, at such time as it may appoint, try the accusa­
tion. 
Sec. 427. The court may, in its discretion, order a reference to a commit·
tee or referee to take depositions in the matter. 
Sec. 428. Upon conviction, in cases arising under the first Subdivision of
Sec. 402. the judgment of the court must be that the name of the party be
stricken from the role of attorneys and counselors of the court, and that he be
precluded from practicing as such attorney or counselor in all the courts of
this State; and upon conviction in cases under the other Subdivisions of that Section, the judgment of the court may be according to the gravity of the
offense charged ; deprivation of the right to practice as attorney or counselor
in the courts of this State permanently, or for a limited period. 
Sec. 429. The clerk, deputy clerk, sheriff, under sheriff, deputy sheriff or
coroner, must not, during his continuance in office, practice as attorney and
counselor in any court. 
Sec. 430. The compensation of an attorney and counselor for his services
is governed by agreement, express or implied, which is not restrained by law.
From the commencement of an action or the service of an answer containing a
a counterclaim, the attorney who appears for a party has a lien upon his
client's cause of action or counterclaim, which attaches to a verdict, report,
decision or judgment in his client's favor and the proceeds thereof in whose ever
hands they may come ; and cannot be affected by any settlement between the
parties before or after judgment. 
Sec. 431. The court or judge, on motion of either party, may require the
attorney of the adverse party to produce and prove the authority under which
he appears,·and may stay all proceedings until such is shown, and may at any
time summarily relieve a party from the consequences of the acts of an 
unauthorized attorney. 

Sec. 440. The appointment, powers and duties of receivers, executors, ad­
ministrators and guardians are provided for and prescribed in Parts Two and
Three, of this Code. 
CHAPTER I
CIVIL ACTIONS.
TU/e I. Porn, of civil actions. 
I I. Time of commencing civil actions,
I I I. Parties to civil actions,
IV. Place of trial of civil actions, 
V. Mnt1Her of romme11cing suit.
VI. Pleadi,.gs ,·,. civil actions. 
VI I. Prouisioeat remedies in civil actions,
VI I I. Trial and judgment in civil actions. 
IX. Exrcution of Ike judgment in civil actions,
X. Artions in partic"lar cases, 
XI. Proreedings in justices' coert».
XI I. Proceedings in police courts. 
XI I I. Appeals in ciuil actions.
XIV. Miscel/a11eoru provisions. 
Sectio11 46o. 011e form of civil action» only. 
461. Parties to actions, /,ow duig,.ated.
462. .Special issues 11ot made by pleadi11gs, l,ow tried. 
Sec. 460. There is in this State but one form of civil action for the enforce­
ment or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of private
wrongs. 
Sec. 461. In such action, the party complaining is known as the plaintiff,
and the adverse party as defendant. 
Sec. 462. A question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings may be tried
by a jury or court, upon an order- for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the
question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only authority necessary for
a trial. 
CHATPER I
TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS. 
I.
II. 
Ill.
IV. 
CHAPTER II. 
PART II. 
TITLE I= 
FORM 01• CIVIL ACTION. 
TITLE. II. 
Tiu time of commencing actions in ge,.eral.
Tiu time of romme11ri11g actioes for ,,,e recovery of reat /ro;erly.
Tiu time of romme,,cing actions otl,er than for //,e recover)' of real 1roj· 
rrtv,
General provi.u'ons as to Ille 1;,,,,, ,,f romme11cing actions. 
CHAPTER I. 
Section ,470. Commenrement of cioi! actions,
THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL. 
Sec. 470. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed
in this Title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except where, in
special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute. 
CHAPTER II
THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROP­
ERTY. 
Sectio» 48o. 
481.
481. 
483.
484.
485. 
486. 
CHAPTER II. 
Wien tiP. State will 1101 se«,
W/u,e actiae» cannot be bro#git by gra11tee fro• tl,e State.
Wien actions by tje State or its gra,etees are to be bro•gl,t witl,i11 te« years, 
Seizi• witl,;,, te11 years, wke11 11eces.Jary i11 actions for real Jro/erty. Actios.
for dower. 
S•cl• seisi«, wl,e,. •ecessary ;,. actio« or defense ari.Ji11g o•t of title to or
rents of real ;ro/erty. 
E11try o• real estate.
Possession, wlle11 /res•med. Occupatio11 deemed •11der legal title, u•less 
adverse.
Occ•Jatiou •11der writte• i11str•me11t or i•dgme•t, wlle11 deemed adverse. 
Wl,at constitute.! adverse /o.Jussion u11der written instrume,et or judg-me11t.
Premises act•ally ou•/ied •nder claim of title deemed to be l,eld adversely.
Wkat constitete» adverse /ossession u11der claim of title not writte,e, ·
Relation of la11dlord and tena11t as affecti11g- adverse /o.,sessio11.
Rigkt of /osseuion 1101 affected by desce11t cast. 
Certain disabilities e:tcluded fro,n time to con,n,e,ece actions,
Limitation as to /lacer claims. 
Sec. 480. The State will not sue any person for or in respect to any real
property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the
State to the same, unless : 
1. Such right or title shall have accrued with ten years before any action or
other proceeding for the same is commenced ; or, 
2. The State, or those from whom it claims, shall have received the rents
and profits of such real property, or of some part t4ereof, within the space of
ten years. 
Sec. 481. No action can be brought for or in respect to real property by
any person claiming under letters patent or grants from this State, unless the
same might have been commenced by the State as herein specified, in case such
patent had not been issued or grant made. 
Sec. 482. When letters patent or grants of real property issued or made by
the State, are declared void by the determination of a competent court, an 
action for the recovery of the property so conveyed may be brought, either by
the State or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the property, his heirs
or assigns, within ten years after such determination, but not after that period. 
Sec. 483. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the possession
thereof, can be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, 
predecessor or grantor, was seized or possessed of the property in question,
within ten years before the commencement of the action. No action for the
recovery of dower can be maintained by a widow unless the action is com­
menced within ten years after the death of her husband. 
Sec. 484. No cause of action, or defense to an action, arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or profits out of the same, can be effectual,
unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making the defense,
or under whose title the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the an­
cestor, predecessor or grantor of such person, was seized or possessed of the
premises in question within ten years before the commencement of the act in
respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense made. 
Sec. 485. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufficient orvalid as a claim,
unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year -after making such
entry, and within ten years from the time when the right to make it descended
or accrued. 
Sec. 486. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the posses­
sion thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the property is presumed
to have been possessed thereof, within the time required by-law, and the occu­
pation of the property by any other person is deemed to have been under and
in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that the property has been
held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for ten years before the com­
mencement of the action. 
Sec. 487. When it appears that the occupant, or those under whom he
claims, entered into the possession of the property under claim of title, ex­
clusive of other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of the property in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a
competent court, and that there has been a continued occupation and posses­
sion of the property included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or of
some part of the property, under such claim, for ten years, the property so in­
cluded is deemed to have been held adversely, except that when it consists of
a tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a possession
of any other lot of the same tract. 
Sec. 488. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by any
person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, ot a judgment or
decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases: 
I. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved. 
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure.
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of fuel, or 
of fencing timber, either for the purpose of husbandry, or for pasturage, or for
the ordinary use of the occupant. 
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the por­
tion of such farm or lot that has been left not cleared or not in closed according
to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall be deemed to
have been occupied for the same length of time as the part improved and 
cultivated. ·
Sec. 489. Where it appears that there has been an actual continued occu­ 
pation of land, under a claim. of title, exclusive of any other right, but not;
founded upon a written instrument, judgment or decree, the land so actually
occupied, and no other, is deemed to have been held adversely. 
Sec. 490. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by a per­
son claiming title, not founded upon a written instrument, judgment or decree,
land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following cases
only: 
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure. 
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Sec. 491. When the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between 
any persons, the possession of the tenant is deemed the possession of the
landlord until the expiration of ten years from the termination of the tenancy
or where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of ten years
from the time of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding such tenant may
have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his
landlord. But such presumption cannot be made after the periods prescribed
in this Section. 
Sec. 492. The right of a person to the possession of real property is not
impaired or affected by a descent being cast in consequence of the death of a
person in possession of such property. 
Sec. 493. If a person, entitled to commence an action for the recovery of
real property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, or for dower or to
make any entry or defense founded on the title to real property, or to rents or 
services out of the same, be at the time such title first descends or accrues,
either: 
I. Within the age of majority; or, 
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a 
criminal offense, for a term of less than for life ; the time during which such
disability continues is not deemed any portion of the time in this Chapter
limited for the commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or
defense, but such action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, within
the period of ten years after such disability shall cease, or after the death of
the person entitled who shall die under such disability ; but such action shall
not be commenced or entry or defense made, after that period. 
Sec. 494. No action for the recovery of mining claims ( lode claims ex­
cepted), or for the recovery of possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless
it appears that the plaintiff or his assigns was seized or possessed of 'such min­ 
ing claims within one year before the commencement of such action. 
CHAPTER II
TliE TI!tl.E OF COM:\fENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF
REAL PROPERTY. 
Sectio11 510. Periods of li,11italio11 /rescri/Jed. 
5u. wtnt« ten years. 
5u. wuu« eigllt years.
513. wtut« five years.
514. wust« tllree years.
515. Wil!li11 two years.
516. Wilki,s 011e year.
517. Wilkin six mo11tlts.
518. Actions for relief 1101 l,ereidefore protdded for.
519. Where cause for action accrues on m"tMal accoent;
520. Actions /Jy tlu Stale s#/Jject to limitation /Jy this C!,aptw.
521. Action to redeem mortgage.
52:z. Same wke11 some of mortgagors are 1101 e11til/ed lo redee•. 
5:z3. Banlt.tt, deposit.,, no iimitatio»,
524. JVitki11 two years. 
Sec. 510. The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions other
than for the recovery of real property, are as follows: 

CHAPTER III. 
Sec. 514. Within three years: 
I. An action upon a contract, account, promise, obligation or liability, not
founded on an instrument in writing. 
2. An-action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a liability incurred
by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office, or by
the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment of money collected
upon an execution. But this Subdivision does not apply to an action for an 
escape.
3. An action to recover damages for the death of one caused by the wrong­ 
ful act or neglect of another.
Sec. 515. Within two years: 
1. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, when the action is
given to an individual, or to an individual and the State, except when the
statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation. 
2. An action upon a statute, or upon an undertaking in a criminal action,
for a forfeiture or penalty to the State. 
3. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false imprisonment, or se-
duction.
Sec. 516. Within one year: 
1. An action against a sheriff, or other officer, for an escape of a prisoner,
arrested or imprisoned on civil process. 
2. An action against a municipal corporation for damages or injuries to
property caused by a mob or riot; or by a municipal corporation for the vio­
lation of any city or town ordinance. 
3. An action against an officer or officer de facto, to recover any goods,
wares, merchandise, or other property, seized by any such officer in his official
capacity as tax collector, or to recover the price or value of any goods, wares,
merchandise, or other personal property so seized, or for damages for the
seizure, detention, sale of, or injury to any goods, wares, merchandise, or other
personal property seized, or for damages done to any person or property in
making any such seizure. 
Sec. 517. Within six months : 
1. To. recover stock sold for a delinquent assessment. 
2. Actions on claims against a county, which have been rejected by the
county commissioners, must be commenced within six months after the first
rejection thereof by such Board. 
3. For killing or injuring stock by a railroad corporation or company.
Sec. 518. An action for relief not herein before provided for, must be com­ 
menced within five years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 519. In an action brought to 'recover a balance due upon a mutual, 
open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands between
the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued from the time of
the last item proved in the account on either side. 
Sec. 520. The limitations prescribed in this Chapter apply to actions
brought in the name of the State, or for the benefit of the State, in the same
manner as to actions by private parties. 
Sec. 521. An action to redeem a mortgage of real property with or without
an account of rents and profits, may be brought by the mortgagor, or those
claiming under him, against the mortgagee in possession, or those claiming
under him, unless he or they have continuously maintained an adverse pos­ 
session of the mortgaged premises for ten years after breach of some condition
of the mortgage. 
Sec. 522. If there is more than one such mortgagor, or more than one per­
son claiming under a mortgagor, some of whom are not entitled to maintain
such an action, under the provisions of this Chapter, any one of them who is
entitled to maintain such an action, may redeem therein a divided or undivided
part of the mortgaged premises, according as his interest may appear, and 
have an accounting for a part of the rents and profits, proportionate to his in­
terest in the mortgaged premises, on payment of a part of the mortgage
money, bearing the same proportion to the whole of such money as the value
of his divided or undivided interest in the premises bears to the whole of such 
premises.
Sec. 523. To actions brought to recover money or other property deposited 
with any bank, banker, trust company, or savings and loan corporation, asso­
ciation or society, there is no limitation. 
Sec. 524. I. An action for waste or trespass on real property; provided, that
when the trespass is committed by reason of underground works upon any min­
ing claim, the cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued until the
discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting such waste or tres­
pass. 2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty of
forfeiture. 3. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring any goods or chat­
tels including actions for the specific recovery of personal property. 4- An
action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake (the cause of action in such
case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved
party of the facts constituting fraud or mistake} shall be commenced within
two years. 
ARTICLE II
S«tio• 549, Wl,en an actio• is com,,,e•ced.
Soll· Eace/tion, w/,ere defnda•t is oet of tl,e State.
542. Ea.:ejtio• as to jersO#s #nder disa6ilities. 
543. Prouisioe w/,ere person e•titled dies /Jefo,e limitatio• e11/fru.
544. w1,,,,,, p,rso• dies o#t of Stale. 
545. r;,,.,. /Jetwee• deatl, anti letters of ad,ni•istratio•.
546. Suits l>y alie,u i• ti•e of war.
547. Wiit,. jHdpflnt !,as /Jee• reversed.
548. Wae• sta_yed /Jy i•i••clto•, etc. 
549. Disability 111•st exist wJ,e,, ri'g/,t of actio,, tUXrtl«l.
550. Two or more disa/Jilitiu.
551. Wkt>tt de,nand •ecnsary.
552. I11 case of s•l>missio• to arbitratioe, 
553· Wl,e11 action discontr"n#ed, etc.
554. Tiis Title ajplica/Jle to directors, etc.
555. Ack110'Wledgme11t and part payme11t.
556. A ctio« against •on- resident.
557. Eai.,ti•g causes of actio• not affected.
558. 0/Jjectio• take« l>y answer.
559, A.ctio11 includes special proceedi•gs. 
Sec. 540. An action is commenced within the meaning of this Title, when
the complaint is filed. 
Sec. 541. If, when the cause of action accrues against a person, he is out of
the State, the action may be commenced within the term herein limited, after
his return to the State, and if, after the cause of action accrues, he departs
from the State, the time of his absence is not part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action. 
Sec. 542. If a person entitled to bring an action, mentioned in Chapter Ill., 
of this Title, be at the time the cause of action accrued, either: 
1. Within the age of majority ; or, 
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence of 
a criminal court for a term less than for life, the time of such disability is not a
part of the time limited in this Title for commencing the action ; except that
the time so limited cannot be extended more than five years by any such dis­
ability, except infancy ; or, in any case, more than one year after the disability 
ceases. 
CHAPTER IV. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS. 
Sec. 543. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration
of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action
survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives, after the expira­
tion of that time, and within one year from his death. If a person against
whom an action may be brought, die before the expiration of the time limited
for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may
be commenced against his representatives after the expiration of that time,
and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or of administra­ 
tion.
Sec. 544. If a person, against whom a cause of action exists, dies without 
the State, the time which elapses between his death, and the expiration of one
year, after the issuing, within the State, of letters testamentary or letters of
administration, is not a part of the time limited for the commencement of an
action therefor, against his executor or administrator. 
Sec. 545. For the purpose of computing the time within which an action
must be commenced in a court of this State, by an executor or administrator,
to recover personal property, taken after the death of a testator or intestate,
and before the issuing of letters testamentary or letters of administration ; or to
recover damages for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property within the
same period, the letters are deemed to have been issued within five years after
the death of the testator or intestate. But where an action is barred by this Section any of the next of kin, legatees, or creditors, who, at the time of the
transaction upon which it might have been founded, was within the age 
of majority, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, may, within five
years after the cessation of such disability, maintain an action to recover dam­
ages by reason thereof, in which he may recover such sum, or the value of such
property, as he would have received upon the final distribution of the estate,
if an action had been seasonably commenced by the executor or administrator. 
Sec. 546. When a person is an alien subject, or a citizen of a country at war
with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war is not part of
the period limited for the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 547. If an action is commenced within the time limited therefor, and
a judgment therein is reversed on appeal, without awarding a new trial, or the
action is terminated in any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance,
a dismissal of the complaint for neglect to prosecute the action, or a final judg­
ment upon the merits, the plaintiff, or, if he dies, and the cause of action sur­
vives, his representative, may commence a new action for the same cause, after
the expiration of the time so limited, and within one year after such a reversal
or termination. 
Sec. 548. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction,
or other order of court or judge, or statutory prohibition, the time of the con­ 
tinuance of the injunction or prohibition is not part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action. 
Sec. 549. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it existed when
his right of action or entry accrued. 
Sec. 550. When two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the right of
action or entry accrues, the limitation does not attach until they are removed. 
Sec. 551. Where a right exists, but a demand is necessary to entitle a per­
son to maintain an action, the time, within which the action must be commenced.
must be computed from the time when the right to make the demand is com­
plete ; except in one of the following cases : 
1. Where the right grows out of the receipt or detention of money or
property, by an agent, trustee, attorney, or other person acting in a fiduciary
capacity, the time must be computed from the time when the person having
the right to make the demand has actual knowledge of the facts upon which
that right depends. 
2. Where there was a deposit of money, not to be repaid at a fixed time, 
but only upon a special demand, or a delivery of personal property, not to be
returned, specifically or in kind, at a fixed time or upon a fixed contingency,
the time must be computed from the demand. 
Sec. 552. Where the persons, who might be adverse parties in an action,
have entered into a written agreement to submit to arbitration, or to refer the 
cause of action, or a controversy in which it might be available, or have entered
into a written submission thereof to arbitrators; and before an award, or other
determination thereupon, the agreement or submission is revoked, so as to
render it ineffectual, by the death of either party thereto, or by the act of the
person against whom the action might have been brought ; or the execution
thereof, or the remedy upon an award or other determination thereunder, is
stayed by injunction, or other order procured by him from a competent court or
judge; the time which has elapsed between the entering into the written sub­
mission or agreement and the revocation thereof, or the expiration of the stay,
is not a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 553. Where a defendant in an action has interposed an answer, in sup­
port of which he would be entitled to rely at the trial, upon a defense or coun­
terclaim then existing in his favor, the remedy upon which, at the time of the
commencement of the action, was not barred by the provisions of this Title ;
and the complaint is dismissed, or the action is discontinued, or abates in con­
sequence of the plaintiff's death, the time which intervened, between the com­
mencement and the termination of the action, is not a part of the time limited for
the commencement of an action by the defendant to recover for the cause of
action so interposed as a defense, or to interpose the same defense in another
action brought by the same plaintiff, or a person deriving title from or under
him. 
Sec. 554. This Title does not affect actions against directors or stockholders
of a corporation, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law; but such actions must be brought within three years after the
discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts upon which the penalty of for­
feiture attached. or the liability created. 
Sec. 555. No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evidence of a new or
continuing contract, by which to take the case out of the operation of this Title, unless the same is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby. But this Section does not alter the effect of any payment of
principal or interest, which payment is equivalent to a new promise in writing,
duly signed, to pay the residue of the debt. 
Sec. 556. Where a cause of action, which does not involve the title to or
possession of real property within the State, accrues against a person, who is
not then a resident of the State, an action cannot be brought thereon in a
court of the State, against him or his personal representative, after the expira­
tion of the time, limited by the laws of his residence, for bringing a like action,
except by a resident of the State, and in one of the following cases: 
1. Where the cause of action originally accrued in favor of a resident of the
State. 
2. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited, the person, in whose
favor it originally accrued, was or became a resident of the State; or the cause
of action was assigned to, and thereafter continuously owned by, a resident of
the State. 
Sec. 557. This Title does not extend to actions already commenced nor to
cases where the time prescribed in any existing statute for acquiring a right or
barring a remedy has fully run, but the laws now in force, immediately before
the taking effect of this Code, are applicable to such actions and cases, and are
repealed subject to the provisions of this Section. 
Sec. 558. The objection that the action was not commenced within the time
limited can be taken only by answer. The corresponding objection to a de­
fense or counterclaim can be taken only by reply except where a reply is not 
required, in order to enable the plaintiff to raise an issue of fact, upon an alle­
gation contained in the answer. 
Sec. 559. The word "action," as used in this Title, is to be construed, when­
ever it is necessary so to do, as including a special proceeding of a civil nature. 
Section 570.
571. 
572.
573.
574· 
575· 
576.
577· 
578.
579· 
Actio« to !Je i11 name of party in i11terest.
A.,signment of tl,i,,g i11 action not to prej"dice defense.
Wl1e11 a married woman is a parl_v-actio11s b_v and agai1181.
Wife m"y defend. wlun. 
lnfa11t to appear by pardian.
Geardian, /,ow appoi11/e,I.
Unn,arried female may sue for lte.r own seduction,
Fatker,rtc., may see for seduction of da,tgl,/er, rte. 
Falker, etc., ma.'Y s"6,for injury or deatlt of cltild.
U'ken representatives may sue for deatll of one caused by tl,e wro11K.[11l act of 
anotl,er.
58o. Wl,o may !Je joined as pla,'ntilfs.
581. Wlto may he joi11ed as drfe,ida11ts.
58l. Parties defendant i11 a11 action to determine co11jlicli11g claitns to real /ro/· 
erty, 
PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS. 
583. Parties l,oldi11g title ""der a common source, ·u!l,en ma.v Join.
584. Parties ;,. interest, wlten to he joined. W.+e11 one or more maJ' s11e or defe•d 
for lite wkole. 
585. Plaintiff may s"e ;,, one action t/,e di,fferent parliu to commercial /a/er.
586. Tenants ;,, common, etc., may set/er 111 bringi11g or defe11di11g action», 
587. Action, w/,en 110/ to abate by death, marriag,, or otlter disability. Proceedings
i11 s#clt case. 
588. A11otl,er perso11 may he sMbstit•ted for tl,e defe11da11t. 
58g. Interventio11, w.+c11 it takes place and l,ow made. 
590. Associates may he s11ed by •ame of association.
591. Wl,e11 ollter parliu must be brougkt it1. 
59l. Actio• !Jy 011ejoint te1'a11t against ltis co-te•a11t. 
593. Wlo may be s11ed; lraHfer. 
TITLE Ill. 
Sec. 570. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in
interest, except that an executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
or a person expressly authorized by statute, IJ.!a}' sue without joining with him
the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with whom
or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another, is a trustee or
an express trust, within the meaning of this Section. , 
Sec. 571. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee is without prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing at the
time of, or before, notice of the assignment; but this Section does not apply
to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith
and upon good consideration, before maturity. 
Sec. 572. A married woman may sue and be sued in the same manner as if
she were sole. 
Sec. 573. If a husband and wife be sued together the wife may defend for
her own right, and if the husband neglect to def end, she may defend for his 
right also.
Sec. 574. When an infant or an insane or incompetent person is a party, he 
must appear either by his general guardian or by a guardian ad /item appointed
by the court in which the action is pending in each case. A guardian ad /item
may be appointed in any case, when it is deemed by the court in which the
action or proceeding is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, expedient to repre­
sent the infant, insane or incompetent person in the action or proceeding, not­
withstanding he may have a general guardian and may have appeared by him. 
Sec. 575. When a guardian ad /item is appointed by the court, he must Ix
appointed as follows: 
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if he be 
of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age, upon the application of a
relative or friend of the infant. 
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if he
be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after the service of
the summons, or if under that age, or if he neglects so to apply, then upon the
application of a relative or friend of the infant, or of any other party to the
action. 
3. When an insane or incompetent person is party to an action or proceed­
ing, upon the application of a relative or friend of such insane or incompetent
person, or of any other party to the action or proceeding.' 
Sec. 576. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintiff, in an action for
her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages, pecuniary or
exemplary, as are assessed in her favor. 
Sec. 577. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the
mother, may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of the daughter, and the
guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or ward be not
living with or in the service of the plaintiff at the time of the seduction or
afterward, and there be no loss of service. · 
Sec. 578. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of bis family, the
mother may maintain an action for the injury or death of a minor child, and a
guardian for the injury or death of his ward, when such injury or death is caused 
by the wrongful act or neglect of another. Such action may be maintained
against the person causing the injury or death, or if such person be employed
by another person who is responsible for his conduct, also against such other
person. 
Sec. 579. Wheh the death of one person, not being a minor, is caused by
the wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal representatives may
maintain an action for damages against the person causing the death, or if such
person be employed by another person who is responsible for his conduct, then 
also against such other person. In every action under this and the preceding Section such damages may be given as under all the circumstances of the case
may be just. 
Sec. 580. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action and in '
obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except when other­
wise provided in this Title. 
Sec. 581. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an inter­
est in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a
complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein. And
in an action to determine the title or right of possession to real property which,
at the time of the commencement of the action, is in the possession of a ten­
ant, the landlord may be joined as a party defendant. 
Sec. 582. In an action brought by a person out of possession of real prop­
erty, to determine an adverse claim of an interest or estate therein, the person
making such adverse claim and the persons in possession may be joined as
defendants, and if the judgment be for the plaintiff, he may have a writ for the
possession of the premises, as against the defendants in the action, against 
whom the judgment has passed.
Sec. 583. Any two or more persons claiming an estate or interest in lands 
under a common source of title, whether holding as tenants in common, joint
tenants, or in severalty, may unite in an action against any person claiming an
adverse interest or estate therein, for the purpose of determining such adverse
claim, or of establishing such common source of title, or of declaring the same
to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the same. 
Sec. 584. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest must
be joined as plaintiffs or defendants, but if the consent of any one who should
have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question is 
one of a common or general interest, of many persons, or when the parties are
numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or
more may sue or def end for the benefit of all. 
Sec. 585. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument,
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties
oo the same or separate instruments, may all or any of them be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintiff. 
Sec. 586. All persons holding as tenants in common, joint tenants, or any
number less than all, may jointly or severally commence or defend any civil
action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of th; rights of such
party. In all cases one tenant in common or joint tenant can sue his co­
tenant. 
Sec. 587. An action, or cause of action, or defense, shall not abate by death,
or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, but
shall, in all cases, where a cause of action or defense arose in favor of such
party prior to his death, or other disability or transfer of interest therein, sur­
vive, and be maintained by his representatives or successors in interest f and in
case such action has not been begun or defense interposed, the action may be
begun or defense set up in the name of his representatives or successors in in­
terest; and in case the action has been begun or defense set up, the court
shall, on motion, allow the action or proceeding to be continued by or against
his representatives or successors in interest. In case of any transfer of interest,
the action or proceeding may be continued in the name of the original party,
or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substi­
tuted in the action or proceeding. 
Sec. 588. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract,
or for specific personal property, may, at any time before answer, upon affi­
davit that a person not a party to the action makes against him, and
without any collusion with him, a demand upon such contract, or for such
property, upon notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the
court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him
from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount claimed
on the contract, or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the
court may direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make the order. And
whenever conflicting claims are or may be made upon a person for or relating
to personal property, or the performance of an obligation, or any portion
thereof, such person may bring an action against the conflicting claimants to
compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims among themselves.
The order of substitution may be made, and the action of interpleader may be
maintained, and the applicant or plaintiff be discharged from liability to all
or any of the conflicting claimants, although their titles or claims have not a
common origin, or are not identical, but are adverse to and independent of one 
another.
Sec. 589. Any person may, before the trial, intervene in an action or pro. 
ceeding who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both. An intervention takes place when
a third person is permitted to become a party to an action or proceeding
between other persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is
sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the
claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plain­
tiff and the defendant, and is made by complaint, setting forth the grounds
upon which the intervention rests, filed by leave of the court and served upon
the parties to the action or proceeding who have not appeared, and npon the
attorneys of the parties who have appeared, who may answer or demur to it 
as if it were an original complaint.
Sec. 590. When two or more persons, associated in any business, transact . 
such business under a common name, whether it comprise the names of such 
persons or not, the associates may be sued by such common name, the sum­
mons in such cases being served on one or more of the associates ; and the
judgment in the action shall bind the joint property of all the associates, in
the same manner as if all had been named defendants, and had been sued upon
their joint liability. 
Sec. 591. The court may determine any controversy between parties before
it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving 
their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, .the court must then order them to
be brought in. And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person not a party to the action, but having an interest in the
subject thereof.makes application to the court to be made a party, it may
order him to be brought in, by the proper amendment. 
Sec. 592. If any person shall assume and exercise exclusive ownership over,
or take away, destroy, lessen in value, or otherwise injure or abuse any prop­
erty held in joint tenancy or . tenancy in common, the party aggrieved shall
have his action for the injury in the same manner as he would have if such
joint tenancy or tenancy in common did not exist. 
Sec. 593. A holder of over-due bills of exchange and promissory notes may
sue all the parties thereto collectively or severally, but if any of the parties
thereto, who are not primarily liable for the payment, shall tender the amount
of principal, interest and costs thereon, he shall transfer the paper, and if a
jpdgment be rendered thereon, he shall assign the judgment to such party so
making the tender; and in case of refusal he may be compelled to do so by
summary proceedings, for that purpose instituted, in the District Court of the
district in which he shall reside. 
TITLE IV. 
PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS. 
Section 610. Certain action» to be tried wkere Ike s"bject or some-part thereof is situated.
6u. Other actions, wlure Ike cause or s ome part tlu:reof arose. ·
612. Place of trial of actions against co1111lie.,.
613.· Otker actions accordi11g lo Ike residence of /1,e partiu. 
614. Action may be tried ;,, any cou•ty, u11less tke defendent dema11d a trial ,·,,
Ike proper cou11ty. 
61 i:;. Place of trial may be clla11ged ,·,, certain cases.
616. W!,en judge is disqualified, cause to be transferred.
617. Papers to be transmitted, costs, etc.,jurisdiction, etc.
618. Proceedings afterj11dgme11t ;,, certain cases transferred, 
619. Change of place of trial on agreeme11t of parties. 
Sec. 610. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county in
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the
power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided in this Code: 
I. For the recovery of real propery, or of an estate or an interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for injuries
to real property. 
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of all liens and mortgages on real property. Where 
the real property is situated partly in one county and partly in another, the
plaintiff may select either of the counties, and the county so selected is the 
proper county. for the trial of such action.
Sec. 611. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county 
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like power of the
court to change the place of trial : 
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; except
that, when it is imposed for ai. ,.•t ·1 , _. :., -~·,i .. ,,_ a l.ik c. ri . 1, r 
stream of water, situated in t,.," er i. - r~: ,JY.:nt:t "• the ·~'-:.,, ,;· L · 
in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the
place where the offense was committed. 
2. Against a public officer, or person especially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who,
by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of such 
officer.
Sec. 612. An action against a county may be commenced and tried in such 
county, unless such action is brought by a county, in which case it may be
commenced and tried in any county not a party thereto. 
Sec. 613. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county in which
the defendants, or any of them, may reside at the commencement of the
action, or where the plaintiff resides, and the defendants, or any of them, may
be found; or if none of the defendants reside in the State, or, if residing in the
State, the county in which they so reside be unknown to the plaintiff, the
same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff may designate in his com­
plaint ; and if any defendant or def end ants may be about to depart from the
State, such action may be tried in any county where either of the parties may
reside, or service be had. Actions upon contracts may be tried in the county
in which the contract was to be performed ; and actions for torts in the county
where the tort was committed ; subject, however, to the power of the court to 
change t~place of trial, as provided in this Code.
Sec. 614. If the county in which the action is commenced is not the proper 
county for t · e trial thereof, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein,
unless the defendant, at the time he appears and answers or demurs, files an
affidavit of merits, and demands, in writing, that the trial be had in the proper 
county.
Sec. 615. The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the fol­ 
lowing cases : 
1. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper county. 
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein. 
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change. 
4. When from any cause the judge is disqualified from acting; but in case
the judge of another district will appear and try the action, no change of the 
place of trial must be made.
Sec. 616. If an action or proceeding is commenced or pending in a court, 
and the judge or justice thereof is disqualified from acting as such, or if, from
any cause, the court orders the place of trial to be changed, it must be trans­
ferred for trial to a court the parties may agree upon by stipulation in writing,
or made in open court and entered in the minutes ; or, if they do not so agree,
then to the nearest court where the like objection or cause for making the
order does not exist, as follows : 
1. If in a District Court, to another District Court. 
2. If in a J ustice's court, to another Justice's court in the same county.
Sec. 617. When an order is made transferring an action or proceeding for 
trial, the clerk of the court. or justice qf the peace must transmit the pleading
and papers therein to the clerk or justiee of the court to which it is transferred.
The costs and fees thereof. and of filing. the papers anew, must be paid by the
party at whose instance the order was made. The court to which an action or
proceeding is transferred has and exercises over the same the like jurisdiction
as if it hod been originally commenced taerein. 
Sec. 618. When an action or proceeding affecting the title to or possession
of real estate has been brought in or transferred to any court of a county other
than the county in which the real estate, or some portion of it, is situated, the
clerk of such court must, after final judgment therein, certify under his seal of
office, and transmit to the corresponding court of the county in which the real 
estate affecter. ·- : the action is situated, a copy of the judgment. The cierk
receiving such ·:opy must file, docket, and record the judgment in the record
of the court, briefly designating it as a judgment transferred from--court
( naming the proper court). 
Sec. 619. All the parties to an action by stipulation or by consent in open
court, entered in the minutes, may agree that the place of trial may be changed
to any county in the State. Thereupon the court must order the change as
agreed upon. 
Section « 630. Actions, .+ow comme11ced.
631. Co,np/a,·111, "ow indorsed, Wke11 su11m011s 111ay IH iss11ed a•d lurw -wai1.,ed.
63:z. S11mmo11s, .+ow iss,ud, directed, a11d wltat lo costai«, 
633. Alia» s11mmons,
634. Notice of tke Je11denc_v of a11 action a.ffecti11g t"e title to real property.
635. S111111No11.ir, "ow served a,rd retnrned,
636. S11mmo11s, .iow served.
637. P11b/icatio11 wle11 defe11da11t is absent from ,,,e Stale, concealed, or a foreig» 
corporatio11 kavi11g 110 age11I, etc.
638. Ma11ner of p11b/icatio11.
639- Wkat s11111mo11s for p11b/icatio11 to coetai« .•
640. Slteri.ff to serve ;ape-rs s,111 by mail. 
641. Proceedi11gs w.ie11 011/y part of tl,e defe11da1Jts are served,
6.4:1. Proof of service, "ow 111ade. 
643. W.+e11 111risdictio,, of actio• acq•ired. · 
Sec. 630. Civil actions in the courts of record of this State are commenced
by filing a complaint. 
Sec. 631. The clerk must indorse on the complaint the day, month and
year that it is filed ; and at any time within one year thereafter, the plaintiff
may have summons issued ; and if the action be brought against two or more
defendants, who reside in different counties, may have summons issued for
each of such counties at the same time. But at any time within o .. ~ year 
after t~e complaint i~ filed, ~he defe~da'?t may, in writing, or b_y appeari!lg ~
answenng or demurrmg, waive the tssumg of summons; or, tf the action be', 
brought upon a joint contract of two or more defendants, and one of them has
appeared within the year, the other or others may be served or appear after
the year, at any time before trial. . 
Sec. 632. The summons must be directed to the defendant, signed by the
clerk, and issued under the seal of the court, and must contain : The names of 
the parties to the action, the court in which it is brought, and the county in
which the complaint is filed, and must be substantially as follows: . 
(Title of the coart and cause.)
To the above named defendant : I 
You are hereby summoned to answer the romplaint in this action which is filed in the
office of the clerk of this court, a copy of which is herewith served upon you, and to file vour
answer and serve a copy thereof upon the plain:ift"s attorney within twenty days after the serv­
ice of this summons, exclusive of the day of serrlce ; and in case of your failure to appear or
answer, judgment "ill be taken against you hr default, for the relief demanded in the com· 
plaint. 
TITLE V. 
MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS. 
Witness my hand and the seal of said court
· this day of ---. 
The name of the plaintiff's attorney must be indorsed on the summons.
Sec. 633. If the summons is retuned without being served on any or all of 
the defendants, or if it has been lost, tae clerk, upon the demand of the: plaintiff, 
may issue an alias summons. in the same form as the original. .But no such
alias summons shall be issued after tae expiration of one yearfrom the date of
filing the complaint. · ' 
Sec. 634. In an action affecting the title of right «. f?Os~:3sion of real 
of filing the complaint. and the defendant, at the time oi "ling his answer,
when affirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at any tin .. d' -rward, may
file in the office of the clerk of the county in which the property "' .: ruated, a
notice of the pend ency of the action, containing the names of lb: : , • · ries and
the object of the action or defense, and a description of the pr,,1 ·l rt y in that
county affected thereby. From the time of filing such notice, only sh.ul a pur­
chaser or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby be deem-«: to nave
constructive notice of the pendency of the action, and only of i:·) pcnd-ncy
against parties designated by their real names. 
Sec. 635. The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where
the defendant is found, or by any other person over the age of eighteen, not a
party to the action. · A copy of the complaint must be served with the sum­
mons, unless two or more defendants are residents of the same county, in
which c._.e a copy of the complaint need only be served upon one of such de­
fendants. When the summons is served by the sheriff it must be returned
with his certificate of service, and of the service of any copy of the complaint,
where such copy is served, to the office of the clerk from which it issued.
When it is served by any other person it must be returned to the same place,
with an affidavit of such person of its service and of the service of the copy of
the complaint, where such copy is served. 
Sec. 636. The summons must be served by delivering a copy thereof, as
follows: 
1. If the suit is against a corporation formed under the laws of this State,
to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or man­
aging agent thereof. 
2. If the suit is against a foreign corporation, or a non-resident joint stock
company ot association, doing business and having a managing or business
agent, cashier or secretary within this State, to such agent, cashier or secre­
tary, or to a person designated as provided in Section 1031, of the Civil Code. 
3. Any corporation doing business in this State may be served with sum­
mons, by ·Jelivering a copy of the same to the president, secretary, treasurer
or other officer of the corporation, or to the agent designated by such cor­
poration as the person upon whom service shall be- made as required by law,
and if none of the persons above mentioned can be found in the county, then
service may be made upon any clerk, superintendent, general agent, cashier,
principal director, ticket agent, station keeper, managing agent or other agent,
having the management, direction, or control of any property of such corpo­
ration. If none of the persons in this Section described can be found in the
county in which such action is commesced, then service may be made, as pro­
vided in this Section, upon any of thepersons herein described, in any county 
of this State. ,
4. If against a minor under the ag~ of fourteen years, residing within this 
State, to such minor, personally, and aso to his father, mother or guardian, or,
if there be none within this State, the~to any person having the care or con­ 
trol of such minor, or with whom he res es, or in whose service he is employed.
5. If against a person residing wit n this State, who has been judicially 
declared to be of unsound mind, or intapable of conducting his own affairs,
and for whom a guardian has been appsinted, to such person and also to his 
guardian. \
6. If against a county, city or town,\to the president or chairman of the 
Board County Commissioners, president of the council, or trustees, mayor, 
or other ad of the legislative departmest thereof, 
7. In al ther cases to the defendant personally.
Sec. 637. In the person on whora the service of a summons is to be 
made, resides out a{ the State, or has departed from the Stat· c mnot, after
due diligence, be found within the State, ar conceals himsell t • .1_h,id, the serv­
ice of the summons; or when the defendant is a foreign \ ·,, __ ;r,•poi;~"J.w.ving 
no r.ianagin. -usiness agent. .ashic.. s-icret a: :·· ·,•: other of - .
State, and , l.ivit ::t iting any of t hr se f:v.ts , . filed wit: • 
the . ourt in vhich the action is brought . .u-d su. h aft davit also s11
cau-c <A action ex: ;~s a~ain5t tli .. ddt !'d mt i: r c pcct to whom t l 
the summons is to be made, and that he or it is a Hc;"'".,sary or pr< '. .
the .action, the clerk of the court in which the action il,,Commenc -
the service of the summons to be made by publicatHJ1r thereof. 
Sec. 638. The order of the clerk must direct the publicatir-: . ·: -de in
a newspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice tc ·:, ! .... 111 to be
served, at least once a week for four successive weeks. In c .. : •.: .. ", . cation
where the residence of a non-resident or absent defendant i . .: k r :1. t:.e clerk
must forthwith deposit a copy of the summons and complaint , ,l:> ;1' .stoffice
directed to the person to be served at his place of reslde: •. -~ . , h- ·. publica-
tion is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons ~ ·,d comi,faint out
of the State is equivalent to publication and deposit in : t ... postoffice, The
service of summons is complete on the day of the fourth 1>ubl1cation. · 
Sec. 639. If service is had by publication, the summoi.-. ;~1 addition to the
requirements of Section 632, shall contain a general statement of the nature of 
the action.
Sec. 640. It is the duty of the clerk of any Dis+ 'ct Court, at the request 
of a party in any civil action pending in such co 1.:. 
agent or attorney, to
forward by mail any process, summons, or other : :--; ... " required in the cause, 
1.;'; 
and it is the duty of the sheriff or other or· ·~1··. ttl ,. .. 'iom said papers may be
directed to receive the same at the pl"'\· . '.\ ~. - . -: t · ·- same are directed, and for 
service shall be entitled to charge· .. ·_· · ,-,niy from the point where received
· to the place of service; but ir . . · c-~1~.~ 1 ~ i..; lawful for the officer to return 
the process to the court bv : ,: · · · .r <""'~Hess. But in no case shall the officer
receiving papers for serv' · · .: ,]".,;ir1:j to serve the same, unless the person in
whose behalf the service is P) 1;:·:, his agent or attorney, first pay the cost of
the service upon a demand therefor by the officer; and when process in one
county is intended for service in another, it is the duty of the clerk to forward
the same in like manner, and the sheriff or other officer serving the same is entitled to like mileage, and no more, and may make like return of the papers
served. If any sheriff or other officer refuse to receive any summons or other
process at the point where directed to him, or to serve the same, he is guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof must be fined in any sum not
exceeding one hundred dollars. , 
Sec. 641. When the action is against two or more defendants, jointly or
severally liable on a contract, and the summons is served on one or more, but
not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed against the defendants served in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants. 
Sec. 642. Proof of the service of summons and complaint must be as follows: 
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof. 
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or prin­ 
cipal clerk, showmg the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the
summons and complaint in the posteffice, if the same has been deposited; or, 
4. The written admission of the defendant. In case of service otherwise
than by publication, the certificate Qr affidavit must state the time and place
of service. 
Sec. 643. From the time of the service of the summons and a copy of the
complaint in a civil action, where se-vice of a copy of the complaint is required,
or of the completion of the publication when service by publication is ordered,
the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction of the parties, and to have
control of all the subsequent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a
defendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons an~ a copy c: r · ·~ 
TITLE V, 
\ PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
\ 
Clta/te, '. /, Tke pleadings in general.
//. Complai•t. 
' ///. Dem•r·rer to tlte com/lai•t.
·. IV. A nnver. 
V. Demurrer to answer.
VI Reply. 
V'l I. Verification of /leadi".q-s.
V Jl I, Ge•eral reles of fleadi•gs. 
LY. Varia•c11-Mistakes ;,, pleadi•gs and a#lend#le#U. 
Sectio• 66o. D,.p~n,'tio11 of /leadi11gs.
661. Tii.,· Code /t"escribes tlte form a#d t"t1ks of pkadings.
66:z. Wltat /leadi,.gs are allowed. 
Sec. 660. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of their
respective claims and defenses fot the judgment of the court. 
Sec. 661. The forms of pleading in civil actions, and the rules by which the
sufficiency of the pleadings are to be determined, .ase those prescribed in this 
Code. ,
Sec. 662. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the plaintiff are : 
1. The complaint. 
2. The demurrer to the answer.
3. The reply to defendant's answer.
And on the part of the defendant : 
1. The demurrer to the complaint. 
2. The answer.
3. The demurrer to reply. 

Sec. 670. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint.
Sec. 671. The complaint must contain : 
1. The title of the action, the nam~ of the court and county in whicb the
action is brought, and the names of tht! parties to the action. 
2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of acticn, in ordinary
and concise language. , 
.~. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If i 11 • recovery of
money or damages be demanded, the a~ount must be stated. · 
Sec. 672. The plaintiff may unite s~veral causes of actk · ~·'~ .1 l or equi­
.. able, or both, in the same complaint, where they all arise out 
t. Contracts, express or implied. ' 
? • Claims to recover sped f c real property, with or withou · G,t::, ,, ~Tes for the 
.• tio]d.ing thereof, or for waste cornmiucd thereon, and the r•_ .. : ... ., id profits 
,: tl.e ~;n,. n '',. an injunction to stajl waste or injury thev«: 
j ·· · ~ ver specific personal property, with or wt l- ,~ : famages, 
1 · ·,ereof. .
ustee by virtue of a contract or by &Pf ·· .... ~1···11 of law. 
, ;. 
7. Injuries to property.
The causes of action so united must all appear on the face of the complaint, 
to belong to one only of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated
and numbered ; but an action for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of
them, may be united with an action for either an injury to character or to the
person. 
Section 1' 68o. Wke• defe11da11t 111ay d•m•r.
681. Dem•rrer ,,.,ut 3/ecify, etc.
68.J, May l,e take• to all or /art.
683. Wkat /roceeding3 are to be lad ·u.,ken com/lai11t a•e•ded.
684. Objeclio11 not a/Jeari•i 011 co•Jlai11t, •ay H talte11 /Jy a#3Wer.
685. Objectioes, wke• dee••d waived. 
Sec. 680. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time
required ih the summons to answer, when it appears upon the face thereof,
either: · 
,p "1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the
subject of the action ; or, 
2. That the plaintiff has not the legal capacity to sue; or, 
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the
same cause; or, 
4. That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintiff or defendant ; or 
5. That causes of action have been improperly united; or, 
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause 
of action; or,
.;. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or uncertain.
Sec. 681. The demurrer must destinctly specify the objections to the com­ 
plaint; otherwise, it ~y be disregarded. An objection taken under Subdi­
vision J, 3, or 6 of Section 68o: of this Code, may be stated in the language of
the Subdivision ; an objection taken under either of the other Subdivisions,
must point out specifically the particular defect relied upon. 
Sec. 682. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one or
more separate causes of actlon stated therein. In the latter case, he may
answer the causes of action not demurred to. 
Sec. 683. If the complaint is amended, a copy of the amendments must be
filed, or the court may, in its discretion, require the complaint, as amended to
be filed, and a copy of the amendments, or amended complaint, must be served
upon the defendants affected thereby. The defendant must answer the
amendment, or complaint, as amended, within ten days after service thereof,
or such other time as the court may direct, and judgment by default may he
entered upon failure to answer, as in other cases. · 
Sec. 684. Whe11 any of the matters enumerated in Section 680 do not apoear
upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. 
Sec. 685. If no objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant must be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the ol J 
jection to jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint d. 
not stale facts· suPicient to constitute a cause of action. 
Section 6<)o.
6)1.
&)z. 
693. 
CHAPTER III. 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT. 
CHAPTER IV. 
· 11swer, -::·l,nt lo contain. 
( ounterciaim , defi nrd,
( ountercla .. 'm, rules thereof,
~ udgmn,t on same, · 
ANSWER. 
_.. . ~-:,:!iH 
• "'TOI bi..-.; .~!Ub~ ·.!" !'•
,10:..~1 nt?.rni.sD . ~ 
If 1 s. r i :)IO' Uivr ~d1 ,c' 
. 11 s ln~~~r; ~<ni.~ ~~ . ;;_ 
·-::}:f:>s-r_r-;rf~ o:t ~ ,iwln T
.no-n sq 01 ~~iWL': i .,) 
I 
Sutio• 694. A tlirmative relief. 
695. C:01111ter~im, executor, etc. 
(4,. Wke• Jlai11tilf is executor, etc. 
~z.. W.+e11 defe11tTa11t omits to set up connter-claim, 
6<)8 Counterclaim not barred hy death or as.,i1r11me11j. 
<xn. Defe11da11t ma_y set forth all kis defenses a,rd co1111terdaims. 
700. Partial dt'fe11se.s.
701. Wke• defe11dant ,nay demand af!ir111nti1•t' ;,"l.irment . 
. 701. W.+en answer admits part of plaintiff's claim.
703. "J•dgn,e11t for excess. 
Sec. 690. The answer of the defendant must contain: 
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint 
controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof
, sufficient to form a belief, or a specific admission or denial of some of the alle­ 
gations of the complaint, and also a general denial of all the allegations of the
complaint not specifically admitted or denied in the answer. · 
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counterclaim.
Sec. 691. The counterclaim specified in the last Section must tend, in 
some way, to diminish or defeat the plaintiff's recovery, and must be one of
the following causes of action against the plaintiff, or, in a proper case, against
the person whom he represents, and in favor of the defendant, or of one or
more defendants, between whom and the plaintiff a separate judgment may be 
· had in the action : 
f 1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction, set forth in
f the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with the 
subject of the action. 
2. In an action on contract, any other cause of action on contract, existing
at the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 692. But the counterclaim, specified in Subdivision 2 of the last Sec­
tion, is subject to the following rules: 
I. If the action is founded upon a contract, which has been assigned by the
party thereto, other than a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, a
demand, existing against the party thereto, or an assignee of the contract, at
the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant, in good
faith, before notice of the assignment, must be allowed as a counterclaim, to
the amount of the plaintiff's demand, if it might have been so allowed against
the party, or the assignee, while the contract belonged to him. 
is established, which entitles the defendant to an affirmative judgment, de­
manded in the answer, judgment must be rendered for the defendant ac­ 
cordingly.
Sec. 695. In an action against an executor or administrator, or other person 
sued in a representative capacity, the defendant may set forth, as a counterclaim,
a demand belonging to the decedent, or other person whom he represents, where
the person so represented would have been entitled to set forth the same, in an 
action against him.
Sec. 696. In an action brought by an executor or administrator, in his repre­ 
sentative capacity, a demand against the decedent, belonging atthe time of his
death to the defendant, may be set forth by the defendant as a counterclaim,
as if the action had been brought by the decedent in his lifetime; and, if a
balance is found to be due the defendant, judgment must be rendered therefor 
against the plaintiff in his representative capacity. Execution can be issued 
upon such a judgment, only in a case where it could be issued upon a judgment,
in an action against the executor or administrator. 
Sec. 697. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the cases men­
tioned in the first subdivision of Section 6g1, neither he nor his assignee can
afterwards maintain an action against the plaintiff therefor. 
Sec. 698. When cross demands have existed between persons under such
circumstances that, if one had brought an action against the other, a counter­
claim could have been setup, the two demands shall be deemed compensated,
so far as they equal each other, and neither can be deprived of the benefit there­
of, by the assignment or death of the other. 
Sec. 699. A defendant may set forth, in his answer, as many defenses or
counterclaims, or both, as he has, whether they are such as were formerly de­
nominated legal or equitable. Each defense or counterclaim must be separately
stated and numbered. Unless it is interposed as an answer to the entire com­
plaint, it must distinctly refer to the cause of action which it is intended to 
answer.
Sec. 700. A partial defense may be set forth, as prescribed in the last Sec­ 
tion; but it must be expressly stated to be a partial defense to the entire com­
plaint, or to one or more separate causes of action, therein set forth. Upon a
demurrer thereto, the- '111Pc;;tion is, whether it is sufficient for that purpose. 
Sec. 722. , e plaintiff fails to reply or demurr to the counterclaim, the
defendant ~ ; · , be entitled to the same relief, as a plaintiff upon the failure of
def end'. . , t . · , demur to or answer the complaint. 
SEC. 703. The defendant may also demur to the reply, or to a separate
trav-- · to, or avoidance of, a defense or counterclaim, contained in the reply. 
or : 1:,:.: ground that it is insufficient in law upon the face thereof" · · 
SECTION 730. Pleadi•gs "'*·'' he s•hscrihed. 
731. Verificatio« of plt!adi•gs. 
Sec. 730. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney.
Sec. 731. All complaints, answers and replies must be verified as provided 
in this Section, except that when an admission of the truth of the allegation
might subject the party to a prosecution for felony or misdemeanor, .or when
the action or defense is in behalf of the State, county, or a subdivision thereof,
or a municipal corporation, the verification may be omitted. 
The affidavit of verification must be to the effect, that the pleading is true
to the knowledge of the deponent, except as to the matters therein stated on
information and belief, and that as to those he believes it to be true. 
Such verification must be made by the party, or if there are several parties
united in interest or pleading, by one at least of such parties acquainted with
the facts, if such party is in the county and capable of making the affidavit.
The verification may also be made by the agent or attorney of the party, if the
party is absent from the county where the attorney resides, or is from any
other cause unable to verify the pleading.xand in such case the verification
must state that the deponent is the agent or attorney of the party, and the
reason why such verification is made by such agent or attorney, and that the
matters stated in the pleading are true to the best knowledge, information and ·
belief of such agent or attorney. 
When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any officer
thereof, and must state what officer he is, and that the matters stated therein
are true to the best knowledge, information and belief of such officer. If there
is no officer of the corporation within the county, the verification may be made
by its attorney. 

Section 740. Pleadi11gs lo be liberally coxstrued, 
741. Frivolous pleadings, /,ow disposed of. 
742. Sham or ir releuant pleadings. 
743. Account, kow pleaded. 
744. Description of real p,·opcrty. 
745. Pleading,jNdgme•I, etc.
746. Condition precedrnt.
7-+7. lnstr,unent for Ike pa_yme11t of money o•ly. 
748. Copy of written i11slr11ment in pleading. 
749. Pleadi11g Statnte of Limitations. 
750. Pleading pr; ·te statutes, 
751. Lihel and sla, . ler, 
752. Same. 
VERIFICATION 01'" PLEADINGS. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
753. Copy of answer 011 co-defc ndanr, wken.
754. Allt!gation not denied, ~:1,en deemed true. 
755. Construction of not ·• s11flirif!nt knowledge," ctr.
756. Material allegatio1t, wkat is. 
757· Supp!eme•lal pleading. 
758. Pleadings filed and served. 
Sec. 740. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determin
ing its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to sub­ 
stantial justice between the parties. 

Sec. 741. If a demurrer, answer, or reply is frivolous, ~L· party prejudiced
thereby, upon a previous notice to the adverse party, oi not less than five 
days, may apply to the court or to a judge of the court for judgment there­
upon, and judgment may be given accordingly. If the application is d,::~ied,
an appeal cannot be taken from the determination, and the denial of th1· .1;,
plication does not prejudice any of the subsequent proceedings of eithc r ! ,:, rr,:
Costs may be awarded in the discretion of the court. 
Sec. 742. Sham and irrelevant answers and replies, and irrelevant and redc»­
dant matter inserted in a pleading, may be stricken out, upon such terms as
the court may, in its discretion, impose. 
Sec. 743. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items
of an account therein alleged, but he must deliver to the adverse party, with­
in five days, or such further time as the court may allow, or may be agreed to 
by the parties, after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or be 
precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or judge thereof may or­
der a further account when the one delivered is too general, or is defective in
any particular. 
Sec. 744. In an action for the recovery of real property, it must be de­
scribed in the complaint with. such certainty as to enable an officer upon execu­
tion to identify it. 
Sec. 745. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court, officer,
or board, it is not necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made.
If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish on the
trial the facts conferring jurisdiction. 
Sec. 746. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a con­
tract, it is not necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it
may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part, and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must
establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. 
Sec. 747. Where a cause of action, defense, or counterclaim, is founded
upon an instrument for the payment of money only, the party may set forth 
a copy of the instrument, and state that there is due him thereon, from the
adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims. Such an allegation is equiva­
lent to setting forth the instrument according to its legal effect. 
Sec. 748. The insertion in a pleading of a copy of a written instrument is
equivalent to setting forth the instrument according to its legal effect. 
Sec. 749. In pleading the Statute of Limitations, it is not necessary to state
the facts showing the defense, but it may be stated generally that the cause
of action is barred by the provision of Section -- (giving the number of
the Section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon), of the
Code of Civil Procedure ; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts showing that the cause of action
is so barred. 
Sec. 750. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it is
sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and
the court thereupon shall take judicial notice thereof. 
Sec. 751. In an action for libel and slander, it is not necessary to state
iri the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the appli­
cation to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of
action arose; but it is sufficient to state, generally, that the same was pub­
lished or spoken concerning the plaintiff ; and if such allegation be con­
troverted, the plaintiff must establish, on the trial that i( was so published or 
spoken.
Sec. 752. In the actions mentioned in the last tion, the defendant may. 
in this answer, allege both the truth of the matte· irged as defamatory, and
any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amou . f damages; and whether 
he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating cir­
cumstances. 
Sec. 753. Where the judgment may determine the ultimate rights of two
or more defendants, as between themselves, a defendant who requires such a
determination must demand it in his answer. 
The controversy between the defendants must not delay a judgment, to
which the plaintiff is entitled, unless the court otherwise directs. 
Sec. 754. Each material allegation of the complaint, not controverted by
the answer, and each material allegation of new matter in the answer, not con­
troverted by the reply, where a reply is required, must, for the purposes of the 
action be taken as true. But an allegation of new matter in the answer, to
which a reply is not required, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed
controverted by the adverse party. 
Sec. 755. An allegation that the party has not sufficient knowledge or in­
formation to form a belief, with respect to a matter, must, for all purposes,
including a criminal prosecution, be regarded as an allegation that the person
verifying the pleading has not such knowledge or information. 
Sec. 756. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim
or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving
it· insufficient. 
Sec. 757. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts ma­
terial to the cause occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply. 
Sec. 758. All pleadings subsequent to the complaint must be filed with the
clerk, and copies thereof served upon the adverse party or his attorney. 
CHAPTER IX. 
VARIANCE- MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS AND AMENDMENTS. 
Section 770. Materlal uar ianrcs; kow pro·vided for.
771. Immaterial oar iances, .iow Jro11iaed for.
771. W.+e,. not lo be deemed a variance.
773. Amendments of course, and effect of demurrer. 
774. Amendment.I by Ike court. E"larging time lo plead a11d relieving fro•
judgme,,/s, etc. 
775. Sureties in answer may state true value of properly. 
776. A 111endme11/s in certain cases,
i77· S11i11g a /arty by a fictitiou» name, ·u.:lten allowed. 
778. iVo error or defect to be reKarded unless it affects substantial rights.
779· Time for answer. 
Sec. 770. No variance between the allegation in a ..Ieading and the proof
is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled 1:. l1t~ adverse party to his
prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon , he .:·erits. Whenever it
appears that a party has been so misled, the court 111 tY order the pleadings to
be amended, upon such terms as may be just. 
Sec. 771. Where the variance is not mat- :<11. d:, provided in the last Sec­
tion, the court may direct the fact to be fount' ,c._·1-1rding to the evidence, or
may order an immediate amendment, with 
1,1t

Sec. 772. Where, however, the allegati 1 • f .ue claim or defense, to which
the proof is directed, is unproved, not :r. · ,J;',' particular or particulars only, 
but in its general scope and meaning, it ! " ;,ut to be deemed a case of variance,
within the last two Sections, but a f'.du· e "' proof. 
Sec. 773. Any pleading may be rr-: ,;. dcd once by the party of course, and
without costs, at any time before. m-r.. er or demurrer filed, or tw~y ~ys 
after demurrer and before the t: iJ' d the issue of law thereon, by ling he
same as amended, and servinr ': , ,·rY on the adverse party, who may have 
twenty' daysThereafter in wL;,,_ .. t) answer, reply or demur to the amended
pleading. 
Sec. 774. The court m ,:·. 1.1 ~ ..• therance of justice, and on such terms as 
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name
of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, en­
large the time for answer, reply, or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to or in the presence of the adverse party, allow upon
such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in
other particulars; and upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the
time limited by this Code; and may, also, upon such terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his legal representative from a judgment, order, or · other
proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect; provided that application therefor be made within reasona­
ble time, hut in no case exceeding six months after such judgment, order, or
proceeding was taken. When from any cause the summons in an action has
not been personally served on the defendant, the court may allow on such
terms as may be just, such defendant or his legal representative, at any time
within one year after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer
to the merits of the original action. 
Sec. 775. When in an action to recover the possession of personal prop­
erty, the person making any affidavit did not truly state the value of the
property, and the officer taking the property, or the sureties on any bond or
undertaking, is sued for taking the same, the officer or sureties may in their
answer set up the true value of the property, and that the person in whose be­
half said affidavit was made was entitled to the possession of the same when
said affidavit was made, or that the value in the affidavit stated was inserted
by mistake, the court must disregard the value as stated in the affidavit. 
Sec. 776. Upon the decision of a demurrer, the court may in its discretion,
allow the party in fault to plead anew or amend, upon such terms as are just.
If a demurrer to a complaint is allowed, because two or more causes of action
have been improperly united, the court may, in its discretion, and 'upon such
terms as are just, direct that the action be divided into as many actions as are
necessary for the proper determination of the causes of action therein stated. 
Sec. 777. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of the defendant, such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleadings or proceedings may be
amended accordingly. It is sufficient in all actions, papers, pleadings or pro­
ceedings to designate any party or person by the initial letter or letters, or
some contraction of the Christian or first name or names, instead or stating the
Christian or first name in full. 
Sec. 778. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not affect the substantial
rights of the parties, and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason
of such error or defect. 
Sec. 779. When a demurrer to any pleading is sustained or overruled,
and time to amend, answer or reply is given, the time so given runs from
service of notice of the decision or order, except when the party against whom
the decision is made is in court. In such case the time runs from the making
of the decision or order. 
TITLE VII. 
PROVISIONAL REMED. ~S IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Cltajter I. Arrest and hail. . 
//. Claim and delivery of perso11t. 'property.
I I I. Inj11nctio11. 
IV. Attachment.
F. Attachment of Ii?·,· stock on ranges. 
V l. R~cefren.
VI I. Deposit ;,, court, 
V ///, Gencrat and m isccllaneous prcn·isio,is. 
Sectia« Boo.
8o1.
8o2. 
8o3. 
So.t, 
8o5.
8o6. 
&7. 
8o8.
Bog. 
810.
811. 
Su. 
813.
814.
815. 
816.
817. 
818.
819. 
820.
8:.21. 
8:a:a. 
8:13. 
824.
82,. 
826. 
CHAPTER I. 
ARREST AND BAIL. 
No Jersor, to be arrested in cit•il actio• e11tcept.
Wien defe11dar,t may be arrested ;,, a civil action, 
Order of arrest.
WJ,e,, order made, ••dertalt,"•g- tlert>for.
r:,,utiftcalion of s•reties.
WAH order made aed wl,at to require.
How order to be served 01' defe•dat1t. 
How order eseceted, e:,cJe•u of ltu/i•g- defenda•t.
Defenda11t disdarged 11pon giving bail. 
Bail,for,n of ""dertalti11g.
Bail ma_y serrender defendant.
WJ,e11 and Aow defe11dant may be surrendered,
Aclio11 hgainst bail. 
Bail exonerate, kow.
Rell1r11 of ••dertalti111r, e11ce;tio11 to bail.
Notice of jt1Slijicatio11 of bail, new 1111dertalti11g.
~11ali.ftcatio11 of bail.
')'11stificalio• of bail.
Bailfot1nd st1.fficienl, lo be allowed and deri.ff e1t0Hrat«l.
Deposit of money i11slead of bail.
May deposit will, deriff, r/erlt to give two certificates.
Bail given, deposit ref•11ded.
Money deposited, Ao11.1 disposed of.
SJ,erif- liable for escape.
Sl,err"ff's official bo,rd liable.
Proceeding» lo vacate order or reduce bail.
WJ,e11 order vacated or bail reduced, 
Sec. 800. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed
by this Chapter. 
Sec. 801. 1 he def end ant may be arrested in the following cases : 
1. In an action for. the recovery of money or damages, on a cause of action
arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is about to de­
part from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors; or when the action
is for willful injury to person, to character, or to property, knowing the
property to belong to another. 
2. In an action for a fine or penalty; or for money or property embezzled,
or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use by a public officer, or
an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the
course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capac­
ity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment, or
for a willful violation of duty. 
3. In an action to recover possession of personal property unjustly obtained
when the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, removed or dis­
posed of, so that it cannot be found, or taken by the sheriff. 
4. When the defendant has been guilty of fraud in contracting the debt,
incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in concealing or 
disposing of the property, or for taking, detention, or conversion of.which the
action is brought. 
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is about
to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. 
Sec. 802. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained from
the judge of the court in which the action is brought. 
Sec. 803. The order must be made whenever it shall appear to the judge,
by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some other person, that a sufficient cause of
action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in Section 8o1. Be­
fore making the order the judge must require a written undertaking on the
part of the plaintiff, with at least two sufficient securities, to the effect that, if
the defendant recover judgment, or if the court shall finally decide that the
plaintiff was not entitled to an order of arrest, the plaintiff will pay all costs 
and charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful or without
sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least five hundred dollars. 
Sec. 804. Each of the sureties must annex to the undertaking an affidavit
that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within the State, and
worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The. un­
dertaking must be filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 805. The order may be made at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time afterwards, before judgment. It must require the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him, and hold
him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time therein men­
tioned to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending. 
Sec. 806. The order of arrest with a copy of the affidavit upon which it is
made, must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall
deliver him a copy of the affidavit and also, if defendant desires, a copy of the
order of arrest. 
Sec. 807. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting the defendant,
and keeping him in custody until discharged by law. But the sheriff is not
bound to keep such person under arrest more than twenty-four hours, unless the
plaintiff advance each day the expense of keeping such person ; which expense
shall be taxed as costs in the action, and in no case shall be a charge against
the county. 
Sec. 808. The defendant, at any time before execution, is discharged from
arrest, either upon giving bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in
the order as provided in this Chapter. 
Sec. 809. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to
be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their places of residence
and occupations, to the effect that they are bound in the amount mentioned
in the order of arrest, that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of the action, and
to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein ; or that they will
pay to the plaintiff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered in
the action. 
Sec. 810. At any time before judgment, or within ten days thereafter, the
bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender
himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested. 
Sec. 811. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any
time or place before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or
by a written authority indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may
empower the sheriff to do so. Upon arrest of the defendant by the sheriff, or
upon his delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or upon his own surrender, the
bail shall be exonerated; provided, such arrest, delivery or surrender, take
place before the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest, de­
livery or surrender be not made within ten days after judgment, the bail shall
be finally charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of
the judgment within ten days thereafter. 
Sec. 812. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within ten days
after they are finally charged, an action may be commenced against such bail
for the amount of such original judgment. 
SEC. 813. The bail must also be exonerated by the death of the defendant, 
or his imprisonment in a State penitentiary or prison ; or by his legal discharge
from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process. 
Sec. 814. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff must file the
order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending, with his return indorsed thereon, together with a copy of the under- 
taking of the bail. The original undertaking he must retain in his possession,
until filed as herein provided. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may
serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be
deemed to have accepted them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liabil­
ity. If no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking must be
filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 815. Within five days after receipt of notice, the sheriff or defendant
may give to the plaintiff, or his attorney, notice of the justification of the same,
or other bail (specifying the place of residence and occupation of the latter),
before a judge of the court, or clerk thereof, at a specified time and place; the
time not to be less than five nor more than ten days thereafter, except by con­
sent of parties. In case other bail be given, there shaJI be a new undertaking. 
Sec. 816. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows: 
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder, or freeholder, within
the county. 
2. Each must be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, or the
amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in this Chapter, over and
above all his debts and liabilities. exclusive of property exempt from execution ;
but the judge or clerk, on justification, may allow more than two sureties to
justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. 
Sec. 817. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must attend
before the judge or clerk, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and
may be examined· on oath, on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency
in such manner as the judge or clerk, in his discretion, may think proper.
The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if
required by the plaintiff. 
Sec. 818. If the judge or clerk shall find the bail sufficient he must annex
the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and 
cause them to be filed, and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from
liability. 
Sec. 819. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. In case the
amount of bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter, the defendant may 
deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either case the sheriff shall
give the def endent a certificate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall
be discharged from custody. 
Sec. 820. The sheriff must, immediately after the deposit, pay the same
into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same, two certificates of such
payment, the one of which he must deliver or transmit to the plaintiff or his
attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment. the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff
to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency. 
Sec. 821. If money be deposited as provided in the last two Sections, bail may
be given and may justify upon notice, at any time before judgment; and on the
filing of the undertaking and justification with the clerk, the money deposited
shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant. 
Sec. 822. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on deposit
at the time of recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the clerk must,
under direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof ; and after
satisfying the judgment, must refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If 
the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk must, under direction of 
the court, refund him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
Sec. 823. If, after being arrested. the defendant escape or be rescued, the 
sheriff is liable as bail, but he may discharge himself from such liability by the
giving and justification of bail at any time before judgment. 
Sec. 824. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff upon his liability as 
bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the
same proceeding may be had on his official bond for the recovery of the whole
or any deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency. 
Sec. 825. A defendant arrested, may, at any time before justification of bail,
apply to the judge who made the order, or the court in which the action is
pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, to vacate the order of arrest
or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the
same by affidavits, or other proofs in addition to those on which the order of
arrest was made. 
Sec. 826. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appears that there was
not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated ; or if it satisfac­
torily appears that the bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced. 
CHAPTER I
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
S6ctio11 8.10. Plaintiff may claim delivery.
8.p. .Affidavit.
842. Req11isition.
843. Undertaking a11d duly of slteriff.
844- Exuptio11 to sereties, 
845. Property to l,e rct"r11ed in good co11ditio11. 
S.,..6. Action if property inj"red.
847. Duly of officer.
848. Sureties not released l,y second ""dertaki11g.
849. Defendant ,na_v require rel"r" of projerly. 
850. '7uslificalio• of defendaet:» sureties.
851. ~11afijicalio11_0/ sureties.
852. Proceedings i,l_Property concealed,
853. D11ty of sl,erflf.
854. Claimed 6y third Jerso•s.
855. Papers lo l,e filed.
856. Descriplio• of properly.
857. Sluriff may talte less. 
858. Tille ;,, tkird person.
859. Damages 011 default. 
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. 840. The plaintiff, in an action to recover possession of personal prop­
erty, may, at the time of issuing summons, or at any time before answer,
claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this Chapter. 
Sec. 841. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the
plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, stating: 
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, particularly
describing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof. 
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant 
to statute, or seized under an execution or an attachment against the property
of the plaintiff, or if so seized that it is by statute exempt from seizure; and, 
4. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 842. The plaintiff or his attorney may thereupon, by an indorsement 
in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the prop­
erty claimed may be to take the same from the defendant. 
Sec. 843. Upon receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written under­
taking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff,
to the effect that they are bound to the defendant in double the value
of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action and
for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may from any cause be recovered
against the plaintiff, the sheriff must forthwith take the property described in
the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. 
He must also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit,
notice, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can
be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken ; or, if
neither can be found by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either,
with some person of suitable age and discretion ; or, if neither have any known
place of abode, by putting them in the nearest post office, directed to the
defendant. 
Sec. 844. The defendant may, within two days after service of a copy of
the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the
sufficiency of the securities. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must
justify on notice, in like manner as upon bail on arrest; and the sheriff is re­
sponsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either
waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to
the sureties, he cannot claim the property, as provided in Section 849. 
Sec. 845. In all cases when a Judgment is rendered in an action to recover
the possession of personal property for the return thereof, or its value in case
a return cannot be had, it is the duty of the party against whom such judgment
shall be rendered to return the same in as good condition as the same was
when possession thereof was taken by him. 
Sec. 846. In case such property, while in the possession of the party against
whom such judgment shall be rendered, or while the same is unlawfully de­
tained from the party entitled to the possession thereof, be materially injured
or lessened in value by use or otherwise, then a return or offer to return shall
not be deemed a compliance with the undertaking given for its return, but an
action may be maintained for the value thereof as assessed by the jury or
court, and damages for its detention. 
Sec. 847. In case such action to recover possession of personal property is
brought against any sheriff or other officer who may have levied upon and
seized the same under authority of any attachment or other process, and judg­
ment shall be rendered in favor of such officer, for the return of the property,
the party against whom such judgment' is rendered may nevertheless make re­
turn of said property, notwithstanding the same may have been injured or les­
sened in value, and thereupon it is the duty of such officer to immediately
advertise the same for sale as in cases of sales of property under execution, and 
apply the proceeds of the sale thereof, after paying the costs, towards the pay­
ment and satisfaction of any judgment that may have been rendered. 
Sec. 848. Such second taking of such property ref erred to in the preceding Section does not release or discharge the sureties on any undertaking given for
the return of such property, but an action may be maintained on such under­
taking and recovery thereon had, unless the property shall have been actually
returned in accordance with the judgment rendered. 
Sec. 849. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff,
the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require
the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking executed
by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the de­
livery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the pay­
ment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against the de­
fendant. If a return of the property be not so required within five days after
the taking and serving notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the
plaintiff, except as provided in Section 854. 
Sec. 850. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plaintiff of not less
than two nor more than five days, shall justify before the judge or clerk, in the
same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification the sheriff
must deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible
for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until the justification is 
completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time ; but
if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time or place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. 
Sec. 851. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be such
as are prescribed by this Title in respect to bail upon an order of arrest. 
Sec. 852. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building
or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it be not de­
livered, he shall cause the building or inclosure to be broken open, and take
the property into his possession ; and if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of the county. 
Sec. 853. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this Chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled
thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses
for keeping the same. 
Sec. 854. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the
def end ant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or 
right of the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such right or title, and
serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the
property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff on demand of him or
his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an undertaking by two
sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff,
over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and are freeholders or householders in the county ; and no claim to
such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be
valid against the sheriff unless so made. 
Sec. 855. The sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking and affidavit, with
his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is pend­
ing within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein. 
Sec. 856. Where the affidavit describes two or more chattels of the same
kind, it must state the number thereof, and where it describes a chattel in bulk,
it must state the weight, measurement, or other quantity, as nearly as can be
ascertained. Where it describes two or more chattels, it may, at the election
of the plaintiff, state the aggregate value of all; or, separately, the value of
any chattel or of any class of chattels, and the aggregate value of the remain­
der, if any. Where it states separately the value of one or more chattels or
classes of chattels, the defendant may require, as prescribed in this Chapter,
the return of any or all of the chattels or classes of chattels, the value of which
is thus stated, or of the portion thereof which has been taken. If he procures
such a return, the remainder must be delivered to the plaintiff, except as is
otherwise prescribed in this Chapter. 
Sec. 857. The sheriff must take a less number or quantity, if the whole of
the property described in the affidavit cannot be found. 
Sec. 858. The defendant may by answer defend, on the ground that a third
person was entitled to the property, without connecting himself with the lat­
ter's title. 
Sec. 859. Where the plaintiff is entitled to judgment by default, for want 
of an appearance or pleading, the court to which he applies for judgment may 
ascertain and determine the damages to which he is entitled, and the value of
the property, if necessary; or may direct a reference for that purpose. 
CHAPTER III. 
INJUNCTION. 
Section 870. Injunction order.
871. lnju11ctio11, wlu:11 granted.
872. Injunction, at wkat time .irrantrd, and on wkat pa/ers, -n•lto ma_v serre. 
Sectio11 873. W.ie• •oliced reqeired,
874. Security •/011 ini•nctio•. 
87 5. Order to dO'W caus«. 
876. New ••derlalti11g may !Je req"ired. 
877. Verified answer 011/y affidavit.
878. Apjlicatio11 lo dissolve.
879. .Dis.ro/ut,'011 or modi/icatio11. 
88o. Cost» may !Je awarded. 
881. l•J••ctio• order as lo corjoratio11. 
Sec. 870. An injunction is an order requiring a person to refrain from a
particular act. The order may be granted by the court in which the action is
brought, or by a judge thereof, and when made by a judge be enforced as the
order of the court. 
Sec. 871. An injunction order may be granted in the following cases: 
I. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restrain­
ing the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a lim­
ited period or perpetually. 
2. When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the commission
or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce a great or ir­
reparable injury to the plaintiff. 
3. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing,
or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some
act in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
4. When it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, during the pendency
of the action, threatens, or is about to remove, or to dispose of his property,
with intent to defraud the plaintiff, an injunction order may be granted, to
restrain the removal or disposition. 
Sec. 872. The injunction order may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint, or at any time afterward before judgment, upon
affidavits. In the one case, the complaint with or without affidavits to sup­
port it, and, in the other, the affidavits shall show satisfactorily that sufficient
grounds exist therefor. An injunction order shall not be granted on the com­ 
plaint alone, unless: 
1. It be duly verified. 
2. The material allegations of the complaint setting forth the grounds
therefor, be made positively and not upon information and belief. 
When granted on the complaint, a copy thereof, including the verification,
shall be served with the injunction order when granted upon the complaint,
with affidavits to support it, or upon affidavits alone, a copy of the affidavits
likewise shall be served with the injunction order. Any person qualified to
serve a summons may serve the order and affidavits. 
Sec. 873. The order may be granted, upon or without notice, in the discre­
tion of the court or judge, unless the defendant has answered, in which case,
it can be granted only upon notice, or an order to show cause. Where an ap­ 
plication for an injunction is made upon notice, or an order to show cause,
either before or after answer, the court or judge may enjoin the defendant
until the hearing and decision of the application, by an order which is called a
restraining order. In no case shall an injunction order- or restraining order be
issued without notice unless it appears to the court or judge, that irreparable
injury would result by the delay of giving notice. 
Sec. 874 On granting an injunction or restraining order, the court or
judge may require, except when the State, a county, or any subdivision there­
of, or municipal corporation, or a married woman in a suit for a divorce against
her husband, is a party plaintiff, a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the
party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as 
such party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide
that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. Within five days after the service
of the injunction, the defendant may except to the sufficiency of the sureties.
If he fails to do so he is deemed to have waived all objection to them. When
excepted to, the plaintiff's sureties, upon notice to the defendant of not less
than two nor more than five days, must justify before a judge or clerk in the
same manner as upon bail on arrest, and upon failure to justify, or if others in
their place fail to justify at the time and place appointed, the order granting an
injunction shall be dissolved. 
Sec. 875. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction, an
order may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time and place,
why the injunction should not be granted, and the defendant may in the
meantime be restrained. Cause may be shown upon affidavits or oral testi­
mony. 
Sec. 876. Upon the hearing of an application to vacate or modify an in­
junction order, or on a hearing to show cause, the court or judge may require
a new undertaking, in the same or a different sum, to be given by the plaintiff,
with like sureties, and to the like effect, as upon granting of the original order.
The persons executing the new undertaking become liable thereon, as if they
had executed it upon the granting of the original order. The persons who
executed the original undertaking remain liable thereon until the new under­
taking is given and approved, and no longer. Upon such hearing the court or
judge may, where the alleged wrong or injury is not irreparable and is capable
of being adequately compensated for in money, vacate the injunction order
upon the defendant's executing an undertaking in such form and amount and
with such sureties as the court or judge shall direct, conditioned to indemnify
the plaintiff against loss sustained by reason of vacating such injunction
order. 
Sec. 877. Upon the hearing of a contested application for an injunction
order, or to vacate or modify such an order, a verified answer has the effect
only of an affidavit. 
Sec. 878. If an injunction order be granted without notice, the· defendant,
at any time before the trial, may apply upon reasonable notice, or upon an
order to show cause returnable at a specified time or forthwith, after service
thereof, to the judge who granted the injunction order, or to the court in which
the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The application may
be made upon the complaint and affidavit on which the injunction order was
granted, or upon affidavit on part of defendant, with or without the answer. If
the application be made upon affidavits on part of defendant, but not other­
wise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or oral testimony, in ad­
dition to those on which the injunction order was granted. The defendant
may also use oral testimony. 
Sec. 879. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appear that there is not
sufficient ground for the injunction order, it shall be dissolved; or, if it satis­
factorily appear that the extent of the injunction order is too great, it shall be
modified. 
Sec. 880. Where an injunction order is granted without notice, and the
same is afterwards dissolved upon application of the party enjoined thereby,
the court or judge to whom the application to dissolve is made, may award as 
costs of the application against the plaintiff, and in favor of the party apply­
ing, such sum as to the court or judge may appear just, not less than ten
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars. 
Sec. 881. An injunction order to suspend the general and ordinary business
of a corporation must not be granted without due notice of the application
therefor to the proper officers or managing agent of the corporation, except
when the State is a party to the action. 
CHAPTER IY. 
Sectio«. Sgo. W!,e,, attadmnt •ay issue. 
891. A/lidavit, w!,at to contai», 
ATIACHMENT. 
Sg:2. c!11dertalt,'ng.
8g3. Writ, to w!,o,,, directed a11d 'tV!,at to coetat«, 
894. S!,ares of sloclt a•d del>ts de« defe11dat1I, !,ow attaded at1d dis/osed of. 
895. How real aed p,rso•al property sl,a/1 /Je attacl,ed. •
8c)6. Certificate of defendant'« i•terest to /Je f"r•ided. 
~7·. Persons ref"si•g certificates to he e1tami11ed. 
8g8 S!,eriff to talte it1to !,is possessio11 hoolts, etc, 
899. A ttorney lo git•e writte« iHtr"ctlo•s. .
900. Gar11islt111e11t, wl,e11 gar•idee lia/Jle lo /lai11tiff.
901. CUatio• lo ga,,.11idee.
90::a. lt1t'et1tory, !,ow made.
903. Perida/Jle proper~y, iow sold.
904. Property attacked ma_y /Je sold as ""der e1tec•tio•.
905. Applicatio• for order lo sel],
go6. Property claimed hy t!,ird /ersot1s. 
907..·. Deat/1 does t1ot dissolve altack•e•t.
<)08 If plai11t,'ff ol>tai,,s j11dg,,,e11t, !,ow satisfied. 
909. Wl,e11 //,ere remai11s a balanc« du», !,ow collected.
910. Wl,e,r s#its may be comme11rt'd Otl tl,e u11dertalti11g.
911. If tl,e defe11da•t recover i"dg•e•t, wkat t!,e deriff is to deliver.
912. Proceedi11gs lo release allackme11t, before wl,om take»,
913. Allackment, it1 wkat cases it may /Je released and upon wl,at /rojerl_v.
914. Wke11 a molio11 to discl,a~e attackme11t may /Je made and upo11 wl,at grou11d.
915. W!,e11 1110/ion made Otl a davit it may he opposed /Jy aJlidavil.
916. W!,e,, writ must he disc arged.
917. Motio• to vacate or modif.y writ or i11crease security, 
918. How motio11 made.
919- Wke11 writ to /Je returned,
920. Diff';,re11t attacl,me11ts, wkc11 lie11s accrue, 
921. Partners may a;ply to discl,arge atlacl,me,,t.
92::a. U11dertalting lo be git·en.
923. Property mortgaged and pledged, kow take».
924. Allad,ment boolt.
925, P"/Jlic officers cant1ot /Je gar11ided. 
Sec. 890. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached, as security for the
satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give
security to pay such judgment, as is in this Chapter provided, as follows : 
In an action upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, where the contract is not secured by any mortgage or lien upon real or
personal property, or any pledge of personal property, or, if originally secured,
such security has, without any act of the plaintiff, or the person to whom the
security was given, become valueless. 
Sec. 891. The clerk of the court must issue the writ of attachment, upon
receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintiff showing : 
1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff (specifying the amount of
such indebtedness over and above all legal counterclaims) upon a contract, ex­
press or implied, for the direct payment of money, and that the payment of the
same has not been secured by any mortgage or lien upon real or personal prop­
erty, or any pledge of personal property, or, if originally so secured, that such
security has, without any act of the plaintiff, or the person to whom the security
was given, become valueless ; and, 
. 2. That the attachment is not sought, and the action is not prosecuted to
hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the defendant. 
Sec. 892. Before issuing the writ the clerk must require a written undertak­
ing on the part of the plaintiff, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be ap­
proved by the clerk, in a sum not less than double the amount claimed by the
plaintiff, if such amount be one thousand dollars or under, or in case the amount
so claimed by plaintiff shall exceed one thousand dollars, then in a sum equal
to such amount, but in no case shall an undertaking be required exceeding in 
amount the sum of ten thousand dollars. The condition of such undertaking
shall be to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the court
shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not entitled to an attachment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all dam­
ages he may sustain by reason of the issuing out of the attachment, not exceed­
ing the sum specified in the undertaking. Within five days after service of the
summons in the action, the defendant may except to the sufficiency of the sure­
ties. If he fails to do so he is deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When excepted to, the plaintiff's sureties, upon notice to the defendant of not
less than two days nor more than five days, must justify before a judge of the
District Court, or before the clerk thereof, and upon failure to justify, or if
others in their place fail to justify, at the time and place appointed, the clerk
or judge shall issue an order vacating the writ of attachment. 
Sec. 893. The writ must be directed to the sheriff of any county in which
property of such defendant may be, and must require him to attach and safely
keep all the property of such defendant within his county not exempt from
execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's de­
mand, the amount of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of at least two
sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demands, besides
costs, or in an amount equal to the value of the property which has been or
is about to be attached ; in which case to take such undertaking. Several
writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties. In
no case shall the sheriff attach more property than appears necessary to satisfy
the plaintiff's demand. 
Sec. 894. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the stock
of any corporation or company, together with the interest and profits thereon,
and all debts due such defendant, and all other property in this State of such
defendant not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be
recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution. 
Sec. 895. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered must exe­
cute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in Section 8g3
be not given, as follows : 
1. Real property standing upon the records of the county .•n, ,,f t:·e 
defendant must be attached by filing with the county clerk a cc : .h.: .. ·
together with the description of the property attached, and a , :_ • !-.:· .. •: : , 
attached, and by leaving a similar copy of the writ, description • · 1 • , 1c ·it;,
an occupant of the property, if there is one; if not, then by pc . . : ",! 
in a conspicuous place on the property attached. 
2. Real property, or an interest therein, belonging to the irui 
held by any other person, or standing on the records of the com 11 .. L 
of any other person, must be attached by filing with the coun 1 ,m·
of the writ, together with a description of the property, and a r. ., : 
real property, and any interest of the def end ant therein, held
in the name of such other person (naming him), are attached, . H ·. . 
with the occupant, if any, and with such other person or his .. ,·r·:. ii ~= . ., t', 
and within the county, or at the residence of either, if withi» ri., \.·,·.i~: .• • 
copy of the writ, with the similar description and notice. If • ··1 • , , " . , · - 
cupant of the property, a copy of the writ, together with such · ,· io n ·1., 2
notice, must be posted in a conspicuous place upon the propert . l· , .... ('q' .. ~, •• 
clerk must index such attachment when filed, in the names both '1' t1 : .. :.·'(' .. •· 
ant and of the person by whom the property is held, or in i.; 't r .. 1•; l ., 
stands on the record.
3. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, must .it t ar h. ·· '.'. 
taking it into custody.
4. Stocks or shares, or interest in stocks or shares, of any .- i,. -r.it ·., .• --•: 
company, must be attached by leaving with the president or ot her i,, .h.! c ~ ~ •1·; 
same, or the secretary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the
writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defendant is attached,
in pursuance of such writ. 
5. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable of manual
delivery, must be attached by leaving with the person owing such debt, or 
having in his possession or under his control such credits and other personal
property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ and a notice that the debts
owing by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal property in
his possession, or under his control belonging to the defendant, are attached in
pursuance of such writ. 
Sec. 896. Upon the application of a sheriff, holding a writ of attachment,
the president or other head of an association or corporation, or the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof, or a debtor of the defendant, or a person
holding property, including a bond, promissory note, or other instrument for
the payment of money, belonging to the defendant, must furnish to the sheriff
a certificate, under his hand, specifying his right to a number of shares of the
defendant, in the stock of the association or corporation, with all dividends
declared, or incumbrances thereon; or the amount, nature and description of
the property, held for the benefit of the defendant, or of the defendant's inter­
est in property so held, or of the debt or demand owing to the defendant, as
the case requires. 
Sec. 897. If a person to whom application is made, as prescribed in the last Section, refuses to give such a certificate; or if it is made to appear, by affida­
vit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that there is reason to
suspect that a certificate given by him is untrue, or that it failed fully to set
forth the facts, required to be shown thereby, the court or judge may make an
order, directing him to attend, at a specified time, and at a place within .the
county to which the writ is issued, and submit to an examination under oath,
concerning the same. The order may, in the discretion of the court or judge,
direct an appearance before a referee named therein. 
Sec. 898. The sheriff must take into his custody all books of account,
vouchers, and other papers, relating to the personal property attached, and all
evidences of the defendant's title to the real property attached, which he must
safely keep. The sheriff, to whom the writ of attachment is delivered, may
levy, from time to time, and as often as is necessary, until the amount for which
it was issued has been secured. 
Sec. 899. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintiff or his
attorney, that any person has in his possession or under his control any credits
or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is owing any debt to
the defendant, the sheriff must serve upon such person a copy of the writ and
a notice that such credit, or other property, or debts, as the case may be, are
attached, in pursuance of said writ. 
Sec. 900. All persons having in their possession or under their control any
credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or owing any
debts to the defendant, at the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ
and notice, shall be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or
such debts be paid to the sheriff, liable to the plaintiff for the amount of such
credits, property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any judg­
ment recovered by him be satisfied. 
Sec. 901. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his pos­
session or under his control any credits or other personal property belonging to
the defendant, may be required to attend before the court or judge, or referee 
appointed by the court or judge, and be examined on oath respecting the same.
The defendant may also be required to attend, for the purpose of giving
information respecting his property, and may be examined on oath. The court
or judge may, after such examination, order personal property, capable of man­
ual delivery in the hands or under the control of such person or of the defendant, 
to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms· as may be just, having reference
to any liens thereon or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be
given of all other personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof. 
Sec. 902. The sheriff must make a full inventory of. the property attached,
and return the same with the writ. When the sheriff has levied several writs
of attachment on the same property only one inventory must be made. To
enable him to make such return as to debts and credits attached, he must
request, at the time of service, the person owing the debt or having the credit,
to give him a memorandum stating the amount and description of each; and
if such memorandum be refused, the sheriff may apply upon one day's notice
to the court or judge for an order to compel such memorandum to be given.
If the order be granted it shall also direct the payment of costs of the motion
by the person refusing. 
Sec. 903. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff must
sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on execution. The
proceeds and other property attached by him must be retained by him to
answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner sub. ·,
jected to execution upon another judgment, recovered previous to the issuing
of the attachment. Debts and credits attached may be collected by him if the
same can be done without suit. The sheriff's receipt is a sufficient discharge
for the amount paid. 
Sec. 904. Whenever property has been taken by an officer under a writ of
attachment, and it is made to appear satisfactorily to the court or a judge
thereof that the interest of the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale
thereof, the court may order such property to be sold in the same manner
as property is sold under an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in
the court to abide the judgment in the action. 
Sec. 905. Application for the order shall be upon such notice to the adverse
party or his attorney as the court or judge considering the nature and condi­
tion of the property may direct. If it shall appear to the court or judge that
the delay necessary to give notice would cause a material depreciation in the
value of property, the order may be made without notice. 
Sec. 906. If personal property attached be claimed by a third person he
shall give notice thereof to the sheriff, and deliver to him an affidavit stating
his claim, ownership, and a description of the property, and unless the plaintiff
within ten days after receiving notice thereof give the sheriff a good and
sufficient bond to indemnify him against loss or damage by reason of retain­
ing said property, the sheriff shall deliver the same to such person. 
Sec. 907. The death of the defendant does not release the attached property
and a lien of the attachment may be enforced as in the case of other liens. 
Sec. 908. If judgment be recovered by plaintiff, the sheriff must satisfy the
same out of the property attached by him which has not been delivered to the
defendant or claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to execution on
another judgment, recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be
sufficient for that purpose: 
I. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales or perishable property,
or property ordered by the court or judge to be sold by him, or of any debts
or credits collected by him, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy 
the judgment; 
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued on
the judgment, he must sell under the execution so much of the property, real
or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that pur­
pose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales must be given, and the sales
conducted as in other cases of sales on execution. 
Sec. 909. If, after selling all property attached by him remaining in his
hands and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of any debt or 
credits collected by him, deducting his fee, to the payment of the judgment,
any balance that shall remain due, the sheriff must proceed to collect such bal­
ance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have
been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, must deliver over to the de­
fendant the attached property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of
property attached unapplied on the judgment. 
Sec. 910. If the execution is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the
plaintiff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to Section 8g3, or Sec­
tiori 913, or he may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an execution. 
Sec. 911. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff, any
undertaking received in the action, all of the proceeds of sales and money col­
lected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in the sheriff's
hands, must be delivered to the defendant or his agent ; the order of attach­
ment shall be discharged and the property released therefrom. 
Sec. 912. Whenever the defendant has appeared in the action, he may,
upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, apply to the court in which the action 
is pending, or to the judge thereof, for an order to discharge the attachment,
wholly or in part, and upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the
next Section, an order may be made, releasing from the operation of the at­
tachment any or all of the property attached ; and all of the property so re­
leased, and all of the proceeds of the sale thereof, must be delivered to the de­
fendant, upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required
by the plaintiff. 
Sec. 913. Before making such order, the court or judge must require an
undertaking on behalf of the defendant, by at least two sureties residents and
freeholders, or householders, in the State to the effect that in case the plaintiff
recover judgment in the action, the defendant will, on demand, redeliver the
attached property so released to the proper officer, to be applied to the pay­
ment of the judgment, or, in default thereof, that the defendant and sureties
will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the full value of the property released.
The court or judge making the order may fix the sum for which the undertak­
ing shall be executed, and if necessary in fixing the such sum to know the
value of the property released,. the same may be appraised by one or more dis­
interested persons, to be appointed for that purpose. The sureties may be re­
quired to justify before the court or judge, and the property attached cannot
be released from the attachment without their justification, if the same be
required. 
Sec. 914. The defendant may also at any time, either before or after the 
release of the attached property, or before any attachment shall have been 
actually levied, apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, to
the court in which the action is brought, or to a judge thereof, that the writ
of attachment be discharged on the ground that the, same was improperly or
irregular} y issued. 
Sec. 915. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defend­
ant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or
other evidence, in addition to those on which the attachment was made. 
Sec. 916. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appears that the writ
of attachment was improperly or irregularly issued, it must be discharged.
But the court or judge may allow the plaintiff to amend his affidavit or under­
taking. 
Sec. 917. The defendant or a person who has acquired a lien upon, or
interest in his property, after it was attached, may, at any time before the
actual application of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof, to the
payment of a judgment recovered in the action, apply to vacate or modify the
writ of attachment, or to increase the security given by the plaintiff, or for
one or more of those forms of release, together, or in the alternative. 
Sec. 918. An appli~ation, specified in the last Section, may be founded 
only upon the papers upon which the writ was granted; in which case it must
be made to the court or judge, with or without notice, as the court or judge
deems proper, or it may be founded upon proof, by affidavits, on the part of
the defendant, or a person who has acquired a lien upon or interest in his
property after it was attached, in which case it must be made to the court or
judge upon notice; and it may be opposed by new proof, by affidavit or other
evidence on the part of the plaintiff, tending to sustain any grounds of attach­ 
ment.
Sec. 919. The sheriff must return the writ of attachment with the sum­ 
mons, if issued at the same time ; otherwise, within twenty days after its
receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings indorsed thereon or attached
thereto; and whenever an order has been made discharging or releasing an
attachment upon real property, a certified copy of such order must be filed in
the office of the county clerk in which the notice of the attachment has been
filed, and be indexed in like manner. · 
Sec. 920. All liens by attachment shall accrue at the time the property of
the defendant shall be attached by the officer charged with the execution
of the writ, in the order in which the writs are levied ; and said lien shall not
be affected by any subsequent attachment, or by any judgment obtained
subsequent thereto. 
The writ of attachment first placed in the hands of the sheriff must be
executed first, and when there are several writs against the same defendant,
they must be executed in the order in which they were received by the sheriff.
No written specification of property to be levied upon must be required by the
sheriff, except as to property referred to in Section 899 and Subdivision 2, of Section 895. - The sheriff must indorse upon each writ of attachment received
by him the time when the same was received, specifying the day, hour and
minute. 
Sec. 921. If a writ of attachment is levied upon the interest of one or more
partners, in goods or property of a partnership, the other partners, who are not
defendants in the action, or any of them, may, at any time before final judg­
ment, apply to the judge who granted the writ, or to the court, upon an affi.
davit showing the facts, for an order to discharge the attachment, as to that 
interest.
Sec. 922. Upon such an application, the applicant must give an undertak­ 
ing, with at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that they will pay to the
sheriff, on demand, the amount of any judgment, which may be recovered
against the partner who is defendant in the action ; or which may be recovered
against him, in any other action, wherein the other partners are not defendants,
and wherein a writ of attachment, or an execution, may come into the sheriff's
hands, at any time before the writ of attachment, which was so levied, is
vacated, and annulled; not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must not be less than the value of the interest of the defendant, in the
goods or property seized, by virtue of the attachment, as fixed by the court or
judge. If the value, in the opinion of the court or judge, is uncertain, the sum
must be such as the court or judge determines. For the purpose of fixing the
sum or to determine the sufficiency of its sureties, the court or judge may
receive affidavits for oral testimony, or may direct a reference. 
Sec. 923. Personal property mortgaged or pledged may be taken on attach­
ment, as provided in Section 386<), of the Civil Code. 
Sec. 924. There must be kept in the office of the county clerk of each
county, a book called "Attachment Book," in which must be entered by such
clerk, in alphabetical order, the names of all persons against whom any writ or
notice of attachment has been filed in his office. There must also be entered
in said book the time such writ or notice was filed. Such entry must be made
under an appropriate head for that purpose. 
Sec. 925. No credit, or money due or to become due, of or to any person in 
the possession or under the control of a public. officer or Board, including all
the officers of a municipal corporation, must be attached or garnished while in
such possession or under such control, and no attachment can be made until
the money or a warrant or other evidence of indebtedness therefor, has been
delivered to the owner of tbe same, or to some one for his use. 
CHAPTER V. 
ATTACHMENT OF LIVE STOCK ON RANGES. 
Sectio« 940. Ra•ge stoclt, .iow it may he attac.ied.
941. Possessio,, ••der a 111orlgage, !tow Q('(J•ired.
94:z. Ti111e attac.im,,,t .iolds good, /in,Ued.
943. D11ties of co1111fy clerlt to record attac.i,n,,c/, 
9+4, HD'W a s11l>seqNe•t aftad•e"t ma_y l,e made. 
Sec. 940. Whenever it is necessary for an officer or person charged with the
service of process out of any of the courts of this State to take possession of
any cattle or horses running at large and commonly known as range stock,
between the first day of N ovem her and the next succeeding fifteenth day of
May, it is a sufficient service of such process for the officer or person charged
with the service of the same to file a copy thereof, with a notice appended
thereto containing the number, as near as may be, and a description of said
stock by marks and brands, that such property or a portion thereof, as the case
may be, is attached or levied upon, in pursuance of such process, with the
county clerk of the county wherein such property is running at large, within 
fifteen days after the receipt of such process for service, and shall make due
return of his said proceedings upon said process. 
Sec. 941. In all cases where it is necessary under the laws of this State for
a party to any mortgage, assignment, bill of sale, or other contract, between
the first day of November and the next succeeding fifteenth. day of May, to
take possession of any such cattle or horses in order to preserve his rights under
any such mortgage, assignment, bill of sale or other contract, it is sufficient for
such party to file a copy of the instrument under which he claims, with a notice
of such claim appended thereto, with the county clerk of the county wherein
such property is running at large, within five days after it becomes necessary
for him to so take custody and possession of the same. 
Sec. 942. When the copy of the process or instrument, with the proper
notice appended thereto, is filed as hereinbefore provided, it has the same
effect as if actual possession of said cattle and horses had been taken by the
officer or person charged with the execution of such process, or the party re­
quired under said instrument to take the same, and shall continue to have such
effect until actual possession of such property has been taken or had by the
officer, person, or party aforesaid; provided, that such actual possession be
had or taken prior to the first day of August next succeeding. 
Sec. 943. It is the duty of the county clerk to file all papers deposited
with him for that purpose, and required to be filed under this Chapter, and
preserve the same· as other records of his office are preserved, and furnish to
persons making inquiry about such files all necessary information concerning
the same. 
Sec. 944. When an officer into whose hands a writ~ of execution is placed
has· served the same in accordance with Section 940, of this Chapter, and
made his return in accordance with the facts, at any time thereafter, within
the time limited as hereinbefore provided to hold the property taken or levied 
upon under such writ, another writ of execution may be issued, which must
be supplementary to the first writ, and in pursuance of which the officer or
person charged with the service thereof may sell the property held by the
said first writ, as hereinbefore provided. 
Section « 950. Ajpoi11lme•t of receiver.
951. Notice of ajpoi•tme•I. 
95i. Dissol1'tion of corporatioes,
953· Wl,o shall 1101 he appointed. 
954. Oat/, aed u11dertaking.
955. Powers of receivers,
956. F,'1,ds, /,ow i•vested. 
CHAPTER VI. 
RECEIVERS. 
Sec. 950. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which an action is
pending, or by the judge thereof: 
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property,
or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between part­
ners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the
property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown
that the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured. 
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage and sale
of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mortgaged property is
in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of
the mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is probably in­
sufficient to discharge the mortgage debt. 
3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
4. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment, 
or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of
execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, or when the judg­
ment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment. 
5. In cases when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in
imminent danger of insolvency, Oli has forfeited its corporate rights. 
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed by the
usages of courts of equity. 
Sec. 951. Notice of an application for the appointment of a receiver, in an
action, before judgment therein, must be given to the adverse party, unless he
has failed to appear in the action, and the time limited for his appearance has
expired ; or unless it shall appear to the court that there is immediate danger
that the property or fund will be removed beyond the jurisdiction of the court,
or lost, materially injured, destroyed or unlawfully disposed of. The word
property used in this Chapter, includes the rents, profits, or other income, and
the increase of real or personal property. 
Sec. 952. Upon the dissolution of any corporation, the District Court of
the county in which the corporation carries on its business, or has its principal 
place of business, on application of any creditor of the corporation, or of any
stockholder or member thereof, may appoint one or more persons to be re­
ceivers or trustees of the corporation, to take charge of the estate and effects
thereof, and to collect the debts and property due and belonging to the cor­
poration, and to pay the outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the moneys
and other property that shall remain over, among the stockholders or mem­ 
bers.
Sec. 953. No party, or attorney, or person interested in an action, can be 
appointed receiver therein, without the written consent of the parties, filed
with the clerk. If a receiver be appointed upon an ex partt application, the
court, before making the order, may require from the applicant an undertaking
with sufficient sureties, in an amount to be fixed by the court, to the effect
that the applicant will pay to the defendant all damages he may sustain by
reason of the appointment of such receiver and the entry by him upon his
duties, in case the applicant shall have procured such appointment wrongfully, 
maliciously, or without sufficient cause, and the court may, in its discretion, at
any time after said appointment, require an additional undertaking. 
Sec. 954. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to
perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties, approved by the court
or judge, execute an undertaking to such person, and in such sum as the court 
or judge may· direct, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of
receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein. The court
may at any time remove a receiver or direct him to give new bonds with new
sureties with the like effect. Such undertaking may be sued on as provided in Section 1o85, of the Political Code. 
Sec. 955. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring
and defend actions in his own name, as receiver, to take and keep possession
of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and com­
promise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such acts respecting
the property as the court may authorize. 
Sec. 956. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be invested upon interest,
by order of the court; but no such order can be made except upon the consent
of all the parties to the action. 
Sectio11 970. De/Mr"t i11 co•rt. 
CHAPTER VII. 
DEPOSIT IN COURT. 
971. Mo•ey paid to derlt ,n•st l,e deposited wit!, co••ty lr.u•rw. 
972. Ma1111er of e11forci•g tl,e order. 
Sec. 970. When it is admitted by the pleading, or shown upon the examina­
tion of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is
held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same upon motion to be deposited in court or
delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the
further direction of the court. 
Sec. 971. If the money is deposited in court, it must be paid to the clerk,
who must deposit it with the county treasurer, by him to be held subject to
the order of the court. For the safe keeping of the money deposited with the
treasurer his official bond shall be security. 
Sec. 972. Where the court has directed a deposit or delivery of money, or
where a judgment directs a party to make a deposit or delivery, or to convey
real 'property, if the direction is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the
disobedience as a contempt, may, by order, require the sheriff to take, and de­
posit, or deliver the money or other personal property, or to convey the real
property in conformity with the direction of the court. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 
S«tio,, gSo. A rrest, i11j•11ctio11, a11d attacl,,,.e11t; wl,e,, 1101 to he gra11ted togetl,er. WJ,e•
,notio•s to he decided. 
981. Defe•da11t i11ter/osi11g co••lerclai• ntitled to sa•e /rovisio11al remedies as
Jlai•l•'.ff. 
Sec. 980. Where an application for an order of arrest, an injunction order,
and writ of attachment, or two of them, is made, in the same action, against
the same defendant, and it satisfactorily appears that, under the particular cir­
cumstances of the case, to or all of them arc not necessary for the plaintiff's
security, the court or judge may, in its or his discretion, require the plaintiff
to elect between them. Where an application is made to obtain, vacate, mod­
ify, or set aside an order of arrest, injunction order, or writ of attachment, the 
court or judge must finally decide the same, within twenty days after it is 
submitted for decision.
Sec. 981. Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim, and thereupon 
demands an affirmative judgment against the plaintiff, his right to a provisional
remedy is the same as in an action brought by him against the plaintiff, for
the cause of action stated in the counterclaim, and demanding the same judg­
ment ; and for the purpose of applying to such a case the provisions of this Title, the defendant is deemed the plaintiff, the plaintiff is deemed the
defendant, and the counterclaim so set forth in the answer is deemed the
complaint. 
CHAPTER I.
II. 
Ill.
IV. 
V.
VI.
VII. 
VIII. 
JUDGMENT IN GENERAL
Sectio« IOOO. ':f •dgme11t deji11ed. 
1001. '7•dgt11e11t •ay be for or agai11st 011e of ti,, parties. 
1001. Tl,e j11dg111e11t may be agai11st 011e parl_Y a11d actio« lroceed as to otl,ers. 
1003. Tl,e relief to he awarded to Ike plai11ti.ff. 
1004. Action may be dismissed or 11011sNil eetered. 
100_1:i. All otl,,rj11d!{mt!Nls are 011 /1,e merits.
1oo6. ':f"dg,,,e11t for or agai11st married wo•a•. 
1007. Elfect of jfldg•e•t dis•issi11g co•/lai11t. 
1oo8. I511ty of deriff. 
Sec. 1000. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties
in an action or proceeding. 
Sec. 1001. Upon the rendition of .any judgment, if it shall be shown that
one or more of the defendants against whom the judgment is to be rendered
are principal debtors, and others of the said defendants are sureties of such
principal debtor, the court may order the judgment so to state, and upon the
issuance of an execution upon such judgment, it shall direct the sheriff to
make the amount due thereon out of the goods and chattels, lands and tene­
ments of the principal debtor or debtors, or if sufficient thereof cannot be
found within his county to satisfy the same, then that he levy and make the
same out of the property, personal or real, of the judgment debtor who was
surety. 
Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and
for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may, when the justice
of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
side, as between themselves. 
Sec. 1002. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper. 
Sec. 1003. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot
exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other
case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complaint and embraced within the issue. 
Sec. 1004. An action may be dismissed or a judgment of nonsuit entered in 
the following cases: 
1. By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial, upon payment of
costs ; provided, a counterclaim has not been made or affirmative relief sought
by the answer of the def end ant. If a provisional remedy has been allowed,
the undertaking must thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defendant,
who may have his action thereon. 
2. By either party upon the written consent of the other.
3. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial, and the 
defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.
4. By the court, when upon the trial and before the submission of the case 
the plaintiff abandons it.
5. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial the 
plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury. _
6. By the court, when after verdict or final submission, the party entitled 
to judgment neglects to demand and have the same entered for more than six
months. 
7. No action heretofore or hereafter commenced shall be further prose­
cuted, and no further proceedings shall be had therein, and all actions hereto­
fore or hereafter commenced, shall be dismissed by the court, in which the
same shall have been commenced, on its own motion or on the motion of any
party interested therein, whether named in the complaint as a party or not,
unless summons shall have been issued within one year, and served and return
made within three years after the commencement of said action, or unless ap­
pearance has been made by the defendant or defendants therein within said
three years. 
The dismissal mentioned in the first two Subdivisions is made by entry in
the clerk's register.
Sec. 1005. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last Section,
judgment must be rendered on the merits. 
Sec. 1006. Judgment for or against a married woman may be rendered and
enforced as if she were single. 
Sec. 1007. A final judgment, dismissing the complaint, either before or
after a trial, does not prevent a new action for the same cause of action unless
it expressly declares, or it appears by the judgment roll, that it is rendered
upon its merits. 
Sec. 1008. Upon the d~missal or disposition of an action in which the
court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action, it is the duty of the
court to render such judgment for costs. 

Sec. 1020. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the com-
plaint, as follows : . 
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or damages
only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within the time
specified in the summons, or such further time as may have been granted, the
clerk, upon application of the plaintiff, must enter the default of the defend­
ant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the amount specified in
the complaint, including the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more
of several defendants, in the cases provided for in Section 64 I. 
2. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may have
been granted, the clerk must enter the default of the defendant ; and thereafter
the plaintiff may apply to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. 
If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is· necessary to enable the 
court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may
take the account or hear the proof; or may, in its discretion, order a reference
for that purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in
whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury;
or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account 
be involved, by a reference as above provided.
3. In an action where the service of summons was by publication, the 
plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for answering, may, upon proof of
the publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for judgment ; and
the court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned
in the complaint ; and if the defendant be not a resident of the State, must
require the plaintiff, or his agent, to be examined on oath respecting any pay­
ments that have been made to the plaintiff or to anyone for his use on account
of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled 
to recover. 
Section « 1030. Iss•e defi11ed, a•d //,e dilfere11t lti11ds.
1031. Iss.e oj law, IIO'W raiseil.
103:J. lss•e ojfact, /,ow raised.
1033. Iss#t! of law, llow tried. 
1034. lss•e of fact, /,ow tried. WJ,e11 iss11es /Jot/, of law a11d fact, tlle (or•er lo
lH first disjosed of. 
1035. Court may direct order.
10J6. Co#Nlerclaim lo he deemed a• aclio11 wilkin men,,i•g of foregoi"K Sectio,u.
1037. Clu·lt "'"st enter cause 01' Ike cak11dar, to remai» #nt,I disjosed of.
1038. Partie« may /Jri11g iss,u lo trial.
1039. Motio11 to Josljo11e a trial for a6se11u of le.,t,'mo11y, req•isites of.
1040. /,, cases of adjo•r11me11t a party may /,ave Ike testimo1'y of a11y wit•ess 
Sec. 1030. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by the one party, and is controverted by the other. They are 
of two kinds: 
1. Of law; and, 
2. Of fact.
Sec. 1031. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer 
or reply, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 1032. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it is referred 
upon consent.
Sec. 1033. An issue of fact arises, in either of the following cases: 
1. Upon a denial, contained in the answer, of a material allegation of the
complaint ; or upon an allegation, contained, in the answer, that the defendant
has not sufficient knowledge or information to form a belief, with respect to a
material allegation of the complaint. 
2. Upon a similar denial or allegation, contained in the reply, with respect
to a material allegation of the answer. 
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the answer, not
requiring a reply ; unless an issue of law is joined thereupon. 
+ Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the reply ; unless
an issue of law is joined thereupon. 
Sec. 1034. In actions for the recovery of specific real or personal property,
with or without damages, or for money claimed as due upon contract, or as
damages for breach of contract, or for injuries, an issue of fact must be tried by
a jury, unless a jury trial is waived or a reference is ordered as provided in this
Code. Where in these cases there arc issues both of law and fact, the issue of
law must first be disposed of. In other cases, issues of fact must be tried by
the court, subject to its power to order any such issue to be tried by a jury, or
to be referred to a ref eree, as provided in this Code. 
Sec. 1035. A separate trial, between the plaintiff and one or more defend.
ants, of some or all of the issues of fact, or a trial of some or all the issues of
law, or a change in the order of disposition of the issues, may be directed by
the court, in its discretion. 
Sec. 1036. Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim, and thereupon
demands an affirmative judgment against the plaintiff, the mode of trial of an
issue of fact, arising thereupon, is the same, as if it arose in an action brought
by the defendant against the plaintiff, for the cause of action stated in the
counterclaim, and demanding the same judgment. 
Sec. 1037. The clerk must enter causes upon the calendar of the court
according to the date of issue. Causes once f laced on the calendar must 
remain upon the calendar until finally disposed o ; but causes may be dropped
from the calendar by consent of parties, and may be again restored upon
notice, or may be stricken from the calendar by the court for want of prosecu­
tion. 
Sec. 1038. Either party may bring an issue to trial or to a hearing, and in
the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise 
direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the action, or a ver­
dict or judgment, as the case may require. 
Sec. 1039. A motion to postpone a trial on grounds of the absence of evi­
dence, shall only be made upon affidavit showing the materiality of the evi­
dence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to pro­
cure it. The court may also require the moving party to state, upon affidavit,
the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon
admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial, or offered .and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed: and upon terms the court may, in its discretion, upon good cause
shown, and in furtherance of justice, postpone a trial or proceeding upon other
grounds than the absence of evidence. 
Sec. 1040. The party obtaining a postponement of a trial in any court of
record must, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of
any witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by 
deposition before a judge or clerk of the court in which the case is pending, or
before such notary public as the court may indicate, which must accordingly be
done, and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial, with the same
effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses were produced. 
Article I. Formatio« of tl,e j•ry.
I I. Co11d11ct of tje trial. 
II I. Tje verdict, 
S«tio• 1050.
1051.
1052.
1053. 
105+
1055. 
1056.
1057. 
1058.
1059. 
roso, 
1o61.
1o6:1. 
1o63. 
14 
FORMATION OF THE JURY. 
Cieri, to draw ha/lot.
Mode of drawi•g ha/lot.
Per.ro11.s draw• to form i•ry. 
Ballot.s drawn, wje• deposited ;,, a11otl,e,,. /Joa.
Wke• to he ret#r.ed to box,
Ballot.s of ah.rentees ret11r•ed to /,0111. 
New J•ry •ay he draw« w/,e11 a•otjer is i•Ja,ie/ed.
Ballot.s wile,, draw• /ro111 Bo11t No. 3. 
New /a11el •o ohject,011.
C/,a/le11ge.
Cl,a/lenge for cafl.Je.
C!,a/le11ge, loiv fried. 
Order of c/,a/lenge.
Vaca•cy to he ft/led.
Form of oat/,. 
CHAPTER IV. 
TRIAL BY JURY. 
ARTICLE I. 
Sec. 1050. When an issue of fact, to be tried by a jury, is brought to trial,
the clerk, under the direction of the court, must openly draw out of the trial
juror box, as many of the ballots, one after another, as are sufficient to form 
a jury.
Sec. 1051. Before the first ballot is drawn, the box must be closed and well 
shaken, so as thoroughly to mix the same ; and the clerk must draw each ballot,
without seeing the name written on any of them, through an aperture made in
the lid of the box large enough only to admit his hand conveniently. 
Sec. 1052. The first twelve persons who appear, as their names are drawn
and called, and are approved as indifferent between the parties, and not dis­
charged or excused, must be sworn, and constitute the jury to try the issue. 
Sec. 1053. The ballots containing the names of the jurors so sworn, must
be then deposited in another box, and there kept apart from the other ballots
until that jury is discharged. 
Sec. 1054. After the jury is discharged the ballots containing their names
must be again rolled up or folded, as prescribed in Section 340 of this Code,
and returned to the box, from which they were first taken; and the same
course must be pursued as often as an issue is brought to trial by a jury. 
Sec. 1055. The ballot containing the name of a juror who is absent when
his name is drawn or called, or is set aside, or excused from serving on that
trial, must be again rolled up or folded in the same manner as before and
returned to the box containing the undrawn ballots as soon as the jury is
sworn. 
Sec. 1056. If an issue is brought to trial by a jury, while a jury is impaneled
in another cause, and not then discharged, the court may order a jury for the
trial of that issue, to be drawn out of the box containing the ballots then
undrawn ; but in any other case the ballots containing the names of all the ..
trial jurors returned and attending the court must be placed together in the
same box before a jury is drawn therefrom. 
Sec. 1057. If a sufficient number of jurors duly drawn and notified do not
attend to form a jury, or a jury is impaneled in another cause and not dis­
charged, the court shall, by an order to be entered in the minutes, direct the
clerk to draw a sufficient number of ballots from Box No. 3, specified in Sec­
tion 265, of this Code, to complete the jury. The sheriff must notify the per­
sons thus drawn to attend forthwith, or at a time fixed by court. If for any
reason a sufficient number of jurors to try the issue is not obtained, from the
persons notified, under an order made as prescribed in this Section, the court
may make another order, or successive orders, until a sufficient number is 
obtained.
Each person so notified must attend at a time required by the notice, and, 
unless excused by the court or set aside, must serve as a juror upon the trial.
For a neglect or refusal so to do, he may be fined in the same manner as a
trial juror, regularly drawn, and notified, as prescribed in this Code; and he is
subject to the same exceptions and challenges, as any other trial juror. 
Sec. 1058. It is not a valid objection to a jury, that it contains none of the
jurors originally returned to the court, or is only partially composed of such
jurors. 
Sec. 1059. Each party may challenge the jury or jurors as follows: 
\ 1. The panel or array. 
2. For cause.
3. Peremptory. 
There can be only one challenge on a side to the array or panel, which may
be made by one or more of the parties. A challenge to the array or panel may
be made and the whole array or panel set aside by the court when the jury
was not selected, drawn, summoned or notified, as prescribed by law. Chai.
lenges to individual jurors are for cause or peremptory. Each party is entitled 
to ~ perer:n·ptory challenges. If no peremptory challenges are taken until 
the panel is full, they must be taken by the parties alternately, commencing
with the plaintiff. 
Sec. 1060. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the follow­
ing grounds: 
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by this Code to render a
person competent as a juror. 
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the sixth degree to any party.
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, 
debtor or creditor, employer or clerk, or principal and agent, to either party,
or being a member of the family of either party, or a partner in business with
either party, or surety on any bond or obligation for either party. 
4- Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial between
the same parties for the same cause of action. 
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the main
question involved in the action, except his interest as a member or citizen of 
a municipal corporation.
6. Having an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action. 
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against or
bias in favor of either party. 
Sec. 1061. Challenges. to the array or panel or for cause must be tried by
the court. The juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as
a witness on the trial of the challenge. 
Sec. 1062. The plaintiff first, and afterwards the defendant, shall complete
his challenges for cause. · · 
Sec. 1063. After each challenge sustained the vacancy shall be filled before
further challenges are made, and any new juror introduced may be challenged
for cause, or if the party shall not have exhausted the number of peremptory
challenges to which he 'is entitled, he may be challenged peremptorily. 
Sec. 1064. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath must be administered
to the jurors, in substance, that they and each of them will well and truly try
the matter in issue between , the plaintiff, and , the defendant,
and a true verdict render, according to the evidence. 
Section s: 1o8o. 
1o81. 
1o8l. 
1o83.
1o84.
1o85. 
to86.
toS7. 
1o88. 
1<>8<).
1090. 
ARTICLE II. 
CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL. 
Order of procudi,,gs o« trial.
Vie-» /J_v j"r_y of Ike premise.,. 
Admo,,ilio,. wl,e11 j"r.v permilled to separate 
J"ry may lake wit!, /Item certain papers.
Deiiberation of j"r.V, kow coedected, 
M a_v come i11to court for f11rlker i,utructio11s.
Proceedings ;,. case a juror becomes sicle, 
JVke11 /re·ve11ted from git•i"g oerdict ; Ike cause may be agai11 tried.
Jl'"ke" jury are abu11t, court may adjourn from time to time. Sealed verdict. 
Final adjo"r11n1enl disckarges tke jury.
Verdict, kow declared, Form of Pol/i11g Ike jury.
Proceedi11gs wlten verdict is informal. 
Sec. 1080. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the fol­
lowing order, unless the court for good cause and special reasons otherwise
directs: 
1. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues may briefly state his
case, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. 
2. The adverse party may then, or at the opening of his case, briefly state
his defense, and the evidence he expects to off er in support of it. 
3. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues must first produce his
evidence; the adverse party will then produce his evidence. 
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court, 
for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence in
their original case. 
5. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to the jury
on either side, or on both sides, without argument, the plaintiff must commence
and may conclude the argument. 
6. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different coun­
sel, the court must determine their relative order in the evidence and argument. 
7. When the evidence is concluded, or at any time before the case is
finally submitted to the jury, if either party desires special instructions to be
given to the jury, such instructions shall be reduced to writing, numbered and
signed by the party or his attorney asking the same, and delivered to the court.
The court shall either give each instruction as requested, or positively refuse
to do so, or give the instruction with a modification, and shall mark or indorse
upon each instruction so offered in such manner so that it shall distinctly appear
what instructions were given in whole or in part, and, in like manner, those
refused. All instructions given by the court must be filed, together with those
refused, as a part of the record. 
8. When the argument is concluded the court shall charge the jury in writ­
ing, giving in connection therewith, such instructions as are offered and allowed.
The charge of the court, the instructions given and the modifications thereof,
and the refusal to give instructions shall be deemed excepted to and no bill of
exceptions shall be required. 
9. In charging the jury, the court shall give to them all matters of law which
it thinks necessary for their information in rendering a verdict. 
Sec. 1081. When, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to
have a view of the property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place
at which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted, in a
body, under the charge of an officer, and one person representing each party,
to the place, which shall be shown to them by the persons appointed by the
court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than
the persons so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with
the trial, and such persons shall not speak to the jury upon any matters con­
nected with the subject of the action, but may point out to the jury the prop­
erty in litigation, or the place at which any material fact occurred. 
Sec. 1082. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial or
after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by the court
that it is their duty not to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed
by any other person on any subject of the trial, and that it is their duty not
to form or express an opinion thereon until the case is finally submitted to
them. 
Sec. 1083. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with them all
papers which have been received as evidence in the cause, except depositions
or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken
from the person having them in possession; and they may also take with them
notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial taken by themselves
or any of them, but none taken by any other person. 
Sec. 1084. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide
in court or retire for deliberation ; if they retire, they must be kept together,
in some convenient place, under charge of an officer, until at least two-thirds of
them agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court. Unless 6y'o'raer of
the court, the officer having them under his charge must not suffer any com­
munication to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if
they or two-thirds of them are agreed upon a verdict; and he must not, before
their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their delibera­
tions, or the verdict agreed upon. 
Sec. 1085. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a dis.
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to 
be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may require the
officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into court, the
information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the
parties or counsel. Such information must be given in writing or taken down
by the stenographer. 
Sec. 1086. If, after the impaneling of the jury, and before verdict, a juror
become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court may order him
to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or
another juror may be sworn and the trial begin anew ; or the jury may be dis­
charged and a new jury then or afterward impaneled. 
Sec. 1087. In all cases where the jury are discharged, or prevented 'from
giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the progress of
the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, the action may be again tried
immediately, or at a future time, as the court may direct. 
Sec. 1088. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from time to
time, in respect to other business; but it is nevertheless open for every pur­
pose connected with the case submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered
or the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed
verdict, at the opening of the court, in case of an agreement during a recess or
adjournment for the day. 
Sec. 1089. When the jury, or two-thirds of them, have agreed upon a ver­
dict, they must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and
the verdict rendered by their foreman ; the verdict must be in writing, signed
by the foreman, and must be read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made whether it is their verdict, Either party may require the jury to be
polled, which is done by the court or clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict;
if upon such inquiry or polling, more than one-third of the jurors disagree
thereto, the jury must be sent out again, but if no such disagreement be
expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the case. 
Sec. 1090. When the verdict is announced, if it is informal or insufficient
in not covering the issue submitted, it may be corrected by the jury under the
advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out. 
ARTICLE III. 
THE VERDICT. 
Seclio# I 100. General and special verdicts defined. 
I 101. JVke1t a general or special verdict may he rendered, 
1102. Verdict In actions for recotiery of mo,ie_v or 011 eslahlisl,i11g coeeterclaims, 
1103. Verdict i11 actions for Ike recovery of specific /ersonal /ro/erly.
no+ Entry of verdict. 
Sec. 1100. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant; a special verdict is that by which
the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. The special
verdict must present the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence
and not the evidence to prove them ; and those conclusions of fact must be so
presented, as that nothing shall remain to the court but to draw from them
conclusions of law. 
Sec. 1101. In all cases the court may direct the jury to find a special
verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct
them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact,
to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.
Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the
former controls the latter, and the court must give judgment accordingly. 
In no case shall special issues be submitted to the jury when in the opinion
of the court, a general verdict would be sufficient. 
Sec. 1102. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for the recovery
of money is established exceeding the amount of the plaintiff's claim as estab­
lished, the jury must also find the amount of the recovery. 
Sec. 1103. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if
the property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the defendant by his
answer claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the
plaintiff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is
entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property (but failure to
find all the facts mentioned in this Section shall not invalidate the verdict),
and may at the same time assess the damages, if they are claimed in the com­
plaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the
taking or detention of such property. 
Sec. 1104. Where, upon the trial of an issue by a jury, the case presents
only questions of law, the judge may direct the jury to render a verdict in favor
of the party entitled thereto. 
TRIAL BY THE COURT. 
Sectio« 1110. WJ,e,, a11d .iow trial hy j"ry nia.v hr waioed. 
1111. U/011 /rial hy court, decisio« to he ;,, writi11g a11d filed -wit/,;,. t-we11t:v days. 
11 ra, Facts fo"•d and co11clusio11s of law MHI he se/arately stated. 'j#dg,,te11t 011. 
1113. Fi•di11gs •a)' he waived, /,ow. 
111+ Wa11t of jindi11gs-'j"dg,,,et1t 110/ reversed, ' 
1115. E,icept,011 for defective jit1di11g.,. Particstar def eel to he /oi•ted o•I. 
1116. E111uplio111 to he filed a11d served 011 o//osite /arty. 
1117. Trial "lo• agreed .,taleme11/ of facl.,, 
1118. Proceeding» after determi11atiot1 of isswe of law. 
Sec. 1110. Trial by the jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact in actions arising on contract, or for the recovery of specific real
or personal property, with or without damages, and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in manner following: 
1. By failing to appear at the trial. 
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
3. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 1111. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision or 
findings must be given in writing and filed with the clerk within twenty days
after the case is submitted for decision. 
Sec. 1112. In giving the decision or making its findings, the facts found and
the conclusions of law must be separately stated, and judgment must there­
upon be entered accordingly. 
Sec. 1113. The findings of fact may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact : 
1. By failing to appear at the trial. 
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 1114. No judgment shall be reversed on appeal for want of findings 
at the instance of any party who, at the close of the evidence and argument
in the cause, shall not have. requested findings in writing and had such request
entered in the minutes of the court: nor in cases tried by the court shall the
judgment be reversed on appeal for defects in the findings unless exceptions
be made in the court below for a defect in the findings or in a finding. 
Sec. 1115. In cases of exceptions for defective findings, the particular point
or issue upon which the party requires a finding to be made, or the particular
defect to be remedied, shall be specifically and particularly designated : and upon
failure of the court to remedy the alleged defect, the party moving shall be
entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be settled by the judge as in
other cases. 
Sec. 1116. Such exceptions shall be filed in the court and served on the
attorney of the adverse party within five days after receiving from or giving
to the adverse party a written notice of the filing of the findings. 
Sec. 1117. When any cause is tried and submitted upon a written state-.
ment of facts agreed to by the parties or their attorneys, such statement shall
have the effect of a special verdict or finding of facts, and judgment shall be
pronounced thereon as upon a special verdict or finding of facts; and in such
case no finding of facts shall be made unless such statement shall fail to em ..
brace all the facts proved and in issue, in which case any additional fact may
be found upon evidence which is not repugnant to the agreed statement. 
Sec. 1118. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law he may
proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of Section 1020, 
upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If judgment be for the defend­
ant upon an issue of law, and the taking of an account or the proof of any 
fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference
may be ordered as in that Section provided. 
CHAPTER VI. 
REFERENCE AND TRIAL BY REFEREES. 
S«tio,, 1130. Refere•c• orderetl "I'"' agree•e•I of /arties, i• 1vllat auu. 
1131. Referesc« ordered o• •otio•, ;,, w!,at cases. 
I IJl. N'""Hr of referees, etc,
1133. Oat!, of referee. 
113+ Wit•ess•s •a_y /Je s•/J/cr#aed.
113~. Powers of referee 011 tl,e trial.
1136. Proceedi•gs replated .,,,ere t!,ere are seuerat referee», 
1137. Eit!,er ;arty may o/Jject lo referee, Gro••ds of o/JJectiOtl.
1138. Objrctio,u, !,ow dis;oud of. 
1139. Refere• m•st re/or/ Ji11di11p ;,, wrilt'1'!(. 
1140. Fi1'di1'g m,ul stand as fi11di•g of coert; 
1141. E:11ce/tio•s. Effect. S/ecial verdict. 
Sec. 1130. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the parties,
filed with the clerk or entered in the minutes: 
1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of
fact or law, and to report a finding and judgment thereon. 
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to determine an action
or proceeding. 
Sec. 1131. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the ap­
plication of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following
cases: 
I. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long ac­
count on either side, in which case the referees may be directed to hear and
decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact involved
therein. 
2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the
court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect. 
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action. 
4- When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding. · 
Sec. 1132. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not ex­
ceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree, the
court or judge must appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who
reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against
whom there is no legal objection. 
Sec. 1133. Every referee, before acting as such, shall take and subscribe an
oath ( or affirmation), before some authorized officer, which shall be filed with 
the clerk of the court by which he is appointed, that he will honestly, 
impartially, and faithfully perform the duties of referee in the action or matter
referred to him, as required by law, to the best of his knowledge and ability. 
Sec. 1134. A witness may be subpoenaed to attend before a referee, to
testify, and, in a proper case, to bring with him a book, document, or other
paper, as upon a trial by the court. 
Sec. 1135. The trial by a referee of an issue of fact, or of an issue of law,
may be brought on for hearing upon notice of the referee and conducted in
like manner, and the papers to be furnished thereupon are the same and are
furnished in like manner, as where the trial is by the court, without a jury.
The referee exercises, upon such a trial, the same power as the court to grant
adjournments, to preserve order, and punish the violation thereof. Upon the
trial of an issue of fact, the referee exercises also the same power as the court,
to allow amendments to the summons or to the pleadings; to compel the at­
tendance of witnesses by attachment; and to punish a witness for contempt of
court, for non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn, or to testify. Upon the trial
of an issue of law, the referee exercises the same power as the court, to permit
a party in fault to plead anew or amend ; to direct the action to be divided
into two or more actions: to award costs and otherwise to dispose of any
questions arising upon the decision of the issue referred to him. The powers,
conferred by this Section, are exercised in like manner and upon like terms, as
similar powers are exercised by the court upon a trial. 
Sec. 1136. Where the reference is to more than one referee, all must meet
together and hear all the allegations and proofs of the parties ; but a majority
may appoint a time and place for the trial, decide any question that arises
upon the trial, sign a report or settle a case. Either of them may administer
an oath to a witness; and a majority of those present, at a time and place
appointed for the trial, may adjourn the trial to a future day. 
Sec. 1137. Either party may object to the appointment of any person as
referee, on the same grounds that he might object to him as a trial juror, as
provided in Section roeo of this Code. 
Sec. 1138. The objections taken to the appointment of any person as
referee must be heard and disposed of by the court. Affidavits may be read
and witnesses examined as to such objection. 
Sec. 1139. The referees must report their findings in writing to the court
within ten days after the testimony is closed, or such other time as the court
may allow, and the facts found and the conclusions of law must be separately
stated therein. 
Sec. 1140. The finding of the referee upon the issue must stand as the find­
ing of the court, and upon filing of the finding with the clerk of the court,
judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been
tried by the court. 
Sec. 1141. The finding of the referee may be excepted to and reviewed in
like manner as if made by the court. When the reference is to report the
facts, the findings reported have the effect of a special verdict. 
CHAPTER I
PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRIALS IN GENERAL. 
.A rricte /. E:cu/tio•s.
II. Nl"W Trials. 
CHAPTER VII. 
ARTICLE I. 
Sectio« 1150. E,ue/Uo•s 111ay he talte•. Ti111e wie" talt~"· de. 
1151. Wkal dum,d e,ccepted to. 
EXCEPTIONS. 
1152. E,cu/lio", form af:'
115J, .!l._,us/iO#S a#d Q#SW•rs i# f11// 111ay he ~if,,-,,, w/Utl, 
115+ £,iu/tio•s s,g,,ed by a j•dr~ a•d .ftled v.,itll tie cu,-i. 
Sectio• 1155. E:ice/lio,e, ,eot Jr,u•lrd at ti111e of r11li•K· Notice to aduers« ,arty, Jtow
Httkd 11/0•, etc. 
1156. E,iuption, after /"dg,,,nt, etc. 
I 157. Wle• e:,ur/lio• ts ref ,urd, aJ/licatio• to S"/re•e Co"rt to /rove IAe same,
de. 
I 158. Procudi•g, wJtH j"dg, crasn lo Jtold office. 
Sec. 1150. An exception is an objection upon a matter of law to a decision
made, either before or after judgment, by a court, tribunal, judge, or other
judicial officer in an action or proceeding. The exception must be taken at
the time the decision is made, except as is provided in Section J 151. 
Sec. 1151. The verdict of the jury, the instructions and charge of the
court, the final decision in an action or proceeding, an interlocutory order or de­ 
cision, finally determining the right of the party or some of them ; an order or
decision from which an appeal may be taken ; an order sustaining or overruling
a demurrer, allowing or refusing to allow an amendment to a pleading, strik­
ing out a pleading or a portion thereof, refusing a continuance; an order
made upon an ex parte application, an order or decision made in the absence
of the party, are deemed to have been excepted to and no bill of exceptions
is required. 
Sec. 1152. No particular form of exception is required, but the grounds of
the objection shall be particularly stated except as provided in the next pre­
ceeding Section, and when the exception is to the verdict or decision, upon
the ground of the insufficiency of the evidence to justify it, the objection must
specify the particulars in which, such evidence is alleged to be insufficient.
The objection must be stated with so much of the evidence taken from the
stenographer's notes, or other matter as is necessary to explain it, and no more.
Only the substance of the reporter's notes of the evidence shall be stated or
used as evidence. Documents on file in the action or proceeding may be
copied, or the substance thereof stated, or a reference thereto, sufficient to
identify them, may be made when that will sufficiently present the objections
and exceptions. 
Sec. 1153. If, in the opinion of the court or judge, the questions and an­
swers in full as given at the trial are necessary to clearly present the objections
and the grounds thereof, the court or judge shall order the stenographer to
make a complete transcript of his notes of the evidence and such notes shall
be used in the bill of exceptions. 
Sec. 1154. A bill containing an exception to any decision may be present­
ed to the court or judge for settlement at the time the decision is made, and
after having been settled, shall be signed by the judge and filed by the clerk,
but this shall not delay the trial or hearing. When the decision excepted to
is made by a tribunal other than a court, or by a judicial officer, the bill of
exceptions shall be presented to, and settled and signed by such tribunal or
officer. 
Sec. 1155. When a party desires to have exceptions taken at a trial settled
in a bill of exceptions, he may, within ten days after the entry of judgment,
if the action was tried with a jury, or after receiving notice of the entry
of judgment, if the action were tried without a jury, or .such further time as
the court in which the action was pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, pre­
pare the draft of a bill, and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the 
adverse party. Such draft must contain all the exceptions taken upon which
the party relies. Within ten days after such service the adverse party may
propose amendments thereto and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the
other party. The proposed bill and amendments must, within ten days there­
after, be presented by the party seeking the settlement of the bill, to the
judge who tried or heard the case, upon five days' notice to the adverse party,
or be delivered to the clerk of the court, or judge. When received by the
clerk he must immediately deliver them to the judge, if he be in the county; 
if he be absent from the county, and either party desire the papers to be 
forwarded to the judge, the clerk must, upon notice in writing of such parties,
immediately forward them by mail, or other safe channel; if not thus for­
warded, the clerk must deliver them to the judge immediately after his return
to the county. When received from the clerk, the judge must designate the
time at which he will settle the bill, and the clerk must immediately notify the
parties of such designation. At the time designated the judge must settle the
bill. If the action was tried before a referee, the proposed bill, with the
amendments, if any, must be presented to such referee for settlement within
ten days after service of the amendments, upon notice of five days to the
adverse party, and thereupon the referee shall settle the bill. If no amend­
ments arc served, or if served are allowed, the proposed bill may be presented,
with the amendments, if any, to the judge or referee, for settlement without
notice to the adverse party. It is the duty of the judge or referee, in settling
the bill, to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, so that the excep­
tions may be presented as briefly as possible. When settled, the bill must be
signed by the judge or referee, with his certificate to the effect that the same
is allowed, and shall then be filed with the clerk. 
Sec. 1156. Exceptions to any decision made after judgment may be pre­
sented to the judge at the time of such decision, and be settled or noted, as 
provided in Section 1154, and a bill thereof may be presented and settled after­
ward as provided in Section 1155, and within like periods after entry of the
order, upon appeal from which such decision is reviewable. 
Sec. 1157. If the judge in any case refuse to allow an exception in accord­
ance with the facts, the party desiring the bill settled may apply by petition to
the Supreme Court to prove the same ; the application may be made in the
mode and manner, and under such regulations as that court may prescribe ; and
the bill, when proven, must be certified by the chief justice as correct, and filed
with the clerk of the court in which the action was tried, and when so filed it has
the same force and effect as if settled by the judge who tried the cause. 
Sec. 1158. When the decision excepted to was made by any judicial officer
other than a judge, the bill of exceptions shall be presented to such judicial
officer, and be settled and signed by him, in the same manner as is required to
be presented to, settled, and signed by a court or judge. A judge or judicial
officer may settle and sign a bill of exceptions after as well as before he ceases
to be such judge or judicial officer. If such judge or judicial officer, before the
bill of exceptions is settled, dies, is removed from office, becomes disqualified,
is absent from the State, or refuses to settle the bill of exceptions, or if no
mode is provided by law for the settlement of the same, it shall be settled and
certified in such manner as the Supreme Court may by its order or rules direct.
Judges, judicial officers, and the Supreme Court shall respectively possess
the same power, in settling and certifying statements, as is by this Section
conferred upon them in settling and certifying bills of exceptions. 
Section » 117<1. N,-w trial defiHd. 
ARTICLE II. 
NEW TRIALS. 
1171. WJ,e,s a ,sew trial ma_v IM g-ra11ted. 
1171. V11 wl,at papers mo1•rd for.
1173. Notice of motion, N/011 wkom srr ted, a11d 1{1/,at lo co,,tait1. 
1174- Motion to be /rrard at //rr time sf,·Njied, or dismissed.
1175. Stay of prouedi11_sr.,, wlun.
1176. 711dg,- to make statement 011 decision of tl,e motio«. Tl11's stat,111e11/ lo co11· 
st it ete bill of r:u-r/lio11s. 
Sec. 1170. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the same
court after a trial and decision by a jury or court, or by referees. 
Sec. 1171. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a new
trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the follow­
ing causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party: 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or
any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which either party was pre­
vented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever anv one or more of the jurors
have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding
on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determina­
tion of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of
the jurors. 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against. 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the applica­
tion, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and pro­
duced at the trial. 
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice. 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or
that it is against law. 
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making
the application. 
Sec. 1172. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first,
second, third and fourth Subdivisions of the last Section, it must be made upon
affidavits ; for any other cause it may be made at the option of the moving
party, either upon a bill of exceptions or a statement of the case, prepared as
hereinafter provided. 
Sec. 1173. The party intending to move for a new trial must, within ten
days after the verdict of the jury, if the action were tried by a jury, or after
notice of the decision of the court, or referee, if the action was tried without a 
jury, file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse party a notice of his inten­
tion, designating the grounds upon which the motion will be made. 
1. If the motion is made upon affidavits the moving party must, within ten
days after serving the notice, or such further time as the court in which the
action is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, file such affidavits with
the clerk and serve a copy upon the adverse party, who shall have ten days
to file counter affidavits, a copy of which must be served upon the moving
party. 
2. If the motion is to be made upon a bill of exceptions, and no bill has
already been settled as hereinbefore provided, the moving party shall have the
same time after service of the notice to prepare and obtain a settlement of a
bill of exceptions as is provided after entry of judgment, or after receiving
notice of such entry by Section I IS S, and the bill shall be prepared and settled
in a similar manner. If a bill of exceptions has already been settled and
filed, when the notice of motion has been given, such bill shall be used on
the motion. · 
3. If the motion is to be made upon a statement of the case, the moving
party must, within ten days after service of the notice, or such further time as
the court in which the action is pending, or the judge thereof, may allow, pre­
pare a draft of the statement and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the
adverse party. If such proposed statement be not agreed to by the adverse
party, he must, within ten days thereafter, prepare amendments thereto and
serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the moving party. If the amendments
be adopted, the statement shall be amended accordingly, and then presented to
the judge who tried or heard the cause for settlement, or to be delivered to the
clerk of the court for the judge. If not adopted, the proposed statement and
amendments shall, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the moving
party to the judge, upon five days' notice to the adverse party, or delivered to
the clerk of the court for the judge; and thereupon the same proceedings for
the settlement of the statement shall be taken by the parties and clerk and 
judge as arc required for the settlement of bills of exception by Section 1155.
If the action was heard by a referee, the same proceedings shall be had for the
settlement by him as are required by that Section for the settlement of bills of
exception by a referee. If no amendments are served within the time desig­
nated, or, if served, are allowed, the proposed statement and amendments, if
any, may be presented to the judge or referee for settlement without notice to
the adverse party. When the notice of the motion designates as the ground
of the motion the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other de­
cision, the statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence is
alleged to be insufficient. When the notice designates as the ground of the
motion errors in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the moving
party, the statement shall specify the particular errors upon which the party
will rely. If no such specifications be made the statement shall be disregarded
on the hearing of the motion. It is the duty of the judge or referee in settling
the statement to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, and to make
the statement truly represent the case, notwithstanding the assent of the par­
ties to such redundant or useless matter, or to any inaccurate statement. When
settled and the proposed statement and amendments properly engrossed, the
statement shall be signed by the judge or referee, with his certificate to the
effect that the same is allowed, and shall then be filed with the clerk. Matters
contained in any bill of exceptions shall not be repeated in a statement, and if
so repeated shall be stricken therefrom by the judge or referee. 
Sec. 1174. The application for a new trial shall be heard at the earliest prac­
ticable period after notice of the motion, and after the affidavits, bill of excep­
tions, or statement, as the case may be, are filed, and may be brought to a hear­
ing upon motion of either party. On such hearing reference may be had in all
cases to the pleadings and orders of the court on file or of record. 
Sec. 1175. When notice of intention to move for a new trial is given, the
judge may, upon such terms as in his opinion shall be just, make an order stay­
ing proceedings until the motion for new trial is disposed of. 
Sec. 1176. The judgment roll, and the affidavits, or bill of exceptions or
statement, as the case may be, used on the hearing, with a copy of the order
made, shall constitute the record to be used on appeal from the order granting
or refusing a new trial. 
CHAPTER
THE MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT. 
Sectio11 11<)0,
1191. 
119:1.
1193. 
1194.
1195. 
11¢.
1197. 
11()8. 
11<)9,
1.200. 
1101. 
'J11dgme11t to be •11tered in fwe11ty-fo11r l,011rs, etc.
Case may br /,ro1111kl before tl,e court for arg11menl.
Wke11 co1111lerc/a11n esfablided exceeds /lai11tiff's dl'ma11d.
/11 re/l•t•i11,J•dgme11t lo be u, tire a/fernafitie, a11d will, damag•.r. 
'J•dgme11t boolt to be lte/1 b_v tl,e clerk, 
a 'farl_v die after uerdict, i•d_s:-111e11I may be entered, b11f 110/ lo be a lie«,
11dg,,,e11t roll, w/,af lo co•.~lit11fe. 
lf: 
CHAPTER VIII. 
udf!me11f lie«, ·u!/1e11 it begins and wkt>11 ii expires.
Dockrl, 1,ow krpt, and wkat lo coutai«,
Docket lo be o/t!11 for i11S/ectio11 wilko11I cluzrge.
Tra11script to be filed i11 a11y co1111t_,·. and judg111e11f lo become a lie« /lure.
Satisfartio« of a judgment, jow made. 
Sec. 1190. When trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by
the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four hours after the ren­
dition of the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for argu­
ment or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings. 
Sec. 1191. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration,
as mentioned in the last Section; it may be brought by either party before the
court for argument. 
Sec. 1192. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiffs
demand, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it 
appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment
must be given accordingly. · 
Sec. 1193. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession or the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If the property has
been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judg­
ment for the defendant may be for a return of the property or for the value
thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and with·
holding the same. 
Sec. 1194. The clerk must keep, with the records of the court, a book to be
called the "judgment book," in which judgments must be entered. 
Sec. 1195. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue of fact,
and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment thereon.
Such a judgment is not a lien on the real property of the deceased party, but
is payable in the course of administration on his estate. 
Sec. 1196. Immediately after entering the judgment the clerk must attach
together and file the following papers, which constitute the judgment roll: 
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant. the summons,
with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with a memorandum
endorsed thereon that the default of the defendant in not answering was en­ 
tered, and a copy· of the judgment. 
2. In all other cases, the pleadings, a copy of the verdict of the jury, or
finding of the court, or referee, all bills of exceptions taken and filed, all orders,
matters, and proceedings deemed excepted to without bill of exceptions, and
a copy of any order made on demurrer, or relating to a change of parties, and
a copy of the judgment. If there are two or more defendants in the action,
and any one of them has allowed judgment to pass against him by default, the
summons, with proof of its service upon such defendant, must also be added
to the other papers mentioned in this Subdivison. 
Sec. 1197. Immediately after filing the judgment roll, the clerk must make
the proper entries of the judgment under appropriate heads, in the docket kept
by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed it becomes a lien upon
all real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution in the
county, owned by him at the time, or which he may afterward acquire, until
the lien ceases. The lien continues for six years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied. 
Sec. 1198. The docket mentioned in the last Section is a book which the
clerk keeps in his office, with each page divided into eight columns, and head­
ed as follows: Judgment debtors, judgment creditors, judgment, time of entry,
where entered in judgment book, appeals, when taken, judgment of appellate
court, satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If judgment be for the recov­
ery of money or damages, the amount must be stated in the docket under the
head of judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of
the general character of the relief granted must be stated. The names of the
defendants must be entered in alphabetical order. 
Sec. 1199. The docket kept by the clerk is open at· all times during office
hours, for the inspection of the public, without charge. The clerk must
arrange the several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their
inspection. 
Sec. 1200. A transcript of the original docket, certified by the clerk, may
be filed with the District Court clerk of any other county, and from the time
of the filing the judgment becomes a lien upon all real property of the judg­
ment debtor, not exempt from execution, in such county, owned by him at
the time, or which he may afterward, and before the lien expires, acquire. The
lien continues for six years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied. 
Sec. 1201. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk's docket
upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction 
filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a con­
veyance of real property, by the judgment creditor, or by his indorsement on
the face, or on the margin of the record of the judgment, or by his attorney,
unless a revocation of his authority is filed. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in
fact, otherwise than upon an execution, the party or attorney must give such
acknowledgment, or make such indorsement, and upon motion the court may
compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it. 
CHAPTER I
EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
C!,aJltr I. Tl,e e:1tec1dio11.
I I. Proceedings suJJlemental to tl,e execetio«. 
S,clio,, UJO. Witt,;,, w/,a/ ti111e e1tec11/io11 may issee, 
nu. Exec11tr'o11, req11irements.
1211. E"eculio,r wlie,r all defendants not served, 
1213, Wl,e11 made retNrnal,fe. 
1214. Mo,,ey j11dgmenls a11d otker», /,ow enforced,
u15. Bsecetio» after si» years. 
u16. E:tec11tio11 affer deall,.
1:217. Bxecetio«, low and wile• issued. 
1218. WJ,at dal/ he liahle 011 r.xec11fio11, 110! affeded 1111/il levy.
u19- Exec•lio,r agai11st 011e of a part•erskiJ. 
u20. Claimed hy tltird perso,,s.
u21. Property e:Jlem/t ,·,, all cases.
1222. Fertker exemJtio11s.
1223. Homestead, 
1:224. Writ, .+ow execeted,
1225. Notice of sale, .+ow given-Copy of notice. 
1210. Pu,alt_v, selling wit.+out 110/ice.
1227. Sales, /,ow cosdected.
1228. Purckaser ref,ui•g to Jay, wl,at Jroceedings. 
12:29- Same. 
CHAPTER I. 
THE EXECUTION. 
n30. Officer "of liahle heyo"d a certain amount.
1231. .l'erso,ral proJert_v capa!,le of man11al delivery, /,ow delrt-ered, 
1232. Personal property, 110/ capahle of ma,,,,al delivery, /,ow delivered,
1233. Real Jropert_v, wken sale absolute, and wltat certificate to co•tai•. 
llJ+ Real proJerfy sold, kow redeemed, wl,o are redemptio,,ers.
1235. Redemptio" monr_v. 
1236. Wl,en /11dg,ne11t debtor or redemjtio,,er ma.1 redeem.
1237. To wltom payme11t ma.v he made.
1238. U'ltat Jt1Jers necusar_y in redemJtio11. 
1239. Court mav restrain waste. 
TITLE IX. 
1240. Wko entiiled lo rents and profits. 
1241. Proceedings if title faih.
u4:2. Party u·lto pays more tlta11 ltis dare ,nay comjel co11fri!J11tio11.
1243. (it1r11isltment not to aJJZv to public oJliccrs. 
Sec. 1210. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any time
within six years, after the entry thereof, have a writ of execution issued for its
enforcement. 
Sec. 1211. The writ of execution must be issued in the name of the State
of Montana, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, and
must be directed to the sheriff, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment,
stating the court, the county where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be for 
money, the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall
require the sheriff substantially as follows: 
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out of the personal property of
such debtor; and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of
his real property; or if the judgment be lien upon real property, then out of 
the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was dock­
eted, or at any time thereafter; or, if the execution be issued to a county 
other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the
transcript of the docket was filed in the office of the clerk of the District Court
of such county, stating such day or any time thereafter. 
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees,
it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
property. 
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it must require the
sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he
pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to law. 
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at any time require the
sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents or profits recovered by the same
judgment out of the personal property of the person against whom it was ren­
dered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was rendered, to
be specified therein ; if a delivery cannot be had and if sufficient personal prop­
erty cannot be found, then out of the real property, as provided in the first Subdivision of this Section. 
Sec. 1212. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered
against two or more persons in an action upon a joint contract, in which action
all the defendants were not served with summons, or did not appear, it must
direct the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all the
defendants and the individual property only of the defendants who were served
or who appeared in the action. 
Sec. 1213. The execution may be made returnable, at any time not less
than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed. When the execution is returned the
clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If any real estate be levied upon,
the clerk must record the execution and the return thereto at large, and certify
the same under his hand as true copies, in a book to be called the " Execution
book," which must be indexed with the names of the plaintiffs and defendants
in execution, alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times during office
hours for the inspection of the public, without charge. It is evidence of the
contents of the originals whenever they or any part thereof may be destroyed
or mutilated. 
Sec. 1214. When the judgment is for money or the possession of real or
personal property, the same may be enforced by a writ of execution; and if
the judgment direct that the defendant be arrested, the execution may issue
against the person of the judgment debtor, after the return of an execution
against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. When the judgment
requires the sale of property, the same may be enforced by a writ reciting
such judgment or the material parts thereof, and directing the proper officer
to execute the judgment, by making the sale and applying the proceeds in con­
formity therewith. · When the judgment requires the performance of any other
act than as above designated, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom the same is rendered, or upon the person or
officer required thereby or by law to obey the same, and obedience thereto
may be enforced by the court. 
Sec. 1215. In all, cases the judgment may be enforced or carried into exe­
cution after the lapse of six years from the date of its entry, by leave of the
court, upon motion, or by judgment for that purpose, founded upon supple­
mental pleadings. 
Sec. 1216. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment, exe­
cution thereon may be issued, or it may be enforced as follows : 
1. In case of the death of the judgment creditor, upon the application of
his executor, or administrator, or successor in interest. 
2. In case of the death of the judgment debtor, if the judgment be for the
recovery of real or personal property, or the enforcement of a lien thereon,
execution may be issued with the same effect as if he were still living. 
Sec. 1217. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the State. Where it
requires the delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to the
sheriff of the county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be issued at the same time to different counties. 
Sec. 1218. All goods, chattels, moneys, and other property, both real and
personal, or any interest therein of the judgement debtor, not exempt by law,
and all property and rights of property seized and held under attachment in
the action, are liable to execution. Shares and interests in any corporation or
company, and debts and credits, and all other property, both real and personal,
or any interest in either real or personal property, and all other property not
capable of manual delivery, may be attached on execution, in like manner as
upon writs of attachment. Gold dust must be returned by the officer as so
much money collected, at its current value, without exposing the same to sale.
Until a levy, property is not affected by the execution. 
Sec. 1219. If execution is levied upon the interest of one or more parties in
the goods and property of a partnership, the same proceedings shall be had as
in attachments as provided in Sections 921 and 922 of this Code. Personal
property mortgaged or pledged may be taken on execution as provided in Sec­
tion 386<), of the Civil Code. 
Sec. 1220. If personal propery levied upon be claimed by a third person,
the same proceedings shall be had as provided in attachment in Section 9()6, of
this Code. 
Sec. 1221. The following property is exempt from execution, except as
herein otherwise provided : 
In all cases all wearing apparel of the judgment debtor and family ; also all
chairs, tables, desks and books to the value of two hundred dollars; and also
all necessary household, table and kitchen furniture of the judgment debtor, in­
cluding one sewing machine, stoves, stovepipes and stove furniture, heating ap­
paratus, beds, bedding and bedsteads, and provisions and fuel provided for in­
dividual or family use sufficient for three months, and also one horse, saddle and
bridle, two cows with their calves, four hogs and fifty domestic fowls, and feed
for such animals for three months, one clock and all family pictures. 
Sec. 1222. In addition to the property mentioned in the preceding Section,
there shall be exempt the following property: 
1. To a farmer: Farming utensils or implements of husbandry, not exceed­
ing in value six hundred dollars; also. two oxen, or two horses or mules, and
their harness, one cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses, cows or mules,
for three months; also, all seed, grain or vegetables, actually provided, reserved,
or on hand, for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time within six
months, not exceeding in value the sum of two hundred dollars. 
2. To a mechanic or artisan: Tools or implements necessary to carry on
his trade. 
3. To a surgeon, physician or dentist: The instruments and chest necessary
to the exercise of his profession, with his scientific and professional libraries, and
necessary office furniture. 
4- To attorneys at law and ministers of the gospel, etc.: The professional
libraries of attorneys, counselors, and judges, and ministers of the gospel, edi­
tors, school teachers and music teachers, and their necessary office furniture;
also the musical instruments of music teachers; also the notarial seal, records 
and office furniture of a notary public.
5. To a miner: His cabin or dwelling, sluices and pipes, hose, windlass, 
derricks, cars, pumps, tools, implements, and appliances necessary for carrying
on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of
one thousand dollars, and one horse or mule, with harness, and food for such horse
or mule, for three months, when such horse or mule is used in working his mine
or mining claim. 
6; To a cartman, hackman, huckster, peddler, teamster, or laborer: One
horse or mule, and harness for two animals or two oxen, and harness and
one cart or wagon, one dray or truck, one hack or carriage, by the use of
which such person habitually earns his living : and one vehicle and harness or
other equipments used by a physician or surgeon or minister of the gospel in
making his professional visits, with food for such horse, mule, or oxen for three
months. 
7. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services rendered
at any time within thirty days next preceding the levy of execution or attachment
when it appears by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are nec­
essary for the use of his family residing in this State, supported in whole or in part
by his labor; but where debts are incurred by any such person, or his wife or
family, for the common necessaries of life; the one-half of such earnings above
mentioned are, nevertheless, subject to execution, garnishment, or attachment
to satisfy debts so incurred. The words, "his family," as used herein, are to
be construed with the words, "head of a family," used in Section 16<J4, of the
Civil Code. 
· 8. All moneys, benefits, privileges, or immunities accruing or in any manner
growing out of any life insurance on the life of the debtor, if the annual pre­ 
miums paid do not exceed five hundred dollars.
9. All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the cart, trucks, and carriages, 
hose, buckets, implements and apparatus thereunto appertaining, and all furni­
ture and uniforms of any fire company or department organized under any laws
of this State. 
10. All arms, uniforms, and accoutrements required by law to be kept by
any person, and also one gun, to be selected by the debtor. 
11. All court houses, jails, public offices and buildings, lots, grounds, and
personal property, the fixtures, furniture, books, papers and appurtenances be­
longing and pertaining to the court house, jail and public offices belonging to
any county of this State, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks, and places,
public buildings, town halls, 'public markets, buildings for the use of fire de­
partments and military organizations, and the lots and grounds thereto belong.
ing and appertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedi­
cated by such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or for the use
of any fire or military company organized under the laws of this State. 
No article, however, or species of property mentioned in this Section, is
exempt from execution issued upon a judgment recovered forits price, or upon
a judgment of foreclosure of a mortgage lien thereon, and no person not a bona 
fid« resident of this State shall have the benefit of these exemptions.
No person can claim more than one of the exemptions mentioned in the 
first six Subdivisions of this Section.
Sec. 1223. The homestead of a judgment debtor exempt from execution, 
is provided for in the Civil Code in Sections 1670 to 1701, inclusive.
Sec. 1224. The sheriff must execute the writ against the property of the 
judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if there be
sufficient, collecting or selling the things in action, and selling the other prop­
erty, and paying to the plaintiff or his attorney so much of the proceeds as
will satisfy the judgment. Any excess in the proceeds over the judgment and
accruing costs, must be returned to the judgment debtor, unless otherwise di­
rected by the judgment or order of the court. Where there is more property
of the judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfy the judgment and accruing
costs within the view of the sheriff, he must levy only on such part of the 
property as the judgment debtor may indicate, if the property indicated be
amply sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs. 
Sec. 1225. Before the sale of the property on execution, notice thereof must
be given as follows : 
1. In case of perishable property : By posting written notice of the time
and place of the sale in three public places of the township or city where the
sale is to take place, for such time as may be reasonable, considering the char­
acter and condition of the property. 
2. In case of other personal property : By posting a similar notice in three
public places in the township or city where the sale is to take place, for not
less than five days nor more than ten days. 
3. In case of real property: By posting a similar notice, particularly de­
scribing the property, for twenty days, in three public places of the township
or city where the property is situated, and also where the property is to be
sold, which may be either at the court house or on the premises, and publishing
a copy thereof once a week for the same period, in some newspaper published
in the county, if there be one; which notice shall be substantially as follows: 
, Plaintiff'.! 
vs. 66, 
,----, Defendant,
To be sold at sheriff' 's sale on the --- day of ---, 18--, at --­ 
brief description of propertj'.)
Signed. , Sheriff. 
Any sheriff publishing. a notice not in accordance with this form, and
which shall cost more than such a notice, shall not be entitled to any costs
for the publication of the same, but shall be personally liable for the payment 
o( such publication. '·-°'\ . 
Sec. 1226. An officer selling witho the notice prescribed by the last Section forfeits five hundred dollars to the ieved party, in addition to his 
actual ~amages ; and a person willfully takin do~n or def~cing t_he notice
posted, if done before the sale or satisfaction of th udgment (1f the Judgment
be satisfied before sale), forfeits five hundred dollars. 
Sec. 1227. All sales of property under execution m st be made at auction
to the highest bidder, between the hours of nine in the orning and five in the
afternoon. After sufficient property has been sold to tisfy the execution,
no more can be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution nor his deputy
can become a purchaser or be interested in any purchase at su h sale. When the
s~le is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, 
t must b~ within
v1~w of th~se who :ittend the sale, and be sold in such pare ls as are !•k~ly to 
1 
brmg the highest price ; and when the sale is of real prope y, consisttng of
several known lots or p~rcels,. they must be sold separately; 
( Here insert 
0
. wh~n a portion 
of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he equires tt to I>: 
sold separately, such portion must be thus sold. The jud ment debtor, if
present at the sale, may also direct the order in which prope rty, real or per­
sonal, shall be sold, when such property consists of several kn wn lots or par­
cels, or of articles which can be sold to advantage separately , nd the sheriff 
must follow such directions. '
Sec. 1228. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid b 
property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the offic
s~ll the property at any time to the highest bidder, and if any
sioned thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such lo 
from the bi~der so refusing, in any court of competent jurisdic
person refusm~ to pay the costs which have accrued by reason of
be deemed guilty of contempt of court and punished accordingly. 
Sec. 1229. When a purchaser refuses to pay, the officer may, i his discre­
t10n~ thereafter reject any subsequent bid of such purchaser. 
Sec. 1230. The two preceding Sections must not be construed o make the 
r may again
loss be occa­
s, with costs,
ion, and the
is bid, shall 
officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second or subsequent
purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser ref using to pay. 
Sec. 1231. When the purchaser of any personal property, capable of manual
delivery, pays the purchase-money, the officer making the sale must deliver 
to the purchaser the property, and, if desired, execute and deliver to him a
certificate of the sale. Such certificate conveys to· the purchaser all the right
which the debtor had in such property on the day the execution or attach­
ment was levied. 
Sec. 1232. When the purchaser of any real property, not capable of manual
delivery, pays the purchase-money, the officer making the sale must execute
and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale. Such certificate conveys
to the purchaser all the right which the debtor had in such property on the
day the execution or attachment was levied. 
Sec. 1233. Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser is substituted to and
acquires the right, title, interest, and claim of the judgment debtor thereto;
and when the estate is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the
sale is absolute. In all other cases the property is subject to redemption, as
provided in this Chapter. The officer must give to the purchaser a certificate
of sale, containing: 
1. A particular description of the property sold. 
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole price paid. 
4. When subject to redemption it must be so stated.
A duplicate of such certificate must be filed by the officer in the office of 
the county clerk.
Sec. 1234. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last Section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner herein­
after provided, by the following persons, or their successors in interest : 
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole or any
part of the property. 
2. A creditor having a lien by a judgment, mortgage, or attachment, on
the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on
which the property is sold. If a corporation be such creditor, any stockholder
thereof may redeem, in case the officers of such corporation refuse so to do.
The persons mentioned in the second Subdivision of this Section are, in this Chapter, termed redemptioners. 
Sec. 1235. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may redeem the prop­
erty from the purchaser any time within one year after the sale, on paying the
purchaser the amount of his purchase, with one per cent. per month thereon
in addition up to the time of redemption, together with the amount of · any
assessment or taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after purchase,
and interest on such amount, and if the purchaser be also a creditor having a
prior lien to that of the redemptioner, other than the judgment under which .
such purchase was made, the amount of such lien with interest. 

Sec. 1236. If property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, another redemp­
tioner may, within sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem it from
the last redemptioner on paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with
two per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessment or taxes
which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount, and in addition the amount of any liens
held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with interest; but the judg­
ment under which the property was sold need not be so paid as a lien. The
property may be again, and as often as the redemptioner is so disposed, re­
deemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days after the last re­
demption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with two
cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessment or taxes which 
the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by him, with interest
thereon, and the amount of any liens, other than the judgment under which
the property was sold, held by the last redemptioner previous to his own, with
interest. Written notice of redemption must be given to the sheriff, and a
duplicate filed with the county clerk, and if any taxes or assessments are paid
by the redemptioner, or if he has or acquires any liens other than that upon
which the redemption was made, notice thereof must in like manner be given
to the sheriff and filed with the county clerk, and if such notice be not filed
the property may be redeemed without paying such tax, assessments or lien.
If no redemption be made within one year after the sale, the purchaser or his
assignee, is entitled to a conveyance; or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days
have elapsed, and no other redemption has been made, and notice thereof
given, and the time for redemption has expired, and the last redemptioner or
his assignee, is entitled to a sheriff's deed; but in all cases the judgment debt­
or shall have the entire period of one year from the date of the sale to redeem
the property. If the judgment debtor redeem, he must make the same pay­
ments as are required to effect a redemption by a redemptioner. If the debt­
or redeem, the effect of the sale is terminated, and he is restored to his estate.
Upon a redemption by a debtor, the person to whom the payment was made
must execute and deliver to him a certificate of redemption, acknowledged or
proved before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments of conveyances
of real property. Such certificate must be filed and recorded in the office of
the county clerk of the county in which the property is situated, and the
county clerk must note the record thereof in the margin of the record of the
certificate of sale. 

Sec. 1237. The payment mentioned in the last two Sections may be made to
the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him, to the officer who
made the sale, or, in case his term of office has expired, then to his successor
in office, and in all cases when, under the provisions of this Chapter, a pur­
chaser of property at execution sale shall be entitled to a conveyance of the
same, such conveyance shall be executed to him by the officer who made the
sale, if he still be in office, but in the case the officer who made such sale is not
in office at the time the purchaser may be entitled to such conveyance, then the
conveyance shall be executed by his successor in office. 
Sec. 1238. A redemptioner must produce to the officer or person, from
whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff : 
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right
to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court, or by the clerk of the District
Court in the county where the judgment is docketed, or if he redeem upon a
mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the county
clerk. If upon an attachment, a copy of the affidavit of attachment, certified
by the clerk of the District Court. 
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto. , 
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the amount then actually
due upon the lien. 
Sec. 1239. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the
court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order granted
with or without notice on the application of the purchaser or the judgment
creditor. But it is not waste for the person in possession of the property at
the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterward during the period allowed
for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was pre­
viously used or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the
necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to use wood or timber on the prop­
erty therefor, or for the repair of fences, or for fuel for his family. while he 
occupies the property. 
Sec. 1240. The purchaser, from the time of the sale until a redemption, and
a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption until another redemption, is
entitled to receive from the tenant in possession, the rents of the property
sold, or the value of the use and occupation thereof. But when any rents or
profits have been received by the judgment creditor or purchaser, or his or their
assigns, from the property thus sold preceding such redemption, the amount of
such rents and profits shall be a credit upon the redemption money to be paid:
and if the redemptioner or judgment debtor, before the expiration of the time
allowed for such redemption, demands in writing of such purchaser or creditor,
or his assigns, a written and verified statement of the amount of such rents and
profits thus received, the period for redemption is extended five days after
such sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his assigns to such redemp­
tioner or debtor. If such purchaser or his assigns shall, for 2. period of one
month from and after such demand, fail or refuse to give such statement, such
redemptioner or debtor may bring an action in any court of competent juris­
diction, to compel an accounting and disclosure of such rents and profits, and
until fifteen days from and after the final determination of such action, the
right of redemption is extended to such redemptioner or debtor. 
Sec. 1241. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his suc­
cessor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularities in the
proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment,
he may recover the price paid with interest from the judgment creditor. If
the purchaser of property at sheriff's sale, or his successor in interest, fail to
recover possession, in consequence of irregularity in the proceeding concerning
the sale, or because the property sold was not subject to execution and sale,
the court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such party in interest,
or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the amount paid by such pur­
chaser at the sale, with interest thereon from the time of payment at the same
rate that the original judgment bore; and, when so revived, the said judgment
shall have the same effect as an original judgment of the said court of that date,
and bearing interest as aforesaid; and any other or after acquired property,
rents, issues, or profits of the said debtor shall be liable to levy and sale under
execution, in satisfaction of such debt, but no property of such debtor, sold
bona fide before the filing of such petition, shall be subject to the lien of said
judgment. The. notice of the filing of such petition shall be made by filing a
notice thereof in the office of the county clerk where such property may be
situated, and that said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original
plaintiff or plaintiffs for the use of said petitioner, the party in interest. 
Sec. 1242. When property liable to an execution against several persons is
sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is satisfied out
of the proceeds of the sale of property of one of them, or one of them pays,
without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contribution from the·
others; and when a judgment is against several and is upon an obligation of
one of them as security for another, and the surety pays the amount, or any
part thereof, either by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel repay­
ment from the principal. In such case the person so paying or contributing is
entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment,
if, within ten days after his payment, he file with the clerk of the court where
judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or
repayment. Upon the filing of such notice, the clerk must make an entry
thereof in the margin of the docket. 
Sec. 1243. The provisions of Section 925, of this Code, relating to the gar-
nishment of public officers, apply to the levy of an execution. . 
CHAPTER II. 
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION. 
Sectio,a u6o. Debtor required to a,aswer concer,ai,,g J,is property, win,. 
Sectio,r 1261. Procet1di,,Ks to co111pel debtor to ajjear. /,r wl,at cases l,e •ay he arrested.
Wltal hail may fJe g-,"·c,e,r. 
1:a62. Alf.l' debtor of lite jfldg,,,t1•t debtor may pay tke latter's creditor, 
1263. Exa111i11atio11 of debtors of j•dg,,,e,rt debtor, or of tl,ose /,avi,rg projert,
be/o,rg-,"ng to l,im. 
1264. Witnesse« reqeired to testify,
1165. ':f"dge may order property to bt1 appUed o,. exec•tio11.
1266. Prouedings fl/011 claim of another party to /roperty, or o• de11ial of i11ddJI· 
ed#ess toJ•dg-,,,e,rt debtor. 
1267. Disobedi,,.ce of orders, /,ow pu11ided. 
u68. No perso,r excflsed from answering o,. llte grou,rd of f'raed, 
126«). Wl,e,. and /,ow a receiver may he appoi11ted. 
u70. Oat/, a,rd ""dertalting.
1271. W!,e,. Jro;erty vests ;,, receiver. 
u72. Title by relation. 
Sec. 1260. When an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or
of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of
the county where he resides, or if he does not reside in this State, to the sheriff
of the county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return is made, is
entitled to an order from a judge of the court, requiring such judgment debtor
to appear and answer concerning his property before such judge, or a referee
appointed by him, at a time and place specified in the order; but no judgment
debtor must be required to attend before a judge or referee out of the county 
in which he resides. ·
Sec. 1261. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon 
proof, by affidavit of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of a judge of the
court, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, such judge may, by an order,
require the judgment debtor to appear, at a specified time and place, before
such judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon
the return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of
the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor,
his agent, or attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger of the debtor
absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before such
judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he may be ordered to enter into an
undertaking, with sufficient surety, that he will attend from time to time before
the judge or referee, as may be directed during the pendency of proceedings
and until the final determination thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose
of any portion of his property not exempt from execution. In default of enter­
ing into such undertaking he may be committed to prison. 
Sec. 1262. After the issuing of an execution against property, and before
its return, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
execution ; and the sheriff's receipt is sufficient discharge for the amount so
paid. 
Sec. 1263. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment,
or upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that
any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge may, by an order, re­
quire such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear 
at a specified time and place before him, or a referee appointed by him, and 
answer concerning the same.
Sec. 1264. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the 
judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this Chapter, in the same manner
as upon the trial of an issue. 
Sec. 1265. The judge or referee may order any property of a judgment 
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor or any other
person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction
of the judgment. 
Sec. 1266. If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged to have prop­
erty of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted to him, claims an interest in 
the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or judge may au­
thorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an 
action against such person or corporation for the recovery of such interest or
debt; and the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposi­ 
tion of such interest or debt, until an action can be commenced and prosecuted
to judgment. Such order may be modified or vacated by the judge granting
the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such
terms as may be just. 
Sec. 1267. If any person, party or witness disobey an order of the referee,
properly made, in the proceedings before him under this Chapter, he may be
punished by the court or judge ordering the reference for a contempt. 
Sec. 1268. A party or witness examined in proceedings authorized by this Chapter is not excused from answering a question on the ground that his ex­
amination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud, or to prove
that he has been a party or privy to, or knowing of, a conveyance, assignment,
transfer, or other disposition of property for any purpose ; or that he or any
other person claims to be entitled, as against the judgment creditor, or a re­
ceiver appointed or to be appointed in the proceedings, to hold property
derived from or through the judgment debtor, or to be discharged from the
payment of a debt which was due to the judgment debtor, or to a person in his
behalf. But an answer cannot be used as evidence against the person so
answering in a criminal action or criminal proceeding. 
Sec. 1269. At any time after making an order requiring the judgment
debtor or any other person to attend and be examined, as prescribed in this Chapter, the judge may make an order appointing a receiver of the property
of the judgment debtor. At least two days' notice of the application for the
order appointing a receiver, must be given personally to the judgment debtor,
unless the judge is satisfied that he cannot, with reasonable diligence, be found
within the State; in which case, the order must recite that fact, and may dis­
pense with notice, or may direct notice to be given in any manner which the
judge thinks proper. But where the order to attend and be examined, has been
served upon the judgment debtor, a receiver may be appointed upon the return
day thereof, or at the close of the examination, without further notice to him. 
Sec. 1270. An order appointing a receiver must be filed in the office of the
clerk of the court where the judgment roll is filed, or a transcript of the judg­
ment, and the receiver must take and subscribe the official oath, and give an
undertaking, if required by the judge. 
Sec. 1271. The property of the judgment debtor is vested in a receiver, who
has duly qualified, from the time of filing the order appointing him, subject to
the following exceptions : 
1. Real property is vested in the receiver, only from the time when the
order is filed with· the clerk of the court, or a certified copy thereof, 3.S the
case may be, is filed with the clerk of the county where it is situated. 
2. Where the judgment debtor, at the time when the order is filed, resides in
another county of the State, his personal property is vested in the receiver,
only from the time when a copy of the order, certified by the clerk in whose
office it is filed, is filed with the clerk of the District Court of the county where
he resides. 
Sec. 1272. Where the receiver's title to personal property has become
vested, as prescribed in the last Section, it also extends back, by relation, for 
the benefit of the judgement creditor in whose behalf the proceedings were
instituted, as follows: 
r. Where an order requiring the judgment debtor to attend and be exam­
ined has been served, before the appointment of a receiver, or the judgment
debtor has been brought before the judge on arrest, the receiver's title extends
back, so as to include the personal property of the judgment debtor, at the time
of the service of the order or his arrest. 
2. Where an order has not been served, or no arrest, as specified in the fore­
going Subdivision, but an order has been made, requiring a person to attend
and be examined, concerning property belonging or a debt due, to the judg­
ment debtor, the receiver's title extends to the personal property belonging to
the judgment debtor, which was in the hands, or under the control, of the per­
son or corporation thus required to attend, at the time of the service of the
order; and to a debt then due him from that person or corporation. 
3. In every other case, where notice of the application for the appointment
of the receiver was given to the judgment debtor, the receiver's title extends
to the personal property of the judgment debtor, at the time when the notice
was served, either personally, or by complying with the requirements of an
order, prescribing a substitute for personal service. 
4- Where the case is within two or more of the foregoing Subdivisions of
this Section, the rule most favorable to the judgment creditor must be adopted. 
But this Section does not affect the title of a purchaser in good faith, with­
out notice, and for a valuable consideration ; or the payment of a debt in good 
faith, and without notice. 
Chapter ii
I. Actions for llte foreclosere of ,nortgrzgu.
I I. Actio,ss for ""isaNce, waste, and wilif ul waste, ;,, certain cases, o• real 
Ill. 
/ro/erty.
Actions to determine con/licti11g claims to real properly, aed otker prot•i· 
sions relati11g to actions concer11i11g real estate.
Actions for Ike /artilio11 of real property.
~ "o. warranto, 
Actio,u against boats.
IV. 
v. 
VJ. 
TITLE X. 
ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES. 
CHAPTER I. 
ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES. 
Section 12<)0. Proceedi11g.t ;,. foreclosure suits. 
1291. Surjlus mo,u.v to he defositrd ;,. court, 
1292. Proceedi11g., wken deht secured falls due at different limes ..
1293. Power of sale, 
Sec. 1290. There is but one action for the recovery of debt, or the enforce­
ment of any right secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal property,
which action must be in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. In
such action the court may, by its judgment, direct a sale of the incumbered
property ( or so much thereof as may be necessary). and the application of the
proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of the court and the expenses
of the sale, and the amount due the plaintiff ; and if it appear from the sheriff's
return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a balance still remain due, judg­
ment can then be docketed for such balance against the defendant or def end­
ants personally liable for the debt, and it becomes a lien upon the real estate
of such judgment debtor, as in other cases on which execution may be issued.
No person holding a conveyance from or under the mortgagor of the property
mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does not appear
of record in the proper office at the time of the commencement of the action,
need be made a party to such action; and the judgment therein rendered, and
the proceedings therein had, are as conclusive against the party holding such
unrecorded conveyance or lien as if he had been made a party to the action. 
Sec. 1291. If there be surplus money remammg after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien or incumbrance, with costs, the court may 
cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime
may direct it to be deposited in court. 
Sec. 1292. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or incumbrance is held
is not all due, as soon as sufficient of the property has been sold to pay the
amount due, with costs, the sale must cease; and afterward, as often as more
becomes due, for principal or interest, the court may, on motion, order more
to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to
the parties. the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance and the
entire debt. and costs paid, there being a rebate of interest where such rebate
is proper. 
Sec. 1293. When a mortgage confers a power of sale, either upon the
mortgagee or any other person, to be executed after a breach of the obligation
for which the mortgage is a security, either an action may be maintained un­
der this Chapter to foreclose, or proceedings may be had under provisions of 
the mortgage. 
Sectio« 1300. N•isa•ce deft•ed aed actlo•s for. 
1301. Waste, aetioes for. 
CHAPTER II. 
ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE, AND WILLFUL TRESPASS IN CERTAIN
CASES ON REAL PROPERTY. 
1302. Trespass for c•lti•g or carryi11g off trees, etc., artio•s for. 
1303. Meas•re of daMages ;,, certain cases 1111der tie la.,t Section, 
13o+ DaMages in actions for forcible entry, etc.; May he trebled. 
Sec. 1300. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so far as to inter­
fere with the-comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the
subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any person whose prop­
erty is injuriously affected or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the
nuisance, and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as
well as damages recovered. 
Sec. 1301. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant in
common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the
waste may bring an action against him therefor, in which action there may be
judgment for treble damages. 
Sec. 1302. Any person who cuts down or carries off any wood or under­
wood, tree or timber, or girdles or otherwise injures any tree or timber on the
land of another person, or on the street or highway in front of any person's
house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons or public
grounds of any city or town, or on the street or highway in front thereof,
without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or
town, for treble the amount of damages which may be assessed therefor, in a
civil action, in any court having jurisdiction. 
Sec. 1303. Nothing in the last Section authorizes the recovery of more
than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated woodland, for the
repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it. 
Sec. 1304. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry in
or upon, or detention of, any building or cultivated real property, judgment
may be entered for three times the amount at which the actual damages are
assessed. 
CHAPTER III. 
ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY, AND
OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE. 
Sectia« 1310. Parties to 011 actio« to quiet title. 
1311. Wken plaintiff cannot recover costs. 
Sectio« I 31 s. 
1313.
1314. 
1315.
1316. 
1317.
1318. 
1319. 
13l0,
13ll. 
IJ2l, 
If jlai•ti.ff's title termi,,ates pe,,di11g- tlu seit, -wl,at lie may recover, and
/,ow verdict a11d_j1'dgment to he. 
WAr1• val,u of impro·vements may be allowed as set·off.
A II order ma_v he made lo allow a party to survey a11d measer« tl,e la•d ,·,. 
disputr.
Order, wltat to contai• and kow served. If """ecessary i•i•""Y doee, lite 
/arty surveyi11g to he liable tlterefor.
Same.
A mortga![e m,ut •ot he deemed a conveJ•a11u, wkate·ver Us term»,
Wl,t1n court may gra•t injt1nctio11; d11ri11g foreclosure, after sale 011 e:tec#• 
lion, before convt1ya•cr.
DamaJ!eS may be recovered for injury to //,e possession after sale n•d he· 
fore delivery of posus.,ion.
Ac/inn not to he J>rl'j1'diced h.v alienation pe11di11g seit,
Minin1r claims, actions co11crrni11g to he go:1er11ed by local r1'les.
Adt-erse claims u11der Acts of Congress. 
Sec. 1310. An action may be brought by any person against another who
claims an estate or interest in real property adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim. 
Sec. 1311. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer any inter­
est or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him without
answer, the plaintiff shall not recover costs. But in actions which the plaintiff
has brought under Section 2326 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
to determine an adverse claim, the plaintiff shall recover costs if the defendant
does not relinquish in the proper United States land office or disclaim in writ­
ing any interest or estate in the property within twenty days from the filing
of said adverse claim in such land office. 
Sec. 1312. In an action for the recovery of real property, where the plaintiff
shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced, but it appears
that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict
and judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover
damages for withholding the property. 
Sec. 1313. When damages are claimed for withholding the property re­
covered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a defend­
ant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to
the claim of plaintiff, in good faith, the value of such improvements must be
allowed as a set-off against such damage. 
Sec. 1314. The court in which an action is pending for the recovery of real
property or mining claims, or for damages for an injury, or to quiet title or to
determine adverse claims thereto, or a judge thereof, may, on motion, upon
notice by either party, for good cause shown, grant an order allowing to such
party the right to enter into or upon the property or mining claim and make
survey or measurement thereof, or of any tunnels, shafts, or drifts therein, for
the purpose of the action, even though entry for such purpose has to be made
through other lands or mining claims belonging to parties to the action. 
Sec. 1315. The order must describe the property, and a copy thereof must
be served on the owner or occupant; and thereupon such party may enter the
property, with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such survey and
measurement; but if unnecessary damage be done to the property, he is liable
therefor. 
Sec. 1316. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance,
whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the .mortgage to recover pos­
session of the real property without a foreclosure and sale. When the mort­
gage confers a power of sale, as mentioned in Section 382 I, of the Civil Code,
possession may be recovered according to the terms of the mortgage. 
Sec. 1317. Whenever any person shall have any right to or interest in any
lead, lode, or mining claim which is in the possession of another person, and it
shall be 'necessary for the ascertainment, enforcement, or protection of such
right or interest that an inspection, examination, or survey of such lead, mine,
lode, or mining claim should be had or made; or whenever any inspection, 
examination, or survey of any such lode or mining claim shall be necessary to
protect, ascertain, or enforce the right or interest of any person in another
mine, lode or mining claim, and the person in possession of the same shall
ref use, for a period of three days after demand therefor in writing, to allow
such inspection, examination, or survey to be had or made, the party so desir­
ing the same may present to the District Court, or a judge thereof, of the
county wherein the mine, lead, lode, or mining claim is situated, a petition,
under oath, setting out his interest in the premises, describing the same, that
the premises are in the possession of a party, naming him, the reason why such
examination, inspection, or survey is necessary, the demand made on the per­
son in possession so to permit such examination, inspection, or survey, and his
refusal so to do. The court or judge shall thereupon appoint a time and place
for hearing such petition, and shall order notice thereof to be served upon the
adverse party, which notice shall be served at least one day before the day of
hearing. On the hearing either party may read affidavits or produce oral tes­
timony, and if the court or judge is satisfied that the facts stated in the peti­
tion are true, he shall make an order for an inspection, examination, or survey
of the lode or mining claim in question in such manner, at such time, and by
such persons as are mentioned in the order. Such person shall thereupon have
free access to such mine, lead, lode, or mining claim for the purpose of making
such inspection, examination, or survey, and any interference with such person
while acting under such order shall be contempt of court. If the order of the
court is made while an action is pending between the parties to the order, the
costs of obtaining the order shall abide the result of the action, but all costs of
making such examination or survey shall be paid by the petitioner. 
Sec. 1318. The court or judge, may by injunction, upon good cause shown,
restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real prop­
erty during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon; or, after a sale on execu­
tion, before a conveyance. 
Sec. 1319. When real property has been sold on execution, the purchaser
thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest, may after his
estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the property by the
tenant in possession after sale and before possession is delivered under the
conveyance. 
Sec. 1320. An action for the recovery of real property against a person in
possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such person, either
before or after the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 1321. In actions respecting mining claims, proof must be admitted of
the customs, usages, or regulation established and in force at the bar or dig­
gings embracing such claim, and such customs, usages or regulations, when
not in conflict with the laws of this State or the United States, must govern
the decision of the action. 
Sec. 1322. In an action brought to determine the respective rights of
claimants to the possession of a mining claim or quartz lode, under the pro­
visions of the Acts of Congress of the United States, it is immaterial which
party is in possession, and it is sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon the court,
if it appears from the pleadings that the application for a patent has been
made and an adverse claim thereto filed and allowed in the proper land office ;
and the verdict or decision must find which party is entitled to the possession
of the premises in dispute. 
CHAPTER II
ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY. 
Sectio« 1340. W.io may l>ri•g actions for JartitiO#.
1341. Actions l>_v infant. 
1342. Wko m#st be parties.
1343. Wko may he parties. 
CHAPTER IV. 
Seclio" 1344. Wl,at co111plai"t to costai«,
1345. Liet1l,olders not of record, etc.
1346. Lis pet1det1s to ht1 Jiled. 
1347 S11mmo,,s, /,ow directed.
1348: U"lt"ow" 1arties, /,ow served, 
1349- A,uwer of defe,,da11t.
1350. Tille of j>arlies may he tried. 
1351. Proof of ""lt110'Wn parties, rig/,ts of. 
135:z. Partial j>artitio11.
1353. Lie11/,olders as parties. 
1354. Lie11/,olders m11st be #otijied. 
1355. Co11rl may order j>artilio11. 
1356. Lots a"d stlbdivisio,,s.
1357. Deal/, t1Nd it1Sat1ity. 
1358. Partition accordi"K lo rigl,ts of partiu. 
1359- Improveme•ls of a lenat1t i" commo«,
136o. Referees 1111.st 111alte report. 
1361. 711dpet1t, and o• w/,o,n cot1cl11sive.
1J6l. '."f 11dg,,,et1t does t1ot affect te"a"t for years. 
1363. E:tlenses apporliot1ed.
136.f. Lien 011 ••diti,'ded interest. 
1J65. Estate for years or for life. 
1366. AIPlicalio" of lroceeds of it1c11,nbered lrolerly. 
1367. 0/1,er secwrities,
1368. Proceeds of sale a,,d disposition. 
1J69. Wl,e,, /aid 1'•to cor1rt. 
1370. Sales ,,,,,st be at /•blic aectia«.
1371. Coert m11st direr/ ter111s of sale.
1372. Referees 111ay talte sec11rity for /11rcl,ase mo11ey. 
1373. Te,,a11/s 111,ut recerue compensatio,,. 
1374- Co•rt ,nay Ji:t same. 
1375. Coert m,ut ;rotec/ ""lt"ow" tet1ants.
1376. A t1d ascertai• tke f•l•re conti,,ge11t or t,ested interests. 
1377. Terms of sale. 
1378. Wl,o may 110/ be p11rd1asers. 
1379. Relort of sale to coert,
138o. If cot1Jirmed, co,,veya11crs may be e:tec11ted. 
1381. If lie,,l,o/der become 111rrkaser. 
138J. Co,,1•eyat1ces m11st l,e recorded. 
1383. Proceeds to ••lrnow• parties.
1384. INvutmet1t mad« it1 #ame of d,rlt. 
1385. Serr,riti,s in name of larties. 
1386. D11ty of clerlt ;,, malrit1g i,,1,c.,tme,,ts. 
1387. Compensation may be nd_i•dgt>d i• certaie cases, 
1388. S!,are of infa"I may be paid pardia11.
13&). Sl,are of insat1e person may be paid to pardim,. 
1390. Guardia11 may cot1se.NI to j>arlitiot1 witl,011/ action,
1391. Sale of dower i11/erest. 
1392. Same. 
1393. Married woma• mav release /,er i•teresl.
139+ Costs of partilio11 a iien o« /kf! several sltares. 
1395. One referee may he ap;oi,,ted. 
13(}6. E:t/e11ses of ;revio,u lit~sratio11 allowed. 
1397. Abstract, wl,en cost of allowed. 
1398. Abstract, /,ow ,nade n11d t•erijicd.
1399. Interest, w/,e,r allowed. 
Sec. 1340. When several co-tenants hold and are in possession of real
property as joint tenants, or tenants in common, in which one or more of them
have an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years, an action may be
brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof according to
the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such
property, or a part thereof, if it appears that a partition cannot be made with.
out great prejudice to the owners. 
Sec. 1341. An action for the partition of real property shall not be brought
by an infant, except by the written authority of the district judge of the county
in which the property, or a part thereof, is situated. The authority shall not
be given unless the district judge is satisfied, by affidavit or other competent
evidence, that the interests of the infant will be promoted by bringing the
action. A judgment for a partition shall not be rendered in such an action unless 
the court is satisfied that the interests of the infant will be promoted thereby,
and that fact is expressly recited in the judgment. A guardian ad /iteM for
an infant party, in an action for partition, can be appointed only by the court
or judge, and must give an undertaking in a sum fixed by the judge for the
faithful discharge of his trust, which undertaking must be approved by the
judge and filed with the clerk. 
Sec. 1342. Every person having an undivided share, in possession or other­
wise, in the property, as tenant fee, for life, or for years ; every person entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance of an undivided share, after
the determination of a particular estate therein ; every person who, by any
contingency, contained iri a devise, or grant or otherwise, is or may be­
come entitled to a beneficial interest in an undivided share thereof; every per­ 
son having an inchoate right of dower in an undivided share in the property;
and every person having a right of dower in the property, or any part thereof,
which has not been admeasured, must be a party to an action for partition.
But no person other than a joint tenant or a tenant in common of the property,
shall be a plaintiff in the action. 
Sec. 1343. The plaintiff may, at his election, make a tenant in dower, for
life, or for years, of the entire property, or a creditor or other person, having a
lien or interest, which attaches to the entire property, a defendant in the action.
In that case the final judgment may either award to such a party his or her entire
right and interest, or the proceeds thereof, or may reserve and leave unaff ccted 
his or her right or' interest, or any portion thereof. A person specified in this Section who is not made a party, is not affected by the judgment in the action. 
Sec. 1344. The interests of all the persons in the property, whether such
persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the complaint specifically
and particularly, as far as known to the plaintiff, and if one or more of the
parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown
to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inherit­
ance depend upon the executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent
remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact must be set forth in
the complaint. 
Sec. 1345. No person having a conveyance of or claiming a lien on the
property, or some part of it, need be made a party to the action, unless such 
conveyance or lien appear of record.
Sec. 1346. Immediately after filing the complaint in the District Court, the 
plaintiff must file in the office of the county clerk of the county, or of the sev­
eral counties in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the
action, containing the names of the parties so far as known, the object of the
action, and a description of the property to be affected thereby. From the 
time of filing such notice, all persons shall be deemed to have notice of the
pendency of the action. 
Sec. 1347. The summons must be directed to all the joint tenants and ten­
ants in common, and all persons having an interest in, or any liens of record by
mortgage, judgment or otherwise, upon the property, or upon any particular
portion thereof, and generally to all persons unknown who have or claim any
interest in the property. 
Sec. 1348. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any one of
the known parties reside out of the State or cannot be found therein, and such
fact is made to appear by affidavit, the summons may be served on such
absent or unknown party by publication, as in other cases. When publication
is made, the summons, as published, must be accompanied by a general state­
ment of the nature of the action and a brief description of the property which
is the subject of the action. 
Sec. 1349. The defendants who have been personally served with the sum­
mons and a copy of the complaint, or who have appeared without such service,
must set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the origin, nature and 
extent of their respective interests in the property; and if such defendant claim
a lien on the property by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, they must state
the original amount, and date of the same, and the sum remaining due thereon ;
also whether the same has been secured in any other way or not ; and if secured,
the nature and extent of such security, or they are deemed to have waived
their right to such lien. 
Sec. 1350. The right of the several parties, plaintiff as well as defendant,
may be put in issue, tried, and determined in such action. The title or interest
of the plaintiff in the property, as stated in the complaint, may be contro­
verted by the answer. The title or interest of any defendant in the property,
as stated in the complaint, may also be controverted by his answer, or the
answer of any other def end ant ; and the title or interest of any defendant, as
stated in his answer, may be controverted by the answer of any other defend­
ant, and the issues joined as prescribed in Title VI., of this Code, which may
be tried before a jury if the court so direct. 
Sec. 1351. When a sale of the premises is necessary, the title must be as­ 
certained by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment of sale
can be made; and where service of the summons has been made by publica­
tion, like proof must be required of the right of the absent or unknown parties,
before such judgment is rendered; except where there are several unknown
parties having an interest in the property, their rights may be considered
together in the action, and not as between themselves. 
Sec. 1352. Whenever from any cause it is, in the opinion of the court, im­
practicable or highly inconvenient to make a complete partition, in the first
instance, among all the parties in interest, the court may first ascertain and
determine the shares or interest respectively held by the original co-tenants,
and thereupon adjudge and cause a partition to be made, as if such original co.
tenants were the parties and sole parties in interest, and the only parties to
the action, and thereafter may proceed in like manner to adjudge and make
partition separately of each share or portion so ascertained and allotted, as be­
tween those claiming under the original tenant to whom the same shall have
been so set apart, or may allow them to remain tenants in common thereof, as
they may desire. 
Sec. 1353. If it appears to the court, by the certificate of the clerk of the
court and county clerk, or by the sworn or verified statement of any person
who may have examined or searched the records, that there are outstanding
liens or incumbrances of record upon such real property, or any part or portion
thereof, which existed and were of record at the time of the commencement
of the action, and the persons holding such liens are not made parties to the
action, the court must either order such persons to be made parties to the ac­
tion, by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to
ascertain whether or not such liens or incumbrances have been paid, or if not
paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order among the liens or
incumbrances severally held by such persons and the parties to the action,
and whether the amount remaining due thereon has been secured in any man­
ner, and if secured, the nature and extent of the security. 
Sec. 1354. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served, a reasonable time
previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed, as provided
in the last Section, on each person having outstanding liens of record, who is
not a party to the action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof, by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the amount due or
to become due contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person be
absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be made by publication, or
notice to his agents, under the direction of the court, in such manner as may
be proper. The report of the referee thereon must be made to the court, and
must be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the
justice of the case may require. 
Sec. 1355. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by evidence, or
if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the complaint to the
satisfaction of the court, that the property or any part is so situated that the
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, the court may
order a sale thereof; otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it must
order a partition according to the respective rights of the parties as ascertained
by the court, and appoint three referees therefor, and must designate the por­
tion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain unknown, or
are not ascertained. 
Sec. 1356. When the site of an incorporate city or town is included within
the exterior boundaries of the property to be partitioned, on said fact being 
established by evidence, the following proceedings shall be had: The court
shall thereupon direct the referees to survey and appraise the entire property
to be partitioned by actual lots and subdivisions then existing in the actual
possession of the several tenants in common, exclusive of the value of improve­
ments thereon, first setting apart necessary portions of the property for ways,
roads and streets, as in Section 1358, of this Code, provided, and to report such
survey and separate appraisement on each lot and subdivision to the court.
The court may confirm, change, modify, or set aside the report in whole or in
part, and if necessary appoint new referees. When. after the final confirmation
of the report of such survey and appraiscment, it shall appear by evidence to
the satisfaction of the court that an equitable partition of the whole property
is impracticable, and a sale of the site of such city, town, or any portion thereof,
will be for the best interests of the owners of the whole property, it shall order
a sale thereof; provided, that within sixty days thereafter any tenant in com­
mon, or tenants in common, having improvements erected on any town or
city lot or subdivision included in such order of sale, shall have the prior
right to purchase the same at such appraised valuation, and pay into court the
amount so appraised as the value thereof, and upon such payment the title
shall vest in such purchaser or purchasers, and the court shall cause to be
executed by said referees a deed for such lot or subdivision in fee and in
severalty to such purchaser or purchasers; such further proceedings shall then
be had as to the remainder of the property, and the money so paid to the
court, as by this Chapter provided. 
Sec. 1357. If, during the pendency of the action, any of the parties die or
become insane or otherwise incompetent, the proceedings shall not for that
cause be delayed or suspended, but the attorney who has appeared for such
party may continue to represent such interest; and in case any such party has
not appeared by an attorney, the court shall appoint an attorney to represent
the interest which was held by such party, until his heirs or legal representa­
tives, or successors in interest, shall have appeared in the action ; and an attor­
ney so appointed shall be allowed by the court a reasonable compensation for
his services, which may be taxed as costs against the share or interest repre­
sented by such attorney, and may be adjudged a lien thereon, in the discretion
of the court. 
Sec. 1358. In making partition the referees must divide the property and
allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality and quan­
tity relatively considered, according to the respective rights of the parties as
determined by the court, pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, designat­
ing the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a surveyor
with the necessary assistants to aid them. Before making partition or sale the
referees may, whenever it will be for the advantage of those interested, set
apart a portion of the property for a way, road or street, and the portion so set
apart shall not be assigned to any of the parties or sold, but shall remain an
open and public way, road. or street, unless the referees shall set the same
apart as a private way for the use of the parties interested, or some of them,
their heirs and assigns, in which case it shall remain such private way. Whenever 
the referees have laid out on any tract of land, roads sufficient in the judg­
ment of said referees to accommodate the public and private wants, they shall
report that fact to the court, and upon the confirmation of their report all
other roads on said tract shall cease to be public highways. 
Sec. 1359. Whenever it shall appear, in an action for the partition of lands,
that one or more of the tenants in common, being the owner of an undivided
interest in the tract of land sought to be partitioned, has sold to another per­
son a specific tract by metes and bounds out of the common land, and executed
to the purchaser a deed of conveyance, purporting to convey the whole title to
such specific tract to the purchaser in fee and in severalty, the land described
in such deed shall be allotted and set apart in partition to such purchaser, his
heirs or assigns, or in such other manner as shall make such deed effectual
as a conveyance of the whole title to such segregated parcel, if such tract or
tracts of land can be so allotted or set apart without material injury of the
rights and interests of the other co-tenants who may not have joined in such
conveyance; provided, that in all cases the court shall direct the referees, in
making partition of land, to allot the share of each of the parties owning an
interest in the whole or in any part of the premises sought to be partitioned
and to locate the share of each co-tenant, so as to embrace as far as practicable
the improvements made by such co-tenant upon the property, and the value
of the improvements made by the tenants in common must be excluded from
the valuation in making allotments, and the land must be valued without re­
gard to such improvements, in case the same can be done without material
injury to the rights and interests of the other tenants in common owning such
land. 
Sec. 1300. The referees must make a report of their proceedings, specifying
therein the manner in which they executed their trust, and describing the
property divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular de-
scription of each share. · 
Sec. 1361. The court may confirm, change, modify or set aside the report,
and if necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, Judg­
ment must be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judg­
ment is binding and conclusive: 
I. On all persons named as parties to the action, and their legal representa­
tives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part
thereof, as owners in fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or any part thereof,
after the determination of a particular estate therein, and who by any contin­
gency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an
interest in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or for life. 
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown, to
whom notice has been given of the action for partition by publication. 
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either of
them.· 
And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the death of any party be­
fore final judgment or decree; but such judgment or decree is as conclusive
against the heirs, legal representatives or assigns of such decedent, as if it had
been entered before his death. 
Sec. 1362. The judgment does not affect tenants for years less than ten, to
the whole of the property which is the subject of the partition. 
Sec. 1363. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and
his assistants, when employed, must be ascertained and allowed by the court,
and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by the court, in its
discretion, to the referees, must be apportioned among the different parties to
the action, equitably. 
Sec. 1364. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of the
parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on 
the share assigned to such party; but such share must be first charged, with
its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such lien. 
Sec. 1365. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if there
be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the whole property,
such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered to be
sold. 
Sec. 1366. The proceeds of the sale of incumbered property must be applied
under the direction of the court, as follows : 
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action. 
2. To pay the costs of the reference.
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of priority, 
by payment of the sums due and to become due; the amount due to be veri­
fied by affidavit at the time of payment. 
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to their
respective shares therein. 
Sec. 1367. Whenever any party to an action, who holds a lien upon the
property or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the amount 
of such lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such securities to be ex­
hausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just 
deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the property on account
thereof. 
Sec. 1368. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the referees, or
any part thereof, must be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto 
whenever the court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all of such
proceeds and securities must be paid into the court, or deposited therein, or as
directed by the court. 
Sec. 1369. When the proceeds of the sale of any share or parcel belonging
to persons who arc parties to the action and who are known, are paid into the
court, the action may continue as between such parties for the determination
of their respective claims thereto, which must be ascertained and adjudged by
the court. Further testimony may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the
discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to
present the facts or law in controversy by pleadings, as in an original action. 
Sec. 1370. All sales of real property, made by referees under this Chapter,
must be made at public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice published
in the manner required for the sale of real property on execution. The notice
must state the terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it is to be sold
subject to a prior estate, charge or lien, that must be stated in the notice. 
Sec. 1371. The court must, in the order of sale, direct the terms of credit
which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion oi the premises
of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the pur­
chase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be in­
vested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the State. 
Sec. 1372. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities
for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase money, of such parts of
the property as are directed by the court to be sold on credit, for the shares
of any known owner of full age in the name of such owner ; and for the shares
of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant ; and for the other
shares, in the name of the clerk of the court of the county and his successors in
office. 
Sec. 1373. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years, or who has a
right or inchoate right of dower, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to re­
ceive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate,
and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an
instrument in writing, filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of
such consent, the clerk must enter the same in the minutes of the court. 
Sec. 1374. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as provided in 
the last Section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the court must
ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on
account of such estate, and must order the same to be paid to such party, or
deposited in court for him or her as the case may require. 
Sec. 1375. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be unknown,
the court must provide for the protection of their rights, in the same manner,
as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared. 
Sec. 1376. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent or future right or estate in any of the property sold, the
court must ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent
or vested right or estate, and must direct such proportion of the proceeds of
the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in such manner as to protect the
rights and interests of the parties. 
Sec. 1377. In all cases of sales of property the terms must be made known
at the time, and if the premises consist of distinct farms and lots, they must
be sold separately. 
Sec. 1378. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of either
of them, can be interested in any purchase ; nor can a guardian of an infant 
party be interested in the purchase of any real property being the subject of
the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the pro­
visions of this Section are void. 
Sec. 1379. After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to be sold, the referee must report the same to the court, with a
description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser; the price
paid or secured; the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities, if any,
taken. The report must be filed in the office of the clerk of _the court and a
certified copy thereof in the office of the county clerk of the county where the
property is situated. 
Sec. 1380. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order must be entered,
directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to
such sale, which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give
directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale. 
Sec. 1381. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an incumbran­
cer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees
may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him. 
Sec. 1382. The conveyance must be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the
property in any way who shall have been named as parties in the action, and
against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons was
served by publication, and against all persons claiming under them, or either of
them, and against all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at the com­
mencement of the action. 
Sec. 1383. Where there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal representative
within it, the same must be invested in bonds of this State or the United
States, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto. 
Sec. 1384. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an
investment of any such proceeds is made, it must be done, except as herein
otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the court where the papers arc
filed, and his successors in office, who must hold the same for the use and
benefit of the persons interested, subject to the order of the court. 
Sec. 1385. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their hands,
delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they
are respectively entitled; or when shares and proportions have been previously
adjudged by the court, such securities must be taken in the names of, and pay- 
able to, the parties respectively entitled thereto, and must be delivered to
such parties upon their receipt therefor. Such agreement and receipt must be
returned and filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 1386. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an in­
vestment is made, and his successors in office, must receive the interest and
principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the court may
direct ; and must deposit with the county treasurer all securities taken, and
keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the clerk's
office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and moneys received
by him thereon, and the disposition thereof. 
Sec. 1387. When it appears that a partition cannot be made equal between
the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights
and interests of some of them, and a partition be ordered, the court may
adjudge compensation to be made by one party to another, on account of the
inequality ; but such compensation shall not be required to be made to others
by owners unknown, nor by an infant, unless it appears that such infant has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be pro­
moted thereby. And in all cases, the court has power to make compensatory
adjustment between the respective parties, according to the ordinary princi­
ples of equity. 
Sec. 1388. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referee making the sale, to his general guardian, or the
special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving the security
required by law or directed by order of the court. 
Sec. 1389. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and manage­
ment of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of
conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property has been sold, may
receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of such real prop­
erty from the referees, on executing, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking
approved by a judge of the court, that he wiJl faithfully discharge the trust
imposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled, 
or to his legal representative.
Sec. 1390. The general guardian of an infant, and. the guardian entitled to 
the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person
adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real
estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as to author­
ize his being made a party to an action, and agree upon the share to be set off to
such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a release, in his behalf,
to the owners of the shares, of the parts to which they may be respectively
entitled, upon an order of the court. 
Sec. 1391. Where a party has an existing right of dower in the entire prop­
erty directed to be sold, at the time when a judgment of partition is rendered,
the court must consider and determine whether the interests of all the parties
require that the right of dower should be excepted from the sale, or that it
should be sold. 
Sec. 1392. If a sale of the property, including the right of dower, is direct­
ed, the interest of the party entitled to the right of dower shall pass thereby ;
and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property free and dis­
charged from any claim by virtue of that right. In that case the dowress is
entitled to receive from the proceeds of the sale of the whole property a gross
sum in satisfaction of her right of dower, or to have one-third of those proceeds
paid into court for the purpose of being invested for her benefit. 
Sec. 1393. A married woman may release to her husband or a purchaser
her inchoate right .of dower in the property directed to be sold by a written
instrument, duly acknowledged by her and certified as required by law with
respect to the acknowledgment of a grant by a married woman. 
Sec. 1394. The costs of partition, including reasonable counsel fees 
expended by the plaintiff or either of the defendants for the common benefit,
fees of referees or other disbursements, must by paid by the parties respec­
tively entitled to share in the lands divided in proportion to their respective
interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be en­
forced, by execution, against such shares and against other property held by
the respective parties. When, however, litigation arises between some of the
parties only, the court may require the expense of such litigation to be paid
by the parties thereto, or any of them. 
Sec. 1395. The court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a single
referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the provisions of 
. this Chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed, has all the powers
and may perform all the duties required of the three referees. 
Sec. 1396. If it appear that other actions or proceedings have been neces­
sarily prosecuted or defended by any one of the tenants in common for the
protection, confirmation, or perfecting of the title, or setting the boundaries, or
making a survey or surveys of the estate partitioned, the court shall allow to
the parties to the action who have paid the expense of such litigation or other
proceedings, all the expenses necessarily incurred therein, except counsel fees,
which shall have accrued to the common benefit of the other tenants in com ..
mon, with interest thereon from the date of making the said expenditures, and the
same must be pleaded and allowed by the court and included in the final judg­
ment, and shall be a lien upon the share of each tenant, respectively, in pro­
portion to his interest, and shall be enforced in the same manner as taxable
costs of partiiton are taxed and collected. · 
Sec. 1397. If it appears to the court that it was necessary to have made an
abstract of the title to the property to be partitioned, and such abstract shall
have been procured by the plaintiff, or if the plaintiff shall have failed to have
the same made before the commencement of the action, and any one of the
defendants shall have had such abstract afterward made, the cost of the abstract
with interest thereon from the time the same is subject to the inspection of
the respective parties to the action, must be allowed and taxed. When­
ever such abstract is procured by the plaintiff before the commencement
of the action he must file with 'his complaint a notice that an abstract
of the title has been made, and is subject to the inspection and use of
all the parties to the action, designating therein where the abstract will
be kept for inspection. But if the plaintiff shall have failed to procure
such abstract before commencing the action, and any defendant shall procure
the same to be made, he shall, as soon as ht: has directed it to be made file
a notice thereof in the action with the clerk of the court, stating who is making
the same and where it will be kept when finished. The court or judge thereof
may direct, from time to time during the progress of the action, who shall
have the custody of the abstract. 
Sec. 1398. The abstract mentioned in the last preceding Section may be
made by any competent searcher of records, and need not be certified oy the
county clerk or other officer, but instead thereof it must be verified by the
affidavit of the person making it to the effect that he believes it to be correct ;
but the same may be corrected, from time to time if fou-id incorrect, ender
the direction of the court. 
Sec. 1399. Whenever, during the progress of the action for partition, any
disbursements shall have been made under the direction of the court or the
judge thereof by a party thereto, interest must by allowed thereon from the
time of making such disbursements. 
CHAPTER V. 
QUO WARRANTO.
Section 1,.10. Wl,r11 _!rourdi11gs may he i11slil11led. 
Sectio« 1411. Wi,• agai11st a cor/orat,"o•.
14u. Wio 111av ,0111111,•u tie actioe, 
1.413. U/011 iv.iost' reiatio»,
1414. IJ'it'• /rit•att' /t'rsn •ay co111•e•ce actioe, 
1415. JJ'jat ,0111/lai•t lo co•lai•.
1416. Wjo 111ad, d,fe11da11ts.
1,.17. Wj,re action l,ro•gjt, 
1418. A/pliratio• lo file co111/lai•I, etc.
1419- s ... ,,,o•s.
14lo. Service 1,y J•blicatio•.
1421. Plt'adi11gs. 
l4ll, 7•dg .. ,.,.
1413. 7•dg111e•t agai•sl directors of corjoralin. 
142+ Wje11 co•rl •ay order •eu, elt'ctin.
1415. Ri'gjts of /•rso• adj•dgt'd to l,e ulilled lo o#u. 
1426. Actio« for da111ages.
1427. ~•dg•t'11t, joiv enforced,
14l8. JVj,,, cor/oralio• ias forf,ited its rigits 
l4lCJ, A//oi•l•e•t of tresters, etc.
1430. Powers a•d d•li'u of trnsters, 
1431. How trustee» /laud' i• /ossessio11.
143l. A ttadmt'•'t for costs, 
1433. Actio•s iaT.lt' /reudt'•u.
143+ Actio•s ;,, S•;re•e Caert, 
1435. Effect of a//eal. 
Sec. 1410. A civil action may be brought in the name of the State: 
1. Against a person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or ex­
ercises a public office, civil or military, or a franchise, within this State, or an
office in a corporation created by the authority of this State. 
2. Against a public officer, civil or military, who does or suffers an act
which, by the provisions of law, works a forfeiture of his office. 
3. Against an association of persons who act as a corporation within this
State without being legally incorporated. 
Sec. 1411. A like action may be brought against a corporation:
1. When it has off ended against a provision of an act for its creation, or 
renewal, or any act altering or amending such acts. 
2. When it has forfeited its privileges and franchises by nonuser.
3. When it has committed or omitted an act which amounts to a surrender 
of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises.
4. When it has misused a franchise or privilege conferred upon it by law, 
or exercised a franchise or privilege not so conferred.
Sec. 1412. The Attorney General, when directed by the Governor, shall 
commence any such action; and when, upon complaint or otherwise, he has
good reason to believe that any case specified in the preceding Section can be
established by proof, he shall commence an action. 
Sec. 1413. Such officer may, upon his own relation, bring any such action,
or he may, on leave of the court.or a judge thereof in vacation, bring the action
upon the relation of another person ; and if the action be brought under the
first Subdivision of Section 1410, he may require security for costs, to be given
as in other cases. 
Sec. 1414. A person chiming to be entitled to a public office unlawfully
held and exercised by another, by himself or by an attorney and counselor at 
law, may bring an action therefor in the name of the State, as provided in this Chapter. On filing the complaint, such person shall enter into an undertaking
with two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the judge or any judge of the
court in which the action is brought, conditioned that such persons will pay
any judgment for costs or damages recovered against him, and all costs and
expenses incurred in the prosecution of the action, which undertaking shall be
filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 1415. When the action is against a person for usurping an office, the
complaint shall set forth the name of the person who claims to be entitled
thereto, with an averment of his right thereto, and judgment may be rendered 
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the person so
averred to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice
requires. 
Sec. 1416. All persons who claim to be entitled to the same office or fran­
chise may be made defendants in the same action to try their respective rights
to such office or franchise. 
Sec. 1417. An action under this Chapter can be brought in the Supreme
Court of the State, or in the District Court of the county in which the defend­
ant, or one of the defendants, resides or is found, or, when the defendant is a
corporation, in the county in which it is situate, or has a place of business. 
Sec. 1418. Upon application for leave to file a complaint, the court or judge
may direct notice thereof to be given to the defendant previous to granting
such leave and may hear the defendant in opposition thereto, and if leave be
granted, an entry thereof shall be made on the minutes of the court, or the fact
shall be indorsed by the judge on the complaint, which shall then be filed. 
Sec. 1419. When the complaint is filed without leave and notice, a sum­
mons shall issue, and be served as in other cases. 
Sec. 1420. When a summons is returned not served because the defendant,
or its officers or office, cannot be found within the county, the clerk shall
publish the summons as in other cases. 
Sec. 1421. The pleadings shall be as in other cases.
Sec. 1422. When a defendant is found guilty of usurping, intruding into, or 
unlawfully holding or exercising, an office, franchise, or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be ousted and altogether excluded
therefrom, and that the relator recover his costs. 
Sec. 1423. When the action is against a director of a corporation, and the
court finds that, at his election, either illegal votes were received, or legal
votes were rejected, or both, sufficient to change the result, judgment may be
rendered that the defendant be ousted, and of induction in favor of the person
who was entitled to be declared elected at such election. 
Sec. 1424. In a case named in the last Section the court may order a new
election to be held, at a time and place, and by judges, appointed by the
court, notice of which election, and naming the judges, shall be given for the
time and in the manner provided by law for notice of elections of directors of
such corporation: the order of the court shall become obligatory upon the
corporation and its officers when a duly certified copy thereof is served upon
its secretary personally, or left at its principal office: and the court may en­
force its order by attachment, or in any other manner it deems necessary. 
Sec. 1425. If judgment be rendered in favor of the person averred to be
entitled to an office, he may, after taking the oath of office, and executing any
official bond required by law, take upon him the execution of the office; and
he shall immediately thereafter demand of the defendant all the books and
papers in his custody or within his power appertaining to the office from which
he has been ousted. 
Sec. 1426. Such person may, at any time within one year after the date of
such judgment, bring an action against the party ousted, and recover the
damages he sustained by reason of such usurpation. 
Sec. 1427. If such defendant refuse or neglect to deliver over any such
book or paper pursuant to such demand, he shall be deemed guilty of a con­
tempt of court, and shall be fined in any sum not exceeding ten thousand
dollars, and imprisoned in the jail of the county until he complies with the
order of the court, or is otherwise discharged by due course of law. 
Sec. 1428. When in any such action, it is found and adjudged that a cor­
poration has, by an act done or omitted, surrendered or forfeited its corporate
rights, privileges, or franchises, or has not used the same during a term of five
years, judgment shall be entered that it be ousted and excluded therefrom, and
that it be dissolved; and when it is found and adjudged that a corporation has 
off ended in any matter or manner which does not work such surrender or for­
feiture, or has misused a franchise, or exercised a power not conferred by law,
judgment shall be entered that it be ousted from the continuance of such
offense, or the exercise of such power. 
Sec. 1429. The court rendering a judgment dissolving a corporation shall
appoint trustees of the creditors and stockholders of the corporation, who,
after giving an undertaking, payable to the State, in such sum and with such
sureties as the court may designate and approve, conditioned that they will
faithfully discharge their trust, and properly pay and apply all money that may
come into their hands, shall have power to settle the affairs of the corporation, 
collect and pay outstanding debts, and divide among the stockholders the
money and other property which remain after the payment of debts and neces­
sary expenses. 
Sec. 1430. The trustees shall forthwith demand all money, property, books,
deeds, notes, bills, obligations and papers of every description, within the cus­
tody, power or control of the officers of the corporation, or either of them
belonging to the corporation, or in anywise necessary for the settlement of its
affairs, or for the discharge of its debts and liabilities, and they may sue for and
recover the demands and property of the corporation, and shall be jointly and
severally liable to the creditors and stockholders to the extent of its property
and effects which come into their hands. 
Sec. 1431. An officer of such corporation who refuses orncglects to deliver
over any such money, or other things, pursuant to such demand, shall be
deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and shall be fined not exceeding ten
thousand dollars, and imprisoned in the jail of the proper county until he com­
plies with the order of the court, or is otherwise discharged by due course of
law ; and he shall be liable to the trustees for the value of all money, or other
things, so refused or neglected to be surrendered, together with all damages
that have been sustained by the stockholders and creditors of the corporation,
or any of them, in consequence of such neglect or refusal. 
Sec. 1432. If judgment be rendered against a corporation, or against a per­
son claiming to be a corporation, the court may render judgment for costs
against the directors or other officers of the corporation, or against the person
claiming to be a corporation. 
Sec. 1433. Actions under this Chapter in any court shall have precedence
of any civil business pending therein : and the court, if the matter is of public
concern shall, on the motion of the Attorney General, or the attorney of the
party, require as speedy a trial of the merits of the case as may be consistent
with the rights of the parties. ' 
Sec. 1434. Actions under this Chapter, commenced in the Supreme Court,
shall be conducted in the same manner as if commenced in the District Court, 
and the clerk of the Supreme Court shall have the same authority to issue
summons and other process and to enter orders and judgments as the clerk of
the District Court has in like cases. All pleadings and the conduct of the trial
shall be the same as in the District Court. If a jury is required to determine
an issue of fact, a jury shall be drawn and selected from the jury boxes of the
county in which the seat of government is located, and the clerk of the District
Court of said county must place such jury boxes in the custody of the clerk of
the Supreme Court for that purpose. 
Sec. 1435. If the action is commenced in the District Court, an appeal may
be taken from the judgment by either party to the Supreme Court as in other
cases, but if there is judgment of ouster against the defendant, there shall be
no stay of execution or proceedings pending such appeal. 
CHAPTER VI. 
ACTIONS AGAINST BOA TS.
Sectio« 1450. For wltat boat» may be attaded. 
Sectio« 1451. Clai•s tliat are lie11s "P"" boats, 
1452. Priority of lie11s. 
1453. Limitatio« of actio11s agai•st boats, 
1454. Wlie• lie11 to attack,
1455. Lia/Jilit_y of rafts; proceedi11g-s same as agai11st boats. 
1456. Proceedi11gs, /;ow commenced. 
1457. Descriptio• of boat,
1458. S•mmo,u, /;ow served, 
145.9. Wlio may serve s11mmo•s. 
146o. Wio •ay aj/ear for defe11da11J, •o co•linNance panted Jlai•ti./". 
1461. Boat •ay he disclargeJ before j11dgme11t, /Jy givi11g ho•d. 
1462. E:cec11tio11 agai11st boat,
1¢3. Wliat otficer may sell to satisfy esecetio«,
146.f. Slatru of /11rcltaser of fractio11a/ i•terest. 
1465. Plai11t,"ff's r,"g,,t to otierwise s,u not aff«ted. 
1466. S•.tficient allegati011 tiat services were rendered boat, 
Sec. 1450. Any boat found within the waters of this State is liable : 
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, clerk, or consignee
thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of such boat, or on
account of work done or materials furnished in building, repairing, fitting out,
furnishing, or. equipping such boat. 
2. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-performance or mal­
performance of any contract of aff reightment, or any contract relative to the
transportation of persons or property, entered into by the master, owner, agent, 
clerk, or consignee thereof.
3. For all injuries to persons or property by such boat, or by the officers or 
crew, done in connection with the business of such boat.
Sec. 1451. Claims growing out of any of the above causes are liens upon 
such boat, its apparel, tackling, furniture and appendages, including barges and
lighters, if owned by the owners of such boat, and used therewith at the time
suit is commenced. 
Sec. 1452. Such liens shall take preference of any claim against the boat
itself, or any or all of its owners, growing out of any other causes than those
above enumerated, and as between themselves they shall be preferred in the
following order: 
1. Those resulting from wages for services on board such boat within the
year then passed ; providing, that such suit is brought within twenty days after
the cessation of such labor. 
2. Those resulting from contracts made within this State.
3. All other causes. 
Sec. 1453. Actions against boats under the provisions of this Chapter shall
not be brought after the lapse of one year from the time the cause of action 
accrued.
Sec. 1454. The lien shall attach from the commencement of the suit, sub­ 
ject only to such other liens as are of a pref erred class.
Sec. 1455. Any raft found in any of the waters of this State shall be liable 
for all debts contracted by the owner, clerk, pilot or agent thereof, on account
of work done or services rendered for such raft. Claims growing out of either
of the above causes shall be a lien upon the raft, its tackling and appendages,
for the term of twenty days from the time the right thereof accrued, and the
same rules shall govern, and the same process shall be had, that are prescribed
for similar liens against boats. 
Sec. 1456. Any person desiring to take the benefit of this Chapter shall file
with the clerk of any court, or justice of the peace, having jurisdiction, a com­
plaint in writing, duly verified by the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, which
complaint shall show that the plaintiff is entitled to the benefit of this Chap­
ter; whereupon such clerk, or justice of the peace, shall issue a writ of attach­
ment to the proper officer, commanding him to seize the boat, its tackling,
apparel, furniture, and appendages, and retain the same until released by due
course of law. 
Sec. 1457. The complaint shall describe the boat by name as defendant, but
if it have no name, then by such description as will enable the officer attaching
to seize the proper property. 
Sec. 1458. The usual summons shall be' issued, directed to the boat by
name, or to the property to be attached, if no name appear, and be served upon
the master, owner, clerk, agent or consignee thereof, and if none of them can
be found, by posting up a copy in some conspicuous part of the boat, or prop­
erty to be attached. The writ shall be served according to the directions it
contains. 
Sec. 1459. Any sheriff, constable, or city marshal, may serve the writ and
summons above mentioned, whether the same issue from the office of the clerk, 
or from a justice of the peace, and any clerk or justice may, in his discretion,
appoint any suitable person to serve such summons and writ, who shall have all
the power of a sheriff in the premises. 
Sec. 1460. Any master, agent, clerk, consignee, or other person interested in
the boat, may appear by himself, his agent or attorney, for the defendant, and
conduct the defense of the suit, and no continuance shall be granted to the
plaintiff while the boat is in custody. 
Sec. 1461. The boat may be discharged at any time before final judgment
by giving bonds with at least two sureties, to be approved by the officer serv­
ing the writ, or by the clerk or justice who issued it, in a penalty double the
plaintiff's demand and costs, conditioned that the obligors will pay the amount
found due to the plaintiff with costs. 
Sec. 1462. If judgment be rendered against the boat before it is discharged,
as provided in the last Section, execution shall be issued against it, together
with its apparel, tackling, furniture, and appendages. 
Sec. 1463. The officer may sell any of the furniture and appendages of the boat,
if by doing so he can satisfy the demand ; if he sell the boat itself he must sell
it to the bidder who will advance the amount necessary to satisfy the execution
for the lowest fractional share of the boat, unless the person appearing for the
boat require a different and equally convenient mode of sale. 
Sec. 1464. If the fractional share of the boat be thus sold, the purchaser
shall hold such share of interest jointly with the owners. 
Sec. 1465. Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of a plaintiff to
sue in the same manner as in other cases, notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter. 
Sec. 1466. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to allege in his complaint
or affidavit that the services were rendered or material was furnished the boat
by its name. 
CHAPTER I. 
II. 
Ill.
IV. 
v. 
VI.
VII. 
VIII.
IX . 
... Y.
XI. 
XII. 
TITLE XI. 
PROCEEDINGS IN JUSTICES' COURTS.
Place of trial of actions i# justfres' courts. 
Manner of commencing actions i,. justices' courts,
Plradi11gs in justices' courts.
Provisional remedies i" justices' courts.
7udgment by default in justices' courts.
Time of trial and postponement., in ;us/ices courts.
Trials in justices' courts.
7udgments (otker //,an by default) in justices' courts.
Executio11s from j11stices' courts,
Contempts in justices' courts.
Dockets ofju.,tices.
General Jrovisions relating to justices' courts. 
CHAPTER I. 
PLACE OF TRIAL OF ACTIONS IN JUSTICES' COURTS.
Section 148o. Actions, ;,, wltat town.ski/ or city may be commenced. 
1481. Place of trial may be cltanged in certain cases. 
Section 1,t82. Li111ilalio11 011 lie rigit lo da11ge. 
1,t83. To wl,a/ coert transferred.
1484. Proceedi11g., after order {l,a11gi11g place °{ lrt'al. 
1,t85. Effect of a• order dangi11g place of lria .
1486. Tra11sfer of cases lo District Coert, 
Sec. 1480. Actions in justices' courts must be commenced, and, subject to
the right to change the place of trial, as in this Chapter provided, must be
tried: 
1. If there be no justice's court for the township, town or city, in which the
defendant resides, or there is no organized township where the defendant
resides-in any city, town or township of the county. 
2. When two or more persons are jointly. or jointly and severally, bound in
any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same action, and reside
in different townships or different towns or cities of the same county, or in dif­
ferent counties-in the township, town or city in which any of the persons
liable may reside. 
3. In cases of injury to the person or property-in the township, town or
city where the injury was committed, or where the defendant resides. 
4- If for the recovery of personal property, or the value thereof, or damages
for taking or detaining the same-in the township, town or city in which the
property may be found, or in which the property was taken, or in which the
defendant resides. 
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county-in any township,
town or city where he may be found. 
6. When the defendant is a non-resident of the State-in any township,
town or city in the State. 
7. When a person has contracted to perform an obligation at a particular
place, and resides in another county, or township, town or city-in the town­
ship, town or city in which such obligation is to be performed, or in which he
resides; and the township, town or city in which the obligation is incurred
shall be deemed to be the township, town or city in which it is to be performed,
unless there is a special contract to the contrary. 
8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead without summons-in
any township, town or city in the State. 
9. In all other cases, in the township, town or city in which the defendant
resides. · 
Sec. 1481. The court may, at any time before trial, on motion, change the
place of trial in the following cases : 
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the justice before whom the action
is pending, by affidavit of either party, that such justice is a material witness
for either party. 
2. When either party makes and files an affidavit that he cannot have a fair
and impartial trial before such justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice, or
bias of the justice. 
3. When a jury has been demanded, and either party makes and files an 
affidavit that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias 
or prejudice of the citizens of the township, town or city against him
4- When, from any cause, the justice is disqualified from acting.
5. When the justice is sick or unable to act.
Sec. 1482. The place of trial cannot be changed, on motion of the same 
party, more than once, upon any or all the grounds specified in the first, second
and third Subdivisions of the preceding Section. The affidavit mentioned in
the said Subdivisions must state the facts. 
Sec. 1483. When the court orders the place of trial to be changed, the ac­ 
tion must be transferred for trial to a court the parties may agree upon; and if
they do not so agree, then to another justice's court in the same county. 
Sec. 1484. After an order has been made, transferring the action for trial to 
another court, the following proceedings must be had : 
1. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately transmit to the jus­
tice of the court to which it is transferred, on payment by the party applying
of all the costs that have accrued, all the papers in the action, together with a
certified transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein. 
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the justice of the court to which
the case is transferred must issue a notice, stating when and where the trial
will take place, which notice must be served upon the parties at least a day be­
fore the time fixed for trial. If no answer or demurrer has been made by the
defendant he must be allowed to plead. 
Sec. 1485. From the time the order changing the place of trial is made, the
court to which the action is thereby transferred has the same jurisdiction over
it as though it had been commenced in such court. 
Sec. 1486. The parties to an action in a justice's court cannot give evidence
upon any question which involves the title or possession of real property, or
the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, nor can any
issue presenting such question be tried by such court ; and, if it appear, from
the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, that the determination of the
action will necessarily involve the question of title or possession to real prop­
erty, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, the
justice must suspend all further proceedings in the action and certify the plead­
ings, and. if any of the pleadings are oral, a transcript of the same, from his
docket to the clerk of the District Court of the county; and from the time of
filing such pleadings or transcript with the clerk, the District Court shall have
over the action the same jurisdiction as if it had been commenced therein ;
provided, that in cases of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, of which jus­
tices' courts have jurisdiction, any evidence, otherwise competent, may be
given, and any question properly involved therein may be determined. When
the action is certified to the District Court, upon the answer of the defendant,
he must file an undertaking, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that
he will pay all costs that may be awarded against him on the· trial in the Dis­
trict Court. 
CHAPTER II
MANNER OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
Sectio« 1500. Actions, Aow rommn,ced.
1501. SHmmon.c #la'Y issue wit/,it1 a year.
150:z. Defet1da11t .iay wait•e s11mmoi.s.
1503. Parties may a//ear ;,, person or h_v attorney,
15o+ Wket1 l{'Uardian necessary, kow a/jointed.
1505. S11mmon.r, l,ow issued, directed, and wl,at to coetai«, 
15o6. Time for a//earance of defe11dant.
1507. Alias s11mmons.
1508. Same. 
150<), S11mmo1u, limitation ujot1 time of ser trice,
1510. S11mmons, hy w/,om a11d /,ow served and returned, 
1511. Ho11r for appearance. 
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. 1500. An action in a justice's court is commenced by filing a copy of
the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action is brought,
with a statement of the amount due thereon, or a concise statement in writing
of the cause of action, either of which is deemed a complaint. 
Sec. 1501. The court must indorse on the complaint the date upon which
it was filed, and at any time within one year thereafter the plaintiff may have
summons issued. 
Sec. 1502. At any time after the complaint is filed, the defendant may, in
writing, or by appearing and pleading, waive the issuing of summons. 
Sec. 1503. Parties in justice's court may appear and act in person or by
attorney ; and any person, except the constable by whom the summons or jury
process was served, may act as attorney. 
Sec. 1504. When an infant, insane or incompetent person is a party, he 
must appear either by his general guardian, if he have one, or by a guardian 
ad /item appointed by the justice. When a guardian ad littm is appointed by
the justice, he must be appointed as follows: 
1. If the infant, insane, or incompetent person be plaintiff, the appointment
must be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the in­
fant, if he be of the age of fourteen years : if under that age, or if insane or
incompetent, upon the application of a relative or friend. 
2. If the infant, insane, or incompetent person be defendant, the appoint­
ment must be made at the time the summons is returned, or before the answer,
upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
apply at or before the summons is returned. If he be under the age of four­
teen years, or be insane or incompetent, or neglect so to apply, then upon the
application of a relative· or friend, or any other party to the action, or by the
justice, on his own motion. 
Sec. 1505. The summons must be directed to the defendant and signed by
the justice, and must contain: 
1. The title of the court, the name of the county and city or township in
which the action is commenced, and the names of the parties thereto. 
2. A sufficient statement of the cause of action, in general terms, to apprise
the defendant of the nature of the claim against him. 
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer before the justice, at
his office, as specified in the next Section. And that if he fail to appear and
answer, judgment will be taken against him according to the complaint. 
Sec. 1506. The time specified in the summons for the appearance of the
defendant must be as follows: 
1. If an order of arrest be indorsed upon the summons, forthwith. 
2. In all other cases it shall be returnable in not less than four nor more
than ten days from its date, and shall be served at least four days before the
time for appearance. 
Sec. 1507. If the summons is returned without being served upon any or
all of the defendants, the justice, upon the demand of the plaintiff, may issue
an alias summons in the same form as the original, except that he may fix the
time for the appearance of the defendant at a period not exceeding ninety days
from its date. 
Sec. 1508. The justice may, within a year from the date of filing the com­
plaint, issue as many alias summons as may be demanded by the plaintiff. 
Sec. 1509. The summons cannot be served out of the county of the justice
before whom the action is brought, except when the action is brought upon a
joint contract or obligation of two or more persons, who reside in different
counties, and the summons has been served upon the defendant, resident of the
county, in which case the summons may be served upon the other defendant
out of the county : and except, also, when an action is brought against a party
who has contracted to perform an obligation at a particular place, and resides
in a different county, in which case summons may be served in the county
where he resides; and except, also, where an action is brought for an injury to
persons or property, and the defendant resides in a different county, in which
case summons may be served in the county where defendant resides. 
Sec. 1510. The summons may be served by a sheriff or constable of any
of the counties of this State; provided, that when a summons, issued by a
justice of the peace, is to be served out of the county in which it was issued,
the summons shall have attached to it a certificate under seal by the county
clerk of such county, to the effect that the person issuing the same was an act­
ing justice of the peace at the date of the summons; or the summons may be
served by any male resident, over the age of twenty one years, not a party to
the suit, within the county where the action is brought, and must be served
and returned as provided in Title V., Part II., of this Code (Sections 63CH>33),
or it may be served by publication, and Sections 639-640, so far as they relate 
to publication of summons, are made applicable to justices' courts; the word
"justice" being substituted for the word "judge," whenever the latter word
occurs. 
Sec. 1511. When all parties served with process shall have appeared, or
some of them have appeared, and the remaining defendants have made default, 
the justice must fix a day for the trial of said cause, and notify the plaintiffs
and the defendants who have appeared, thereof. The parties are entitled to
one hour in which to appear after the time fixed in said notice, but are not
bound to remain longer than that time, unless both parties have appeared, and
the justice, being present, is engaged in the trial of another cause. 
CHAPTER III. 
PLEADINGS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
Sectio• 15:zo. For• of Jleadi11gs. 
15ll. Pleadi"K' ,·,, j11.J/ices• caerts, 
15:z:z. Co111/lai11I deji11rd. 
15~3. Wke" de11111rrer lo co111J/ai"I •ay he /111 ;,,.
1514. A11siver. 
15:25. lf ll1e defe11da11t o•its lo set 11/ co1111lerdai•. 
1526. Wke11 a11swrr co11lai11s 11ew •alter. 
15:27. Proceedi11g-5 011 de11111rrer. 
15l8. New 111aller deeMed de,,ied. 
15:29- A111e11d111e#I of Jleadi".~s. 
1530. A#swer or de11111rrer lo aNte#ded /leadi11gs. 
1531. Co/y of acco11"t or i#slr11n,e11t to he filed. 
153:z. Co/y deemed ge1111i11e if #OI de11ied. 
1533. Variatece. 
Sec. 1520. Pleadings in justices' courts. 
1. Are not required to be in any particular form, but must be such as to
enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. 
2. May, except the complaint, be oral or in writing.
3. Must not be verified unless otherwise provided in this Title. 
4- If in writing, must be filed with the justice.
5. If oral, an entry of their substance must be made in the docket.
6. In cases of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, pleadings must be verified.
Sec. 1521. The pleadings are: 
1. The complaint by the plaintiff. 
2. The demurrer to the complaint.
3. The answer by the defendant.
4- The demurrer to the answer.
Sec. 1522. The complaint in justices' courts is a concise statement, in writ­ 
ing, of the facts constituting the plaintiff's cause of action; or a copy of the
account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action is based. 
Sec. 1523. The defendant may, at any time before answering, demur to the
complaint, upon the grounds mentioned in Section 68o, of this Code, except
the ground mentioned in Subdivision 5. 
Sec. 1524. The answer may contain a general denial of any or all the
material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue,
and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner, or any other facts contain­
ing a defense or counterclaim, upon which an action might be brought by the
defendant against the plaintiff in a justice's court. He may file a copy of an
account, note, bill, bond or other instrument as a counterclaim. 
Sec. 1525. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the cases men­
tioned in the last Section, neither he nor his assignee can afterward maintain
an action against the plaintiff therefor. If the counterclaim exceeds three
hundred dollars he need not set it up. 
Sec. 1526. When the answer contains new matter in avoidance, constituting
a defense or counterclaim, the plaintiff may, at any time before the trial, demur
to the same for insufficiency, stating therein the grounds of such demurrer, 
which may be the same as mentioned in Section 711, of this Code, except the
first Subdivision thereof. 
Sec. 1527. The proceedings on demurrer are as follows. 
1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the plaintiff may, within
such time, not exceeding two days, as the court allows, amend his complaint. 
2. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, the defendant may answer
forthwith . 
.3'· If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the defendant may amend his
answer within such time, not exceeding two days, as the court may allow. 
4. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled, the action must proceed as if
no demurrer had been interposed. 
Sec. 1528. The new matter contained in the answer or counterclaim is
deemed denied by the plaintiff. 
Sec. 1529. Either party may, at any time before the conclusion of the trial,
amend any pleading, but if the amendment is made after the issue, and it ap­
pears to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is neces­
sary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment
must be granted. The court may also, in its discretion, when an adjournment
will by the amendment be rendered necessary, require, as a condition to the
allowance of such amendment, made after issue joined, the payment of costs to
the adverse party, to be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars.
The court may also, on such terms as may be just, and on the payment of
costs, relieve a party from any judgment taken against him by mistake, inad­
vertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, but the application for such relief must
be made within ten days after the entry of the judgment and upon an affidavit
showing good cause therefor. 
Sec. 1530. When a pleading is amended, the adverse party may answer or
demur to it within such time, not exceeding two days, as the court may
allow. 
Sec. 1531. When the cause of action or the defense or counterclaim, arises
upon an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be 
sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account or instrument, to the
party demanding it, and to state that there is due to him thereon from the ad­
verse party a specified sum, but the court may, at any time, require the origi­
nal account or instrument to be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse
party, and a copy to be furnished; or if it be not so exhibited, and a copy
furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence, unless it appear
that such instrument is not in the possession of the party pleading it, or under
his control. The court may at any time require either party to furnish to the
other, the items of an account or a bill of particulars. 
Sec. 1532. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint, or file with the justice at
the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the promissory note, bill of ex­
change, other obligation for the payment of money, or other instrument upon
which the action is brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genu­
ineness of all the signatures thereto, unless he specifically deny the same in
his answer under oath. In case of a counterclaim the same rule applies to the
plaintiff. 
Sec. 1533. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations in
pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied that
the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby. 

Article I. Arrest a"d hail.
I I. Attarltme11t. 
CHAPTER IV. 
J J /. Clai"' a11d Delirery of Personal Property. 
ARTICLE I. 
ARREST AND BAIL
Sectio• 1540. Order of arrest a11d arrest of defe11d•11t. 
1541. Ajfi_davit a11d 1111dertalti11g for order of arrest.
1541. A defe11da11t arrested •uut he talt,11 befor« ti,, j,ut,"u i••ediately.
1543. Tl,e officer ••st ;rfoe 11otice lo t/,e /lai11tiff of arrest.
1544. Tl,e o.ffi_cer ••st detai11 tlte defe11da11t.
15-45. D,fe11da11t 's a11s-u•er.
15-46. Prooisioe» 11//licahle. 
Sec. 1540. An order to arrest the defendant may be indorsed on a sum­
mons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested thereon by the
sheriff or constable, at the time of serving the summons, and brought before
the justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in the cases mentioned
in Section 8o1, of this Code. 
Sec. 1541. Before an order of arrest can be made, the party applying must
prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself or some 
other person, the facts upon which the application is founded. The plaintiff
must also execute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking in the sum
of three hundred dollars, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff 
will pay all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or
without sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. 
Sec. 1542. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, must be taken
to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he is absent or unable to
try the action, or if it appears to him by the affidavit of defendant, that
he is a material witness in the action, the officer must immediately take the
defendant before another justice of the town, township or city, if there is
another, and if not, then before a justice of an adjoining township, who must
take jurisdiction of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the summons had
been issued and the order of arrest made by him. 
Sec. 1543. The officer making the arrest must immediately give notice
thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorney or agent, and indorse on the summons 
and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same, the time of
arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintiff. 
Sec. 1544. The officer making the arrest must keep the defendant in cus­
tody until he is discharged by order of the justice. The officer shall not be
bound to keep such person under arrest more than twenty-four hours, unless
the plaintiff advance each day the expenses of keeping such person, which ex­
pense shall be taxed as costs in the action, and in no case shall be a charge
against the county. 
Sec. 1545. The defendant may file an answer, under oath, putting in issue
the facts stated in the affidavit for the order of arrest, which may be tried by
the court unless a jury is demanded, and the plaintiff shall be held to establish
such facts, and if he fail to do so, the order of arrest shall be dismissed, and
the defendant may proceed upon the undertaking of the plaintiff for his dam­
ages occasioned by the arrest. The defendant may apply to the court to be
discharged from arrest, upon the ground of the insufficiency of the papers on
which the order of arrest was granted. 
Sec. 1546. The provisions of Chapter III., Title Ill., Part III., of this Code,
in relation to the examination and discharge of a defendant imprisoned on
execution in a civil action, shall apply to justices' courts, and justices of the
peace shall have the same powers in their courts as are by said Sections grant­
ed to the judge. 
ARTICLE 11. 
ATTACHMENT.
Section 156o. Writ of attacllme11t ska/I isse« "/011 affeda1.'il. 
1561. U11dertalti11g 011 a11 a/lackme11t m,ut "l,e required, 
Sectio« 156l. Writ of atlacl,,,,ent, s116sta11ce of. OJ!icer may take a11 u11dertalti11g i11slt'ad
of levyi11g. 
1563. Cerlai11 jrovisio,u ajply to all altacl,n,e11ls ;,, justicu' courts. 
Sec. 1560. A writ to attach the property of the defendant must be issued
by the justice at the time of or after issuing summons and before answer, on
receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintiff, showing the same facts
as are required to be shown by the affidavit specified in Section 8g1, of this
Code. 
Sec. 1561. Before issuing the writ the justice must require a written under­
taking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or more sufficient sureties, in a
sum not less than fifty nor more than three hundred dollars, to the effect that
if the defendant recover judgment the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant and all damages which he may sustain by reason of
the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. 
Sec. 1562. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of the
county, or the sheriff of any other county, and must require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of the defendant in his county, not exempt from
execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's de­
mand, the amount of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant has given him security, by the undertaking of two suffi­
cient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, in
which case to take such undertaking. 
Sec. 1563. The Sections of this Code from Section 894 to Section 924, both
inclusive, are applicable to attachments issued in justices' courts, the word
"constable" being substituted for the word "justice," whenever the writ is di­ 
rected to a constable, and the word "justice" substituted for" judge." 
ARTICLE III. 
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
Sectio11 1570. How claim a•d delivery enforced, 
Sec. 1570. In an action to recover possession of personal property, the
plaintiff may, at the time of issuing summons, or at any time thereafter before
answer, claim the delivery of such property to him ; and the Sections of this
Code, from Section 841 to Section 859, both inclusive, are applicable to such
claim when made in justices' courts, the powers therein given and duties im­
posed on sheriffs being extended to constables, and the word "justice .. sub­
stituted for "judge," and the justice, instead of the plaintiff or his attorney,
may, in his discretion, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, order
the sheriff or constable to take the property mentioned in the affidavit. 
Sec. 1580. If the defendant fails to appear and answer or demur within the
time specified in the summons, or one hour thereafter, then, upon proof of
service of summons the court must hear the evidence offered by the platntiff,
and must render judgment in his favor for such sum (not exceeding the amount
stated in the summons) as appears by such evidence to be just. 
Sec. 1581. In the following cases the same proceedings must be had, and
judgment must be rendered in like manner, as if the defendant had failed to
appear and answer or demur. 
I. If the complaint has been amended and the defendant fails to answer it
as amended within the time allowed by the court. 
2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled and the defendant fails to
answer at once. 
3. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained and the defendant fails to
amend the answer within the time allowed by the court. 
Section « 1590.
1591. 
1591.
1593. 
1594. 
CHAPTER VI. 
TIME OF TRIAL AND POSTPONEMENTS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
Ti1116 w/,e11 trial 11uut ~ co,,,,,,6,,ced.
Wle" court ,,.ay, of its ow11 •otio•, /ostJ011e trial. 
Post/011,,,,e,,/ h_y co11se11t.
Posl/011eme11t 11/011 a/Jlicatio11 of a Jar(v. 
No co11ti,,11a11ce for 111ore tl,a11 te11 day« lo he gra11ted, ••less •/011 fili•K of
11t1dertalti11g. 
Sec. 1590. Unless postponed as provided in this Chapter, or unless trans­
ferred to another court, the trial of the action must commence at the expira­
tion of one hour from the time specified in the notice mentioned in Section 
1511, and the trial must proceed and there must be no adjournment for more
than twenty-four hours at any one time, until all the issues therein are dis­
posed of. 
Sec, 1591. The court may, of its own motion, postpone the trial: 
1. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time fixed by law or by an order
of the court for the trial, the court is engaged in the trial of another action. 
2. For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment of the pleadings, or
the allowance of time to make such amendment or to plead, a postponement
is rendered necessary. 
3. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon issues of fact and a
jury has been demanded. 
Sec. 1592. The court may, by the consent of the parties, given in writing or
in open court, postpone the trial to a time agreed upon by the parties. 
Sec. 1593. The trial may be postponed upon the application of either party
for a period not exceeding four months : 
1. The party making the application must prove, by his own oath or other­
wise, that he cannot for want of material testimony, which he expects to pro­
cure, safely proceed to trial, and must show in what respect the testimony ex­
pected is material, and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has
been unable to do so. 
' 2. If the application is on the part of the plaintiff, and the defendant is un­
der arrest, a postponement for more than three hours discharges the defendant 
from custody; but the action may proceed notwithstanding, and the defendant
is subject to arrest on execution, in the same manner as if he had not been
discharged. 
3. If the application is on the part of a defendant under arrest, before it
can be granted he must execute an undertaking, with two or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by, and in a sum to be fixed by the justice, to the
effect that he will render himself amenable to the process of the court during
the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg­
ment therein ; or that the sureties will pay to the plaintiff the amount of any
judgment which he may recover in the action, not exceeding the amount spec­
ified in the undertaking, On filing the undertaking specified in this Subdivi­
sion, the justice may order the defendant discharged from custody. 
4 The party making the application must, if required by the adverse party,
consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party, who is in at­
tendance, may be then taken by deposition before the justice, and that the
testimony so taken may be read on trial, with the same effect, and subject to
the objections, as if the witness was produced. But the court may require the
party making the application to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which
he expects to obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such 
evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given, on the
trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not be postponed. 
Sec. 1594. No adjournment must, unless by consent, be granted for a
period longer than ten days, upon the application of either party, except upon
condition that such party file an undertaking, in an amount fixed by the
justice, with two sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they
will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment which may be
recovered against the party applying, not exceeding the sum specified in the 
undertaking. 
Section • 16oo.
16o1. 
16o2.
16o3.
16o+ 
16o5. 
16o6. 
1007. 
Sec. 1600. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by the one party, and is controverted by the other. They are of
two kinds: 
1. Of law; and, 
2. Of fact.
Sec. 1601. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or 
answer, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 1602. An issue of fact arises : 
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer ;
and, 
2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of law is joined thereon.
Sec. 1603. An issue of law must be tried by the court.
Sec. 1004. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury is waived, 
in which case it must be tried by the court.
Sec. 1605. A jury may be waived: 
1. By consent of parties entered in the docket. 
2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury before the commencement
of the trial of at1 issue of fact. 
3. By the failure of either party to appear at the time fixed for the trial of
an issue of fact. · 
Sec. 1606. If either party fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the
trial may proceed at the request of the adverse party. 
Sec. 1607. The challenges are either peremptory or for cause. Each party
is entitled to two peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for
cause on any grounds set forth in Section roeo. Challenges for cause must be
tried by the justice. 
Section 11 1620. 
1621.
16n.
1613. 
162,J.
1625. 
1616. 
Iss"e deji11ed, a,id tlte di/fere11t lti•ds.
lss,u of law, how raised.
Iss•e of fact, /,ow raised.
lss"e of law, /;ow tried.
Iss,u off act, /,ow tried.
'J11ry, /;ow waived.
Eitlll'r party faili,ig to appear, trial #lay proceed at req•est of ot/,er Jarty.
C!,alle11ges to j11rors. 
r:fudgment b_v confesssio», 
!
CHAPTER VII. 
TRIALS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
JUDGMENTS (OTHER THAN BY DEFAULT) IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
11dg1ne11t of di.onissal e11tered ;,. certai« cases wit/;011t PreJ'•diu.
11dgme11t •/011 verdict. 
11d_l(1Ne11t after trial by Ike court,
11d,1['me11t wl,e11 Ike defenda11t is .,11bjr.ct to arrest. 
Actions agai11sl joint debtors.
If tlu s•m fo•11d d11e exceeds t/,ej•risdictio11 of t/,e j•sliu, t/,e esces» ''"'·' 
l>e remitted.
r:f 11dgmn,t 11pon counter claim,
Offer to compromise before trial. 
Sectio11 16:29- Cosu 111ay /Je i11c/•ded i11 t/,e i•dgMe11t.
1630. A/Jstract of jlHlg111e11t.
1631. Abstract ,nay /Je Jiled a11d doclteted ;,, district clerlt's o.ffiu.
163i. Effect of doclet111g.
1633. 7•dg,,,nt 1101 a lie• ••lus abstract is recorded ;,, tlu (0•11ty clerlt's o.ffice. 
Sec. 1620. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any justice's
court specified in the confession, as provided in Chapter I., Title 111., Part III.,
of this Code. 
Sec. 1621. Judgment that the action be dismissed, without prejudice to a
new action, may be entered with costs in the following cases: 
1. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action at or before the close
of his evidence when there is no counterclaim. 
2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or at the
time to which the action has been postponed, or within one hour thereafter. 
3. When, after a demurrer to the complaint has been sustained, the plain­
tiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court. 
4. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the
action is brought in the wrong county, or township, town, or city; but if the
objection is taken and overruled, it is cause of reversal on appeal, and does not
otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at the trial, it is waived. 
Sec. 1622. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by
the justice, at once, in conformity with the verdict. 
Sec. 1623. When the trial is by the court, judgment must be entered atthe
close of the trial. 
Sec. 1624. The judgment in an action for claim and delivery in justices'
courts must be entered substantially in the form required by Section 1193, of 
this Code. When the judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is
subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact that the defendant is so
subject, must be stated in the judgment. 
Sec. 1625. If the action be on a contract against two or more defendants,
and the summons be served on one or mote, but not on all, the judgment shall
be entered up only against those who were served, if the contract be a several
or a joint and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract only, the
judgment shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be en­
forced against the joint property of all and the separate property of the def end­
ants served. 
Sec. 1626. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the sum
for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit
the excess, and judgment may be entered for the residue. 
Sec. 1627. Where a counterclaim is established, which equals the plaintiff's
demand, the judgment must be in favor of the defendant. Where it is less
than the plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff must have judgment for the residue
only. Where it exceeds the plaintiff's demand, the defendant must have judg­
ment for the excess. 
Sec. 1628. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer, in writing, to
allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintiff may
immediately have judgment therefor, with the costs then accrued ; but if he do
not accept such off er before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum in
excess of the offer, he cannot recover costs, but costs must be adjudged against
him, and, if he recover, be deducted from his recovery. The offer and failure
to accept cannot be given in evidence nor affect the recovery, otherwise than
as to costs. 
Sec. 1629. The justice must tax and include in the judgment the costs
allowed by law to the prevailing party. 
Sec. 1630. The justice, on the demand of a party in whose favor judgment
is rendered, must give him an abstract of the judgment in substantially the 
following form (filling blanks according to the facts): 
State of Montana, ----county.
---- plaintiff, vs. defendant. 
In justice's court, before , justice of the peace.
township (city or town), , 18- {inserting date of abstract). Judg· 
ment entered for plaintiff (or defendant) for$-, on the - day of-. I certify that the
foregoing is a correct abstract of a judgment rendered in said action in my court, or (u the
case may be) in the court of , justice of the peace, as it appears by his docket now
in my possession, as his successor in office. 
CHAPTER IX. 
EXECUTIONS FROM JUSTICES' COURTS. 
Sectio» 1640. E:uc11tio11 may isse« al a11y time witli11 si» years.
1641. Exec11tio11, co11le11/s of. 
16,fl. Rc11ewt1l of ,-:,uc11tio11.
16,u. D11ty of o"ffecer receit•ing exeretio«,
1644- Proceedings .o,pplemrt1fary lo executio«, 
Sec. 1640. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment of a justice's court
may be issued by the justice who entered the judgment or his successor in
office, on the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within six
years from the entry of judgment. 
Sec. 1641. The execution must be directed to the sheriff or to a constable
of the county, and must be subscribed by the justice and bear date the day of
its delivery to the officer. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stat.
ing the names of the parties, and the name of the justice before whom, and of
the county and the township, town or city where, and the time when, it was 
rendered ; the amount of judgment, if it be for money ; and if less than the
whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must contain, in like cases,
similar directions to the sheriff or constable, as are required by the provisions
of Title IX., Part II., of this Code, in an execution to the sheriff. 
Sec. 1642. An execution may, at the request of the judgment creditor, be
renewed before the expiration of the time fixed for its return, by the word
"renewed" written thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the justice.
Such renewal has the effect of an original issue, and may be repeated as often
as necessary. If an execution is returned unsatisfied, another may be after­
ward issued. 
Sec. 1643. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is directed must
execute the same in the same manner as the sheriff is required by the pro­
visions of Title IX., Part 11., of this Code, to proceed upon executions directed
to him ; and the constable, when the execution is directed to him, is vested for 
that purpose with all the powers of the sheriff. 
----, Justice of the' Peace. 
Sec. 1631. The abstract may be filed in the office of the clerk of the Dis­
trict Court of the county in which the judgment was rendered, and the judg­
ment docketed in the judgment docket of the District Court thereof. The
time of the receipt of the abstract by the clerk must be noted by him
thereon, and entered in the docket. 
Sec. 1632. From the time of docketing in the clerk's office execution may
be issued thereon by the clerk to the sheriff of any county in the State, other
than the county in which the judgment was rendered, in the same manner and
with like effect as if issued on a judgment of the District Court. 
Sec. 1633. A judgment rendered in a justice's court creates no lien upon
any lands of the defendant, unless such an abstract is filed in the office of the
county clerk of the county in which the lands are situated. When so filed,
and from the time of filing, the judgment becomes a lien upon all the real
property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in such county,
owned by him at the time, or which he may afterward, and before the lien
expires, acquire. The lien continues for six years, unless the judgment be 
previously satisfied. 
Sec. 1644,. The Sections of this Code, from t26o to 1267, both inclusive,are
applicable to justices' courts, the word "constable" being substituted to that
end, for the word "sheriff," and the word "justice" for the word" judge." 

Sec. 1650. A justice may punish, as for contempt, persons guilty of the fol­
lowing acts, and no other : 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the justice while
holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other 
judicial proceeding. 
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in the
presence of the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the court held by him,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding. 
3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order or process,
made or issued by him. . 
4. Disobedience to a subpcena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or to
answer as a witness. 
5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an officer by virtue
of an order or process of the court held by him. 
Sec. 1651. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and pres­
ence of the justice, it may be punished summarily; to that end an order must
be made reciting the facts as they occurred, and adjudging that the person pro­
ceeded against is thereby guilty pf contempt, and that he be punished as 
therein prescribed.
Sec. 1652. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and 
presence of the justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such justice, on
which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice im­
mediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense, or excuse, must be
given. The justice may thereupon discharge him or may convict him of the 
offense.
Sec. 1653. A justice may punish for contempts by fine or imprisonment, 
or both ; such fine not to exceed in any one case one hundred dollars, and such
imprisonment one day. 
Sec. 1654. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and the judg­
ment thereon, must be entered by the justice in his docket. 
CHAPTER III
DOCKETS OF JUSTICES. 
Sectio11 166o. Docket, wl,at to contai«. 
CHAPTER X. 
CONTEMPTS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
CHAPTER XI. 
1661. E11trie$ tlterei11 primary evidence of /1,e facts. 
1662. A11 index to tl,e docket must be kept.
1663. Dockets must be delioered by justice to 1,is successor; or to county clerk.
1664. Proceedings wl,e11 o.Jfice becomes uacant, and before a successor is appointed.
1665. Docket of predecessor.
1666. 'Justice elected lo Jill uacancy, 
1&:,,/. 'Justices equally eetitied, 
Sec. 1660. Every justice must keep a book, denominated a "Docket,'' in
which he must enter : 
1. The title of every action or proceeding. 
2. The object of the action or proceeding ; and if a sum of money be
claimed, the amount thereof. 
3. The date of the summons and the time of its return ; and if an order to
arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement
of the fact. 
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their non­
appearance, if default be made ; a minute of the pleadings and motions ; if in
writing, referring to them ; if not in writing, a concise statement of the mate­
rial parts of the pleadings. 
5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application and to what time.
6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom 
made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the return of the jury
and for the trial. 
7. The names of the jurors who appear and are sworn, and the names of all
witnesses sworn, and at whose request. 
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree and are
discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge. 
9. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included, and the time
when rendered, and an itemized statement of the costs. 
10. The issuing of the execution, when issued and to whom; the renewals
thereof, if any, and when made, and a statement of any money paid to the jus­
tice, when and by whom. 
11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and of the under­
taking on appeal, if any be filed. 
Sec. 1661. The several particulars of the last Section specified must be en­
tered under the title of the action to which they relate, and ( unless otherwise
in this Title provided) at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice's
docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor in office,
are prima f aci~ evidence of the facts so stated. 
Sec. 1662. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in which
must be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with a reference
to the page of entry. The names of the plaintiffs and defendants must be en­
tered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family
name. 
Sec. 1663. Every justice of the peace, upon the expiration of his term of
office must deposit with his successor his official dockets, and all papers filed
in his office, his own as well as those of his predecessors, or any other which
may be in his custody to be kept as public records. 
Sec. 1664. If the office of a justice become vacant by his death or removal
from the township, town or city, or otherwise, before his successor is elected
and qualified, the docket and papers in possession of such justice must be de­
posited in the office of some other justice in the township, to be by him deliv­
ered to the successor of such justice. If there is no other justice in the
township, then the docket and papers of such justice must be deposited in the
office of the county clerk, to be by him delivered to the successor in office of
the justice. 
Sec. 1665. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor or of any
other justice is deposited, has and may exercise over all actions and proceed­
ings entered in such docket, the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced
before him. In case of the creation of a new county, or the change of the
boundary between two counties, any justice into whose hands the docket of a
justice formerly acting as such within the same territory may come, is, for the
purpose of this Section, considered the successor of such former justice. 
Sec. 1666. The justice elected to fill a vacancy is the successor of the justice
whose office became vacant before the expiration of a full term. When a full
term expires, the same or another person elected to take office in the same
township, town or city, from that time is the successor. 
Sec. 1667. When two or more justices are equally entitled, under the last Section, to be deemed the successors in office of the justice, a judge of the 
District Court must, by a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the office of
the county clerk, designate which justice is the successor of the justice going
out of office, or whose office has become vacant. 
CHAPTER XII. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO JUSTICES' COURTS. 
S«lio,, 168<>. r:fustices •ay iss11, 111b/ou,as a11d Ji•al process to a11y /art of tl,e co1111ty. 
1681. Bla11/ts #111St be flied i,i all ;apers isseed 1,y a j,utice, e,cce/1 s11b/cuas.
1682. 711,tic•s lo receive all mo11c_vs collected a,id ;ay sa•e lo ;arNes. 
1683. I• case of disability ofj•slice, o,iotl,~r justice 111ay t1lte11d o• lu's l>dalf.
1684. 7,utice, •a:, reqelr« security for costs. 
168s. wio e,ilitled to costs. . 
1686. WJ,at /rov1'sio11s of Code a///ica6/e lo ju.flice.,• coerts.
1687. Deposit;,, lie• of 1111dertalti11g.
1688. Special de/11/y.
168(). .At1tiorr'ty of de/11/y.
16go. E:fect1lio11 of ;rocess by retiri11g co,u/al,le. 
1691. De;ositio•,. l,oiv lalte,,.
1692. JV lien 11a111e ·of deft>11da11t is ••lt11o-u•11. 
1693. How a//eals •ay he talte•. 
Sec. 1680. Justices of the peace may issue subpcenas in any action or pro­
ceedings in the courts held by them, and final process on any judgment
recovered therein, to any part of the county. 
Sec. 1681. The summons, execution and other papers made or issued by a
justice, except a subpcena, must be issued without a blank left to be filled by
another, otherwise it is void. 
Sec. 1682. Justices of the peace must receive from the sheriff or constables
of their county, all moneys collected on any process or order issued from their
courts respectively, and must pay the same, and all moneys paid to them in 
their official capacity, over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive
them, without delay. 
Sec. 1683. In case of the sickness or other disability, or necessary absence of
a justice, on a return of a summons, or at the time appointed for a trial, another
justice of the same township, town or city, or adjoining township, may at his 
reg uest, attend in his behalf, and thereupon is vested with the power, for
the time being, of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In 
that case, the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending justice,
subscribed by him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom the
summons was returnable. If the case is adjourned, the justice before whom
the summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction. 
Sec. 1684. Justices may, in all cases, require a deposit of money or an
undertaking, as security for costs of court, before issuing a summons. 
Sec. 1685. The prevailing party in justices' courts is entitled to costs of the
action, and also of any proceedings taken by him in aid of an execution, issued
upon any judgment recovered therein. 
Sec. 1686. Justices' courts being courts of peculiar and limited jurisdiction,
only those provisions of this Code which are, in their nature, applicable to the
organization, powers and course of proceedings in justices' courts, or which have 
been made applicable by special provisions in this Title, are applicable to jus­
tices' courts and the proceedings therein. 
Sec. 1687. In civil cases arising in justices' courts, wherein an undertaking
is required as prescribed in this Code, the plaintiff or defendant may deposit
with said justice a sum of money equal to the amount required by said under­
taking, which said sum of money shall be taken as security in place of said
undertaking. 
Sec. 1688. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on being satisfied
that it is expedient, specially depute any proper person of suitable age, and not
interested in the action, to serve a summons with or without an order to arrest
the defendant or with or without a writ of attachment or an execution. The 
justice shall be liable on his official bond for all official acts of the person so
deputed. Such deputation shall be in writing made on the process, and a
note thereof made in the justice's docket. 
Sec. 1689. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a constable
in relation to the service, execution and return of such process, and shall be
subject to the same obligations. 
Sec. 1690. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of office,
may proceed and complete the execution of all final process which he has
begun to execute, in the same manner as if he were still in office, and his
sureties shall be liable to the same extent. 
Sec. 1691. Depositions to be used in justices' courts may be taken as pro­
vided in Chapter III., Title III., Part IV., of this Code. 
Sec. 1692. Where the plaintiff is ignorant of the name, or part of the name
of a defendant, that defendant may be designated in the summons, and in any
other process or proceeding in the action, by a fictitious name, or by so much
of his name as is known, adding a description, identifying the person intended.
The person so designated must thereupon be regarded as a defendant. in the
action, and as sufficiently described therein for all purposes. When his name,
or the remainder of his name is known, or becomes known, the justice, before
whom the action is pending, must amend the proceedings already taken, by
the insertion of the true or full name, in place of the fictitious name, or part of
a name; and all subsequent proceedings must be taken under the name so
inserted. 
Sec. 1693. Appeals may be taken from a judgment of a justice's court, as
provided in Chapter II., Title XIII., Part II., of this Code. 
CHAPTER II
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN POLICE COURTS. 
Sectio• 1700. How comme•ced.
1701. S11m1no•$ m11$t issee o• filing complaint. 
1702. Defenda11t may /lead orally or ;,, writing.
1703. Proceeding$ to be co•d11cted 0$ in j11slices' courts. 
Sec. 1700. Civil actions in police courts are commenced by filing a com­
plaint, setting forth the violation of the ordinance complained of, with such
particulars of time, place and manner of violation as to enable the defendant to
understand distinctly the character of the violation complained of, and to an­
swer the complaint. The ordinance may be referred to by its Title and Sec­
tion, and the number thereof. 
Sec. 1701. Immediately after filing the complaint, a summons must be
issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable either immediately or at any 
time designated therein, not exceeding four days from the date of its issuing.
Sec. 1702. On the return of the summons the defendant may answer the 
complaint. The answer may be oral or in writing, and immediately thereafter
the case must be tried, unless, for good cause shown, an adjournment is 
granted.
Sec. 1703. All proceedings in civil actions in police courts must, except as in 
this Title otherwise provided, be conducted in the same manner as civil actions
in justices' courts. 
CHAPTER I. .AJ/eals lo S•Jre•e Court, 
//, .A//ea/$ lo District Court, 
TITLE XII. 
TITLE XIII. 
APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIO~S. 
\ 
Sectio11 1720. 'j11dpe11ts a11d orders 111a_v h~ reviewed.
1711. Party aggrie1:ed "'"Y a//ea/-,,dFlle.c of Jartie,. 
1711. Wke11 a11 a//eal 111a_v he taltt111.
1723. u,·;11,;,, wl,at ti,,,, a11 a//eal #lay he lalte11. 
t 7l-f, A//eal, .iow lalte11.
1725. U11derlalti•¥ for fl,r,, l,1111drt1d dollars, 
1726. U11dertalti11/: lo stay ;roreedi11gs.
1727. '711dgme11t for delit•er.v of docemenrs. 
1728. '711dg,,,e11t dir,cti11g esecetio» ef co11reya11u.
1729- U11dertalti11g co11cer11ing real fro;erly.
1;30. Sta_v of Jroceedi11g., a11d coert "'".v u,,,;, sec,rrity.
1731. c.:11dertalti11gs may he in 01,e i11slr1111te11t.
173J. '711stificatio11 of sureties,
1733. Sta_y of Jroued,',,gs 110/ al/MtJed.
173+ Appeals hy e,uc11t.ors a11d adMi11istrators.
1735. Acts of sa•• w.ie11 ap/oi11tme11t t-ecated.
1736. Wl,at ;apers 11sed 011 a/Jealfro#I j11Jg111,11t.
1737. Wkat ;a;ers 11s,d·o11 a/pea/from a11 order,
1738. Wl,a/ /a/er., esed 011 gra11li11g or ref1ui11g 11ew trial.
1739- Tra11s('ript. llow certified. 
17-fO. W.+e11 "" aJ;,al "'a.v he dismissed.
17.p. E/frcl of dismissal. 
1742. Wllat 1'1a_y he reviewed 011 nJ/ealfroM J11dg111e11t.
1743. Rttn,edial ;owers of a11 a/Jellale c011r/. 
17~. Remittil11r n,•st !J. certified lo t.+e clerk of /1,e District C<J'llrt. 
Sec. 1720. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when expressly
made final by this Code, may be reviewed as prescribed in this Title, and not
otherwise. 
Sec. 1721. A party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in this Title. The party appealing is known as the appellant, and the adverse party 
as the respondent.
Sec. 1722. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court, from a District 
Court, in the following cases: 
1. From a final judgment entered in an action or special proceeding com­
menced in a District Court, or brought into a District Court from another
court. 
2. From an order granting or refusing a new trial; or granting or dissolving
an injunction; or refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; or dissolving or
refusing to dissolve an attachment ; from any special order made after final
judgment; and from such interlocutory judgments or orders in actions for par­
tition as determines the rights and interests of the respective parties and directs
partition to be made. 
3. From a judgment or order granting or refusing to grant. revoking or
refusing to revoke, letters testamentary, or of administration, or of guardian­
ship; or admitting or refusing to admit a will to probate, or against or In favor
of the validity of a will, or revoking the probate thereof ; or against or f n favor
of setting apart property, or making an allowance for a widow or child ; or
against or in favor of directing the partition, sale, or conveyance of real prop­
erty, or settling an account of an executor, or administrator, or guardian; or
refusing, allowing, directing the distribution or partition of an estate, or any
part thereof, or the payment of a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share; or
confirming or ref using to confirm a report of an appraiser setting apart a home­
stead. 
Sec. 1723. An appeal may be taken : 
1. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in
the court in which the same is rendered, within one year after the entry of
judgment. 
2. From a judgment rendered, on an appeal from an inferior court, within
ninety days after the entry of such judgmeat, 
3. From an order granting or refusing a new trial: from an order granting
or dissolving an injunction; from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an in­
junction; from an order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from
any special order made after final judgment; and from an interlocutory judg­
ment or order in actions for partition of real property, and from an order -con­
firming, changing, modifying or setting aside the report in whole or in part, of
the referees in actions for partition of real property, within sixty days after
the order or interlocutory judgment is made and entered in the minutes of the
court or filed with the clerk. 
4. From the judgments or orders mentioned in Subdivision 3 of the next
preceding Section, within sixty days after the judgment or order is made or
entered, or filed with the clerk. 
Sec. 1724. An appeal is taken by filing with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a notice stating the appeal
from the same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a similar notice on
the adverse party or his attorney. The order of service is immaterial, but the
appeal is ineffectual for any purpose unless within five days after service of
the notice of appeal, an undertaking be filed, or a deposit of money be made
with the clerk as hereinafter provided, or the undertaking be waived by the
adverse party in writing. 
Sec. 1725. The undertaking on appeal must be in writing, and must be ex­
ecuted on the part of the appellant by at least two sureties, to the effect that
the appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be awarded against
him on the appeal, or on a dismissal thereof, not exceeding three hundred dol­
lars; or that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment
or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. 
Sec. 1726. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the pay­
ment of money, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order unless
a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by two or
more sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the amount named
in the judgment or order; that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any
part thereof, be affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, the appellant will pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such
amount as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, if affirmed only in part,
and all damages and costs, which may be awarded against the appellant upon
the appeal, and that if the appellant does not make such payment within
thirty days after the filing of the remittitur from the Supreme Court in the
court from which the appeal is taken, judgment may be entered on motion of
the respondent in his favor against the sureties, for such amount, together
with the interest that may be due thereon, and the damage and costs which
may be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. If the judgment or
order appealed from be for a greater amount than two thousand dollars, and the
sureties do not state in their affidavits of justification accompanying the under­
taking, that they are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking, the
stipulation may be that the judgment to be entered against the sureties shall
be for such amounts only as in their affidavits they may state that they are
severally worth, and judgment may be entered against the sureties by the
court from which the appeal is taken, pursuant to the stipulations herein
designated. 
Sec. 1727. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the assignment
or delivery of documents or personal property, the execution of the judgment
or order cannot be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned
or delivered be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court may
appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant,
with at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court, or a judge thereof.
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate
court, upon the appeal. 
Sec. 1728. If a judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or order can­
not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited
with the clerk with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court. 
Sec. 1729. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale or deliv­
ery of possession of real property, the execution of the same cannot be stayed,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with
two or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such property
by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste
thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed or the appeal dismissed, he will
pay the value of the use and occupation of the property from the time of the 
appeal until the delivery of the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment
or order, not exceeding the sum to be fixed by the judge of the court by which
the judgment was rendered or order made, and which must be specified in the
undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and
the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking must also
provide for the payment of such deficiency. 
Sec. 1730. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the preceding Sections of this Chapter, it stays all further proceedings in the court below
upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the matters embraced
therein, and releases from levy property which has been levied upon under 
execution issued upon such judgment; but the court below may proceed upon
any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the order appealed
from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the
security required by this Chapter, when the appellant is an executor, adminis­
trator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right. An appeal does not
continue in force on attachment, unless an undertaking be executed and filed
on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double of the amount
of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all costs and damages
which the respondent may sustain by reason of the attachment, in case the
order of the court below be sustained, and unless, within five days after the entry
of the order appealed from, such appeal be perfected. 
Sec. 1731. The undertakings prescribed in the foregoing Sections may
be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant. In case of an
appeal from a final judgment, and from an order granting or refusing a new
trial, taken at the same time, only one undertaking need be given, as prescribed 
in Section 1724, of this Code. The sureties on such an undertaking must
justify as required by Section 1899, of this Code. 
Sec. 1732. The adverse party may except to the sufficiency of the sureties
to any of the undertakings mentioned in this Chapter, at any time within
thirty days after the filing of such undertaking; and unless they or other
sureties, within twenty days after the appellant has been served with notice
of such exception, justify before a judge of the District Court, or the clerk
thereof, upon five days' notice to the respondent of the time and place of 
justification, execution of the judgment, order, or decree appealed from is no
longer stayed; and in all cases where an undertaking is required on appeal by
the provisions of this Title, a deposit, in the court below of the amount of the
judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall be
equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases the undertaking or de­
posit may be waived by the written consent of the respondent. 
Sec. 1733. In cases not provided for in Sections 1726, 1727, 1728 and 1729,
the perfecting of the appeal by giving the undertaking, or making the deposit
mentioned in Section 1725, stays proceedings in the court below upon the
judgment or order appealed from, except where it directs the sale of perishable
property, in which case the court below may order the property to be sold and 
the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to abide the judgment of the appellate 
court. And except also, where it adjudges the defendant guilty of usurping, or
intruding into, or unlawfully holding public office, civil or military, within this
State. Also except where a judgment grants a writ of mandamus, or of prohi­
bition, against a tribunal, corporation, public officer or board, commanding
certain acts to be done which ought to be done, or prohibiting acts which
ought not to be done by such tribunal, corporation, public officer or board,
and not involving the payment or allowance of money or its equivalent. 
Sec. 1734. When an executor, administrator, or guardian, who has given
an official bond, appeals from a judgment or order of the District Court made
in the proceedings had upon the estate of which he is executor, administrator,
or guardian, his official bond shall stand in the place of an undertaking on
appeal; and his sureties thereon shall be liable as on such undertaking. 
Sec. 1735. When the judgment or order appointing an executor, or admin­
istrator, or guardian, is reversed on appeal, for error, and not for want of juris­
diction of the court, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate performed
by such executor or administrator, or guardian, if he have qualified, are as valid
as if such judgment or order had been affirmed. · 
Sec. 1736. On an appeal from a final judgment, the' appellant must furnish
the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment roll, and of any
bill of exceptions or statement in the case, upon which the appellant relics.
Any statement used on motion for a new trial, may be used on appeal from a
final judgment equally as upon appeal from the order granting or refusing a
new trial. 
Sec. 1737. On appeal from an order, except an order granting or refusing a
new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with a copy of the notice of 
appeal of the judgment or order appealed from, and of papers used on the hear­
ing in the court below. 
Sec. 1738. On an appeal from an order granting or refusing a new trial, the
appellant must furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the
order appealed from, and of the papers designated in Section 1 176, of this Code. 
Sec. 1739. The copies provided for in the last three Sections must be certi­
fied to be correct by the clerk or the attorneys, and must be accompanied with
a certificate of the clerk or attorneys that an undertaking on appeal, in due
form, has been properly filed, or the stipulation of the parties waiving an
undertaking. 
Sec. 1740. If the appellant fails to furnish the requisite papers, the appeal
may be dismissed; but no appeal can be dismissed for insufficiency of the
undertaking thereon, if a good and sufficient undertaking approved by a justice
of the Supreme Court, be filed in the Supreme Court before the hearing upon
motion to dismiss the appeal. 
Sec. 1741. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an affirmance of the judg­
ment or order appealed from, unless the dismissal is expressly made without
prejudice to another appeal. 
Sec. 1742. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review the ver­
dict or decision, and any intermediate order or decision excepted to, which
involves the merits, or necessarily affects the judgment, except a decision or
order from which an appeal might have been taken. 
Sec. 1743. When the judgment or order is reversed, or modified, the
appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment or order, so far as such restitution is consistent
with protection of a purchaser of property at a sale ordered by the judgment,
or had under process issued upon the judgment, on the appeal from which the
proceedings were not stayed, and for relief in such cases the appellant may
have his action against the respondent, enforcing the judgment for the pro­
ceeds of the sale of the property, after deducting therefrom the expenses of
the sale. When it appears to the appellate court that the appeal was made
for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may be just. 
Sec. 1744. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it must be certi­
fied by the clerk of the Supreme Court to the clerk with whom the judgment
roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from
the judgment, the clerk with whom the roll is filed must attach the certificate
to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of the Supreme
Court on the docket against the original entry. In cases of appeal from an
order, the clerk must enter at length in the records of the court, the certificate
received, and minute against the entry of the order appealed from, a reference
to the certificate, with a brief statement that such order has been affirmed,
reversed or modified by the Supreme Court on appeal. 
CHAPTER III
APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURTS. 
S«tio,, 1700- Appeal fro"' j"dgn,e•I of }"1tice's or police coert, 
1761. M,ut he tried anet»,
1762. Tra•smissio• of JaJers lo a/Jeluzu co•rt. 
1763. l.l11dertalt1'•g o• a/Jeal. 
1764- Effect of appeal. 
1765. Sta_,- of proceedi•gs o• jili•g ""dn-talti•r· 
1766. Po-wers of District Coert o• aJleal. 
1767. Defective u11dertalti•r· 
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. 1760. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a civil action
in a police or justice's court, may appeal therefrom to the District Court of
the county, at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment.
The appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the justice or judge, and
serving a copy on the adverse party or his attorney. 
Sec. 1761. All appeals from justices' or police courts must be tried anew
in the District Court, on the papers filed in the justice's or police court, unless
the court, for good cause shown, and on such terms as may be just, allow other
or amended pleadings to be filed in such action. The court may order new or
amended pleadings to · be filed. Each party has the benefit of all legal objec­
tions made in a justice's or police court. When a judgment is reversed or set
aside on a question of law arising in the justice's or police court, the District
Court must either try the case anew or render a judgment. There is no ap­
peal from a judgment by default rendered in a justice's or police court, except
on questions of law which appear on the face of the papers or proceedings, and
except in cases when the justice's or police court has abused its discretion in
setting aside or refusing to set aside a default or judgment. If the judgment
by default is set aside, the District Court must allow pleadings to be filed and
try the case. 
Sec. 1762. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and filing an undertaking
as required in the next Section, the justice or judge must, within ten days,
upon the payment of the fees therefor, transmit to the clerk of the District ,
Court a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and
other papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal, and the undertaking filed ;
and the justice or judge may be compelled by the District Court, by an order
entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or
refusal to transmit the same. A certified copy of such order may be served
on the justice or judge by the party or his attorney. 
Sec. 1763. An appeal from a justice's or police court is not effectual for any
purpose unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more sureties, in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the judgment, including costs. when the judg­
ment is for the payment of money; or twice the value of the property, includ­
ing costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal property,
and must be conditioned, when the action is for the recovery of money, that
the appellant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from, and all costs,
if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and 
all costs that may be recovered against him in the action in the District
Court. When the action is for the recovery of specific personal property, the
undertaking must be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and
costs appealed from, and obey the order of the court made therein, if the
appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and costs that may be
recovered against him in said action in the District Court, and will obey any
order made by the court therein. When the judgment appealed from directs
the delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same cannot
be stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appel­
lant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any
waste thereon, and that if the appeal be dismissed or withdrawn, or the judg­
ment affirmed, or judgment be recovered against him in the action in the Dis­
trict Court, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property
from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof: or that he
will pay any judgment and costs that may be recovered against him in said
action in the District Court, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the justice of
the court from which the appeal is taken, and which sum must be specified in
the undertaking. A deposit of the amount of the judgment, including all
costs appealed from, or of the value of the property, including all costs in
actions for the recovery of specific personal property, with the justice or judge,
is equivalent to the filing of the undertaking, and in such cases the justice or
judge must transmit the money to the clerk of the District Court, to be by
him paid out on the order of the court. The adverse party may except to the
sufficiency of the sureties within five days after the filing of the undertaking,
and unless they or other sureties justify before the justice or judge within five
days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in
their affidavits, the appeal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been
given. 
Sec. 1764. If the party in whose favor the judgment is rendered appeals,
the undertaking must be in the sum of one hundred dollars, and conditioned
that he will pay all costs that may be awarded against him, and obey any
order of court made in the action. If the party appealing fails to reduce the
judgment against him, or to enlarge the judgment in his favor appealed from,
ten dollars or more, or reverse the same in the District Court, he shall not re­
cover any costs of appeal. The sureties on the undertaking mentioned in this
and the preceding Sections, must justify as provided in Section 1899- 
Sec. 1765. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking, the
justice or judge must direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer must, upon the payment of his fees for services rendered on the
execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon. and deliver the
same to the judgment debtor, together with all moneys collected from sales
or otherwise. If his fees on the execution be not paid, the officer may retain
so much of the property or proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the
same. 
Sec. 1766. When the action is tried anew on appeal, the trial must be con.
ducted in all respects as other trials in the District Court. The provisions of
this Code as to trials in the District Court, are applicable to trials on appeal in
the District Court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay
in bringing it to a hearing. the District Court may order the appeal to be dis­
missed, with costs ; and if it appear to such court that the appeal was made
solely for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may be just, not ex­
ceeding twenty-five per cent. of the judgment appealed from. Judgments
rendered in the District Court on appeal shall have the same force and effect,
and may be enforced in the same manner, as judgments in actions commenced
in the District Court. 
Sec. 1767. No appeal shall be dismissed for insufficiency of the undertaking 
thereon, or for any defect or irregularity therein, if a good and sufficient under­
taking be filed in the District Court at or before the hearing of the motion to
dismiss the appeal, which undertaking must be approved by the district judge. 
CHAPTER I.
II. 
Ill.
JV. 
v. 
VI. 
VII. 
TITLE XIV. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 
Proued1°11rs al(Oi•st joi•t debtors,
Ofer of tl,e defe•da•t to co•/ro•ise. 
l.s/ertio,, of writinp.
Motio,u a•d orders.
Notices, a•d ftli11g, a•d seroice of jajers.
Costs.
Gneral jrOTJisio,u. 
CHAPTER I. 
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS. 
S«tio,, 178o. Parties •ot H#l#IOt1ed o• actio« o• ioi11t co11tract •ay IM 111•IIJOflfti after
j,uJpet1I. 
1781. S•••o•s i• /1,at case, wl,at to co•tai•, a•d 1,ow served.
178:1. .Affidavit to accOMla•y s•••o•.r. 
1783. A •swer, -wl,e• ft led at1d -wl,at it #lay co•tai•.
17S.. Wl,at co11stit1'tes tl,e /leadi•gs ;,, /je case,
1785. Issee», l,o-w tried. Verdict, wl,11t lo he. 
1786. '7oi11t debtor •ay co•Jro•ise.
1787. Effect of discl,arge of debtor. Co11trihwtio•. 
Sec. 1780. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of several
persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding, as provided in Section 641, those who are not originally served with the summons, and did
not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should
not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as though they had been
originally served with the summons. 
Sec. 1781. The summons, as provided in the last Section, must describe the
judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he should not
be bound by it, and must be served in the same manner and returnable within
the same time as the original summons. It is not necessary to file a new
complaint. 
Sec. 1782. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment, or some part
thereof, remains unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due thereon. 
Sec. 1783. Upon such summons, the defendant may answer within the
time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any defense which
may have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability on the obligation 
upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability
by the Statute of Limitations. 
Sec. 1784. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the judgment, or set up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons with the affi­
davit annexed, and the answer, constitute the written allegations in the case;
if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the summons, with
the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute such written allegations. 
Sec. 1785. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases, but when the
defendant denies in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him it must be for not
exceeding the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with
interest thereon. 
Sec. 1786. Any joint debtor including a partner may compromise with a
creditor, and a discharge to him by such creditor, is as effectual as if made to 
all debtors, but such discharge does not relieve the other joint debtors. Any
creditor can release a judgment in his favor against any one or more joint
debtors, and such release does not discharge the others. 
Sec. 1787. The discharge of such joint debtor operates as a payment to the
creditor equal to the proportionate interest of the debtor discharged. But the
discharge of such debtor does not prevent his co-debtors from enforcing the
right of contribution in case they are compelled to pay the whole of the debt. 
CHAPTER II. 
OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE. 
Sectio• 18oo. Pr()("eedi11gs 011 offer of tAe defe11da11I to compro,,,ise after s1'it /Jro1'gAt. 
Sec. 1800. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment,
serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him for
the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept
the offer, and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the offer, with
proof of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the off er is to be
deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence upon the trial; and if the
plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover costs, but
must pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer. 
CHAPTER III. 
INSPECTION OF WRITINGS. 
St>ctio• 1810. A Ja,-/y •ay de111n11d i.sJeclio• a•d co;y of a /Joolt, /a/er, etc. 
Sec. 1810. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge thereof.
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified
time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of entries of ac­
counts in any book, or of any document or paper in his possession or under
his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the
defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may
exclude the entries of accounts of the book, or the document, or paper from
being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume them to be as he alleges them to be ; and the court
may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This Section is not to be
construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, doc­
uments, or papers, when he is examined as a witness. 
CHAPTER IV. 
MOTIONS AND ORDERS. 
Sectio• 1SJ0. Order a•d "'"tio• deft11ed. 
18J 1, ltfotio•s a11d orders. wAere "'ade. 
18:u. Notict> of motio•, at wAat li111e lo /Jt> give•. 
18i3. Tra•sfer of "'otio•s a•d order to dow casa«,
18J4. Order ,,.aJe o,11 of C(Jl'1"1, etc. 
16J5. Order for pay,,,e•t of ,,.o•ey, Aow enforced, 
Sec. 1820. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in writ­
ing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An applica­
tion for an order is a motion. 
Sec. 1821. Motions must be made in the county in which the action is
brought, or in any adjoining county in the same district. In case of the
absence of the judfe of the district from his district, such motion may be made
before the judge o any adjoining district. Orders made out of court may be
made by the judge of the court in any part of the State. 
Sec. 1822. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it must be given
five days before the appointed time for the hearing, if both parties reside in 
the county where the court is held, otherwise, ten days. When the notice is
served by mail, the number of days before the hearing must be increased one
day for every twenty-five miles of distance between the place of deposit and the
place of service; such increase, however, not to exceed in all thirty days; but
in all cases the court, or a judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time. 
Sec. 1823. When a notice of motion is given, or an order to show cause is
made returnable, before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for the
motion, or on the return day of the order, the judge is unable to hear the
parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to some other judge. 
Sec. 1824. An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse party,
may be vacated or modified without notice, by the judge who made it; or it 
may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which other motions
are made. 
Sec. 1825. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum of money is made by
a court or judge, pursuant to the provisions of this Code, it may be enforced
by execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment. 
CHAPTER III
Sectto« 1830. .h'olice4 a11d paper4, .low served.
1831. WMe11 a11d MOW seroed,
1831. Service hy •ail, w.ie11.
1833. Service !Jy mail, Mow.
1834. A;;eara11ce. Nolice4 af ter appeara•ce.
1835. Service 011 11011-re4ide11/4, Wkere a party lta8 a11 altor•ey, seroice $/tall he 
011 s•c.i attorney;
18J6. Preuding /rovisio114 •ol lo a;p(v lo proceedi11g to bring party ieto con­ 
tempt.
1837. Service hy telegrap!,. 
CHAPTER V. 
Sec. 1830. Notices must be in writing, and notices and other papers may be
served upon the party or attorney in the manner prescribed in this Chapter,
when not otherwise provided by this Code. 
Sec. 1831. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or at­
torney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows: 
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office,
by leaving the notice or other paper with his clerk therein, or with a person 
having charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving
them, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the afternoon, in a
conspicuous place in the office ; or if it be not open to admit of such service,
then by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable
age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by putting the
same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post office, directed to such attorney. 
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other paper at
his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the after­
noon, with some person of suitable age and discretion ; and if his residence be
not known, by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post office,
directed to such party. 
Sec. 1832. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the
service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside or have their offices 
in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.
Sec. 1833. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper must be de­ 
posited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served,
at his office or place of residence, and postage paid. The service is complete
at the time of the deposit, but if within a given number of days after such
service a right may be exercised, or an act is to be done by the adverse party,
the time within which such right may be exercised or act be done is extended
one day for every twenty-five miles d~_ce between the place of deposit and 
the place of address. The service in any case is deemed complete at the end
of forty days from the date of its deposit in the post office. 
Sec. 1834. A defendant appears in an action when he answers, demurs, or
gives the plaintiff written notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives
notice of appearance for him, or has such appearance entered in open court.
After appearance, a defendant or his attorney is entitled to notice of all subse ..
quent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a de­
f endant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need not be made upon
him unless he is imprisoned for want of bail. 
Sec. 1835. When a plaintiff or a defendant, who has appeared, resides out
of the State, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service may
be made on the clerk for him. But in all cases where a party has an attorney
in the action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, must be upon
the attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas, or writs, and other pro­
cess issued in the suit, and of papers to bring him into contempt. 
Sec. 1836. The foregoing provisions of this Chapter do not apply to the
service of a summons or other process, or ·of any paper to bring a party into
contempt. 
Sec. 1837. Any summons, writ, or order, in any civil action or proceeding,
and all other papers requiring service, may be transmitted by telegraph or tel­
ephone for service in any place, and the telegraphic or telephonic copy of such
writ or order, or paper, so transmitted, may be served or executed by the officer
or person to whom it is sent for that purpose, and returned by him, H any
return be requisite, in the same manner, and with the same force and effect, in
all respects as the original thereof might be delivered to him; and the officer
or person serving or executing the same has the same authority, and is subject
to the same liabilities, as if the copy were the original. The original, when a
writ or order, must also be filed in the court from which it was issued, and a
certified copy thereof must be preserved in the telegraph or telephone office
from which it is sent. In sending it, either the original or certified copy may
be used by the operator for that purpose. Whenever any document to be sent
by telegraph or telephone bears a seal, either private or official, it is not neces­
sary for the operator, in sending the same, to telegraph or telephone a descrip­
tion of the seal, or any words or device thereon, but the same may be expressed
in the telegraphic or telephonic copy by the letters " L. S. '' or by the word
"Seal." 
CHAPTER VI. 
COSTS. 
Sectio« 1850. Compusatio• of attorneys, Costs to jart,"es.
1851. Wkc• allowed, "f course, to tNe plai11t1ff.
1852. Deft'11da11f s costs ,n1ut he allowed, of course, i11 certai• cases,
1853. Costs; wlten ;,, tie discretion of /1,e coert:
185..+. 1VNeN tje several defeHda11ts are 1101 u•iled i• i•lerest, costs "'"Y IH 
set-ered,
1855. Costs of appra/ discretionary will, tl,e court ; ;,, certain cases, a11d wie•. 
1856. Rcfrrees fees.
1857. Co11ti11ttance, costs may be impo.ced as condit,'011 of.
1858. Costs wl,en a tender is made before s11it brou;:jt.
1859- Costs i• action by or agai11st a11 administrator, etc. 
186o. Costs ;,, a retiietu ollter tka• by a/peal.
1861. Costs of drmur rer or motion, 
1862. Co1111selfrrs o• foralo.,ure of mortgap.
1863. Co••se/ (rn 01I forrctosure -ttf lie«,
186... Co1111se/Jen for claim for ,<t;,lary and "lt'a.ifU. 
1865. Artornev's fres Hr,d 1101 he included ;,, cost 6ill.
18fi,. IVknt are costs and di.,h•rseme11h.
186j. Bill t>( costs.
1868. ,No cost bill;,, jutir, court.
186g. Costs 01' appeal, l,ow claimed.
1870. /11teresl a11d costs incleded i• j11dgmrnl.
1871. No11·reside11t plaintiff. 
If sec•r1'ty •ot rive•, actio• dis•1'ssed.
Poor per.en •ay s•e 'Witio•t costs. 
State, etc., ,,,ed sot pay ;,. adva11ce.
PreJayn,ut <>/Jees. 
Clt1rk or deriff "'ay iave execetio» for costs.
Ollicer's fus ,,,..,, be ite,,,ixed. 
Costs wie• State a Jarty.
Costs wie11 co"11ty a party. 
Sec. 1850. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and coun­
selors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but
parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to costs and disbursements, as
hereinafter provided. 
Sec. 1851. Costs are allowed, of course, to the plaintiff, upon a judgment in
his favor, in the following cases: 
1. In an action for the recovery of real property or damages thereto. 
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, where the
value of the property exceeds fifty dollars ; such value shall be determined by
the jury, court or referee by whom the action is tried. 
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, exclusive of interest,
when plaintiff recovers over fifty dollars. 
4- In a special proceeding.
5. In an action which involves the title or possession or right of possession 
of real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal
fine, or quo tuarranto proceedings. 
6. In an action to foreclose a lien or pledge, or to prevent or abate a nui­
sance, or for an injunction. 
Sec. 1852. Costs must be allowed, of course, to the defendant, upon a judg­
ment in his favor in the actions mentioned in the next preceding Section, and
in special proceedings. 
Sec. 1853. In other actions than those above mentioned, costs may be
allowed or not, and, if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court ; but no costs can be
allowed in an action for the recovery of money or damages when the plaintiff fails
to recover more than fifty dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, when the value of the property is not more than fifty dollars. 
Sec. 1854. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned in Section 185 I, not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate
answers, and plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the court must
award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor. 
Sec. 1855. In the followingcases, the costs of appeal are in the discretion
of the court: 
1. When a new trial is ordered. 
2. When a judgment is modified.
In all other cases the successful party shall recover from the other party 
his costs.
Sec. 1856. The fees of referees are eight dollars to each for every day spent 
in the business of the reference ; but the parties may agree in writing upon
any other rate=of compensation, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed. 
Sec. 1857. When an application is made to the court or referee to postpone
a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the postponement may be imposed,
in the discretion of the court or referee, as a condition of granting the same. 
Sec. 1858. When, in an action for the recovery of money only, the defend­
ant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the action, he
tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to which he was entitled, and there­
upon deposits in court for plaintiff _the amount so tendered, and the allegation
be found to be true, the plaintiff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to
the defendant. 
Sec. 1859. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,administrator 
trustee or an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
costs may be recovered as in an action by and against a person prosecuting or
defending in his own right; but such costs must by the judgment be made
chargeable only upon the estate, fund or party represented, unless the court
directs the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant, personally, for mis­
management or bad faith in the action or defense. 
Sec. 1860. When the decision of a court inferior of jurisdiction in a special
proceeding is brought before a court of higher jurisdiction tor a review, in any
other way than by appeal, the same costs must be allowed as in cases on ap­
peal, and may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the court may
direct, according to the nature of the case. 
Sec. 1861. In all cases where a demurrer or motion is sustained or over­
ruled, the losing party must pay to the other ten dollars as costs. If a de­
murrer or motion be withdrawn before the hearing, it shall be deemed over­
ruled. 
Sec. 1862. In an action to foreclose a mortgage or pledge, the court must
allow as a part of the costs a reasonable attorney's fee, which shall be fixed by
the court, any stipulation in the mortgage or any agreement between the par­
ties to the contrary notwithstanding. 
Sec. 1863. In an action to foreclose a mechanic's lien under the provisions
of this Code, the court must allow as costs the money paid for filing and re­
cording the lien, and a reasonable attorney's fee in the District and Supreme
Courts, and such costs and attorney's fees must be allowed to each claimant
whose lien is established, whether a plaintiff or defendant, whether there is
one action or several, or the actions have been consolidated. 
Sec. 1864. In an action to establish a claim for salary or wages under the
provisions of Chapter III., Title IV., Part Ill., of this Code, the court must
allow as costs a reasonable attorney's fee to each claimant who establishes his
claim as provided in Section 21 50 of this Code. 
Sec. 1865. The attorney's fees mentioned in the next three preceding Sec­
tions need not be included in the cost bill if they are made a part of the judg-
ment. · 
Sec. 1866. A party to whom costs are awarded in an action is entitled to
include in his bill of costs, his necessary disbursements as follows: The legal
fees of witnesses, including mileage, of referees and other officers ; the expenses
of taking depositions; the legal fees for publication when publication is directed:
the legal fees paid for filing and recording papers and certified copies thereof
necessarily used in the action or on the trial ; the legal fees paid stenographers
for per diem or for copies; the reasonable expenses of printing papers for a
hearing when required by a rule of court ; the reasonable expenses of making
transcript for the Supreme Court ; the reasonable expenses for making a map
or maps if required and necessary to be used on trial or hearing; and such
other reasonable and necessary expenses as are taxable according to the course
and practice of the court, or by express provision of law. 
Sec. 1867. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and who claims
his costs, must deliver to the clerk, and serve upon the adverse party, within
five days after the verdict or notice of the decision of the court or referee­
or, if the entry of the judgment on the verdict or decision be stayed, then be­
fore such entry is made-a memorandum of the items of his costs and neces­
sary disbursements in the action or proceeding which memorandum must be 
verified by the oath of the party, or his attorney or agent, or by the clerk of his 
attorney, stating that to the best of his knowledge and belief the items are cor­ 
rect, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or
proceeding. A party dissatisfied with the costs claimed, may, within five days
after notice of filing of the bill of costs, file and serve a notice of a motion to
have the same taxed by the court in which the judgment was rendered, or by 
the judge thereof at chambers. 
Sec. 1868. In a justice's or police court no cost bill need be filed but the
justice or judgemust tax the same, and make an itemized statement of all the
costs incurred by each party in his docket. In such courts the fees paid to
jurors must be taxed against the unsuccessful party. 
Sec. 1869. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an appellate court, if
he claims such costs, he must within thirty days after the remittitur is filed
with the clerk below, deliver to such clerk a memorandum of his costs, verified
as prescribed by Section 1867, and thereafter he may have an execution there­
for as upon a judgment. 
Sec. 1870. The clerk must include in the judgment entered up by him, any
interest on the verdict or decision of the court, from the time it was rendered
or made, and the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained; and he
must, within two days after the same are taxed or ascertained, if not included
in the judgment, insert the same in a blank, left in the judgment for that pur­
pose, and must make a similar insertion of the costs in the copies and docket
of the judgment. 
Sec. 1871. When the plaintiff in an action resides out of the State, or is a
foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges, which may be awarded
against such plaintiff, may be required by the defendant. When required, all
proceedings in the action must be stayed until an undertaking, executed by
two or more persons, is filed with the clerk, to the effect that they will pay
such costs and charges as may be awarded against the plaintiff by judgment,
or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred
dollars. A new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the court or
judge, upon proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and
proceedings in the action stayed until such new or additional undertaking is
executed and filed. 
Sec. 1872. After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice that
security is required, or of an order for new or additional security, upon proof
thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the court or judge
may order the action to be dismissed. 
Sec. 1873. Any person may commence and prosecute an action in any of
the courts of this State who will file an affidavit stating that he has a good
cause of action, that he is unable to pay the costs, or procure security to se­
cure the same; then it is hereby made the duty of the officers of the courts to
issue all writs and serve the same and perform all services in the action, with­
out demanding or receiving their fees in advance. 
Sec. 1874. The State or a county, or any subdivision thereof, or any officer
when prosecuting or defending an action on behalf of the State or county, or subdivision thereof, is not required to pay or deposit any fee or amount to or
with any officer during the prosecution or defense of an action. No officer so 
prosecuting or defending shall be taxed with costs or damages, but such costs
or damages, if any, shall be taxed to the State or county, as the case may be. 
Sec. 1875. Each party to a civil action is required to pay the fees fixed by
law for the performance of any service or duty by any officer of such court, at
the instance of such party at the time such service is rendered, except in the
case herein before mentioned ; and no such officer is required to perform such serv­
ice or duty unless the fees fixed therefor are, on demand, first paid or tendered. 
Sec. 1876. In all cases, after final judgment, the clerk or sheriff may make
out a bill of costs against the party incurring them, and if not paid within
twenty days after demand, execution may issue in the name of the parties to
the action for the benefit of the clerk or sheriff. 
Sec. 1877. No fees of any officer shall be payable until an itemized account
of the same, signed by the officer, shall be presented to the person liable
therefor. 
Sec. 1878. When the State is a party, and costs are awarded against it,
they must be paid out of the State treasury. 
Sec. 1879. When a county is a party, and costs are awarded against it, they
must be paid out of the county treasury. 
CHAPTER II
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
Sectio• 18go. Scire facias aholislted.
18g1. Los/ /nJers, !,ow s11jjlied.
18g1. Papers witl,o•l l/,e litle of tl,e action, or will, defective title, ""'Y be valid.
18<)3. S11ccessit1e actions o• /1,e same contract, etc. 
18g.J. Co•so/idatio• of seueral actio•s i•to 011e. 
18g5. Actioes, wl,en deemed le•di•g. 
18g6. Tl,e clerlt n,11st !tee/ a rrgisler of action». 
1~z. TJ,e time wit!,;,, wl,icl, a• act is to he do•e may !Je e:lte11ded.
18<)8. Action» agai,ut a sl,erilf for o.fferial acts. 
18gg. U11dertaki11g •e•lio•ea ,,, tl11s Code, requisites o,f. 
1900. Corjoralio11s as seretie«,
1901. 7,utijica/io• of swreties, 
19()1, Stale •ot req11ired lo give ""1,d., -rvl,e,r State is a larty.
1903. Suret.v o• al/ea/ s11/,sfit•ted lo rigJ,ts of j11dg,,,e•t creditor. 
1904. Deposit i11stead of ••derlalti•g. 
1905. No cl,arge for copies. 
CHAPTER VII. 
Sec. 1890. The writ scire facias is-abolished.
Sec. 1891. If an original pleading or paper be lost, the court may authorize 
a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.
Sec. 1892. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the 
action or proceeding in which it is made or with a defective title, is as valid
and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such
action or proceeding. 
Sec. 1893. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action arises
therefrom. 
Sec. 1894. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between
the same parties and in the same court, upon causes of action which might
have been joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated. 
Sec. 1895. An action is deemed to be pending from the time of its com­
mencement until its final determination upon appeal, or until the time for
appeal has passed, unless the judgment is sooner satisfied. 
Sec. 1896. The clerk must keep among the records of the court, a register
of actions. He must enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes
under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein. 
Sec. 1897. When an act to be done, as provided in this Code, relates to the
pleadings in the action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justification of
sureties, or the preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or of
amendments thereto, or to the service of notices other than of appeal, the time
allowed by this Code may be extended, upon good cause shown by the court
in which the action is pending, or a judge thereof; but such extension shall
not exceed thirty days without the consent of the adverse party. 
Sec. 1898. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an act done by virtue
of his office, and he give written notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of
indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive
evidence of his right to recover against such sureties, and the court may on
motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered up against
them for the amount so recovered, including costs. 
Sec. 1899. In all cases where an undertaking with sureties is required by the
provisions of this Code, the officer taking the same must require the sureties to
accompany it with an affidavit that they are residents and householders or
freeholders within the State, and are each worth the sum specified in the
undertaking over and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of prop­
erty exempt from execution; but when the amount specified in the undertaking 
exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are more than two sureties thereon,
they may state in their affidavits that they are severally worth amounts less
than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to
that of two sufficient sureties. 
Sec. 1900. In all cases where an undertaking or bond with any number of
sureties is authorized or required by any provision of the Code, or any law of
this State, any corporation with a paid up capital of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars, incorporated under the laws of this State for the purpose of
making, guaranteeing or becoming a surety upon bonds or undertaking re­
quired or authorized by law, may become and shall be accepted as security or
as sole and sufficient security upon such undertaking or bond, and such corpo­
rate surety shall be subject to all liabilities and entitled to all the rights of
natural persons as such sureties ; provided, that whenever the liabilities of
any such corporation shall exceed its assets the State Auditor shall require the
deficiency to be paid up in sixty days, and if it is not so paid up then he shall 
issue a certificate, showing the extent of such deficiency, and he shall publish
the same once. a week for three weeks in a daily paper published in the town
or city wherein the principal office of such corporation is, and until such de­
ficiency is paid up such company shall not be accepted on any bond, in estim­
ating the condition of any such company, the State Auditor shall allow as assets
only such as are allowed under existing laws at the time, and shall charge as
liabilities in addition to eighty per cent. of the capital stock all outstanding in­
debtedness of the company, and the premium reserved equal to fifty per
centum of the premiums charged by said company on all risks then in force. 

Sec. 1901. In all cases where an undertaking or bond is authorized or re­
quired by any law of this State, the officer taking the same must, except in 
the case of such corporation as is mentioned in the next preceding Section, re­
quire the sureties to accompany it with an affidavit that they are each respons­ 
ible and householders or freeholders within the State and are each worth the
sum specified in the undertaking or bond over and above all their just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. But when the
amount specified in the undertaking or bond exceeds three thousand dollars
and there are more than two sureties thereon they may state in their affidavits
that they are severally worth amounts less than the amount specified in the 
undertaking or bond, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two suffi­
cient sureties. Any corporation such as is mentioned in the next preceding Section may become one of such sureties. No such corporation shall be ac­
cepted in any case as a surety whenever its liability exceeds its assets, as ascer­
tained in the manner provided in the preceding Section. 

Sec. 1902. In any civil action or proceeding wherein the State or county
or a municipal corporation, or any other officer in his official capacity on behalf
of the State, a county, city, or town, is a party plaintiff or defendant, no bond,
undertaking, or security can be required of the State, county, municipal corpo­
ration or town, or any officer thereof ; but on complying with the other pro­
visions of this Code the State, county, municipal corporation or town, or any
officer thereof acting in his official capacity has the same rights, remedies and
benefits, as if the bond, undertaking or security was given and approved as re­
quired by this Code. 
The Board of Trustees of any school district is entitled to the benefit of
this Section. 
Sec. 1903. Whenever any surety on an undertaking on appeal, executed to
stay proceedings upon a money judgment, pays the judgment either with or
without action, after its affirmation by the appellate court, he is substituted to
the rights of the judgment creditor, and is entitled to control, enforce, and
satisfy such judgment in all respects as if he had recovered the same. 
Sec. 1904. In all cases where an undertaking or bond with sureties is re­
quired by the provisions of this Code, the plaintiff or defendant may deposit
with the clerk of the court or justice of the peace or police judge. as the case
may be, a sum of money equal to the amount required by the undertaking or
bond, which shall be taken as security in the place thereof. 
At any time such deposit may be withdrawn by the party making it, upon
giving the undertaking with sufficient sureties as required by law, approved by
the clerk or justice or judge, upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney,
who may object to the sufficiency of the sureties in the same manner as though
the undertaking were filed in the first instance. 
Sec. 1905. In all cases where copies of pleadings, affidavits, or other papers
are to be served, neither the sheriff nor clerk shall charge or receive a fee for
making such copies when the same are furnished to such officer by the party
to the action or his attorney. 
TITLE III
SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS OF A CIVIL NATURE. 
Tille I. Writ., of review, •a11date, a11d Jro!,i/Jilio•.
JI. Co11le81111g elections, 
/II. s.,,,,,,ary /r0<eedi11gs.
IV. E11foru,,,e11t of lie111. 
V. Co11lemJt.
VI. Vol••tary di.,sol•tio• of corjoratio•s. 
VI I. Emi11e11I do,,,ai11.
V /II. Escl,eated estates. 
IX. C!,a11ge of na,,.e.
X. .A rbitralio.s. 
XI. Sole trader •
• YI I. Proceeding» i• probate. 
X ///. Proceedi•gs for dower. 
Sectio« 1930. Parties, jow desipated.
1931. 7•dg•e•I a11d order sn•c mea11i11g a.s ;,, civil actions. 
Sec. 1930. The party prosecuting a special proceeding may be known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 
Sec. 1931. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of
the rights of the parties therein. The definitions of a motion and an order 
in a civil action are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding. 
TITLE I. 
WRITS OF REVIEW, MANDATE, AND PROHIBITION. 
Cjaptn- I. Writ of reuietu, 
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS. 
II. Writ of •a•date.
Ill. Writ of Jrdi/Jitio11. 
PART Ill. 
IV. Writs of reriet», 111andate, a11d Jro!,i/Jitio11 111a:v i.ss11e a11d /Je luard at
cja111/Jer.J, 
V. R11/e.s of Jracliu a11d a//eal.J 
CHAPTER I. 
WRIT OF REVIEW. 
Sectio,, 1940. Writ of review deji11ed.
1941. Wje11 a11d /Jy ·fl1Aat coerts gra•ted. 
1<)4l. A//licatio11 for,"°'"' •ade.
1~3. TAe writ lo he directed to t!,e ieferior lri/J1111al, etc.
1944. Co11/e11t8 of tje writ. 
194~. Procudit1g., ;,, i11ferior co•rl •ay l,e stayed, or 1101. 
Sectio• 194-6. Seruic« of tje writ.
194z. Tje rev,rw U#der tje writ, e,tte11t of. 
1948. A defective ret•r• of tje writ 111ay l,e Jerfected. Heari•g a•d j11dg,,,e11t.
1949. Copy of j•dg,,.e11t m•st l,e ut1t to tje inferior tril,11t1al. 
1950. J•dg,11et1t rolls. 
Sec. 1940. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of review.
Sec. 1941. A writ of review may be granted by the Supreme Court (and in 
proceedings for contempt, in the District Court, by any justice of the Supreme
Court), or by the District Court or any judge thereof, when an inferior tribunal,
board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of
such tribunal, board, or officer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of
the court, any plain, speedy and adequate remedy. 
Sec. 1942. The application must be made on affidavit by the party bene­
ficially interested, and the court may require a notice of the application to be
given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should
not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice. 
Sec. 1943. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or offi­
cer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or proceedings to
be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if there be one, must
return the writ with the transcript required. 
Sec. 1944. The writ of review must command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the court issuing the: writ, at a specified time and
place, a transcript of the record, and proceedings (describing or referring to
them with convenient certainty), that the same may be reviewed by the court,
and requiring the party in the meantime to desist from further proceedings in
the matter to be reviewed. 
Sec. 1945. If a stay of proceedings be. not intended, the words requiring
the stay must be omitted from the writ; these words may be inserted or
omitted, in the sound discretion of the court or judge; but if omitted, the
power of the inferior court or officer is not suspended or the proceedings stayed. 
Sec. 1946. The writ must be served in the manner as a summons in civil
action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the court or judge. 
Sec. 1947. The review upon this writ cannot be extended further than to
determine whether the inferior tribunal, board or officer, has regularly pursued
the authority of such tribunal, board or officer. · 
Sec. 1948. If the return of the writ be defective, the court or judge may
order a further return to be made. When a full return has been made, the 
court or judge must bear the parties or such of them as may attend for that
purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming or annulling or
modifying the proceedings below. 
Sec. 1949. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, must be trans­
mitted to the inferior tribunal, board or officer having the custody of the record
or proceedings certified upon. 
Sec. 1950. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, entered upon or
attached to the writ and return, constitute the judgment roll. 
CHAPTER II. 
WRIT OF MANDATE. 
Mu11datf' defined.
Wke11 a11d oy wltat l'OUrl iss11ed.
Writ, wl,e11 a11d upon wkaf to issee,
M11sl be eilker alternative or peremptory. SNbsta•ce.
If tMe apjlfratio• be wi/1,o"t notice, tie alter11ative writ may issue ; otlur- 
nuise, tie peremptory. Notice a11d defaNII.
Tie adverse party may at1s-wer u11der oatlt.
If a• esse11/ial questio• of fact i"s raised, tl,e court ,,.ay order a jury trial.
Tl,e applica11t ma_v dem11r lo /1,e a11swer or contradict it by proof.
Motion for new trial, wkere made. 
Sectio« 1969. Tiu clerk must traesmit /1,e verdict to tl,e coert wkere //,e motio« is Je•di11g,
after wl,icl, tl,e /,eari11g da/1 he l,ad on motio«, 
1970. If no a•swer l>e made, or if Ike ansnuer raise 110 material iss,u of fact, the
/,eari•g ,nu.st l>e before t/,e court. 
1971. If /1,e applicant succeed, ke may "ave damages, costs, and a Jerem/tor.1
ma•date. 
1972. Service of /!,e writ.
1973. Pe11ally for disobedience to tile writ. 
Sec. 1900. The writ of mandamus may be denominated a writ of mandate.
Sec. 1901. It may be issued by the Supreme Court or the District Court, 
or any judge of the District Court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board
or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins
as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station ; or to compel the admission
of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled 
and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corpora­
tion, board or person. 
Sec. 1902. The writ must be issued in all cases where there is not a plain,
speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It must be
issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party beneficially interested. 
Sec. 1963. The writ may be either alternative or peremptory. The alterna­
tive writ must state generally the allegation against the party to whom it is 
directed, and command such party, immediately after the receipt of the writ.
or at some other specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to
show cause before the court, at a specified time and place, why he has not
done so. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words
requiring the party to show cause why he has not done as commanded must
be omitted and a return day inserted. 
Sec. 1964. When an application to the court or judge is made without
notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative must be
first issued, but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed.
the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The notice of the applica­
tion, when given, must be at least ten days, or a shorter time, in the discretion
of the court or judge. The writ cannot be granted by default. The case
must be heard by the court or judge, whether the adverse party appear or not. 
Sec. 1965. On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the applica­
tion for the writ is noticed, the party on whom the writ or notice has been
served may show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action. 
Sec. 1966. If an answer be made, which raises a question as to a matter of
fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the substantial
rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of which
the application for the writ is based, the court or judge may, in its or his dis­
cretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argu­
ment until such trial can be had. The question to be tried must be distinctly
stated in the order for trial. If the proceeding is in the District Court or before
a district judge, the trial must take place as in other cases. 
If a jury be re<\uired in the Supreme Court, a jury must oe drawn and
selected from the Jury boxes of the county in which the seat of govern­
ment is located, and the clerk of the District Court of said county must place
such boxes in the custody of the clerk of the Supreme Court for that purpose.
The conduct of the trial shall be the same as in the District Court, and the
clerk of the Supreme Court shall have the same authority to issue process.
enter orders and judgments as the district clerk has in like cases. 
The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages which the
applicant may have sustained, in case they find for him. 
Sec. 1967. On the trial the applicant is not precluded by the answer from
any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may contradict it by proof, either in
direct denial or by way of avoidance. 
Sec. 1 g68. The motion for a new trial must be made in the court in which
the issue of fact is tried. 
Sec. 1969. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be given, or, if given,
the motion be denied, the argument must proceed at any time the court or
judge may direct. 
Sec. 1970. If no answer be made, the case must be heard on the papers of
the applicant. If the answer raises only questions of law, or puts in issue im­ 
material statements, not affecting the substantial right of the parties, the court
or judge must proceed to hear or fix a day for hearing the argument of the
case. 
Sec. 1971. If judgment be given for the applicant, he may recover the
damages which he has sustained, as found by the jury, or as may be deter­ 
mined by the court or referees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with
costs; and for such damages and costs an execution may issue; and a per­
emptory mandate must also be awarded without delay. 
Sec. 1972. The writ must be served in the same manner as a summons in a
civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of the court or
judge. Service upon a majority of the members of any board or body, is
service upon the board or body, whether at the time of the service the board
or body was in session or not. 
Sec. 1973. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed to
any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, if it appear to the court or
judge that any member of such tribunal, corporation or board. or person upon
whom the writ has been personally served, has, without just excuse, refused or
neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon motion. impose a fine not ex­
ceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in a refusal of obedience,
the court may order the party to be imprisoned until the writ is obeyed, and
may make any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of
the writ. 
WRIT OF PROHIBITION. 
Sectio« 19&. Prol,ihitio• defi11ed.
,()St. W.6ere a•d wSe,, issued. 
CHAPTER 111. 
1()82. Writ 111ay he alternatio« or /erem/tory. For• of.
1()83. Certair Jro1,isio11s of tl,e Jrecedi11g- CAa/ter a/Jlicahk. 
Sec. 1980. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart of the writ of man­
date: It arrests the proceedings of any tribunal, corporation, board or person,
whether exercising functions judicial or ministerial, when. such proceedings are
without or in excess of the jurisdiction of such tribunal, corporation, board or
person. 
Sec. 1981. The same may be issued oy the Supreme Court or the District
Court. or any district judge, to any inferior tribunal, or to a corporation, board 
or person, in all cases where there is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy
in the ordinary course of law. It is issued upon affidavit on the application of
the person beneficially interested, 
Sec. 1982. The writ must be either alternative or peremptory, The alter­
native writ must state generally the aliegation against the party to whom it
is directed, and command such party to desist or refrain from further proceed­
ings in the action or matter specified therein, until the further order of the 
court or judge from which it is issued, and to show cause before such court or 
judge, at a specified time and place, why such party should not be absolutely
restrained from any further proceedings in such action or matter. The per­
emptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the
party to show cause why he should not be absolutely restrained, etc., must be
omitted, and a return day inserted. 
Sec. 1983. The provisions of the preceding Chapter, except of the four first Sections thereof, apply to this proceeding. 
CHAPTER II
WRITS OF REVIEW, MANDATE, AND PROHIBITION MAY ISSUE AND BE HEARD
AT CHAMBERS. 
Sectio11 1990. Writ» of review, Ma11date, a11d 1ro/,i/Jitio11 may i11ue a11d /Je l,eard al
cAam/Jer,. 
Sec. 1990· Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition issued by the Supreme
Court, or by a District Court, or district judge, may in the discretion of the 
court issuing the writ, be made returnable and a hearing thereon be heard at
any time. 

Sec. 2000. Except as otherwise provided in this Title the provisions of
Part II., of this Code, are applicable to, and constitute the rules of practice in
the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 
Sec. 2001. The provisions of Part II., of this Code, relative to new trials
and appeals, except in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
this Title, apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 
CHAPTER III
CONTESTING CERTAIN ELECTIONS. 
S«tio• 2010. WJ,o ,11a:v co,,te,t a11d p-t>1111d of contest. 
:1011. lrregwlarity a11d imlroJer cot1d"ct of iNdges, wl1e11 to a11,111I electio,,1. 
:1012. W,i,11 1101 to. 
:1013. Illegal votes, wl,e11 not to vitiate election, 
2014. Proceeding» 011 cot1le1t. 
:1015. Stateme11t of caes« of coetest, Wlte• based 011 reuJtio• of i//,gal't·ot,, co•·
te1ta11t to deliver to re.,Jo11de11t a list of t-otes claimed to be illegal. 
2016. Stateme11t of cause of CON/est; wa11t of form «ot to uitiate. 
2017. r:f 11dge to ltold s/edal term for trial of contest, 
2018. Cler It to iss"e citatia« to re.,po11de11t. 
:1019. Wit1us1es, alle11dat1ce of, /,ow e11Jorud. 
aoso. Power of court, Adio"r11ment of court, 
2021. Rt1les to got·rr11 co"rt i11 trial of contest, 
2022. Coert may declare wl,o u·as elected. 
20:13. Costs. 
2024. Appeal. 
RULES OF PRACTICE, AND APPEALS. 
2025. Wl,e11 electic,11 void a11d c,.ffece uacant, 
Sec. 2010. Any elector of a county, town or city, or of any political subdivision of either, may contest the right of any person declared to be elected
to an office to be exercised therein, for any of the following causes: 
1. For malconduct on the part of the Board of Judges, or any member
thereof. 
2. When the person whose right to the office is contested was not, at the
time of the election. eligible to such office. 
3. When the person whose right is contested has given to any elector or 
inspect<:>r, judge or clerk of the election, any bribe or reward, or has offered any
such bribe or reward for the purpose of procuring his election, or has com­
mitted any other offense against the elective franchise, defined in Title IV., 
Part I., of the Penal Code.
4. On account of illegal votes. 
CHAPTER IV. 
CHAPTER V. 
TITLE II. 
Sec. 2011. No irregularity or improper conduct in the proceedings of the
judges, or any of them, is such malconduct as avoids an election, unless irregu­
larity or improper conduct is such as to procure the person whose right to the
office is contested to be declared elected, when he had not received the highest
number of legal votes. 
Sec. 2012. When any election held for an office exercised in and for a county
is contested on account of any malconduct on the part of the Board of Judges
of any election district or precinct, or any member thereof, the election cannot
be annulled and set aside upon any proof thereof, unless the rejection of the
vote of such district or precinct would change the result as to such office in the
remaining vote of the county. 
Sec. 2013. Nothing in the fourth ground of contest, specified in Section 
2010, is to be so construed as to authorize an election to be set aside on
account of illegal votes, unless it appear that a number of illegal votes has been
given to the person whose right to the office is contested, which if taken from
him, would reduce the number' of his legal votes below the number of votes
given to some other person for the same office, after deducting therefrom the
illegal votes which may be shown to have been given to such other person. 
Sec. 2014. When an elector contests the right of any person declared elect­
ed to such office, he must, within twenty days after the canvassers have made
their return of the election, file with the clerk of the District Court of the
county in which the contest arises a written statement, setting forth specific­
ally: 
1. The name of the party contesting such election, and that he is an elec­
tor of the district, county or township, as the case may be, in which such elec­
tion was held. 
2. The name of the person whose right to the office is contested.
3. The office. 
4- The particular grounds of such contest.
Which statement must be verified by the affidavit of the contesting party 
that the matters and things therein contained are true.
Sec. 2015. When the reception of illegal votes is alleged as a cause of 
contest, it is sufficient to state generally that in one or more specified voting
precincts illegal votes were given to the person whose election is contested,
which, if taken from him, will reduce the number of his legal votes below the
number of legal votes given to some other person for the same office; but no
testimony can be received of any illegal votes, unless the party contesting such
election deliver to the opposite party, at least three days before sucn trial, a
written list of the number of illegal votes, and by whom given, which he in­
tends to prove on such trial ; and no testimony can be received of any illegal
votes except such as are specified in such list. 
Sec. 2016. No statement of the grounds of contest will be rejected, nor the
proceedings dismissed by any court for want of form, if the grounds of contest
are alleged with such certainty as will advise the defendant of the particular
proceeding or cause for which such election is contested. 
Sec. 2017. Upon the statement being filed, the clerk must inform the
District Court or judge of the county thereof, which shall thereupon order a
special session or term of such court to be held at the court room, on some day
to be named by it, not less than ten nor more than twenty days from the date
of such order, to hear and determine such contested election. 
Sec. 2018. The clerk shall thereupon issue a citation for the person, whose
right to the office is contested, to appear at the time and place specified in the
order, which citation must be delivered to the sheriff, and served either upon
the party in person, or if he cannot be found, by leaving a copy thereof at the
house where he last resided, at least five days before the time so specified. 
Sec. 2019. The clerk must issue subpeenas for witnesses at the request
of either party, which must be served as other subpeenas : and the District 
Court shall have full power to issue attachments to compel attendance of wit­
nesses who have been subprened to attend. 
Sec. 2020. The court must meet at the time and place designated, to de­
termine such contested election, and shall have all the powers necessary to the
determination thereof. It may adjourn from day to day until such trial is
ended, and may also continue the trial, before its commencement, for any
time not exceeding twenty days, for good cause shown by either party upon
affidavit, at the cost of the party applying for such continuance. 
Sec. 2021. The court must be governed, in the trial and determination of
such contested election, by the rules of law and evidence governing the deter­
mination of questions of law and fact, so far as the same may be applicable;
and may dismiss the proceedings if the statement of the cause or causes of the
contest is insufficient, or for want of prosecution. After hearing the proofs
and allegations of the parties, the court must pronounce judgment in the
premises,either confirming or annulling and setting aside such election. 
Sec. 2022. If in any such case it appears that another person than the one
returned has the highest number of legal votes, the court must declare such
person elected. 
Sec. 2023. If the proceedings are dismissed for insufficiency, or want of
prosecution, or the election is by the court confirmed, judgment must be
rendered against the party contesting such election, for costs, in favor of the
party whose election was contested; but if the election is annulled or set aside,
Judgment for costs must be rendered against the party whose election was
contested, in favor of the party contesting the same. Primarily, each party is
liable for the costs created by himself, to the officers and witnesses entitled
thereto, which may be collected in the same manner as similar costs are col­
lected in other cases. 
Sec. 2024. Either party, aggrieved by the judgment of the court may
appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court, as in other cases of appeal thereto
from the District Court, but such appeal must not stay execution or proceed­
ings, except execution for costs. 
Sec. 2025. Whenever an election is annulled or set aside by the judgment
of the District Court, and no appeal has been taken within ten days thercaf ter, 
the commission, if any has issued, is void, and the office vacant. 
CHAPTER I /. Co11fessio11 of J•dg"'e"t w,"/l,01d actio«.
//. S116,,,;11;,,g a controversy witl,0111 actio«. 
I/ I. Disc!targe of jerso11s i1'1/riso11r.d Ott cfoi/ process.
IV. S11,,,mary prouedit1gs for ohtai11i11g jos.u-.uio• of real ;rolerly ;,, urtai• 
cases, 
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS. 
CO:SFESSION OF JUDG~IENT WITHOUT ACTION. 
Sectio« l040. '711dg1nrttl ma_y be confessrd for debt dee or co•tiNge,,l lial,i/it_y.
20.p. Statrmn,t ;,, 'U.'rili"!{' and for,,, tlterroj~ 
1041. Fili11g stafr11u11t a11d e11/er,"n![j•dgme11I. 
2043. How, in ju#iCf'.t' coe rts, 
TITLE Ill. 
CHAPTER I. 
Sec. 2040. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either
for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent
liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this Chapter. Such judgment may be entered in any court having jurisdiction for
like amounts. 
Sec. 2041. A statement in writing must be made, signeo by the defendant
and verified by his oath, to the following effect : 
I. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum. 
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and show that the sum confessed therefor is justly
due, or to become due. 
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against contingent Iia­
bility, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and show that
the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same. 
Sec. 2042. The statement must be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment is to be entered, who must indorse upon it, and enter in the
judgment book, a judgment of such court for the amount confessed, with ten
dollars, costs. The statement and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed
thereon, becomes the jud~ent roll. 
Sec. 2043. In a justice s court, where the court has authority to enter the
judgment, the statement may be filed with the justice, who may thereupon
enter in his docket a judgment of his court for the amount con{ essed, with five
dollars, costs in the District Court and three dollars in the justice court. If a
transcript of such judgment be filed with the clerk, a copy of the statement
must be filed with it. 

Sec. 2050. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts
upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to
any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought; but
it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real and the proceedings in
good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court must thereupon
hear and determine the case and render judgment thereon as if an action were
depending. 
Sec. 2051. Judgment must be entered in the judgment book as in other
cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial. The case, the
submission and a copy of the judgment constitute the judgment roll. 
Sec. 2052. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had
been rendered in an action and is in the same manner subject to appeal. 
CHAPTER II
DISCHARGE OF PERSONS IMPRISONED ON CIVIL PROCESS. 
Sectio« 1o6o.
lc.61.
2o6.2. 
lo63. 
lo6.f. 
2o65.
2o66. 
1007. 
2o68.
lOOC). 
2070. 
CHAPTER II. 
SUB~IITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION. 
CHAPTER III. 
Persons co11Ji11ed may l>e di.,chargrd.
Notice of applicatio11.
Service of notice,
E:xami11atio11 before judge. 
l11terrogatorie., ma_v be ;,, ,t•rili11g.
Oat!, to be admi11i.,tered.
Order of di,,cl,arge. 
If not ai:,cl,arged, prit1011er may agai11 apply, w/,en.
lJisc!larg, Ji11al.
711dgme11t remain« ;,, force.
Plai11tiff may order di.,c/,argr of tl,e pri.so11er, ,1.•ho shall 11ot tkereafter he 
iiab!« to impriso11me11t for f/,e same cause of action, 
2071. Plai11tiff to adva11ce fu11ds for support of priso11er. , 
Sec. 2060. Any person confined in jail on an execution issued on a judg­
ment rendered in a civil action, must be discharged therefrom upon the condi­ 
tions of this Chapter specified.
Sec. 2061. Such person must cause a notice in writing to be given to the 
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, that at a certain time and place he will apply
to a judge of the District Court of the county in which such person may be
confined, for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprisonment. 
Sec. 2062. Such notice must be served upon the plaintiff, his agent or attor­
ney. one day at least before the hearing of the application. 
If the plaintiff be not a resident of the county, and have no agent or attor­
rley in the county, no such notice will be served. 
Sec. 2063. At the time and place specified in the notice, such person must
be taken before the judge, who must examine him under oath concerning his
estate and property and effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay
the judgment for which he is committed; and such judge may also hear any
other legal or pertinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or the
creditor. 
Sec. 2064. The plaintiff in the action may, upon such examination, propose
to the prisoner any such interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry ; and they
must, if required by him, be proposed and answered in writing, and the an­
swer must be signed and sworn to by the prisoner. 
Sec. 2065. If, upon the examination, the judge is satisfied that the prisoner
is entitled to his discharge, he must administer to him the following oath, to.
wit: "I,-----, do solemnly swear that I have not any estate, real or
personal, to the amount of fifty dollars, except such as is by law exempted
from being taken in execution; and that I have not any other estate now con­
veyed or concealed, or in any way disposed of, with design to secure the same
to my use, or to hinder, delay, or defraud my creditors: So help me God." 
Sec. 2066. After administering the oath, the judge must issue an order that
the prisoner be discharged from custody, and the officer, upon the service of
such order, must discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for no
other cause. 
Sec. 2067. If such judge does not discharge the prisoner, he may apply for
his discharge at the end of every succeeding ten days, in the same manner as
above provided, and the same proceedings must thereupon be had. 
Sec. 2068. The prisoner, after being so discharged, is forever exempt from
arrest or imprisonment for the same debt, unless he be convicted of having
willfully sworn falsely upon his examination before the judge, or in taking the
oath before prescribed. 
Sec. 2069. The judgment against any prisoner who is discharged remains
in full force against any estate which may then or at any time afterward be­
long to him, and the plaintiff may take out a new execution against the goods
and estate of the prisoner, in like manner as if he had never been committed. 
Sec. 2070. The plaintiff in the action may at any time order the prisoner
to be discharged, and he is not thereafter liable to imprisonment for the same
cause of action. 
Sec. 2071. Whenever a prisoner is committed to jail on an execution issued
on a judgment recovered in a civil action, the creditor, his agent or attorney.
must advance to the jailer, on such commitment, sufficient money for the sup­
port of the prisoner for one week, and must make the like advance for every
successive week of his imprisonment, and in case of failure to do so, the jailer
must forthwith discharge such prisoner from custody; and such discharge has
the same effect as if made by order of the creditor. 
CHAPTER IV. 
SU~IMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR ODTAININc.; POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY
IN CERTAIN CASES. 
Srctio« 208o. Forriblr c nt r v dr/inrd .
.zoS1. Forcible drta.i11rr d,·fi11rd. 
208z. Unla-:::f"l d11/<1i11rr ;1,:µ"11,·d. 
St1clio11 :ao83. Service of 11otice. 
2oS+ Wkal courts kat1t1 j11risdictio11. 
2085. Parties defe11da11/.
:ao86. Parties ge11era/(y. . 
2o87. Co•/lai,,I. 'J•dp to ji:11 day for a//t1flra11ce of defnad•,,t a11d ,.,.,,,,o,u. 
2o88. S,m,,,,011s,for• a11d service of.
:aoBc}. 'J11dg•t111/ by defa.11. 
2ogo. Defe11da1't •ay a/pear, etc. 
2091. Trial !Jy j•ry. 
20C)l, Slurwi11g req•ired of //ai11tif' ;,, fordl,/e e11try or deltliHr. Of defet1da11t.
:1093. Co•/lai11t ••st be a111et1ded ;,, certai« cases. 
2094. Verdict a11d j11dpe11t. 
2095. V,rijicatio• of co•/lai,,t a•d at1rw,r.
ic,¢. Ap/,al. 
2097 R11/es of /ractiu.
10<)8: A;/rals, kou• talte11, etc.
2099. Rrlirf against forfeitere of lease, 
Sec. 2080, Every person is guilty of a forcible entry who either: 
1. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts of a house, or by any
kind of violence or circumstance of terror enters upon or into any real property
or mining claim; or, 
2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property or mining claim, turns
out by force, threats or menacing conduct the party in possession. 
Sec. 2081. Every person is guilty of a forcible detainer who either: 
1. By force or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully holds and
keeps the possession of any real property or mining claim, whether the same
was acquired peaceably or otherwise; or, 
2. Who, in the night time, or during the absence of the occupant of any
lands or mining claim, unlawfully enters upon real property, and who, after
demand made for the surrender thereof, for the period of five days refuses to
surrender the same to such former occupant. 
The occupant of real property or mining claim, within the meaning of this Subdivision, is one who, within five days preceding such unlawful entry, was in
the peaceable and undisputed possession of such lands. 
Sec. 2082. A tenant of real property or mining claim, for a term less than
life, is guilty of unlawful detainer. 
1. When he continues in possession, in person or by sub-tenant, of the
property, or any part thereof, after the expiration of the term for which it is
let to him, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of
his landlord, if any there be : but in case of a tenancy at will, it must first be
terminated by notice, as prescribed in the Civil Code. 
2. Where he continues in possession, in person or by sub-tenant, without
permission of his landlord, or the successor in estate of his landlord, if any
there be, after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agree­
ment under which the property is held, and three days' notice in writing, re­
quiring its payment, stating the amount which is due, or possession of the
property, shall have been served upon him, and if there be a sub-tenant in
actual occupation of the premises, also upon such sub-tenant. Such notice
may be served at any time within one year after the rent becomes due. In all
cases of tenancy upon agricultural lands, where the tenant has held over and
retained possession for more than sixty days after the expiration of his term
without any demand of possession or notice to quit by the landlord, or the
successor in estate ofhis landlord, if any there be, he shall be deemed to be hold­
ing by permission of the landlord or the successor in estate of his landlord, and
shall be entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for another full year, and
shall not be guilty of an unlawful detainer during said year, and such holding
over for the period aforesaid shall be taken and construed as a consent on the
part of a tenant to hold for another year. 
3. When he continues in possession, in person or by sub-tenant, after a
neglect or failure to perform other conditions or covenants of the lease or 
agreement under which the property is held, including any covenant not to
assign or sub-let, than the one for the payment of rent, and three days' notice,
in writing, requiring the performance of such conditions or covenants, or the
possession of the property, shall have been served upon him, and if there be a
sub-tenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon such sub-tenant.
Within three days after the serving of the notice, the tenant, or any sub-tenant
in actual occupation of the premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or other
person interested in its continuance, may perform the conditions or covenants
of the lease, or pay the stipulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save
the lease from forfeiture. If the covenants and conditions of the lease, violated
by the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed
herein, need be given to said lessee or his sub-tenant demanding the perform­
ance of the violated covenant or conditions of the lease. A tenant may take
proceedings, similar to those prescribed in this Chapter, to obtain possession
of the premises let to an under-tenant, in case of his unlawful detention of the
premises under-let to him. 
4. Any tenant or sub-tenant, assigning or sub-letting, or committing waste
upon the demised premises, contrary to the covenants of his lease, thereby
terminates the lease, and the landlord, or his successor in estate, shall upon
service of three days' notice to quit, upon the person or persons in possession,
be entitled to restitution of possession of such demised premises, under the
provisions of this Chapter. 
Sec. 2083. The notices required by the preceding Section may be served,
either: 
1. By delivering a copy to the tenant personally; or, 
2. If he be absent from his place of residence, and from his usual place of
business, by leaving a copy with some person of suitable age and discretion at
either place, and sending a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant at
his place of residence; or, 
3. If such place of residence and business cannot be ascertained, or a per­
son of suitable age or discretion there cannot be found, then by affixing a copy
in a conspicuous place on the property, and also delivering a copy to a person
there residing, if such person can be found ; and also sending a copy through
the mail addressed to the tenant at the place where the property is situated.
Service upon a sub-tenant may be made in this same manner. 
Sec. 2084. The District Court of the county in which the property, or
some part of it, is situated, shall have jurisdiction of proceedings under this Chapter; provided, that justices' courts, within their respective towns, town­
ships or cities, shall have concurrent jurisdiction. 
Sec. 2085. No person other than the tenant of the premises and sub-tenant,
if there be one, in the actual occupation of the premises when the complaint is
filed, need be made parties defendant in the proceeding, nor shall any proceed­
ing abate, nor the plaintiff be non-suited for the non-joinder of any person who
might have been made party defendant; but when it appears that any of the
parties served with process, or appearing in the proceeding, are guilty of the
offense charged, judgment must be rendered against him. In case a defendant
has become a sub-tenant of the premises· in controversy, after the service of
the notice provided for by Part 2., of Section 2082, of this Code, upon the
tenant of the premises, the fact that such notice was not served on each sub­
tenant, shall constitute no defense to the action. In case a married woman be
a tenant, or a sub-tenant, her coverture shall constitute no defense ; but in case
her husband be not joined, or unless she has separate property, an execution
issued upon a personal judgment against her can only be enforced against
property on the premises at the commencement of the action, or against her
separate property. All persons who enter the premises under the tenant, after
the commencement of the action, shall be bound by the judgment the same as
if he or they had been made party to the action. 
Sec. 2086. Except as provided in the preceding Section, the provisions of
Part II., of this Code, relating to parties to civil actions, are applicable to this
proceeding. 
Sec. 2087. The plaintiff, in his complaint, which must be in writing, must
set forth the facts on which he seeks to recover, and describe the premises with
reasonable certainty, and may set forth therein any circumstances of fraud,
force or violence, which may have accompanied the alleged forcible entry, or
forcible or unlawful detainer, and claim damages therefor. In case the unlaw­
ful detainer charged be after default in the payment of rent, the complaint
must state the amount of such rent. Upon filing the complaint, a summons
must be issued thereon as in other cases, returnable at a date designated therein,
which shall not be less than four days nor more than twelve days from its date.
The summons must be served personally upon the defendants, if within the
State; if not within the State, in the same manner as notices are required to
be served in Section 2o83. The complaint need not be served. 
Sec. 2088. The summons must state the parties to the proceeding, the court
in which the same is brought, the nature of the action, in concise terms, and
the relief sought, and also the return day, and must notify the defendant to
appear and answer within the time designated, or that the relief sought will be
taken against him. The summons must be directed to the defendant, and be
served at least four days before the return day designated therein, and must
be served and returned in the same manner as summons in civil actions is
served and returned. Upon the return of any summons issued under this Chapter, where the same has not, for any reason, been served or not served in
time, the plaintiff may have a new summons issued, the same as if no previous
summons had been issued. 
Sec. 2089. If, at the time appointed, the defendant does not appear and
defend, the court must enter his default, and enter judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, as prayed for in the complaint. 
Sec. 2090. On or before the day fixed for his appearance, the defendant
may appear and answer or demur. 
Sec: 2091. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by the pleadings, it must
be tried by a jury, unless such jury be waived as in other cases. The jury
shall be formed in the same manner as other trial juries in the court in which
the action is pending. 
Sec. 2092. On the trial of any proceedings for any forcible entry or forcible
detainer, the plaintiff shall only be required to show, in addition to the forcible
entry or forcible detainer complained of, that he was peaceably in the actual
possession at the time of the forcible entry, or, was entitled to the possession
at the time of the forcible detainer. The defendant may show in his defense,
that he or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such premises he claims,
have been in the quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole year t0-
gether next before the commencement of the proceedings, and that bis interest
therein is not then ended or determined, and such showing is a bar to the
proceedings. 
Sec. 2093. When, upon the trial of any proceeding under this Chapter, it
appears from the evidence that the defendant has been guilty of either forcible
entry or a forcible or unlawful detainer, and other than the offense charged in
the complaint, the judge must order that such complaint be forthwith amended
to conform with such proof; such amendment must be made without any im­
position of terms. No continuance shall be permitted on account of such
amendment, unless the defendant, by affidavit filed, shows to the satisfaction
of the court good cause therefor. 
Sec. 2094. If, upon the trial, the verdict of the jury, or, if the case be tried
without a jury, the finding of the court be in favor of the plaintiff and against
the defendant, judgment shall be entered for the restitution of the premises;
and if the proceeding be for an unlawful detainer after neglect or failure to 
perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which the
property is held, or after default in the payment of rent, the judgment shall
also declare the forfeiture of such lease or agreement. The jury, or the court,
if the proceeding be tried without a jury, shall also assess the damages occa­
sioned to the plaintiff by any forcible entry, or by any forcible or unlawful
detainer, alleged in the complaint and proved on the trial, and find the amount
of any rent due, if the alleged unlawful detainer be after default in the payment
of rent ; and the judgment shall be rendered against the defendant, guilty ot
the forcible entry, or forcible or unlawful detainer, for three times the amount
of the damages thus assessed, and of the rent found due. When the proceed­
ing is for an unlawful detainer after default in the payment of the rent, and the
lease or agreement under which the rent is payable, has not by its terms expired,
execution upon the judgment shall not be issued until the expiration of five
days after the entry of the judgment, within which time the tenant, or any sub­
tenant, or any mortgagee of the term, or other party interested in its continu­
ance, may pay into court, for the landlord, the amount found due as rent, with
interest thereon and the amount of damages found by the jury or the court for
the unlawful detainer, and the costs of the proceeding, and thereupon the judg­
ment shall be satisfied and the tenant be restored to his estate: but if payment,
as here provided, be not made within the five days, the judgment may be
enforced for its full amount, and for the possession of the premises. In all
other cases the judgment may be enforced immediately. 
Sec. 2095. The complaint and answer must be verified. If new matter be
set up in the answer it is deemed denied. 
Sec. 2096. An appeal may be taken by plaintiff or defendant as in other
cases. 
Sec. 2097. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, provisions of
Part I I., of this Code, are applicable to, and constitute the rules of practice
mentioned in this Chapter. 
Sec. 2098. The provisions of Part 11., of this Code, relative to new trials
and appeals, except as in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
this Chapter, apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter. 
Sec. 2099. The court may relieve a tenant against a forfeiture of a lease
and restore him to his former estate in case of hardship, where application for
such relief is made within thirty days after the forfeiture is declared by the
judgment of the court, as provided in Section 2094- The application may be
made by a tenant or sub-tenant, or mortgagee of the term, or any person inter­
ested in the continuance of the term. It must be made upon petition, setting
forth the facts upon which relief is sought, and be verified by the applicant.
Notice of the application, with a copy of the petition, must be served on the
plaintiff in the judgment, who may appear and contest the application. In
no case shall the application be granted except on condition that full pay­
ment of rent due, or full performance of conditions or covenants stipulated, so
far as the same is practicable, be made. 
CHAPTER III
I. Lie,as ;,, ge,ural.
I I. Lie•s of #lrclla•ics a11d ot/;ers "lo" real ;roJ•rly. 
I I I. Certai• lie,u for salaries a11d wages.
Clla;ter 
S('(/io• lIJO. Deji11itio• of lie», 
TITLE IV. 
ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS. 
CHAPTER I. 
LIENS IN GENERAL. 
Sec. 2120. A lien is a charge imposed upon specific property oy which it is
made security for the performance of an act. . 
LIENS OF MECHANICS AND OTHERS UPON REAL PROPERTY. 
SectioN « 2130.
2131.
llJl. 
llJJ.
l1J4· 
llJ_i;. 
2136.
2137. 
2138.
llJC). 
2140.
l141. 
Wko rt1litl,d lo lie»,
How lie11 p,rfe<led.
D11t_v of ro1111ty d,rlt.
Wkat prop,rt_v afrrt,d. ·
Lease·kold i11t,resl, .lou· aff,rted.
Priority of lie11 Ot''1' ,,.orlgag,. 
Part I I., of tlti., Code, a///ical,le, relative to ;ractic-.
Sa,,.e relatio« to 11eu• trials. 
.A II p,rso11s i11lerested "'"Y be •ade parties.
1.;,,,;1atio11s. 
WAo dee•ed ow11ers.
Sati.~factio11 of li,11. 
Sec. 2130. Every mechanic, miner, machinist, architect, foreman, engineer,
ouilder, lumberman, artisan, workman, laborer, and any person performing any
work and labor upon, or furnishing any material, machinery or fixture for any
building, structure, bridge. flume, canal. ditch, aqueduct, mining claim, quartz
lode, tunnel, city or town lot, farm, ranch, fence, railroad, telegraph, telephone,
electric light, gas or water works or plant, or any improvements upon comply­
ing with the provisions of this Chapter, for his work or labor done, or material,
machinery or fixtures furnished, has a lien upon the property upon which the
work or labor is done, or material furnished. 
Sec. 2131. Every person wishing to avail himself of the benefits of this Chapter must file with the county clerk of the county in which the property
or premises mentioned in the preceding Section is situated, and within ninety
days after the material or machinery aforesaid has been furnished, or the work
or labor performed, a just and true account of the amount due him, after al­
lowing all credits, and containing a correct description of the property to be
charged with such lien, verified by affidavit, but any error or mistake in the
amount or description does not affect the validity of the lien, if the property
can be identified by the description ; which paper containing the account, de­
scription and affidavit is deemed the lien. 
 
Sec. 2132. The county clerk must indorse upon every lien the day of its
filing, and make an abstract thereof in a book by him to be kept for that pur­
pose, and properly indexed, containing the date of the filing, the name of the
person holding the lien, the amount thereof, the name of the person against
whose property the lien is filed and the description of the property to be
charged with the same. 
Sec. 2133. The lien given extends to the lot or land upon which any such
building, improvements or structure is situated, to the extent of one acre, if
outside of any town or city, or within any town or city, then to the extent of
the whole lot or lots upon which the same is situated, if the land belonged to
the person who caused said building to be constructed, altered or repaired ; but
if such person owned less than a fee simple estate in such land, then only his
interest therein is subject to such lien; all liens for any work or labor done or
materials furnished upon the same premises, which shall be filed within thirty
days after the filing of the first lien on such premises, shall entitle the holders 
thereof to share equally pro rata, according to the amount of their respective 
liens in the proceeds arising from the sale of such premises upon the fore­
closure of such liens. If, after the expiration of thirty days, other liens are
filed against such premises, then all liens filed within sixty days after the filing
of such subsequent lien are liens of the second class, and share pro rata in any
proceeds arising from the sale of the said premises which may remain after all 
liens of the first class have been paid. The liens for work or labor done, or
material furnished, as specified in this Chapter, shall be prior to and have prec­
edence over any mortgage, incumbrance, or other lien made subsequent to the
commencement of work on any contract for the erection of such building,
structure or other improvement. 

Sec. 2134. When the interest in the land, building, structure or other im­
provement, is a lease-hold interest, the forfeiture of such lease does not forfeit
or impair such liens so far as concerns the buildings, structures and improve­
ments put thereon by the persons charged with such lien, but the same may
be sold to satisfy said lien, and may be removed within twenty days after the
sale thereof by the purchaser. 
Sec. 2135. The liens attach to the buildings, structures or improvements
for which they were furnished or the work was done in preference to any prior
lien, incumbrance or mortgage upon the land upon which said buildings,
structures or improvements are erected; and any person enforcing such lien
may sell the same under execution and the purchaser may remove the prop­
erty sold within a reasonable time thereafter. 
Sec. 2136. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of
Part II., of this Code, are applicable to and constitute the rules of practice in
the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter. 
Sec. 2137. The provisions of Part I I., of this Code, relative to new trials
and appeals, except in so far as they are inconsistent with, the provisions of
this Chapter, apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter. 
Sec. 2138. All persons interested in the matter in controversy, or in prop­
erty charged with the lien, or having liens thereon, may be made parties. 
Sec. 2139. All actions under this Chapter must be commenced within
twelve months from the filing of the lien. 
Sec. 2140. Every person, including guardians of minors, married women,
and any company, association or corporation not tenants or lessees, for whose
use, benefit or enjoyment any property, building, structure or improvement
mentioned in this Chapter is constructed, repaired or altered, is deemed the
owner thereof for the purposes of this Chapter. 
Sec. 2141. Whenever any indebtedness which is a lien upon any such real
estate, structure, building or other improvement, is paid and satisfied, it is the
duty of the creditors to acknowledge satisfaction thereof as in case of a mort­
gage; and if any creditor fail to acknowledge satisfaction, as aforesaid, he is
liable to any person injured by such failure to the amount of such injury and
the costs of action. 
CHAPTER III. 
CERTAIN LIENS FOR SALARIES AND WAGES.
Sectio« 2150. Preferred creditors wje,, assig,,•e•I of properly is 111ad,. 
1151. Same agai11sl estates.
115:.2. Same;,, cases of eJtec11lio• or allad•e11t.
:.2153. Service of 110/iu. 
:215+ PrO<'udi11g if claim disp11ted.
l155. Origi•«tl action ran11ot be dismissed,
1156. Mortgages, etc., 1101 a_tfeded. 
Sec. 2150. In all assignments of property made by any person to trustees
or assignees on account of the inability of the person, at the time of the
assignment, topay his debts, or in proceedings in insolvency, the wages of the
miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks, or the laborers employed by such
person, to the amount of two hundred dollars each and for services rendered
within sixty days previously, are preferred claims, and must be paid by such
trustees or assignees before any other creditor or creditors of the assignor. 
Sec. 2151. In case of the death of any employer the wages of each miner,
mechanic, salesman, clerk, servant" and laborer for services rendered within
sixty days next preceding the death of the employer, not exceeding two hun- 
dred dollars, rank in priority next after the funeral expenses, expenses of the
last sickness, the charges and expenses of administering upon the estate, and
the allowance to the widow and infant children, and must be paid before other
claims against the estate of the deceased person. 
Sec. 2152. In case of executions, attachments and writs of similar nature,
issued against any person, except for claims for labor done, any miners,
mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks, or laborers who have claims against the
defendant for labor done, may give notice of their claims and the amount thereof,
sworn to by the person making the claim, to the parties plaintiff and defendant
to the action in which such execution, attachment or other writ has been issued,
and upon the officer executing the same. Service of notice herein required
may be made upon the officer charged with the execution of such writ in one
or more cases that may be pending against such person, who shall forthwith 
serve such notice and claim, by copy, upon the said parties, plaintiff, and 
defendant, if found in the county where such action is pending, or upon their
respective attorneys employed in such case or cases pending. 
Sec. 2153. The officer serving said notice and claim shall forthwith, after
such service of the same, make return thereof, showing such service, where and
how made. Service may be made in any case at any time before the actual
sale of the property levied upon in such pending action, and unless such claim
is disputed by the debtor or a creditor or party plaintiff, such officer must pay
such person out of the proceeds of the sale the amount he is entitled to receive
for services rendered within the sixty days next preceding the levy of the writ,
not exceeding two hundred dollars. If any or all of the claims so presented,
and claiming preference under this Chapter, are disputed by either the debtor
or a creditor, the person presenting the same must commence an action within
ten days after notice of such dispute is served upon such claimant, as provided
for in the next Section, for the recovery thereof; and the officer must retain
possession of so much of the proceeds of the sale as may be necessary to sat­
isfy such claim and costs until the final determination of such action ; and in
case judgment be had, the costs are a preferred claim, which may include a
reasonable attorney's fee. 
Sec. 2154. The debtor or creditor intending to dispute any claim presented
under the provisions of the last Section shall, within ten days after receiving
notice of such claim, serve upon the claimant and officer holding such execu­
tion, attachment or other writ, a statement in writing, verified by the oath of
the debtor or person disputing such claim for services, setting forth that no 
part of said claim, not exceeding a sum specified, is justly due from the debtor
to the claimant for services rendered within the sixty days next preceding the
levy of the execution, attachment or other writ, as the case may be. If the claim­
ant bring suit on a claim which is disputed in part only, and fail to recover a
sum exceeding that which was admitted "to be due, he shall not recover costs,
but costs shall be adjudged against him; and where such claimant fails to bring
suit upon his claim, which is disputed in part only, he shall be deemed to have
waived that portion of his claim disputed. 
Sec. 2155. Persons having the preferred claims mentioned in this Chapter,
are entitled to a lien upon the property attached or levied upon, and if said
claims are not disputed, or if a judgment is recovered for the same, the officer
must pay such claims out of the property, and the original action cannot be
dismissed without the consent of the owners of such preferred claims. 
Sec. 2156. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to affect any
lien, incumbrance or mortgage held by any creditor of such employer prior to 
said sixty days. 
TITLE V. 
CONTEMPTS.
Sectio» 2170. Wjat acts or omis$iO"s are contem//$. 
Sectio« 2171.
2171. 
:2173. 
:217+ 
2175.
2176. 
2177. 
2178.
2179. 
218o. 
2181.
2181. 
Sec. 2170. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of justice,
or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the court : 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge while
holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judi­ 
cial proceeding. 
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance, tend­
ing to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding. 
3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of duty by an
attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner or other person appointed or elected to
perform a judicial or ministerial service. 
4- Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by a party to
an action or special proceeding. 
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the court.
6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney or counsel of a court, and acting as 
such without authority. · 
7. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of an officer by virtue of
an order or process of such court. 
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while going to, re­
maining at, or returning from, the court where the action is on the calendar
for trial. 
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of a
court. 
10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness. 
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to attend or serve as
such, or improperly conversing with a party to an action to be tried at such
court, or with any other person, in relation to the merits of such action, or re­
ceiving a communication from a party or other person in respect to it, without
immediately disclosing the same to the court. 
12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer, of the law­
fu I judgment, order or process of a superior court, or proceeding in an action
or special proceeding contrary to law, after such action or special proceeding is
removed from the jurisdiction of such inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer.
Disobedience of the lawful orders, or process of a judicial officer is also a con­
tempt of the authority of such officer. 
Sec. 2171. Every person dispossessed of or ejected from, or out of, any real
property, by the judgment or process of any court of competent jurisdiction,
and who, not having right so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes possession
of any such real property, or induces or procures any person not having a
right so to do, or aids or abets him therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court
by which such judgment was rendered, or from which such process issued.
U pan conviction for such contempt, the court or justice of the peace must im­
mediately issue an alias process, directed to the proper officer, and requiring 
him to restore the party entitled to the possession of such property, under the
original judgment or process, to such possession. 
Sec. 2172. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and pres­
ence of the court, or judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily, for
which an order must be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immedi­
ate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
court, or judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or
judge of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the
referees or arbitrators or other judicial officer. 
Sec. 2173. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attachment may be issued to
bring the person charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest, a warrant of 
commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be granted,
and no warrant of commitment can be issued without such previous attach­
ment to answer, or such notice or order to show cause. 
Sec. 2174. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued, pursuant to this Title, the court or judge must direct, by an indorsement on such warrant, that
the person charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be
specified in such indorsement. 
Sec. 2175. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff must
keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge, and detain
him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle
himself to be discharged, as provided in the next Section. 
Sec. 2176. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is contained
in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed thereon, he must be discharged from
the arrest upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before the
return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufficient sureties
to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant
and abide the order of the court or judge thereupon; or they will pay, as may 
be directed, the sum specified in the warrant, or ordered by court or judge.
Sec. 2177. The officer must return the warrant of arrest and undertaking, 
if any, received by him from the person arrested by the return day specified
therein. 
Sec. 2178. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared, the
court or judge must proceed to investigate the charge, and must hear any
answer which the person arrested may make to the same, and may examine
witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time 
to time if necessary.
Sec. 2179. Upon the answer and evidence taken the court or judge must 
determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be
imposed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned
not exceeding five days, or both. 
Sec. 2180. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an act
which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned 
until he shall have performed it, and in that case the act must be specified
in the warrant of commitment. 
Sec. 2181. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the per­
son arrested does not appear on the return day, the court or judge may issue
another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or
both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action 
ls the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party by reason
of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the 
proceeding.
Sec. 2182. Whenever, by the provisions of this Title, an officer is required 
to keep a person, arrested on a warrant of attachment, in custody, and to bring
him before a court or judge, the inability from illness or otherwise, of the per­
son to attend, is sufficient excuse for not bringing him up; and the officer must
not confine a person arrested upon the warrant, in a prison, or otherwise re­
strain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his
personal attendance. 
Sec. 2183. The judgment and orders of the court or judge, made in cases of
contempt, are final and conclusive, and there is no appeal; but the action of a
District Court or judge can be reviewed on a writ of certiorari, by the Supreme
Court Of a judge thereof, and the action of a justice of the peace or other in­
ferior court by the District Court or judge of the county in which such justice
or judge of such inferior court resides. 
SectioN • :ngo. Corpora/io,,4, !,ow di44o/t.,ed. 
:u91. Ajjlicatio•, -wl,at lo coetai», 
1191. Ajjlicatio11, !,ow sig,,ed a11d t•erified. 
a 193. Fili11g aj/licalio• a11d j#blica/io11 of notice, 
2194. Objectio•4 may be filed.
u95. Heari11g of alJlicalio11. 
:ug6. 'J#dp~•I roll a11d a/leau. 
Sec. 2190. A corporation may be dissolved by the District Court of the
county where its principal place of business is situated, upon its voluntary
application for that purpose. 
Sec. 2191. The application must be in writing, and must set forth: 
1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members called for that pur­
pose, the dissolution of the corporation was resolved upon by a two-thirds vote
of all the stockholders or members. 
2. That all claims and demands against the corporation have been satisfied
and discharged. 
Sec. 2192. The application must be signed by a majority of the Board of
Trustees, directors or other officers having the management of the affairs of the
corporation, and must be verified in the same manner as a complaint in a civil
action. 
Sec. 2193. If the court is satisfied that the application is in conformity with
this Title, the judge thereof must order it to be filed with the clerk, and that
the clerk give not less than thirty nor more than fifty days' notice of the appli­
cation, by publication in some newspaper published in the county; and if there
are none such, then by advertisements posted up in three of the principal public
places in the county. 
Sec. 2194. At any time before the expiration of the time of publication,
any person may file his objections to the application. 
Sec. 2195. After the time of publication has expired, the court or judge
may, upon five days' notice to the persons who have filed objections, or with­
out further notice, if no objections have been filed, proceed to hear and deter­
mine the application, and if all the statements made therein are shown to be
true, must declare the corporation dissolved. 
Sec. 2196. The application, notices, proof of publication, objections (if there
be any), and declaration of dissolution, constitute the judgment roll: and from
the judgment an appeal may be taken, as from other judgments of the District 
Court. 
TITLE VII. 
EMINENT DOMAIN. 
Sectio• 1210. Em;,,,.,,, do,,,ai11 defi,ud. 
TITLE VI. 
VOLUNTARY DISSOLUTION OF CORPORATIONS. 
2111. Purposes for w/,ic!, ii may hr exercised, 
· Sectio11 1111.
u13. 
2114.
2:115. 
1216.
2217. 
l218.
2219- 
2110.
l2ll.
l2ll. 
ll2J.
1224.
2:215.
:2226. 
2227. 
2:uS. 
2229,
1230.
:1231.
~232. 
2233. 
W.tat estates ;,, /a11d May 1'• acq111°r•d by co11de•111llio•.
Private jro;ert_y deji,ud. Clanes et1f1Merat•d.
Facts 11eussal'.'I to be fo••d before co11dt11111atio,,.
Parties tNa_y n,a/te locatio11. May e•t•r to •ale s•rveys.
'711ri.,dictio• ;,, District Coert,
T.te co111/lai11I a11d its co11te11ls.
S11•111011$, ·u:l,at lo contai«, How i$Sfled n11d served, 
W.to •a.Y defe11d.
Power of coert to np,Oi•I <o••issio11er.,, etc,
Met'li11g of <OMMi.uio11er.,.
Tl,e dale -ulit.t ,:es/eel lo w/,ic,t <OMje11satio,, sllall be assessed, a11d tl,e ,,,,a· 
ser« /1,ereof.
Rejorl of co•missio11ers.
A/;eal. 
Neu• jrocudi11g3 to cer« defective title.
PayMe11I of dnma~8.
To ido• /aid. 
Fiea] order of l'Ollde11111atio11, wl,at to co11tai11 ; w.te• filed, title uest«, 
P11tli11g /lai•tiff ;,, ,o.ssessio11. .
Pa~vme•I of costs,
R11le., of /raclice.
Privat« roads.
E:ue/lio•s. 
Sec. 2210. Eminent domain is the right of the State to take private prop­
erty for public use. This right may be exercised in the manner provided in
this Title. 
Sec. 2211. Subject to the provisions of this Title, the right of eminent do.
main may be exercised in behalf of the following public uses: 
I. All public uses authorized by the government of the United States. 
2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of the State, and all other public
uses authorized by the Legislative Assembly of this State. 
3. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any county, city or town, or
school district; canals, aqueducts, flumes, ditches or pipes conducting water,
heat or gas for the use of the inhabitants of any county, city or town ; raising
the banks of streams, removing obstructions therefrom, and widening, deepen­
ing, or straightening their channels ; roads, streets and alleys, and all other
public uses for the benefit of any county, city or town, or the inhabitants
thereof, which may be authorized by the Legislative Assembly; but the mode
of apportioning and collecting the costs of such improvements shall be such as
may be provided in the statutes or ordinances by which the same may be 
authorized. · . 
4- Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries, bridges of all kinds, private
roads, plank and turnpike roads, railroads, canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts
and pipes for public transportation, supplying mines and farming neighbor­
hoods with water, and draining and reclaiming lands, and for floating logs and
lumber on streams not navigable, and sites for reservoirs necessary for collect­
ing and storing water. 
5. Roads, tunnels, ditches, flumes, pipes and dumping places for working
mines; also outlets, natural or otherwise, for the flow, deposit or conduct of
tailings or refuse matter from mines; also an occupancy in common by the
owners or the possessors of different mines of any place for the flow, deposit
or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from their several mines, and sites for
reservoirs necessary for collecting and storing water. 
6. Private roads leading from highways to residences or farms. 
' 7. Telephone or electric light lines.
8. Telegraph lines.
9. Sewerage of any city, county or town, or any subdivision thereof, whether· 
incorporated or unincorporated, or of any settlement consisting of not less than
ten families, or of any public buildings belonging to the State or to any col­
lege or university. 
10. Tramway lines. 
I I. Electric power lines. 

Sec. 2212. The following is a classification of the estates and rights in lands
subject to be .taken for public use: 
1. A fee simple, when taken for public buildings or grounds, or for perma­
nent buildings, for reservoirs and dams, and permanent flooding occasioned
thereby, or for an outlet for a flow, or a place for the deposit of debris or tail­
ings of a mine. 
2. An easement, when taken for any other use.
3. The right of entry upon and occupation of lands, and the right to fake 
therefrom such earth, gravel, stones, trees and tim her .as may be necessary for
some public use. 
Sec. 2213. The private property which may be taken under this Title,
includes: 
1. All real property belonging to any person. 
2. Lands belonging to this State, or to any county, city or town, not appro­
priated to some public use. 
3. Property appropriated to public use: but such property must not be
taken unless for a more necessary public use than that to which it has already
been appropriated. 
4. Franchises for roads, bridges and ferries, and all other franchises; but
such franchises must not be taken unless for free highways, free bridges, rail­
roads or other more necessary public use. 
5. All rights of way for any and all the purposes mentioned in Section 
2211, and any and all structures and improvements thereon, and the lands held
and used in connection therewith must be subject to be connected with,
crossed, or intersected by any other right of way or improvements or structures
thereon. They must also be subject to a limited use, in common with the
owner thereof, when necessary; but such uses, crossings, intersections, and
connections must be made in manner most compatible with the greatest public
benefit and least private injury. 
6. All classes of private property not enumerated may be taken for public
use, when such taking is authorized by law. 
Sec. 2214. Before property can be taken it must appear: 
1. That the use to which it is to be applied is a use authorized by law. 
2. That the taking is necessary to such use. .
3. If already appropriated to some public use, that the public use to which 
it is to be applied is a more necessary public use. The plaintiff or defendant
or any party interested in the proceedings, can appeal to the Supreme Court
from any finding or judgment made or rendered under this Title, as in other
cases. Such appeal does not stay any further proceedings under this Title. 
Sec. 2215. In all cases where land is required for public use, the State, or
its agents in charge of such use, may survey and locate the same; but it must
be located in the manner which will be most compatible with the greatest pub­
lic good and the least private injury, and subject to the provisions of Section 
2220. The State, or its agents in charge of such public use, may enter upon
the land and make examination, surveys and maps thereof, and such entry shall
constitute no cause of action in favor of the owners of the land, except from
injuries resulting from negligence, wantonness or malice. 
Sec. 2216. All proceedings under this Title must be brought in the District
Court of the county in which the property is situated. They must be com­
menced by filing a complaint and issuing a summons thereon. 
Sec. 2217. The complaint must contain: 
1. The name of the corporation, association, commission, or person in charge
of the public use for which the property is sought, who must be styled plaintiff. 
2. The names of all owners and claimants of the property, if known, or a
statement that they are unknown, who must be styled defendants. 
3. A statement of the right of the plaintiff.
4- If a right of way be sought, the complaint must show the location, gen­ 
eral route and termini, and must be accompanied with a map thereof, so far as
the same is involved in the action or proceeding. 
5. A description of each piece of land sought to be taken, and whether the
same includes the whole or only a part of the entire parcel or tract. All par­
cels lying in the county, and required for the same public use, may be included
in the same or separate proceedings, at the option of the plaintiff, but the
court may consolidate or separate them to suit the convenience of parties. 
When application for the condemnation of a right of way for the purposes of
sewerage is made on behalf of a settlement, or town, or county, the county
commissioners of the county may be named as plaintiff. 
Sec. 2218. The clerk must issue a summons which must contain the names
of the parties, a description of the lands proposed to be taken, a statement of
the public use for which it is sought, and a notice to the defendants to appear
before the court or judge, at a time and place therein specified, and show cause
why the property described should not be condemned as prayed for in the
complaint. Such summons must, in other particulars, be in form of a sum­
mons in a civil action, and must be served in like manner upon each defendant
named therein at least ten days previous to the time designated in such notice,
for the hearing, and no copy of the complaint need be served. But the fail­ 
ure to make such service upon a defendant does not affect the right to proceed
against any or all other of the defendants, upon whom service of summons had
been made. 
Sec. 2219. All persons named in the complaint, in occupation of, or claim­
ing an interest in, any of the property described in the complaint, or in the
damages, for the taking thereof, though not named, may appear, answer or de­
mur, each in respect to his own property or interest. 
Sec. 2220. The court or judge has power: 
1. To regulate and determine the place and manner of making the connec­
tions and crossings, and enjoying the common uses mentioned in Subdivision 5, Section 2213, of this Title, and of the occupying of canyons, passes and defiles,
for railroad purposes, as permitted and regulated by the laws of this State, or of
the United States. 
2. To determine whether or not the use for which the property is sought
to be appropriated, is a public use within the meaning of the laws of this
State. 
· 3. To limit the amount of property sought to be appropriated, if. in the
opinion of the court or judge, the quantity sought to be appropriated is not
necessary. 
4- If the court or judge is satisfied that the public interests require the
taking of such lands, it or he must make an order appointing three competent
persons, resident in said county, commissioners to ascertain, and determine the
amount to be paid by the plaintiff to each owner or other person interested in
such property, as damages, by reason of the appropriation of such property,
and specify the time and place of the first meeting of such commissioners, and
fixing their compensation. 
Any party may object to the appointment of any person as a commissioner
on the same grounds that he might object to him as a trial juror. 
Sec. 2221. The commissioners mentioned in the last Section must, before
entering upon their duties, severally take and subscribe an oath before some
person qualified to administer oaths, to faithfully and impartially discharge the
duties of their appointment. The commissioners must meet at the time and
place mentioned in the order appointing them, and proceed to examine the
lands sought to be appropriated, and shall hear the allegations and evidence of
all persons interested in each of the several parcels of land, and shall ascertain
and assess: 
1. The value of the property sought to be appropriated, and all improve­
ments thereon, pertaining to the realty, and of each and every separate estate
and interest therein : if it consist of different parcels the value of each parcel
and each estate or interest therein must be separately assessed. 
2. If the property sought to be appropriated constitutes only a part of a
larger parcel, the damages which will accrue to the portion not sought to be con­
demned by reason of its severance from the portion sought to be condemned,
and the construction of the improvements in the manner proposed by the
plaintiff. 
3. Separately, how much the portion not sought to be condemned and each
estate or interest therein, will be benefited, if at all, by the construction of the
improvements proposed by the plaintiff, and if the benefit shall be equal to
the damage assessed under Subdivision 2, the owner of the parcel shall be
allowed no compensation except the value of the portion taken ; but if the
benefits shall be less than the damages assessed, the former shall be deducted
from the latter, and the remainder shall be the only damages allowed in addi­
tion to the value. 
4- If the property sought .to be condemned be for a railroad, the cost of
good and sufficient fences along the line of such railroad, and the cost of cattle
guards where fences may cross the line of such railroad. 
5. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed for each source of
damage separately. 
Sec. 2222. For the purpose of assessing compensation and damages, the
right thereto shall be deemed to have accrued at the date of the summons, and
its actual value at that date shall be the measure of compensation of all prop­
erty to be actually taken, and the basis of damages to property not actually
taken but injuriously affected. If an order be made letting the plaintiff into
possession, as provided in Section 2229. the compensation and damages
awarded shall draw lawful interest from the date of such order. No improve­
ments put upon the property subsequent to the date of the service of summons
shall be included in the assessment of compensation or damages. 

Sec. 2223. Within thirty days after making their appraisement, and the
assessment of damages, the commissioners must file a report of their proceed­
ings. accompanied by a map, if a right of way be sought, showing the route.
location and termini thereof, in the office of the clerk of the court, and the
clerk must notify the parties interested, that such report has been filed, which
notice must be served upon all the parties interested, in the same manner as a
summons. 
Sec. 2224. An appeal from any assessment made by the commissioners
may be taken and prosecuted in the court where the report of said commis­
sioners is filed, by any party interested. Such appeal must be taken within
the period of thirty days after the services upon appellant of the notice of the
filing of the award by the service of notice of such appeal upon the plaintiff
or his attorney in such proceedings, and the same shall be brought on for trial
upon the same notice and in the same manner as other civil actions, and
unless a jury shall be waived by the consent of all parties to such appeal, the
same shall be tried by jury, and the damages to which appellant may be
entitled by reason of the appropriation of his property, shall be re-assessed
upon the same principle as hereinbefore prescribed for the assessment of such
damages by commissioners; upon any verdict or assessment by commissioners
becoming final, judgment shall be entered declaring that upon judgment of
such verdict or assessment, together with the interests and costs allowed hr
law, if any, the right to construct and maintain such railroad or other public
work or improvement, and to take, use and appropriate the property described
in such verdict or assessment, for the use and purposes. for which said land
has been condemmcd, shall, as against the parties interested in such verdict or 
assessment, be and remain in the plaintiff and his or its heirs, successors or
assigns, forever. In case the party appealing from the award of commissioners
in any proceeding as aforesaid, shall not succeed in increasing the amount of
damages finally awarded to him in such proceeding, he shall not recover the
costs of such appeal, but all the costs of the appellee upon such appeal shall 
be taxed against and recovered from the appellant. Provided. that upon the
trial of such appeal, the plaintiff may contest the right of any party or parties
thereto, to any of the property mentioned and set forth or involved in said
appeal, which was located after the preliminary survey of any such railroad, seek­
ing to condemn its right of way under and pursuant to the provisions of this
Act. Provided, such condemnation proceedings are begun within one year
after such preliminary survey. 

Sec. 2225. If the title attempted to be acquired is found to be defective
from any cause, the plaintiff may again institute proceedings to acquire the
same, as in this Title prescribed. 
Sec. 2226. The plaintiff must, within thirty days after final judgment, pay
the sum of money assessed ; but may, at the time of or before the payment,
elect to build the fences and cattle guards, and if he so elect, shall execute to the
defendant a bond, with sureties to be approved by the court in double the as­
sessed cost of the same, to build such fences and cattle guards within eight
months from the time the railroad is built on the land taken, and if such bond
be given, need not pay the cost of such fences and cattle' guards. In an
action on such bond, the plaintiff may recover reasonable attorney's fees. 
Sec. 2227. Payment may be made to the defendants entitled thereto, or the
money may be deposited in court for the defendants, and be distributed to
those entitled thereto. If the money be not so paid or deposited, the defend­
ants may have execution as in civil cases, and if the money cannot be made on
execution, the court or judge, upon a showing to that effect, must set aside
and annul the entire proceedings and restore possession of the property to the
defendant, if possession has been taken by the plaintiff. 
Sec. 2228. When payments have been made, and the bond given, if the
plaintiff elects to give one, as required by the last two Sections, the court or
judge must make a final orderof condemnation, which must describe the prop­
erty condemned, and the purposes of such condemnation. A copy of the or­
der must be filed in the office of the county clerk, and thereupon the property
described therein shall vest in the plaintiff for the purposes therein specified. 
Sec. 2229. At any time after the report and assessment of damages of the
commissioners has been made and filed in the court, and either before or after
appeal from such assessment or from any other order or judgment in the pro­
ceedings, the court or any judge thereof at chambers, upon application of the
plaintiff, shall have power to make an order that upon payment into court for
the defendant entitled thereto of the amount of damages assessed, either by
the commissioners or by the jury, as the case may be, the plaintiff be author­
ized, if already in possession of the property of such defendant sought to be
appropriated, to continue in such possession; or, if not in possession, that the
plaintiff be authorized to take possession of such property and use and possess
the same during the pendency and until the final conclusion of the proceedings
and litigation, and that all actions and proceedings against the plaintiff on ac­
count thereof be stayed until such time; provided, however, that where an ap­
peal is taken by such defendant, the court or judge may in its or his discretion
require the plaintiff, before continuing or taking such possession, in addition
to paying into court the amount of damages assessed, to give bond or under­
taking, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the judge and to be in such
sum as the court or judge may direct, conditioned to pay defendant any addi­
tional damages and .costs over and above the amount assessed, which it may
finally be determined that defendant is entitled to for the appropriation of the 
property, and all damages which defendant may sustain, if for any cause such
property shall not be finally taken for public uses. The amount assessed as
damages by the commissioners or by the jury on appeal, as the case may be, shall
be taken and considered, for the purposes of this Section, until re-assessed or
changed in the further proceedings, as just compensation for the property ap­
propriated ; but the plaintiff, by payment into court of the amount assessed,
or by giving security as above provided, shall not be thereby prevented or
precluded from appealing from such assessment, but may appeal in the same
manner and with the same effect as if no money had been deposited or se­
curity given ; and in all cases where the plaintiff deposits the amount of the
assessment and continues in possession or takes possession of the property as
herein provided, the defendant entitled thereto, if there be no dispute as to
the ownership of the property, may at any time demand and receive from the
court the money so deposited, and shall not by such demand or receipt be
barred or concluded from his right of appeal from such assessment, but may,
notwithstanding, take and prosecute his appeal from such assessment ; pro­
vided, that if the amount of such assessment is finally reduced on appeal by
either party, such defendant who has received the amount of the assessment
deposited shall be liable to the plaintiff for any excess of the amount so re­
ceived by him over the amount finally assessed, with legal interest on such ex­
cess from the time such defendant received the money deposited, and the
same may be recovered by action ; and, provided further, that upon any appeal
from assessment of damages by the commissioners to a jury, the jury may find
as compensation or damages a less as well as an equal or greater amount than
that assessed by the commissioners. 

Sec. 2230. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed may be appor­
tioned between the parties on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of
the court. 
 
Sec. 2231. Except as otherwise provided in this Title, the provisions of
Part II., of this Code, are applicable to and constitute the rules of practice in
the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 
Sec. 2232. Private roads may be opened in the manner to be prescribed by
the Political Code, but in every case the necessity of the road, and the amount
of all damage to be sustained by the opening thereof, shall be first determined
by a jury, and such amount together with the expenses of the proceeding
shall be paid by the person to be benefited. 
Sec. 2233. Nothing in this Code must be construed to abrogate or repeal
any statute providing for the taking of property in any city, town or county 
for road or street purposes. 
TITLE VIII. 
ESCHEATED ESTATES. 
Sulio• ll50. Ma1111er of co111me•ci•K ;roceedi11gs relative lo esclteated es/ales. 
l.251. Reuit•er of rents aed projih may be a/Joi11led . 
.2.251. Ap/eara11ce, plradiNK.f a11d lri,rl.
n53. Proceedi11gs 6J• ;,·rsons daimilfl[ rsclteated estates, 
Sec. 2250. when the Attorney General is informed that any real estate has
escheated to this State, he must file an information in behalf of the State in
the District Court of the county in which such estate or any part thereof is
situated, setting forth a description of the estate, the name of the person last
seized, the name of the occupant and person claiming such estate, if known,
and the facts and circumstances in consequence of which the estate is claimed
to have escheated, with an allegation that, by reason thereof the State of
Montana has right by law to such estate. Upon such information a summons 
must issue to such person, requiring him to appear and answer the Informa­
tion within the time allowed by law in civil actions; and the court must make
an order setting forth briefly the contents of the information, and requiring all
persons interested in the estate to appear and show cause, if any they have,
within forty days from date of the order, why the same should not vest in this
State, which order must be published for at least one month from the date
thereof, in a newspaper published in the county, if one be published therein,
and in case no newspaper is published in the county, in some other newspaper
in this State. 
Sec. 2251. The court or judge, upon the information being filed and upon
the application of the Attorney General, either before or after answer, upon no­
tice to the party claiming such estate, if known, may, upon sufficient cause
therefor being shown, appoint a receiver to take charge and receive the rents
and profits of the same until the title to such real estate is finally settled. 
Sec. 2252. All persons named in the information may appear and answer,
and may traverse or deny the facts stated in the information, and the title of
the State to lands and tenements therein mentioned, at any time before the
time of answering expires, and any other person claiming an interest in such
estate may appear and be made a defendant, and by motion for that purpose
in open court within the time allowed for answering; and if no person appears
and answers within the time, then judgment must be rendered, that the State
be seized of the lands and tenements in such information claimed. But if any
person appear and deny the title set up by the State, or traverse any material
fact set forth in the information, the issue of fact must be tried as issues of
facts are tried in civil actions. If, after the issues are tried, it appears from
the facts found or admitted that the State has good title to the lands and tene­
ments in the information mentioned, or any part thereof, judgment must be
rendered that the State be seized thereof, and recover costs vf suit against the
defendants. In any judgment rendered, or that has been heretofore rendered
by any court of competent jurisdiction, escheating real property to the State,
on motion of the Attorney General, the court or judge shall make an order that
said real property be sold by the sheriff of the county where the same is situ­
ate, at public sale, after giving such notice of the time and place of sale as may
be prescribed by the court or judge in said order; that the sheriff shall, within
five days after such sale, make a report thereof to the court, and upon the hear­
ing of the said report, the court or judge may examine the said witnesses in
relation to the same, and if the proceedings were unfair, or the sum bid dispro­
portionate to the value, and if it appear that a sum exceeding such bid at least
ten per cent., exclusive of the expense of a new sale, may be obtained, the
court or judge may vacate the sale, and direct another sale to be had, of which 
notice must be given, and 1:he sale in all respects conducted as if no previous
sale had taken place. If an offer of ten per cent. more in amount than that
named in the report be made to the court in writing by a responsible person,
the court or judge, may, in its or his discretion, accept such offer, and confirm
the sale to such person, or order a new sale. If it appears to the court or
judge that the sale was legally made, and fairly conducted, and that the sum
bid is not disproportionate to the value of the property sold, and that a greater
sum than ten per cent., exclusive of the expense of a new sale, cannot be
obtained, or if the increased bid above mentioned be made and accepted by the
court, the court or judge must make an order confirming the sale, and direct­
ing the sheriff, in the name of the State, to execute to purchaser or purchasers
a conveyance of said property sold; and said conveyance shall vest in the pur­
chaser or purchasers all the right and title of the State therein, and the sheriff
shall, out of the proceeds of such sale, pay the cost of said proceedings incurred
on behalf of the State, including the expenses of making such sale, and also
an attorney's fee, if additional counsel was employed in said proceedings, to be
fixed by the court or judge, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of such 
sale, and the residue thereof shall be paid by said sheriff into the State treas.
ury. 
Sec. 2253. Within twenty years after judgment in any proceeding had under
this Title, a person not a party or privy to such proceeding may file a petition
in the District Court of the county in which the seat of government is located,
showing his claim or right to the property, or the proceeds thereof. A copy
of such petition must be served on the Attorney General at least twenty days
before the hearing of the petition, who must answer the same ; and the court
must thereupon try the issue as issues are tried in civil actions, and if it be de­
termined that such person is entitled to the property, or the proceeds thereof,
it must order the property, if it has not been sold, to be delivered to him, or if it
has been sold and the proceeds paid into the State treasury, then it must order
the Auditor to draw his warrant on the treasury for the payment of the same,
but without interest or cost to the State, a copy of which order, under the seal
of the court, shall be a sufficient voucher for drawing such warrant. All persons
who fail to appear and file their petitions within the time limited are forever
barred; saving, however, to infants, and persons of unsound mind, or persons
beyond the limits of the United States, the right to appear and file their
petitions at any time within the time limited, or five years after their respective
disabilities cease. 
Section • i26o. r:f 11risdfrtiot1. 
CHANGE OF NAMES. 
2261. Appli<atio11 for cka,,ge of 11amr, jow made. 
J26:2. Pul,/icatio• of pclilio11 for. 
TITLE IX. 
2263. Heari11g ofapplicat,"011 and remonstrance.
2164. Rctur11 1,y clerk of District Court. 
Sec. 2260. Applications for change of names must be heard and determined
by the District Court. 
Sec. 2261. All applications for change of names must be made to the Dis­ 
trict Court of the county where the person whose name is proposed to be 
changed resides, by petition, signed by such person ; and if such person is
under twenty-one years of age, if a male, and under the age of eighteen years,
if a female, by one of the parents, if living, or if both be dead, then by the
guardian ; and if there be no guardian, then by some near relative or friend.
The petition must specify the place of birth and residence of such person, his
or her present name, the name proposed, and the reason for such change of
name; and must, if the father of such person be not living, name, as far as
known to the petitioner, the near relatives of such person, and their place of
residence. Any religious, benevolent, literary, scientific, or other corporation,
or any corporation bearing or having for its name, or using or being known by
the name of, any benevolent or charitable order or society, may, by petition,
apply to the District Court of the county in which its articles of incorporation
were originally filed, or in which the property of such corporation is situated, for
a change of its corporate name. Such petition must be signed by a majority
of the directors or trustees of the corporation, and must specify the date of the
formation of the corporation, the name proposed, and the reason for such
change of name. Upon filing such petition on behalf of such corporation, the
same proceeding shall be had as upon applications for changes of names of
natural persons, and no banking corporation hereafter organized shall adopt or
use the name of any other banking corporation or association, or of any friendly
association. 
Sec. 2262. A copy of such petition must be published for four successive
weeks, in some newspaper published in the county, if a newspaper be printed
therein, but if no newspaper be printed in the county, a copy of such petition
must be posted at three of the most public places in the county for a like 
period, and proofs must be made of such publication before the petition can
be considered. 
Sec. 2263. Such application must be heard at such time as the court or
judge may appoint, and objections may be filed by any person who can, in
such objections, show to the court or judge good reason against such change
of name. On the hearing the court or judge may examine on oath any of the
petitioners, remonstrants, or other persons, touching the application, and may
make an order changing the name or dismissing the application, as to the court
or judge may seem right and proper. 
Sec. 2264. Each clerk of the District Court shall, annually, in the month of
January, make a return to the office of Secretary of State of all changes of
names made in the District Court of his county under this Title. Such return
shall show the date of the judgment of the court, original name, name decreed and
residence. Such returns shall be published in a tabular form with the statutes
first published thereafter. 
section 2:170.
:1271.
:1272. 
22iJ·
:1274. 
2275.
2:176. 
»n- 
2278. 
TITLE X. 
ARBITRATIONS. 
wiat 111ay he s•h•••ttet1 to arhilraU011, a#d wit•"· 
S11h,,,issio11 lo arhitratio11 to he ;,, wrili"K·
Suh,11issio11 •a.v he e•l•red as a11 order oj /j11 court, Revocatio11.
Powers of arbitrators.
Majority of arbitrators •a_v deter•i11e a11y q1uslio11. Tluy •ut I>. s'WOr11.
A ward lo he ;,, 1»rili•K· Wlte11 J•dpenl lo he eetered. 
A ward 111ay I>. vacated ;,, certai« uues.
Coert •ay, 011 111otio11, modt'fy or correct tilt! award.
Decist'o11 o• motio•, .u,hject to a//eal, h11t 1101 flu J•dgme11t entered before 
1110/in.
2279. If s11l,111issio11 h• revojed a11d a11 actt'o11 hro•git, wiat to he recovered, 
Sec. 2270. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any
controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between them, except
a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This qualification does
not include questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real
property. 
Sec. 2271. The submission to arbitration must be in writing, and may be to
one or more persons. 
Sec. 2272. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be entered as an
order of the District Court, for which purpose it must be filed with the clerk of
the District Court of the county where the parties, or one of them, reside. The
clerk must thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the submission,
with the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the
submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any, within
which the award must be made. When so entered the submission cannot be
revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators may be com­
pelled by the court or judge to make an award, and the award may be enforced
by the court or judge in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission
be not made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made. 
Sec. 2273. Arbitrators have power to appoint a time and place for. hearing,
to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the
allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make an award thereon. 
Sec. 2274. All the arbitrators must meet and act together during the inves­
tigation, but when met a majority may determine any question. Before acting
they must be sworn before an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully
and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in
relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just award according to 
their understanding ..
Sec. 2275. The award must be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a 
majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the submission is made
an order of the court the award must be filed with the clerk and a note thereof
made in his register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of the
award, upon the application of a party and on filing an affidavit showing that
notice of filing the award has been served on the adverse party or his attorney
at least four days prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry
of judgment has been served, the award must be entered by the clerk in the
judgment book, and thereupon has the effect of a judgment. 
Sec. 2276. The court or judge, on motion, may vacate the award upon
either of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same
arbitrators, or not, in its discretion : 
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud. 
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed gross error
in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear
pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by which the
rights of the party were prejudiced. 
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making the award ; or that
they refused or improperly omitted to consider a part of the matters submitted
to them; or that the award is indefinite or cannot be performed. 
Sec. 2277. The court or judge may, on motion, modify or correct the award,
where it appears: 
1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon which it was made, or
that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property therein. 
2. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which part
can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the decision on the mat­
ters submitted. 
3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been amended if
it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded. 
Sec. 2278. The decision upon the motion is subject to appeal in the same
manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action; but the judg­
ment entered before motion made cannot be subject to appeal. 
Sec. 2279. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action be
brought therefor, the amount to be recovered can only be the costs and dam­ 
ages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration. 
TITLE XI. 
SOLE TRADER.
S«tio11 1290. Wl,o may become a sole trader. 
:u91. 1'lotice, low give11 and wl,at to co11tai11. 
2291. Petirioe; wl,nt to co11tai11 and wl,e11 Ji led.
ll93. Wl,o may oppose it a11d l,ow. 
l..?94. Trial and }"dgme11t. 
229$· Oatlt-colies to be recorded.
11<)6. Rigllls aHd liabilities of a sole trader.
1297. M11st '11ai•tai• /,er c/1ildrr11-ltNSbaHd 11ot liable-1101 to act as nge11t. 
Sec. 2290. A married woman may become a sole trader by the judgment of
the District Court of the county in which she has resided for six months next
preceding the application. 
Sec. 2291. A person intending to make application to become a sole trader
must publish notice of such intention in a newspaper published in the county,
or if none, then in a newspaper published in an adjoining county, for four suc­
cessive weeks. The notice must specify the day upon which application will
be made, the nature and place of the business proposed to be conducted by
her and the name of her husband. 
Sec. 2292. Ten days prior to the day named in the notice, the applicant
must file a verified petition setting forth : 
1. That the application is made in good faith, to enable the applicant to 
support herself, or herself and others dependent upon her, giving their names
and relation. 
2. The fact of insufficient support from her husband, and the cause thereof,
if known. 
3. Any other grounds of application which are good causes for a divorce,
with the reason why a divorce is not sought. 
4. The nature of the business, trade or profession proposed to be conducted,
and the capital to be invested therein, if any, and the sources from which it is
derived. 
Sec. 2293. Any creditor of the husband may oppose the application by
filing in the court (prior to the day named in the notice), a written opposition,
verified, containing either : 
1. A special denial of the truth of any material allegation of the petition ;
or setting forth, 
2. That the application is made for the purpose of defrauding the oppo-
nent; or, · 
3. That the application is made to prevent, or will prevent him from col­
lecting his debt. 
Sec. 2294. On the day named in the notice or on such other day to which
the hearing may be postponed by the court, the applicant must make proof of
publication of the notice, hereinbefore required, and the issues of fact joined,
if any, must be tried as in other cases; if no issues are joined the court must
hear the proofs of the applicant and find the facts in accordance therewith. 
If the facts found sustain the petition, the court must render judgment author­
izing the applicant to carry on in her own name and on her own account the 
business, trade or profession specified in the notice and petition.
Sec. 2295. The sole trader must make and file with the clerk of the court 
an affidavit, in the following form:
" I, A. B., do solemnly swear that this application was made in good faith, 
for the purpose of enabling me to support myself (and any dependent, such as
husband, parent, sister, child, or the like, naming them, if any) and not with
any view to defraud, delay or hinder any creditor or creditors of my husband."
A certified copy of the judgment with this oath indorsed thereon, must be
recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county where the business,
trade or profession is to be carried on, in a book to be kept for such purpose. 
Sec. 2296. When the judgment is made and entered, and a copy thereof,
with the affidavit provided for in the next preceding Section duly recorded, the
person therein named is entitled to carry on the business specified, in her own
name, and the property, revenues, moneys and credits so by her invested, and
the profits thereof, belong exclusively to her, and are not liable for any debts
of her husband, and she thereafter has all the privileges of and is liable to all
legal processes provided for debtors and creditors, and may sue and be sued
alone without being joined with her husband ; provided, however, that she shall
not be at liberty to carry on said business in any other county than that named
in the notice provided for in Section 2291, until she has recorded in such other
county a copy of said judgment and affidavit. 
Sec. 2297. A married woman who is adjudged a sole trader is liable for the
maintenance of her minor children. The husband of a sole trader is not liable
for any debts contracted by her in the course of her sole trader's business, un­
less contracted upon his written consent ; but he must not manage or superintend
for his wife any business, trade or profession authorized by this Title, or act as
her agent therein. In case he does so act, the property of such sole trader is 
liable for his debts. 
CHAPTER /ler I. ".7urisdictio11. 
TITLE XII. 
PROBATE PROCEEDING& 
C!,aptr.r I I.
Ill.
IV. 
V. 
VI.
VI/. 
VIII.
IX. 
x. 
XI. 
XII.
XIII. 
XIV. 
Sectia« 2310. '711risdiction of Ike co11rl ouer tlte estate, wl,e11 e:xerdsed. 
2311. Wliu }"risdiclio• decided by first a//licat,'011. 
Sec. 2310. Wills must be proved, and letters testamentary or of administra­
tion granted : 
1. In the county in which the decedent was a resident at the time of his
death, in whatever place he may have died. 
2. In the county in which the decedent may have died, leaving estate
therein, he not being a resident of the State. 
3. In the county in which any part of the estate may be, the decedent hav­
ing died out of the State, and not resident thereof at the time of his death. 
4- In the county in which any part of the estate may be, the decedent not
being a resident of the State, and not leaving estate in the county in which he
died. 
5. In all other cases, in the county where application for letters is first
made. 
Sec. 2311. When the estate of the decedent is in more than one county, he
having died out of the State, and not having been a resident thereof at the
time of his death, or being such non-resident, and dying within the State, and
not leaving estate in the county where he died, the District Court of that
county in which the application is first made, for letters testamentary or of
administration, has exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate. 
ARTICLE I.
II. 
Ill.
IV. 
Sution lJlO.
lJll, 
2322.
23.23.
2324.
23.25. 
lJ..?(1, 
23..?7.
13.zS. 
.2319.
1330. 
lJ]l. 
v. 
VI. 
Probate of wills.
Bsecetors aed ad,ni,,istrators, tlteir letters, l>o11ds, remot•als, a•d s11spe11sio11s. 
l11ve11tory a11d cottectioe of tje effects of decedents,
ProvisioMS for /je uj>/ort of family, a11d tlu ko#lestead.
Claims agai11.st tlte estate.
Sales a1'd co11veya,,ces of Jro;erty lo decede1'ls ·
Powers a1'd detie» of executors a"d admi11islrators, and llte #la11ap111e•I of 
estates.
Co,,veya11ce of real estate by esecetor« a•d ad,n,',,istrators ;,, certaie cases. 
Acco111'/s rendered /,y e:xec11tors a•d admi11islrators, a11d //,e ,a:vme•t of del,u.
Partition, distrib11t,'011, a"d Ji11al ullle1ne11t of estates.
Orders, procrss, mi1'11le.s, records a1'd aJJeah.
P11blic admi•i.,tralor. 
G"ardia" a1'd ward. 
CHAPTER I. 
JURISDICTION. 
CHAPTER II. 
PROBATE OF WILLS. 
Petirio«, «otic« n1'd /roof.
Co,,luling /rol,aJe of will.
Probate of foreig,, wills.
Co11tot1'11g will after /rohalr.
Probate of lost or drstrovrd usitt,
Probate of 1'llllt'Hj>alfre wills. 
ARTICLE I. 
PETITION, NOTICE AND PROOF.
Cestodian of will, In deliver same, lo ·wl,0111. Penalty: 
Who may /rtition for probate of witi.
Co11lt!11/.( of prtt'lion,
JV1fe11 e xccutar forfeits ri'glft lo letters.
Will to accomj>a11y prlilt'on or its /resenlalion prayed for a,rd lton, e'll/orud. 
.\'otfrr of p..titioN for /robalr, kow gir•r11.
Heirs and 1'amed exrcetars to be 110/ifird, /,ow.
Prlilio11 ,11ay hr /rrsr11trd toj,ulJ:r al chambers, and -:t•lfal i"dge "'O)' do.
1/rnrin.tr jro()f ()f ·:c·t'll after p,·o()_( of. service of notice, 
11'/w may t1/'/rflr a1'd roetest Ike w,11 . 
P'robate, wkrn 110 contrs],
1/o/()_t:rnpltic wills. 
Sec. 2320. Every custodian of a will, within thirty days after receipt of
information that the maker thereof is dead, must deliver the same to the Dis­
trict Court having jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor named therein.
A failure to comply with the provisions of this Section makes the person fail­
ing responsible for all damages sustained by anyone injured thereby. 
Sec. 2321. Any executor, devisee, or legatee named in any will, or any other
person interested in the estate, may, at any time after the death of the testa­
tor, petition the court having jurisdiction to have the will proved, whether the
same be in writing, in his possession or not, or is lost or destroyed, or beyond
the jurisdiction of the State, or a nuncupative will. 
Sec. 2322. A petition for the probate of a will must show: 
1. The jurisdictional facts. 
2. Whether the person named as executor consents to act, or renounces his
right to letters testamentary. 
3. The names, ages and residences of the heirs and devisees of the decedent,
so far as known to the petitioner. 
4
The probable value and character of the property of the estate. 
5. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary are prayed.
No defect of form, or in the statement of jurisdictional facts actually exist­ 
ing, shall make void the probate of a will.
Sec. 2323. If the person named in a will as executor, for thirty days after 
he has knowledge of the death of the testator, and that he is named as execu­
tor, fails to petition to the proper court for the probate of the will, and that
letters testamentary be issued to him, he may be held to have renounced his
right to letters, and the court or judge may appoint any other competent
person administrator, unless good cause for delay is shown. 
Sec. 2324. If it is alleged in any petition that any will is in the possession
of a third person, and the court or judge is satisfied that the allegation is cor­
rect, an order must be issued and served upon the person having possession of
the will, requiring him to produce it at a time named in the order. If he has
possession of the will and neglects or refuses to produce it in obedience to the
order, he may, by warrant from the court or judge, be committed to the jail of
the county, and be kept in close confinement until he produces it. 
Sec. 2325. When the petition is filed and the will produced, the clerk of
the court must set the petition for hearing by the court or judge upon some
day not less than ten nor more than thirty days from the production of the
will. Notice of hearing shall be given by such clerk by publishing the same
in a newspaper in the county; if there is none, then by three written or printed
notices posted at three of the most public places in the county. If the notice
is published in a weekly newspaper, it must appear therein on at least three
different days of publication ; and if in a newspaper published oftener than
once a week, it shall be so published that there must be at least ten days from
the first to the last day of publication, both the first and last day being in­
cluded. If the notice is by posting, it must be given at least ten days before 
the hearing.
Sec. 2326. Copies of the notice of the time appointed for the probate of 
the will must be addressed to the heirs of the testator resident in the State, at
their places of residence, if known to the petitioner, and deposited in the post
office, with the postage thereon prepaid, at least ten days before the hearing. 
If their places of residence be not known, the copies of notice may be ad­
dressed to them, and deposited in the post office at the county seat of the
county where the proceedings are pending. A copy of the same notice must
in like manner be mailed to the person named as executor, if he be not the
petitioner; also, to· any person named as co-executor not petitioning, if their
places of residence be known. Proof of mailing the copies of the notice must
be made at the bearing. Personal service of copies of the notice at least ten
days before the day of hearing is equivalent to mailing. 
Sec. 2327. A judge of the District Court may at any time, in court and at
chambers, receive petitions for the probate of wills, and make and issue all
necessary orders and writs, to enforce the production of wills, and the attend­
ance of witnesses and may appoint special sessions of his court for hearing
petitions, trials of issue, and admitting wills to probate. 
Sec. 2328. At the time appointed for the hearing, or the time to which the
hearing may have been postponed, the court or judge, unless the parties ap­
pear, must require proof that the notice has been given, which being made,
the court or judge must hear testimony in proof of will. 
Sec. 2329. Any person interested may appear and contest the will. Devisces,
legatees, or heirs of an estate may contest the will through their guardians, or
attorneys appointed by themselves or by the court or judge for that purpose:
but a contest made by an attorney appointed by the court or judge does not
bar a contest after probate by the party so represented if commenced within
the time provided in Article IV., of this Chapter; nor does the non-appoint­
ment of an attorney by the court or judge of itself invalidate the probate of a
will. 
Sec. 2330. If no person appears to contest the probate of a will, the court
or judge may admit it to probate on the testimony of one of the subscribing
witnesses only, if he testifies that the will was executed in all particulars as
required by law, and that the testator was of sound mind at the time of its
execution. 
Sec. 2331. An holographic will may be proved in the same manner that other
private writings are proved. 
ARTICLE II. 
CONTESTING PROBATE OF WILLS. 
Sectio• 2340. Co,./e$/a#t to file µ011,,ds of contest; a11d Jetitio11er to reply.
2341. H<rW J=r» ol,tai•ed aed trial /,ad. '
2342. Verdict of }#ry. ':'/#dgme,./. Appeal.
2343. Wit,.e.ues, wko a,.J !,ow many to l,e e1'affli#ed. Proof of l,a,,dwriti•g, ad- 
mitted, wl,e,..
234+ Tutin,o"y reduced to writi"K for f #t11re evidnce. 
2345. If proved, certificate to l,e atiacl,ed.
2346. Will a"d /roof to IH filed a"d recorded, 
Sec. 2340. If any one appears to contest the will, he must file written
grounds of opposition to the probate thereof, and serve a copy on the peti­ 
tioner and other residents of the county interested in the estate, any one or
more of whom may demur thereto upon any of the grounds of demurrer pro­
vided for in Part II., Title VI., Chapter III., of this Code. If the demurrer is
sustained, the court or judge must allow the contestant a reasonable time, not
exceeding ten days, within which to amend his written opposition. If the de­
murrer is overruled, the petitioner and others interested may jointly or sepa­
rately answer the contestant's grounds, traversing or otherwise obviating or
avoiding the objections. Any issues of fact thus raised, involving : 
1. The competency of the decedent to make a last will and testament. 
2. The freedom of the decedent at the time of the execution of the will
from duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence. 
3. The due execution and attestation of the will by the decedent or sub,
scribing witnesses; or, 
4- Any other questions substantially affecting the validity of the will, must
on request of either party in writing, filed three days prior to the day set 
for the hearing, be tried by a jury. If no jury is demanded, the court or judge
must try and determine the issues joined. On the trial, the contestant is 
plaintiff and the petitioner is defendant.
Sec. 2341. When a jury is demanded, the District Court must impanel a 
jury to try the case, in the manner provided for impaneling juries in courts of 
record ; and the trial must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 
Part II., Title VIII., Chapter IV., of this Code. A trial by the court must
be conducted as provided in Part II., Title VIII., Chapter V., of this Code. 
Sec, 2342. The jury, after hearing the case, must return a special verdict
upon the issues submitted to them by the court ; upon which the judgment of
the court must be rendered, either admitting the will to probate or rejecting
it. In either case, the proofs of the subscribing witnesses must be reduced to
writing. If the will be admitted to probate, the judgment, will and proofs
must be recorded. 
Sec. 2343. If the will is contested, all the subscribing witnesses who are
present in the county, and who are of sound mind, must be produced and ex­
amined, and the death, absence, or insanity of any of them must be satisfac­
torily shown to the court or judge. If none of the subscribing witnesses re­ 
side in the county at the time appointed for proving the wilt, the court may
admit the testimony of other witnesses to prove the sanity of the testator and
the execution of the will; and as evidence of the execution it may admit proof
of the hand-writing of the testator and of the subscribing witnesses, or any of
them. 
Sec. 2344. The testimony of each witness, reduced to writing and signed
by him, shall be good evidence in any subsequent contests concerning the valid­
ity of the will, or the sufficiency of the proof thereof, if the witness be dead, or
has permanently removed from this State. 
Sec. 2345. If the court or judge is satisfied upon the proof taken or from
the facts found by the jury, that the will was duly executed, and that the 
testator at the time of its execution was of sound and disposing mind, and not
acting under duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence, a certificate of the
proof and the facts found, signed by the judge and attested by the seal of the
court, must be attached to the will. 
Sec. 2346. The will, and a certificate of the proof thereof, must be filed
and recorded by the clerk, and the same, when so filed and recorded, shall con­
stitute part of the record in the cause or proceeding. All testimony shall be 
filed by the clerk. 
ARTICLE III. 
PROBATE OF FOREIGN WILLS. 
Sectio,, :2350. Wills /roved;,, otl,er States to be recorded, wl,e11 and wl,ere.
:2351. Prouedi11gs 011 tl,e prod,ulio• of a foreir will.
:>35:>. Hearin/{ /roofs of probate of foreir will. 
Sec. 2350. All wills duly proved and allowed in any other of the United
States, or in any foreign country or State, may be allowed and recorded in the
District Court of any county in which the testator shall have left any estate. 
Sec. 2351. When a copy of the will and probate thereof, duly authenti­
cated, shall be produced by the executor, or by any other person interested in
the will, with a petition for letters, the same must be filed, and the court or
judge must appoint a time for the hearing, notice whereof must be given as
hereinbefore provided for an original petition for the probate of a will. 
Sec. 2352. If, on the hearing, it appears upon the face of the record that
the will has been proved, allowed, and admitted to probate in any other of the
United States, or in any foreign country, and that it was executed according to
the law of the place in which the same was made, or in which the testator was at
the time domiciled, or in conformity with the laws of this State, it must be ad­
mitted to probate and have the same force and effect as a will first admitted
to probate in this State, and letters testamentary or of administration issued
thereon. 
ARTICLE IV. 
CONTESTING WILL AFTER PRO BA TE. 
Sectio« :236o. Tl,e probate may be contested wit!,;,, 011e year. 
2,361. Citatio« to l,e issued to /arties interested. 
Sectio. 2362.
2363. 
236+ 
Tie ieari•g /,ad 011 /roof of service.
Petition» to revoke Jro6ate of will tried by i"r.v or caert, ':f•dg,,,et1t, 
w/,at.
011 revocation of prohate, jtrWers of e:tec•tor, etc.; cease, b•t •ot lial,u for 
arts ;,, good faitl,,
Costs at1d e:11/e11ses, by wl,o,n !'aid.
Probate, wl,e,, co11d#sive, Oe« year after ren,oval of di1ahility rive11 to 
i11fa11ts a11d otlters. 
Sec. 2360. When a will has been admitted to probate any person inter­
ested may, at any time within one year after such probate, contest the same
or the validity of the will. For that purpose he must file in the court in which
the will was proved a petition in writing containing his allegations against the
validity of the will or against the sufficiency of the proof, and praying that the
probate may be revoked. 
Sec. 2361. Upon filing the petition a citation must be issued to the execu­
tors of the will, or to the administrators with the will annexed, and to all the
legatees and devisees mentioned in the will, and heirs residing in the State, so
far as known to the petitioner, or to their guardians, if any of them are minors,
or to their personal representatives, if any of them are dead, requiring them to
appear before the court or judge on some day therein specified to show cause
why the probate of the will should not be revoked. 
Sec. 2362. At the time appointed for showing cause, or at any time to
which the hearing is postponed, personal service of the citations having been
made upon any persons named therein, the court or judge must proceed to
try the issues of fact joined in the same manner as in an original contest of a
will. 
Sec. 2363. In all cases of petitions to revoke the probate of a will, wherein
the original probate was granted without a contest, on written demand of either
party, filed three days prior to the hearing, a trial by jury must be had as in
cases of the contest of an original petition to admit a will to probate. If, up­
on IIearing the proofs of the parties, the jury shall find, or, if no jury is had,
the court or judge shall decide, that the will is for any reason invalid, or that
it is not sufficiently proved to be the last will of the testator, the probate must
be annulled and revoked. 
Sec. 2364. Upon the revocation being made, the powers of the executor or
administrator with the will annexed must cease; but such executor or admin­
istrator shall not be liable for any act done in good faith previous to the revo-
cation. ' 
Sec. 2365. The fees and expenses must be paid by the party contesting
the validity or probate of the will if the will in probate is confirmed. If the
probate is revoked, the costs must be paid by the party who resisted the revo­
cation, or out of the property of the decedent, as the court directs. 
Sec. 2366. Ii no person, within one year after the probate of the will, con­
test the same or the validity thereof, the probate of the will is conclusive;
saving to infants and persons of unsound mind, a like period of one year after
their respective disabilities arc removed. 
ARTICLE V. 
PROBATE OF LOST OR DESTROYED WILL 
s~ctio• 2370. Proof of lost or destroyed will to be take«, 
2371. MM.st jat•e but1 ;,, e:11isfe11u at time of dea/j, 
237:z. To be certified, recorded, a11d letters tltereo11 gra•ted. 
:a373. Coert to resrraie i11jMrio•s arts of e:ircMlors or ad111it1istraiOr'4 d•,,.i•6
/r'oceedi11gs to /rove lost will. 
Sec. 2370. Whenever any will is lost or destroyed the District Court must
take proof of the execution and validity thereof, and establish the same; no­ 
tice to all persons interested being first given, as prescribed in regard to proofs 
of wills as in other cases. All the testimony given must be reduced to writing
and signed by the witnesses. 
Sec. 2371. No will shall be proved as a lost or destroyed will, unless the
same is proved to have been in existence at the time of the death of the testa­
tor, or is shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in the lifetime of the tes­
tator, nor unless its provisions are clearly aad distinctly proved by at least two
credible witnesses. · 
Sec. 2372. When a lost will is established, the provisions thereof must be
distinctly stated and certified by the judge, under his hand and the seal of the
court, and the certificate must be filed and recorded as other wills are filed and
recorded, and letters testamentary or of administration, with the will annexed,
must be issued thereon in the same manner as upon wills produced and duly
proved. The testimony must be -reduced to writing, signed, certified and filed
as in other cases, and shall have the same effect as evidence as provided in Section 2344- .
Sec. 2373. If, before or during the pendency of an application to prove a 
lost or destroyed will, letters of administration are granted on the estate of the
testator, or letters testamentary of any previous will of the testator are granted,
the court may restrain the administrators or executors so appointed from any
acts or proceedings which would be injurious to the legatees or devisees claim-
ing under the lost or destroyed will. ' 
ARTICLE VI. 
THE PROBATE OF NUNCUPATIVE WILLS. 
S,ctio• 238o. Nt111c"/ntive wills, wlu11 a11d .low admitted to Jrohate.
2381. Additioeal require•~•~ ;,, prohate of """cupative -wills.
2382. Contests a11d a/Joi,,t,11e11ts to conform to Jrovisio11s ds to otl,er wills. 
Sec. 2380. Noncupative wills may at any time, within six months after the
testamentary words are spoken by the decedent, be admitted to probate, on
petition and notice as provided in Article I., Chapter II., of this Title. The
petition, in addition to the jurisdictional facts, must allege that the testa­
mentary words or the substance thereof, were reduced to writing within thirty
days after they were spoken, which writing must accompany the petition. 
Sec. 2381. The District Court or judge must not receive or entertain a
petition for the probate of a nuncupative will until the lapse of ten days from 
the death of the testator, nor must such petition at any time be acted on until
the testamentary words are, or their substance is, reduced to writing and fi1ed
with the petition, nor until the surviving husband or wife, if any, and all other
persons resident in the State or county interested in the estate, are notified as
hereinbefore provided. 
Sec. 2382. Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills, and appointments
of executors and administrators of the estate devised thereby, must be had, 
conducted, and made as hereinbefore provided in cases of the probate of writ­
ten wills. 
CHAPTER III. 
EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS, THEIR LETTERS, BONDS, RElWW ALS
AND SUSPENSIONS. 
Article. I. Letters testamentary and (or administration, will, the will annexed, kow
a11d to wlto,n issued. 
I I. Form of letters.
I 1 I. Letters of adm inist ratian ; to v.•ltom and the order in whick they are 
,1[1'anted.
IV. Petition and contest for letters, and action tkereon. 
V. Revocation of letters a11d proceeding., tlterefor.
VI. Oatks and bonds of executors and administrators. 
V //. Special administrators and their powers and duties. 
Re111ot1afs a"d s•s/e,,sio11s i• certain cases.
Article VIII. 
IX. 
x. 
Will, fo•"•P after letters of ad•i11islratio11 gra•led.
Di.,q11ali/icalio11 of J•dges aed traesfer« of admi,,istratio,,. 
LETTERS TESTAMENTARY AND OF ADMINISTRATION WITH THE WILL AN·
NEXED, HOW AND TO WHOM ISSUED. 
Sectio" 2400. To -wl,om letters 011 /rot•ed -will to issue.
2401. W!,o are i11com/ete•I as esecetors or admi•islrators. Letters "llli/1, fllill 
a1111exed lo issee, -wke11. 
2402. Interested parties may file o/Jjertlo11s.
2403. u,,married -woma" execetri» or admi,,istratri• marryi"K, /,er a•lltor,ty 
does 110/ cease.
240+ Executor of a• n,ec•lor. 
2405. Letters of admi11istralio• to a mi,,or.
24o6. Acts of a jorlio• of exr.culor.1 valid.
2407. A•lkorily of adm111istralor.1, will, -will a1111e1ud. Letters, lto-w iu•ed. 
Sec. 2400. The court or judge admitting a will to probate, after the same is
proved and allowed, must issue letters thereon to the persons named therein
as executors who are competent to discharge the trust, who must appear and
qualify, unless objection is made, as provided in Section 2402. 
Sec. 2401. No person is competent to serve as executor who, at the time
the will is admitted to rrobate, is : 
1. Under the age o majority. 
2. Convicted of an infamous crime.
3. Adjudged by the court or judge incompetent to execute the duties of 
the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of understanding or
integrity. · 
If the sole executor or all the executors are incompetent, or renounce, or
fail to apply for letters, or to appear and qualify, letters of administration, with
the will annexed, must be issued as designated and provided for the grant of
letters in cases of intestacy. 
Sec. 2402. Any person interested in a will may file objections, in writing,
to granting letters testamentary to the persons named as executors. or any of
them, and the objections must be heard and determined by the court or judge ;
a petition may, at the same time, be filed for letters of administration, with
the will annexed. 
Sec. 2403. When an unmarried woman appointed executrix marries, her
authority is not extinguished. When a married woman is named as executrix
she may be appointed and serve in every respect as an unmarried woman. 
Sec. 2404. No executor of an executor shall as such be authorized to ad­
minister on the estate of the first testator, but on the death of the sole or sur­
viving executor of any last will, letters of administration, with the will an­
nexed, of the estate of the first testator, left unadministered, must be issued. 
Sec. 2405. Where a person absent from the State, or a minor, is named ex­
ecutor- if there is another executor who accepts the trust and qualifies -the
latter may have letters testamentary and administer the estate until the return
of the absentee or the majority of the minor, who may then be admitted as
joint executor. If there is no other executor letters of administration, with
the will annexed, must be granted; but the court or judge may, in its or his dis­
cretion, revoke them on the return of the absent executor or the arrival of the
minor at the age of majority. 
Sec. 2406. When all the executors named are not appointed by the court
or judge those appointed have the same authority to perform all acts and dis­
charge the trust, required by the will, as effectually for every purpose as if all
were appointed and should act together; where there are two executors or ad­
ministrators the act of one alone shall be effectual, if the other is absent from
the State or laboring under any legal disability from serving, or if he has given 
his co-executor or co-administrator authority in writing to act for both; and
where there are more than two executors or administrators the act of a majority
is valid. 
Sec. 2407. Administrators, with the will annexed, have the same authority
over the estates which executors named in the will would have, and their acts 
are as effectual for all purposes. Their letters must be signed by the clerk of
the court, and bear the seal thereof. 

Sec. 2420. form: 
State of Montana, county of • The last will of A. D., deceased, a copy of which is
hereto annexed, having been proved and recorded in the District Court of the county of ,
C. D., who is named therein as such, is hereby appointed executor. Witness, G. H., clerk of
the District Court of the county of , with the seal of the court affixed, the -- day of
---, A. D.18-. (Seal.) By order of the court. G. H., Clerk. 
Sec. 2421. Letters of administration with the will annexed must be sub­
stantially in the following form : 
State of Montana, county of . The last will of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is
hereto annexed, having been proved and recorded in the District Court of the county of ,
and there being no executor named in the will ( or as the case may be), C. D. is hereby appointed
administrator, with the will annexed. Witne11, G. H., clerk of the District Court of the county
of , with the seal of the court affixed, the --day of , A. D. 18-. (Seal.)
By order of the court. · G. H., clerk. 
Sec. 2422. Letters of administration must be signed by the clerk, under
the seal of the court, and substantially in the following form : 
State of Montana, county, of . C. D. is hereby appointed administrator of
the estate of A. B., deceased. (Seal.) Witness, G. H., Clerk of the District Court of the
county of. , with the seal thereof affixed, the--day of. , A. D. 18-. By order of
the court. G. H., clerk. 
ARTICLE I
LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION, TO WHOM AND THE ORDER IN WHICH THEY
ARE GRANTED. 
Sectio• 2430. Order of ;erso11s e11titled to admi11isler, /art,,er 1'01 to ad,n,',,ister.
::1431. Preference of Jer,0111 eq#al/y e1'1i'tled.
:143:2. /11 discretion of coert or j11dge to aJJoi11/ admi,,islrator, 1»l,e,,.
:2433. Wile• minor e11titled, wl,o appointed administrator.
::1434. W.io are i11comJete11t to act as administrators,
2435. Married woman may be admi•istratri:t. 
Sec. 2430. Administration of estate of all persons dying intestate must be
granted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned, the relatives
of the deceased being entitled to administer only when they are entitled to suc­
ceed to his personal estate, or some portion thereof, and they are, respectively,
entitled therein in the following order : 
1. The surviving husband or wife, or some competent person whom he or
she may request to have appointed. 
2. The children.
3. The father or mother.
4. The brothers. 
S. The sisters.
6. The grandchildren. 
7. The next of kin entitled to share in the distribution of the estate.
8. The public administrator. 
9. A creditor. 
10. Any person legally competent.
If the decedent was a member of a partnership at the time of his decease, 
the surviving partner must in no case be appointed administrator of the estate. 

Sec. 2431. Of several persons claiming and equally, entitled to administer,
males must be preferred to females, and relatives of the whole to those of the
half blood. 
Sec. 2432. When there are several persons equally entitled to the adminis­
tration, the court or judge may grant letters to one or more of them. 
Sec. 2433. If any person entitled to administration is a minor, letters must
be granted to his or her guardian, or any other person entitled to letters of
administration, in the discretion of the court or judge. 
Sec. 2434. No person is competent or entitled to serve as administrator or
administratrix who is : 
1. Under the age of majority. 
2. Not a bona fide resident of the State, but if the person entitled to serve 
is not a resident of the State he may request the court or judge to appoint a
resident of the State to serve as administrator, and such person may be 
appointed.
3. Convicted of an infamous crime.
4- Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of the trust 
by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of understanding or integrity.
Sec. 2435. A married woman may be appointed administratrix. When an 
unmarried woman marries her authority continues. 

ARTICLE IV. 
2442, Notice of a//licatio11.
::a443. Co11tesl,11g a//licalio11s.
::a444-. Heari•g of a/Jlicalio11.
244.S· Evide11ce of «otice.
2446. Gra11t to a"y apjlica•t.
2447. Wl,at /roof m,ut he made before grn11ti11g letters of admi•istratio11, 
2448. Letters may he gra11ted to otl,ers tl,a11 tkosc e11titled. 
Sec. 2440. Petitions for letters of administration must be in writing, signed
by the applicant or his attorney, and filed with the clerk of the court, stating
the facts essential to give jurisdiction of the case, and when known to the ap­
plicant, he must state the names, ages and residence of the heirs of the dece­
dent, and the value and character of the property. If the jurisdictional facts
existed, but are not fully set forth in the petition, and are afterward proved in
the course of administration, the decree or order of administration and subse­
quent proceedings are not void on account of such want of jurisdictional
averments. 
Sec. 2441. Letters of administration may be granted by the court or judge
at any time appointed for the hearing of the application, or at any time to
which the hearing is continued or postponed. 
Sec. 2442. When a petition praying for letters of administration is filed,
the clerk must give notice thereof by causing notices to be posted in at least
three public places in the county, one of which must be at the place where the
court is held, containing the name of the decedent, the name of the applicant,
and the time at which the application will be heard. Such notice must be
given at least ten days before the hearing. 
Sec. 2443. Any person interested may contest the petition by filing written
opposition thereto, on the ground of the incompetency of the applicant, or
may assert his rights to the administration, and pray that letters be issued to 
himself. In the latter case the contestant must file a petition and give the
notice required for an original petition, and the court or judge must hear the 
two petitions together.
Sec. 2444 On the hearing, it being first proved that notice has been given 
as herein required, the court or judge must hear the allegations and proofs of
the parties, and order the issuing of letters of administration to the party best 
entitled thereto.
Sec. 2445. An entry in the minutes of the court, that the required proof 
was made and notice given, shall be conclusive notice of the fact of such no­
tice. 
Sec. 2446. Letters of administration must be granted to any applicant,
though it appears that there are other persons having better rights to the ad­
ministration, when such persons fail to appear and claim the issuing of letters 
to themselves.
Sec. 2447. Before letters of administration are granted on the estate of any 
person who is represented to have died intestate, the fact of his dying intes­
tate must be proved by the testimony of the applicant or others, and the court
or judge may also examine any other person concerning the time, place, and
manner of his death, the place of his residence at the time, the value and char­
acter of his property, and whether or not the decedent left any will, and may
compel any person to attend as a witness for that purpose. 
Sec. 2448. Administration may be granted to one or more competent per­
sons, although not otherwise entitled to the same, at the written request of
the person entitled, filed in the court. When the person entitled is a non-resi­
dent of the State, affidavits, taken ~.r part~ before any officer authorized by
the laws of this State to take acknowledgments and administer oaths out of
this State, may be received as prima facie evidence of the identity of the party,
if free from suspicion, and the fact is established to the satisfaction of the 
ARTICLE V.
court. 
REVOCATION OF LETTERS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREFOR. 
Seclio• 246o. Revocatio• of letters of admi11istratio•.
2461. JVken petition filed, citatio« to issee. 
2462. Hearing of /tdilio11 for recocatio«.
2463. Prior ri'g/,fs of retatives e•titles I/rem to revok« Jrior letters. 
Sec. 2460. When letters of administration have been granted to any other
person than the surviving husband or wife, child, father, mother, brother or
sister of the intestate, any one of them who is competent, or any competent
person at the written request of any one of them, may obtain the revocation
of the letters, and be entitled to the administration, by presenting to the court
a petition praying the revocation, and that letters of administration may be is­
sued to him. 
Sec. 2461. When such petition is filed, the clerk must, in addition to the
notice provided in Section 2442, issue a citation to the administrator to appear
and answer the same at the time appointed for the hearing. 
Sec. 2462. At the time appointed, the citation having been duly served and
returned, the court or judge must proceed to hear the allegations and proofs
of the parties ; and if the right of the applicant is established, and he is com­
petent, letters of administration must be granted to him, and the letters of the
former administrator revoked. · 
Sec. 2463. The surviving husband or wife, when letters of administration
have been granted to a child, father, brother or sister of the intestate; or any
of such relatives, when letters have been granted to any other of them, may
assert his prior right and obtain letters of administration, and have letters
before granted revoked in the manner prescribed in the three preceding Sections. 
ARTICLE VI. 
OATHS AND BONDS OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS, ETC. 
Admi11istrator or t':ltf'C#lor to take oat!,. Letters a11d lx,11d to be recorded, 
Bo11d oj admi•istrators,form a•d t'e9#ireme,,/s of.
Addil,o•al bonds, wl,e,. reqeired, 
Co11diti<>11 of /Jo•ds.
Eack, or more Illa" 011e admi11islrator, to give separate lx,11ds. 
Several recoveries to he ltad o• same ho11d.
Bo11ds a11d j11stijicatio• of sureties o•. Musi he ap;rot,ed.
Citatio• a•d re911irements of ;11dge 011 deficie11t ho•d. Additio•al stt•rity. 
Rig!,/ ceases. wl,e11.
Wl,e11 l,o,,d may he disj>Hsed wit/,.
Petition sllowi11g faili11g s areties aed asking for f#rtl,,r bo11ds. 
Citatio11 to executor; etr., to dow caese agai•st sue!, appUcatio•.
F•rtl,er security may he ordered.
Neg-lecti11K to ohey order.
Srupending powers of e:cecutor, etc.
F11r//,er secerity witlto"t applicatio11 of party ;,, interest.
Release of sureties.
New sereties.
Neglect to gitie new sereties forfeits letters. 
Sec. 2470. Before letters testamentary or of administration arc issued to the
executor or administrator, he must take and subscribe an oath before some
officer authorized to administer oaths, that he will perform, according to law,
the duties of executor or administrator, which oath must be attached to the
letters. All letters testamentary and of administration issued to, and all bonds
executed by, executors and administrators, with the affidavits and certificates
thereon, must be forthwith recorded by the clerk of the court having jurisdic­
tion of the estates, in books to be kept by him in his office for that purpose. 
Sec. 2471. Every person to whom letters testamentary or of administration
are directed to issue, must, before receiving them, execute a bond to the State
of Montana, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Dis­
trict Court, or a judge thereof. In form, the bond must be joint and several,
and the penalty must not be less than twice the value of the personal property,
and twice the probable value of the annual rents, profits, and issues of real
property belonging to the estate, which value must be ascertained by the Dis­ 
trict Court, or a judge thereof, by examining on oath the party applying, and
any other persons. 
Sec. 2472. The court or judge must require an additional bond whenever
the sale of any real estate belonging to an estate is ordered; but no such
additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily appears to the court or
judge that the penalty of the bond given before receiving letters, or any bond
given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of the personal property
remaining in or that will come into the possession of the executor or adminis­
trator, 'including the annual rents, profits, and issues of real estate, and twice
the probable amount to be realized on the sale of the real estate ordered to be sold. 
Sec. 2473. The bond must be conditioned that the executor or administra­
tor shall faithfully execute the duties of the trust according to law. 
Sec. 2474. When two or more persons are executors or administrators the
court or judge must require and take a separate bond from each of them. 
Sec. 2475. The bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may be
sued and recovered upon from time to time by any person aggrieved, in his
own name, until the whole penalty is exhausted. 
Sec. 2476. In all cases where bonds or undertakings are required to be
given under this Title the sureties must justify thereon in the same manner
and in like amounts as required by Section 1899, of this Code, and the cer­
tificate thereof must be attached to and filed and recorded with the bond or
undertaking. All such bonds and undertakings must be approved by a judge
of the District Court before being filed or recorded. 
Sec. 2477. Before the judge approves the bond required under this Title,
and after its approval, he may, of his own motion, or upon the motion of any
person interested in the estate, supported by affidavit that the sureties, or
some one of them, are not worth as much as they have justified to, order a
citation to issue requiring such sureties to appear before him at a designated
time and place, to be examined touching their property and its value ; and the
judge must, at the same time, cause a notice to be issued to the executor or
administrator requiring his appearance on the return of the citation ; and on
its return he may examine the sureties and such witnesses as may be pro­
duced, touching the property of the sureties and its value; and if, upon such
examination, he is satisfied that the bond is insufficient, he must require suffi­
cient additional security. 
Sec. 2478. If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed by the
judge's order, the right of such executor or administrator to the administration
shall cease, and the person next entitled to the administration on the estate,
who will execute a sufficient bond, must be appointed to the administration. 
Sec. 2479. When it is expressly provided in the will that no bond shall be
required of the executor, letters testamentary may issue, and sales of real 
estate be made and confirmed without any bond, unless the court or judge,
for good cause, require one to be executed; but the executor may at any time 
afterward, if it appear from any cause necessary or proper, be required to file
a bond, as in other cases. 
Sec. 2480. Any person interested in an estate may, by verified petition,
represent to the court or judge that the sureties of the executor or administra­
tor thereof have. become, or are becoming insolvent, or that they have
removed or are about to remove, from the State, or that from any other cause
the bond is insufficient, and ask that further security be required. 
Sec. 2481. If the court or judge is satisfied that the matter requires inves­
tigation, a citation must be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring
him to appear, at a time and place therein specified, to show cause why he
should not give further security. The citation must be served personally on
the executor or administrator, at least five days before the return day. If he
has absconded or cannot be found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it
at his place of residence, or by such publication as the court or judge may
order. 
Sec. 2482. On the return of the citation, or at such other time as the judge
may appoint, he must proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties.
If it satisfactorily appears that the security from any caase is insufficient, he
may make an order requiring the executor or administrator to give further se­
curity, or to file a new bond in the usual form within a reasonable time, not less 
than five days. ·
Sec. 2483. If the executor or administrator neglects to comply with the or­ 
der within the time prescribed, the judge must, by order, revoke his letters, and
his authority must thereupon cease. 
Sec. 2484. When a petition is presented, praying that an executor or ad­
ministrator be required to give further security, or to give bond, where by the
terms of the will no bond was originally required, and it is alleged that the ex­ 
ecutor or administrator is wasting the property of the estate, the judge may,
by order, suspend his powers until the matter can be heard and determined. 
Sec. 2485. When it comes to his knowledge that the bond of any executor
or administrator is from any cause insufficient, the judge, without any applica­
tion, must cause him to be cited to appear and show cause why he should not
give further security, and must proceed thereon as upon the application of any
person interested. 
Sec. 2486. When a surety of any executor or administrator desires to be re­
leased from responsibility on account of future acts, he may make application
to the court or judge for relief. The court or judge must cause a citation to 
the executor or administrator to be issued and served personally, requiring him
to appear at a time and place to be therein specified, and to give other security.
If he has absconded, left, or removed from the State, or if he cannot be found
after due diligence and inquiry, service may be had as provided in Section 
2481.
Sec. 2487. If new sureties be given to the satisfaction of the judge, he may 
thereupon make an order that the sureties who applied for relief shall not be
liable on their bond for any subsequent act, default, or misconduct of the 
executor or administrator.
Sec. 2488. If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to give new 
sureties, to the satisfaction of the judge, on the return of the citation, or
within such reasonable time as the judge shall allow, unless the surety making
the application shall consent to a longer extension of time, the court or judge
must revoke his letters. · 
ARTICLE VII. 
SPECIAL ADMINISTRATORS, AND THEIR POWERS AND DUTIES. 
Sectio• 2500. Sjecial administrators, wl1e11 appoi•ted. 
2501. Special letters may be issued 0111 of lerm tit11e. 
2502. Preference gitte11 lo jerso11s rnlitled to letters. 
2503. Special ad111i11isfrator to give l,011d and take oatlt.
250+ Detie» of sjecial admini.,trator.
2505. W.ien letters tuta,,untar_v or of admi11islrt.lt"o11 are gra•led, sj«ial adt11i11- 
istrator's powers cease, 
25o6. Sjecial adm1"11istrator lo render accoent, 
Sec. 2500. When there is delay in granting letters testamentary or of admin­
istration, from any cause, or when such letters are granted irregularly, or no
sufficient bond is filed as required, or when no application is made for such
letters, or when an executor or administrator dies, or is suspended or removed,
the court or judge must appoint a special administrator to collect and take
charge of the estate of the decedent in whatever county or counties the same
may be found, and to exercise such other powers as may be necessary for the
preservation of the estate. 
Sec. 2501. The appointment may be made at any time, and without notice,
and must be made by entry upon the minutes of the court, specifying the
powers to be exercised by the administrator. Upon such order being entered,
and after the person appointed has given bond, the clerk must issue letters of
administration to such person in conformity with the order. 
Sec. 2502. In making the appointment of a special administrator the court
or judge must give preference to the person entitled to letters testamentary or
of administration, but no appeal must be allowed from the appointment. 
Sec. 2503. Before any letters issue to any special administrator he must
give bonds in such sum as the court or judge may direct, with sureties to the
satisfaction of the court or judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of
his duties; and he must take the usual oath and have the same indorsed on his
letters. 
Sec. 2504. The special administrator must collect and preserve for the ex­
ecutor or administrator all the goods, chattels, debts, and effects of the dece­
dent, all incomes, rents, issues, and profits, claims and demands of the estate :
must take the charge and management of, enter upon and preserve from dam­
age, waste and injury the real estate; and for any such and all necessary pur­
poses may commence and maintain or defend suits and other legal proceedings
as an administrator; he may sell such perishable property as the court or judge
may order to be sold, and exercise such other powers as are conferred upon
him by his appointment, but in no case is he liable to an action by any creditor
on a claim against the decedent. 
Sec. 2505. When letters testamentary or of administration on the estate of
the decedent have been granted, the powers of the special administrator cease, 
and he must forthwith deliver to the executor or administrator all the property
and effects of the decedent in his hands, and the executor may prosecute to
final judgment any suit commenced by the special administrator. 
Sec. 2506. The special administrator must render an account, on oath, of
his proceedings in a like manner as other administrators are required to do. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
WILLS FOUND AFTER LETIERS OF ADMINISTRATION GRANTED, AND MIS­
CELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 
Sectin 2.,10. O• /roof of will, after gra11I of letters of ad•i,.islrat,'011, letters revoked,
2511. Power of e11ec11lor ;,, s~lt case. 
2512. Re111ai•i•g e"ec•lor or ad•i•islralor to cot1li1111e iv.ie11 !tis colleag,,es are
disq•aUJied. 
i513. W.io lo act w.ie11 all acti•K are i•co,,,J>ete11t.
251+ E11uc•tor or admi11istralor 111ay resig,,, w.iet1. Caert to a/Joi•: s•ccessor. 
/A0a~ilily of o•lgoer.
i515. .All acts of ex,c•tor, etc., ·ttalid ••Iii .iis /O"Wer is r,volted.
2516. Tra•scrijt of coert mi••"es to h evide•ce. 
Sec. 2510. If, after granting letters of administration on the ground of in­
testacy, a will of the decedent is duly proved and allowed by the court or
judge, the letters of administration must be revoked, and the power of the ad­
ministrator ceases, and he must render an account of his administration within
such time as the court or judge shall direct. 
Sec. 2511. In such case the executor or the administrator, with the will
annexed, is entitled to demand, sue for, recover and collect all the rights,
goods, chattels, debts and effects of the decedent remaining unadministered,
and may prosecute to final judgment any suit commenced by the administrator
before the revocation of his letters of administration. 
Sec. 2512. In case any one of several executors or administrators to whom
letters are granted, dies, becomes a lunatic, is convicted of an infamous crime.
or otherwise becomes incapable of executing the trust, or in case the letters
testamentary or of administration are revoked or annulled, with respect to any
one executor or administrator, the remaining executor or administrator must
proceed to complete the execution of the will or administration. 
Sec. 2513. If all such executors or administrators die or become incapable,
or the power and authority of all of them is revoked, the court or judge must
issue letters of administration, with the will annexed or otherwise, to the 
widow or next of kin, or others, in the same order and manner as is directed
in relation to original letters of administration. The administrators so ap­
pointed must give bond in the like penalty, with like sureties and conditions,
as hereinbefore r~uired of administrators, and shall have the like power and
authority. 
Sec. 2514. Any executor or administrator may, at any time, by writing,
filed in the court, resign his appointment, having first settled his accounts and de­ 
liver up all the estate to the person whom the court or judge shall appoint to
receive the same. If, however, by reason of any delays in such settlement and
delivering up of the estate, or for any other cause, the circumstances of the estate
or the rights of those interested therein require it, the court may, at any time
before settlement of accounts and delivering up of the estate is completed, re.
voke the letters of such executor or administrator, and appoint in his stead an
administrator, either special or general, in the same manner as is directed in
relation to original letters of administration. The liability of the outgoing
executor or administrator, or of the sureties on his bond, shall not be in any
manner discharged, released or affected by such appointment or resignation. 
Sec. 2515. All acts of an executor or administrator, as such, before the revo­
cation of his letters testamentary or of administration are as valid to all intents
and purposes as if such executor or administrator had continued lawfully to
execute the duties of his trust. 
Sec. 2516. A transcript from the minutes of the court, showing the appoint­
ment of any person as executor or administrator, together with the certificate
of the clerk, under his hand and the seal of the court that such person has
given bond and been qualified, and that letters testamentary or of administra­
tion have been issued to him and have not been revoked, shall have the same
effect in evidence as the letters themselves. 
ARTICLE IX. 
DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGES AND TRANSFERS OF ADMINISTRATIONS. 
Section 2530. Wien j•dge not to act.
2531. ':f•dge hei11g disq•alified, proceedings to he tra11sferred a11d wl,ere.
2532. Transfer not to d1a11ge r,gllt to administer. R,transfer, /,ow "'ade.
2533. Wken Jroceedings to l,e reterned to original court, 
Sec. 2530. No will shall be admitted to probate or letters testamentary or
of administration granted, before any judge who is interested as next of kin
to the decedent, or as a legatee or devisee under the will, or when he is named
as executor or trustee in the will, or is a witness thereto, or is in any other way
interested or disqualified from acting. 
Sec. 2531. When a petition is filed in the District Court praying for admis­
sion to probate of a will, or for granting letters testamentary or of administra­ 
tion, or when proceedings are pending in the court for the settlement of an
estate, and there is no judge of said court qualified to act, an order must be
made transferring the proceeding to the District Court of an adjoining county ;
and the clerk of the court ordering the transfer must transmit to the clerk of
the court to which the proceeding is ordered to be transferred, a certified copy
of the order and all the papers on file in his office in the proceeding; and
thereafter the court or judge to which the proceeding is transferred shall exer­
cise the same authority and jurisdiction over the estate and all matters relating
to the administration thereof, as if it had original jurisdiction over the estate. 
Sec. 2532. The transfer of a proceeding from one court to another, as pro­
vided for in the preceding Section, shall not affect the right of any person to
letters testamentary or of administration on the estate transferred, but the
same persons are entitled to letters testamentary or of administration on the
estate, in the order herein provided. If, before the administration is closed
on any estate so transf erred as herein provided, another person is elected or
appointed, and qualified as judge of the court wherein such proceeding was
originally commenced, who is not disqualified to act in the settlement of the
estate, and the cause for which the proceeding was transferred no longer exist,
any person interested in the estate may have the proceeding returned to the
court from which it was originally transferred, by filing a petition setting forth
these facts, and moving the court therefor. 
Sec. 2533. On hearing the motion, if the facts required by the preceding Section to be set out in the petition are satisfactorily shown, and it further
appears to the court that the convenience of the parties interested would be
promoted by such change, the judge must make an order transferring the pro­
ceeding back to the court where it originally commenced, and the clerk of the
court ordering the transfer must transmit to the clerk of the court in which
the proceeding was originally commenced, a certified copy of the order, and all
the original papers on file in his office in the proceeding, and the court where
the proceeding was originally commenced shall thereafter have jurisdiction and
power to make all necessary orders and decrees to close up the administration
of the estate. 
ARTICLE X. 
REMOVALS AND SUSPENSIONS IN CERTAIN CASES. 
Sectio« 2540. SH/ension of /ow~rs of """r•tor.
2541. E11ec#tor to jav~ •otice of /,is s11s/~1'sio•, aed lo l,e cited to a//MY, 
Sectio• ::a54::a. A •Y /ar-ty ieterested 111ay ap/e11,,. o• l,eari11g.
:1543. Notice to absco11di11g execetor« a11d admi11istraton.
2544- May co,,,pel atte11da11ce. 
Sec. 2540. Whenever the judge of a District Court has reason to believe,
from his own knowledge or from credible information, that any executor or
administrator has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged, or · is about to waste or
embezzle the property of the estate committed to his charge, or has committed
or is about to commit a fraud upon the estate, or is incompetent to act, or has
permanently removed from the State, or has wrongfully neglected the estate,
or has neglected to perform any act as such executor or administrator, he
must, by an order entered upon the minutes of the court, suspend the pow­
ers of such executor or administrator until the matter is investigated. 
Sec. 2541. When such suspension is made the notice thereof must be given
to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear and show
cause why his letters should not be revoked. If he fail to appear in obedience
to the citation, or, if appearing, the court or judge is satisfied that there exists
cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked and letters of administration
granted anew, as the case may require. 
Sec. 2542. At the hearing any person interested in the estate may appear
and file his allegations in writing, showing that the executor or administrator
should be removed, to which the executor or administrator may demur or an­
swer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues raised must be heard and deter­ 
mined by the court or judge.
Sec. 2543. If the executor or administrator has absconded or conceals him­ 
self, or has removed or absented himself from the State, notice may be given
to him of the pendency of the proceedings by publication in such manner as
the court or judge may direct, and the court or judge may proceed upon such 
notice as if the citation had been personally served.
Sec. 2544. In the proceedings authorized by the preceding Sections of this Article, for the removal of an executor or administrator, the court or judge
may compel his attendance by attachment, and may compel him to answer
questions on oath, touching his administration, and, upon his refusal so to do,
may commit him until he obey, or may revoke his letters, or both. 
CHAPTER I
THE INVENTORY AND COLLECTION OF THE EFFECTS OF DECEDENTS. 
Article I. /11ventory, ap;,,.ai.<reme"t and possessio" of estate.
I I. Embezzleme•t and serresder of property of estate, 
INVENTORY, APPRAISEMENT AND POSSESSION OF ESTATE. 
Sectio« :1550.
2551. 
2552.
:1553. 
:2554.
2555. 
2556.
2557. 
2558.
:2559- 
256o. 
CHAPTER IV. 
ARTICLE I. 
lnve11tory to be returned, ;,,c111di11g tke l,o,,,estead.
Ap;raisement and pay of appraisers.
Oat!, of appraisers aed inventory.
/,,1,entor)' to account for mo11eys. If all money, no appraiseme11/ 11ecessary.
Effect OJ ,,aming a aebtor executor.
JJisc/,arge or beq,ust of debtor agai11st e:iec11tor.
To make oat!, to inve11tor1.
Letters may be revoked for neglect of admi11istrator.
l11v,11tory of after-discovered property.
Administrator a•d e:iec11tor to possess real a•d personal estate.
Exec,dor or admi11istrator to deliver real estate to heirs and devisee's at Ike 
e•d of ten montl,s, unless tlure ore debts to be satisfied. 
Sec. 2550. Every executor or administrator must make and return to the
court, within three months after his appointment, a true inventory and appraise­ 
ment of all the estate of the decedent, including the homestead, if any, which
has come to his possession or knowledge. 
Sec. 2551. To make the appraisement the court or judge must appoint three 
disinterested persons, any two of whom may act, who are entitled to receive a
reasonable compensation for their services, not to exceed five dollars per day,
to be allowed by the court or judge. The appraisers must, with the inventory,
file a verified account of their services and disbursements; if only one day's
service is charged the account need not be verified. If any part of the estate
is in any other county than that in which letters issued, appraisers thereof may
be appointed by the District Court or judge having jurisdiction of the estate,
or by the District Court or judge of such other county, on request of the court
or judge having jurisdiction. 
Sec. 2552. Before proceeding to the execution of their duty, the appraisers,
before any officer authorized to administer oaths, must take and subscribe an
oath, to be attached to the inventory, that they will truely, honestly and
impartially appraise the property exhibited to them, according to the best of
their knowledge and ability. They must then proceed to estimate and appraise
the property; each article must be set down separately, with the value thereof
in dollars and cents, in figures, opposite to the articles, respectively ; the in­
ventory must contain all the estate of the decedent, real and personal, a state­
ment of all debts, partnerships, and other interests, bonds, mortgages, notes,
and other securities for the payment of money belonging to the decedent, speci­
fying the name of the debtor in each security, the date, the sum originally
payable, the indorsements thereon, if any, with their dates, and the sum which,
in the judgment of the appraisers, may be collected on each debt, interest or
security. 
Sec. 2553. The inventory must also contain an account of all moneys
belonging to the decedent which have come to the hands of the executor or
administrator; and if none, the fact must be so stated in the inventory. If the
whole estate consists of money, there need not be an appraisement, but an
inventory must be made and returned as in other cases. 
Sec. 2554. The naming of a person as executor does not thereby discharge
him from any just claim which the testator has against him, but the claim must
be included in the inventory, and the executor is liable for the same, as for
such money in his hands, when the debt or demand becomes due. 
Sec. 2555. The discharge or bequest in a will, of any debt or demand of the
testator against the executor named, or any other person, is not valid against 
the creditors of the decedent, but is a specific bequest of the debt or demand.
It must be included in the.inventory, and if necessary, applied in the payment
of the debts. If not necessary for that purpose, it must be paid in the same
manner and proportion as other specific legacies. 
Sec. 2556. The inventory must be signed by the appraisers, and the execu­
tor or administrator must take and subscribe an oath before an officer author­
ized to administer oaths, that the inventory contains a true statement of all the
estate of the decedent which has come to his knowledge and possession, and
particularly of all money belonging to the decedent, and of all just claims of
the decedent against the affiant. The oath must be indorsed upon or annexed
to the inventory. 
Sec. 2557. If an executor or administrator neglects or refuses to return the
inventory within the time prescribed, or within such further time, not exceed­
ing two months, which the court or judge shall for reasonable cause allow, the
court or judge may, upon notice, revoke the letters testamentary or of admin­
istration, and the executor or administrator is liable on his bond for any injury
to the estate, or any person interested therein, arising from such failure. 
Sec. 2558. Whenever property not mentioned in an inventory that is made
and filed, comes to the possession or knowledge of an executor or administra­
tor, he must cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed in this Article, and an inventory thereof to be returned within two months after the
discovery ; and the making of such inventory may be enforced, after notice,
by attachment or removal from office. 
Sec. 2559. The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession of
all the real or personal estate of the decedent, and to receive the rents and
profits of the real estate until the estate is settled, or until delivered over by
order of the court or judge to the heirs or devisees; and must keep in good
tenantable repair all houses, buildings and fixtures thereon which are under 
his control. The heirs or devisees may themselves, or jointly with the execu­
tor or administrator, maintain an action for the possession of the real estate, or
for the purpose of quieting title to or for partition of the same, against any
one except the executor or administrator; but this Section shall not be so
construed as requiring them so to do. 
Sec. 2560. Unless it satisfactorily appear to the court or judge that the
rents, issues and profits of the real estate for a longer period are necessary to
be received by the executor or administrator, wherewith to pay the debts of 
the decedent, or that it will probably be necessary to sell the real estate for
the payment of such debts, the court or judge, at the end of the time limited
for the presentation of claims against the estate, must direct the executor or
administrator to deliver possession of all the real estate to the heirs at law or
the devisees. 
ARTICLE II. 
EMBEZZLEMENT AND SURRENDER OF PROPERTY OF THE ESTATE. 
Sect,.o" 2570. E111hnzU11g estate before pa11I of letters lesta,,,e11tary. 
:J_i;71. Citatio« lo /er.so11 .s•.,Jecled lo lat•e ,,,,heuled estate, etc. 
l57J, Ref •sal to obey citation, /e,,alty for, aed for e,,,l,ezzle111e11t. Ma_v he co•·
jelled lo disclose b_v ;,,,/ri.so11•te•I. Liabl« for do•hle da,,,ages. 
l573· Person» i11tr•.sted will tie estate of decede'!t •ay he cited to acco•11I. 
Sec. 2570. If any person, before the granting of letters testamentary or of
administration, embezzles or alienates any of the moneys, goods, chattels,
effects of a decedent, he is charged therewith and liable to an action by the
executor or administrator of the estate for double the value of the property so
embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for the benefit of the estate. 
Sec. 2571. If any executor or administrator, or any person interested in the
estate of a decedent, complains to the court or judge, on oath, that any person
is suspected to have concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away, or dis­ 
posed of any moneys, goods, or chattels of the decedent, or has in his posses­
sion or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other writings 
which contain evidences of or tend to disclose the right, title, interest or claim
of the decedent to any real or personal estate, or any claim or demand, or any
lost will, the said court or judge may cite such person to appear before such
court, and may examine him on oath upon the matter of such complaint. If
such person is not in the county where such decedent dies, or where letters
have been granted, he may be cited and examined either before the District
Court or judge of the county where he is found, or before the District Court
or judge of the county where the decedent dies, or where letters have been
granted. But if he appears and is found innocent, his necessary expenses must
be allowed him out of the estate. · 
Sec. 2572. If the person so cited refuses to appear and submit to an exam­
ination, or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him, touching the mat­
ters of the complaint, the court or judge may, by warrant forthat purpose, com­
mit him to the county jail, there to remain in close custody until he submits to
the order of the court, or is discharged according to law. If, upon examination, it
appears that he has concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away, or dis­
posed of any moneys, goods, or chattels of the decedent, or that he has in his
possession or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other
writings containing evidence of or tending to disclose the right, title, interest or
claim, of the decedent to any real or personal estate, claim, or demand, or any
lost will of the decedent, the court or judge may make an order requiring such 
person to disclose his knowledge thereof to the executor or administrator, and
may commit him to the county jail, there to remain until the order is com­
plied with, or he is discharged according to law : and all such interrogatories
and answers must be in writing, signed by the party examined, and filed in the
court. The -order for such disclosure made upon such examination shall be 
primafacie evidence of the right of the executor or administrator to such prop­
erty in any action brought for the recovery thereof; and any judgment recov­
ered therein must be for double the value of the property as assessed by the
court or jury, or for the return of the property and damages in addition there­
to, equal to the value of such property. In addition to the examination of
the party, witnesses may be produced and examined on either side. 
Sec. 2573. The court or judge upon the complaint on oath of any executor
or administrator, may cite any person who has been intrusted with any part of
the estate of the decedent to appear before such court or judge, and require
him to render a full account, on oath, of any moneys, goods, chattels, bonds,
accounts, or other property or papers belonging to the estate, which have come
to his possession in trust for the executor or administrator, and of his proceed­
ings thereon; and if the person so cited refuses to appear and render such ac­
count, the court or judge may proceed against him as provided in the preced­
ing Section. 
ARTICLE II
PROVISIONS FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY AND THE HOMESTEAD. 
J4rticle I. Prouisioes for tl,e s11Ji,ort of /1,e family.
I I. Tl,e komedead. 
Sectio11 l 58o.
l581.
l58l.
2583.
2584.
2585. 
i586. 
CHAPTER V. 
ARTICLE I. 
PROVISION FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY. 
Widow a11d m,',.or cl,i/drc• mav remain ,.,. decedeet's 1,o,ue, etc.
All jroperty e:cc111jl from e:cecutio• to he set a/art for ,ue offamily. 
May •ake extra atlowance.
Pavment of atlowaece,
Projert_v set ajar/, !tow ajjortioned hclwer• widow a11d cl,,'/drt'11.
Estates /e5,1 tl,a11 jifter11 ltu11dred dollars to go lo wife aed cl,i/d; tl,ose /c,1s 
/1,a,. /l,ree /l,ousa11d to bl' ,111mmarily adnu'•istered.
Wl,e,. all jrojerty to go lo c/,i/dre11. 
Sec. 2580. When a person dies leaving a widow and minor children, the
widow or children, until letters are granted and the inventory is returned, arc
entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, of all the wearing apparel
of the family, and of all the household furniture of the decedent, and are also
entitled to a reasonable provision for their support, to be allowed by the court
or judge. 
Sec. 2581. Upon the return of the inventory, or any subsequent time dur­
ing the administration, the court or judge may, on its own motion, or on peti­
tion therefor, set apart for the use of the surviving husband or wife, or in case
of his or her death, to the minor children of the decedent, all the property ex­
empt from execution, including the homestead selected, designated and re­
corded ; if no homestead has been selected, designated and recorded the court
or judge must select, designate and set apart, and cause to be recorded, a home­
stead for the use of the surviving husband or wife, and the minor· children ; or
if there be no surviving husband or wife, then for the use of the minor chil­
dren, in the manner provided for in Article I I., of this Chapter, out of the real
estate belonging to the decedent. 
Sec. 2582. If the amount set apart be insufficient for the support of the
widow and children, or either, the court or judge must make such reasonable
allowance out of the estate as shall be necessary for the maintenance of the
family, according to their circumstances, during the progress of the settlement 
of the estate, which, in case of an insolvent estate, must not be longer than one
year after granting letters testamentary or of administration. 
Sec. 2583. Any allowance made by the court or judge, in accordance with the
provisions of this Article, must be paid in preference to all other charges, ex­
cept funeral charges and expenses of administration ; and any such allowance,
whenever made, may, in the discretion of the court or judge, take effect from
the death of the decedent. 
Sec. 2584. When property is set apart for the use of the family, in accord­
ance with the provisions of this Chapter, if the decedent left a widow or sur­
viving husband, and no minor child, such property is the property of the widow 
· or surviving husband. If the decedent left-also a minor child or children, the
one-half of such property shall belong to the widow or surviving husband, and
the remainder to the child, or in equal shares to the children, if there be more
than one. If there be no widow or surviving husband, the whole belongs to
the minor child or children. If the property set apart be a homestead, selected
from the separate property of the deceased, the court or judge can only set it
apart for a limited period, to be designated in the order, which shall be a life
estate to husband or wife, and the title vests in the heirs of the deceased, sub­
ject to such order. 
Sec. 2585. If on the return of the inventory of the estate of an intestate, it
appears that the value of the whole estate· does not exceed the sum of fifteen 
hundred dollars, the court or judge by an order for that purpose, must assign
for the use and support of the widow and minor child or children, if there be a
widow or minor child, and if no widow, then for the children, if there are any,
the whole of the estate, after the payment of the expenses of his last illness,
funeral charges and expenses of the administration, and there must be no further
proceedings in the administration, unless further estate be discovered ; and
when it so appears that the value of the whole estate does not exceed the sum
of three thousand dollars, it is in the discretion of the court or judge to dis­
pense with the regular proceedings, or any part thereof, prescribed in this Title,
and there must be had a summary administration of the estate, and order of
distribution thereof at the end of six months after the issuing of letters. The
notice to creditors must be given to present their claims within four months
after the first publication of such notice, and those not so presented are barred 
as in other cases, 
Sec. 2586. If the widow has a maintenance, derived from her own property,
equal to the portion set apart to her by the preceding Sections of this Article,
the whole property so set apart, other than the homestead, must go to the 
minor children. 
Sec. 2590. If the homestead selected by the husband or wife, or either of
them, during their coverture, and recorded while both were living, was selected
from the separate property of the person selecting or joining in the selection of
the same, it vests on the death of the husband or wife, in the survivor for 
life. 
Section 1590.
2591. 
2593.
2594. 
:1595. 
25¢,. 
ARTICLE II. 
THE HOMESTEAD. 
Rigltts of seruiuor to ltome.(tead.
Selected and recorded komestead set a/art to Jerson entitled. Suhsisti11g 
/in,s to he Jaid by solvent estate.
AJ;raisers to car ue out of Ike or(l!inal, exceeding twe,.ty-five llundred 
dollars ;,, value, a l,omestcad, aed report lite same.
Rejor/ of tl,e aJ;raisers. Majority and minorit_y, wlticlt may he confirmed.
Day to he set for rejecting or co11.ftrming tlte report of tile apjraisen. 
A/Jeal.
Costs, to w.iom cltargeable. Persons st1cceeding to ri'gltts of l,omestead 
owners l,a1•e all tkeir power., and rigkts.
Certified cojies of certain orders to be recorded. 
Sec. 2591. If the homestead selected and recorded prior to the death of
the decedent be returned in the inventory appraised at not exceeding twenty.
five hundred dollars in value, or was previously appraised as provided in the
Civil Code, and such appraised value did not exceed that sum, the court or
judge must, by order, set it off to the persons in whom title is vested by the
preceding Sections. If there be subsisting liens or incumbrances on the home­
stead, the claims secured thereby must be presented and allowed as other
claims against the estate. If the funds of the estate be adequate to pay all
claims against the estate, the claims so secured must be paid out of such
funds. If the funds of the estate be not sufficient for that purpose, the claims
so secured shall be paid proportionately with other claims allowed, and the liens
or incumbrances on the homestead shall only be enforced against the homestead
for any deficiency remaining after such payment. 
Sec. 2592. If the homestead, as selected and recorded, be returned in the
inventory appraised at more than twenty-five hundred dollars, the appraisers
must, before they make their return, ascertain and appraise the value of the
homestead at the time the same was selected, and if such value exceeded
twenty-five hundred dollars, or if the homestead was appraised as provided in
the Civil Code, and such appraised value exceeded that sum, the appraisers
must determine whether the premises can be divided without material injury,
and if they find that they can be thus divided, they must admeasure and set
apart to the persons entitled thereto, such portion of the premises, including
the dwelling house, as will amount in value to the sum of twenty-five hundred
dollars, and make report thereof, giving the metes, bounds, and full description
of the portion set apart as a homestead. If the appraisers find that the
premises exceeded in value, at the time of their selection, the sum of twenty-five
hundred dollars, and that the}' cannot be divided without material injury, they
must report such finding, and thereafter the court or judge may make an order
for the sale of the premises and the distribution of the proceeds to the parties
entitled thereto. Such order of sale must state in what manner the sale shall
be conducted and what notice must be given thereof, and on the return of
the sales to the court or judge, and after the distribution of the proceeds, the
executor or administrator must give a deed of the premises to the purchaser.
The proceeds shall be ~istributed as follows: The liens or incumbrances must
be first paid, subject to the provisions hereinbefore stated, and then twenty­
five hundred dollars to the persons entitled thereto, and the balance, if any,
must be paid into the funds of the estate. 
Sec. 2593. Any two of the appraisers concurring may discharge the duties
imposed upon the three, and make the report. A dissenting report may be
made by the third appraiser. The report must state fully the acts of the 
appraisers. Both reports may be heard and considered by the court or judge
in determining a confirmation or rejection of the majority report, but the
minority report must in no case be confirmed. 
Sec. 2594. When the report of the appraisers is filed, the court or judge
must set a day for hearing any objections thereto, from anyone interested in
the estate. Notice of hearing must be given for such time, and in such man­
ner as the court or judge may direct. If the court or judge be satisfied that
the report is correct it must be confirmed, otherwise rejected. In case the
report is rejected, the court or judge may appoint new appraisers to examine
and report upon the homestead, and similar proceedings may be had for the
confirmation or rejection of their report as upon the first report. 
Sec. 2595. The costs of all proceedings provided for in this Chapter, must
be paid by the estate as expenses of administration. Persons succeeding by
purchase or otherwise to the interests, rights, and title of successors to home­
steads, or to the right to have homesteads set apart to them, as in this Chapter
provided, have all the rights and benefits conferred by law on the persons whose
interests and rights they acquire. 
Sec. 2596. A certified copy of every order made in pursuance of this Article, by which a report is confirmed, property assigned or sale confirmed,
must be recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county where the
homestead property is situated. 
Section • ~ 
lOOI,
X,02. 
2603. 
2004. 
26o5.
:J6o6. 
2007. 
::16o8. 
26og.
2610. 
2611.
2612. 
:J613.
:161+ 
:1615. 
CHAPTER VI. 
CLAIMS AGAINST THE ESTATE. 
Notice to creditors. Additio11a/ 11otice.
Ti111e e1tpressed ;,, tJ,e notice, 
Copy a11d /roof of «otic« to he Jiled a11d order •ade.
Ti111e wit!,i11 wl,,cJ, c/ai111s agai11st n11 estat« lo be Jresnted. 
Clain,s lo /Je swor11 to. a11d wl1e11 allowed to hear sa•e i11terut as j11dpe11ts. 
7"dp may presnt clai•, a11d actio11 /J,ereo11.
A l/own11ce a,.d rejectio11 of clai111s. 
A/proved c/ai.u or co,,es lo he ft led. C/ai11U sec11red hy lie,u •ay he
described, Lost c/ai111s. 
Rejected clni•~ lo he Hed for wi/J,i11 /l,ree mo11//,s.
Clai•s /Jarred hy Slal11te of Limilnlio11s. Wje,r a11d wl,o j11dge •ay e11a•i11e.
Clai#u 11111sl he Jr,se11ted before snit,
Ti,,,e of li•italio11. 
Claims ;,, action» pe11di11g al ti111e of decease.
Al/owa11ce of <lain, ;,, part.
Effect of j11dpe11t a.~ai11st e:tec11tor.
~ec•l1oi, 11ot to issee after deat/,. If 011e is levied tu jrojerty •ay /Je 
sold.
i616. WJ,at j11dg,,,e,.t is 1101 a lie• ,,,, real jrojert_v of a,. estate. 
2617. May refer dollhlf11I claims. Effect of referee's allowa11re or rejectio11.
2618. Trial b.v referee, J,ow co11ftr111ed a11d its effect.
2619- Liahility of e11ec,dor, etc.; for cods.
26:JO. Claims of esecetor, etc., nl{ai11sf t!,e estate. 
2621. Execetor 11eglt!<'ti11g lo give «otice lo creditors, lo he removed,
2622. E:cec11tor to reter« slateme11t of clai111s.
2623. E:cec11tor •ay pay interest, 
Sec. 2600. Every executor or administrator must, immediately after his
appointment, cause to be published in some newspaper in the county, if there
be one, if not, then in such newspaper as may be designated by the court or
judge, a notice to the creditors of the decedent, requiring all persons having
claims against him to exhibit them, with the necessary vouchers, to the exec­
utor or administrator, at the place of his residence or business, to be specified
in the notice; such notice must be published as often as the court or judge
shall direct, but not less than once a week for four weeks ; the court or judge
may also direct additional notice by publication or posting. In case such exec­
utor or administrator resigns, or is removed, before the time expressed in the
notice, his successor must give notice only for the unexpired time allowed for
such presentation. 
Sec. 2601. The time expressed in the notice must be ten months after its
first publication when the estate exceeds in value the sum of ten thousand
dollars, and four months when it does not. 
Sec. 2602. After the notice is given, as required by the preceding Section,
a copy thereof, with the affidavit of due publication, or of publication and
posting, must be filed, and upon such affidavit or other testimony to the satis­
faction of the court or judge, an order showing that due notice to creditors has
been given, and directing that such order be entered in the minutes and record­
ed, must be made by the court or judge. 
Sec. 2603. All claims arising upon contracts, whether the same be due, not
due or contingent, must be presented within the time limited in the notice,
and any claim not so presented is barred forever : Provided, however, that
when it is made to appear by the affidavit of the claimant, to the satisfaction
of the court or judge, that the claimant had no notice as provided in this Title, by reason of being out of the State, it may be presented at any time
before an order of distribution is entered; and, provided, further, that nothing 
in this Title contained shall be so construed as to prohibit the right, or limit
the time of foreclosure of mortgages upon real property of decedents, whether
heretofore or hereafter executed, but every such mortgage may be fore­
closed within the time and in the manner prescribed by the provisions of this
Code, other than those of this Title, except that no balance of the debt secured
by such mortgage remaining unpaid after foreclosure, shall be a claim against
the estate, unless such debt was presented as required by the provisions of
this Title. 

Sec. 2604. Every claim which is due, when presented to the executor or
administrator, must be supported by the affidavit of the claimant, or some one
in his behalf, that the amount is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon which are not credited, and that there are no offsets to the same, to
the knowledge of the affiant. If the claim be not due when presented, or be
contingent, the particulars of such claim must be stated. When the affidavit
is made by a person other than the claimant, he must set forth in the affidavit
the reason why it is not made by the claimant. The oath may be taken before
any officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor or administrator
may also require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be produced in support of
the claim. If the estate be insolvent, no greater rate of interest shall be al­
lowed upon any claim after the first publication of notice to creditors than is
allowed on judgments obtained in the District Court. 
Sec. 2605. Any judge of the District Court may present a claim against
the estate of a decedent for allowance to the executor or administrator there­
of, and if the executor or administrator allows the claim, he must in writing
designate some judge of the District Court of an adjoining county or district,
who, upon the presentation of such claim to him, is vested with power to allow
or reject it, and the judge presenting such claim, in case of its rejection by the
executor or administrator, or by such judge as shall have acted upon it, has
the same right to sue in a proper court for its recovery as other persons have
when their claims against an estate are rejected. 
Sec. 2606. When a claim, accompanied by the affidavit required in this Chap­
ter, is presented to the executor or administrator, he must indorse thereon his
allowance or rejection, with the day and date thereof. If he allow the claim, it
must be presented to the judge for his approval, who must in the same man­
ner indorse upon it his allowance or rejection. If the executor or administra­
tor, or the judge refuse or neglect to indorse such allowance or rejection for
ten days after the claim has been presented to him, such refusal or neglect
may, at the option of the claimant, be deemed equivalent to a rejection on the
tenth day; and if the presentation be made by a notary, the certificate of such
notary, under seal, shall be prima fade evidence of such presentation, and the
date thereof. If the claim be presented to the executor or administrator
before the expiration of the time limited for the presentation of claims, the
same is presented in time, though acted upon by the executor or administrator,
and by the judge, after the expiration of such time. 
Sec. 2607. Every claim allowed by the executor or administrator, and ap­
proved by the judge, or a copy thereof, as hereinafter provided, must, within
thirty days thereafter, be filed in the court, and be ranked among the acknowl­
edged debts of the estate, to be paid in due course of administration. If the
claim be founded on a bond, bill, note, or other instrument, a copy of such in­
strument must accompany the claim, and the original instrument must be ex­
hibited, if demanded, unless it be lost or destroyed, in which case the claimant
must accompany his claim by his affidavit, containing a copy or particular de­
scription of such instrument, and stating its loss or destruction. If the claim,
or any part thereof, be secured by a mortgage, or other lien which has been
recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county in which the land af­
fected by it lies, it shall be sufficient to describe the mortgage or lien, and refer 
to the date, volume and page of its record. If, in any case, the claimant has
left an original voucher in the hands of the executor or administrator, or suf.
f ered the same to be filed in court, he may withdraw the same when a copy
thereof has been already, or is then, attached to his claim. A brief description
of every claim filed must be entered by the clerk in the register, showing the
name of the claimant, the amount and character of the claim, rate of interest,
and date of allowance. 
Sec. 2608. When a claim is rejected either by the executor or administrator,
or the judge, the holder must bring suit in the proper court against the execu­
tor or administrator within three months after the date of its rejection, if it be
then due, or within two months after it becomes due, otherwise the claim shall 
be forever barred.
Sec. 2609. No claim must be allowed by the executor or administrator, or 
by the judge, which is barred by the Statute of Limitations. When a claim is
presented to a judge for his allowance he may, in his discretion, examine the
claimant and others on oath and hear any legal evidence touching the validity
of the claim. 
Sec. 2610. No holder of any claim against an estate shall maintain any ac­
tion thereon, unless the claim is first presented to the executor or administrator,
except in the following case : An action may be brought by any holder of a
mortgage or lien to enforce the same against the property of the estate subject
thereto, where all recourse against other property of the estate is expressly
waived in the complaint; but no counsel fees shall be recovered in such action
unless such claim be so presented. 
Sec. 2611. The time during which there shall be a vacancy in the adminis­
tration must not be included in any limitations herein prescribed. 
Sec. 2612. If an action is pending against the decedent at the time of his
death, the plaintiff must in like manner present his claim to the executor or
administrator for allowance or rejection, authenticated as required in other
cases, and no recovery shall be had in the action unless proof be made of the
presentations required. 
Sec. 2613. Whenever any claim is presented to an executor or administra­
tor or to a judge, and he is willing to allow the same in part, he must state in
his indorsement the amount he is willing to allow. If the creditor refuse to 
accept the amount allowed in satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover no
costs in any action therefor brought against the executor or administrator,
unless he recover a greater amount than that offered to be allowed. 
Sec. 2614. A judgment rendered against an executor or administrator, upon
any claim for money against the estate of his testator or intestate, only estab­
lishes the claim in the same manner as if it had been allowed by the executor
or administrator and a judge; and the judgment must be that the executor or
administrator pay, in due course of administration, the amount ascertained to be
due. A certified transcript of the original docket of the judgment must be
filed among the papers of the estate in court. No execution must issue upon
such judgment, nor shall it create any lien upon the property of the estate, or
give to the judgment creditor any priority of payment. 
Sec. 2615. When any judgment has been rendered for or against the tes­
tator or intestate, in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon after his 
death, except as provided in Section 1216. A judgment against the decedent
for the recovery of money must be presented to the executor or administrator
like any other claim. If execution is actually levied upon any property of the
decedent before his death, the same may be sold for the satisfaction thereof ;
and the officer making the sale must account to the executor or administrator
for any surplus in his hands. A judgment creditor having a judgment which
was rendered against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, may redeem any
real estate of the decedent from any sale under foreclosure or execution in 
like manner and with like effect as if the judgment debtor were still living. 
Sec. 2616. A judgment rendered against a decedent, dying after verdict or
decision on an issue of fact, but before judgment is rendered thereon, is not a
lien on the real property of the decedent, but is payable in due course of ad­
ministration. 
Sec. 2617. If the executor or administrator doubts the correctness of any
claim presented to him, he· may enter into an agreement in writing, with the
claimant, to ref er the matter in controversy to some disinterested person, to 
be approved by the court or judge. Upon filing the agreement and approval
of the court or judge, in the office of the clerk of the court for the county in
which the letters testamentary or of administration were granted, the clerk
must enter a minute of the order referring the matter in controversy to the
person so selected; or if the parties consent, a reference may be had in the
court ; and the report of the referee, if confirmed, establishes or rejects the
claim the same as if it had been allowed or rejected by the executor or ad­
ministrator and judge. 
Sec. 2618. The referee must hear and determine the matter, and make his
report thereon to the court in which his appointment is entered. The same
proceedings shall be had in all respects, and the referee shall have the same
powers, be entitled to the same compensation, and subject to the same control
as in other cases of reference. The court or judge may remove the referee,
appoint another in his place, set aside or confirm his report, and adjudge costs,
as in actions against executors or administrators, and the order or judgment
thereon shall be as valid and effectual, in all respects, as if the same had been
rendered in an action commenced by ordinary process. 
Sec. 2619. When a judgment is recovered with costs, against any executor
or administrator, he shall be individually liable for such costs, but they must 
be allowed him in his administration accounts, unless Jt appears that the suit
or proceeding in which the costs were taxed was prosecuted or defended 
without just cause.
Sec. 2620. If the executor or administrator is a creditor of the decedent, 
his claim duly authenticated by affidavit must be presented for allowance or
rejection to the judge, and its allowance by the judge is sufficient evidence of
its correctness, and must be paid as other claims in due course of administra­
tion. If, however, the judge reject the claim, action thereon may be had
against the estate . by the claimant, and summons must be served upon the
judge, who may appoint an attorney, at the expense of the estate, to defend
the action. If the claimant recover no judgment, he must pay all costs,
including defendant's reasonable attorney's fees, to be fixed by the court or 
judge. .
Sec. 2621. If an executor or administrator neglects, for two months after 
his appointment, to give notice to creditors, as prescribed by this Chapter,
the court or judge must revoke his letters and appoint some other person in
his stead, equally or the next in order entitled to the appointment. 
Sec. 2622. At the same time at which he is required to return his inventory,
the executor or administrator must also return a statement of all claims
against the estate which have been presented to him, if so required by the
court or judge, and from time to time thereafter he must present a statement
of claims subsequently presented to him, if so required by the court or judge.
In all such statements he must designate the names of the creditors, the
nature of each claim when it became due, or will become due, and whether it
was allowed or rejected by him. 
Sec. 2623. If there be any debt of the decedent bearing interest, whether
presented or not, the executor or administrator may, by order of the court or
judge, pay the amount then accumulated and unpaid, or any part thereof, at
any time when there are sufficient funds properly applicable thereto, whether
said claim be then due or not ; and interest shall thereupon cease to accrue
upon the amount so paid. 
CHAPTER VII. 
SALES AND CONVEYANCES OF PROPERTY OF DECEDENTS. 
Article I. Sales;,, ge11,r·al.
I I. Sales of /erso""I jrojerty. 
I I I. S11••ary sales of ,,.;,,es a11d ,,.;,,;,,g i11teresfs. 
IV. Sales of real estate, i11terest tl1erei11, a•d co11ftr•atio• t/,ereof.
V. Morlgaps a•d leases of reet estate. 
ARTICLE I. 
SALES IN GENERAL 
Sectio• i64o. Perso11al estet« first cl,argea/Jle. R,al estate w!,e11 sold. 
~1. MoHy •ay he 6orrO'Wed.
~4l. No sales vatid e"ce/t /Jy order of District Co"rt.
~3· .A.jjlicatio11s for orders of sale. 
i6+4, B,d 011e jet,'tio11, order, a11d sale,,,,,.,, /Je lad w!,e11 it i« jossi/Jle to do so. 
Sec. 2640. All the property of the decedent shall be chargeable with the
payment of the debts of the deceased, the expenses of the administration, and 
the allowance to the family, except as otherwise provided in this Code and in
the Civil Code. And the said property, personal and real, may be sold, as the
court or judge may direct, in the manner prescribed in this Chapter. There
shall be no priority as between personal and real property for the above
purposes. 
Sec. 2641. In all cases the executor or administrator of an estate, instead of
selling the property of the estate to pay the charges and demands against the
same, may borrow money at the lowest rate of interest at which it may be had,
and for such length of time as the court or judge may allow, to pay such claims,
when it shall be made to appear to the court or judge, by petition and evidence,
that an immediate sale of the property of the estate will be detrimental to the
heirs, devisees, legatees, or other persons having an interest therein ; and in
such case the estate shall be chargeable with the payment of the sum so bor­
rowed and interest thereon. Such petition may be by the executor or admin­
istrator, or by any one of the heirs of the deceased, or other person interested
in the estate. Notice shall be given as follows: If by the executor or admin­
istrator, to all the heirs, devisees, legatees residing in the State; and if by any
heir, devisee or legatee, to the administrator or executor, and to all other heirs,
devisees and legatees residing in the State. The notice must be given by per­
sonal service on all persons residing in the State. If any persons interested in
the estate, as above mentioned, are not residents of or cannot be found within
the State, then notice must be given by publication in some newspaper pub­
lished in the county at least once a week for four successive weeks. 
Sec. 2642. No sale of any property of an estate of a decedent is valid unless
made under order of the District Court or a judge thereof, except as other­
wise provided in this Chapter. All sales must be made under oath reported
to and confirmed by the court or judge before the title to the property sold
passes. 
Sec. 2643. All petitions for orders of sale must be in writing, setting forth
the facts showing the sale to be necessary, and, upon the hearing, any person
interested in the estate may file his written objections, which must be heard
and determined. ·A failure to set forth the facts showing the sale to be nec­
essary will not invalidate the subsequent proceedings, if the defect be sup­
plied by the proofs at the hearing, and the general facts showing the necessity
be stated in the order directing the sale. 
Sec. 2644. When it appears to .the court or judge that the estate is insol­
vent, or that it will require a sale of all the property of the estate of every
character, to pay the family allowance, expenses of administration, and debts,
there need be but one petition filed, but one order of sale made, and but
one sale had, except in the case of perishable property, which may be sold as 
provided in Section 2650. The court or judge, when a petition for the sale of
any property for any of the purposes herein named is presented, must inquire
fully into the probable amount required to make all such payments, and if
there be no more estate than sufficient to pay the same, may require but one
proceeding for the sale of the entire estate. In such case the petition must set 
forth substantially the facts required by Section 2671. 
ARTICLE II. 
SALES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
Sectio« 2650. Peridal>le a•d de/reciali•g Jrojerty to be sold.
2651. Order lo sell jerso11al /rojerty.
2652. Part11erdij interests a•d cl,ous ;,, actio«, l,ow sold. 
~53· Order of sale -wl,11/ lo direct, 1dat lo /Je first sold.
2654. Sale of /erso11a/ Jrojerty. 
Sec. 2650. At any time after receiving letters, the executor or administra­
tor, or special administrator, may apply to the court or judge and obtain an
order to sell perishable and other personal property liable to depreciate in
value, or which will incur loss or expense by being kept, and so much other
personal property as may be necessary to pay the allowance made to the family
of the decedent. The order for the sale may be made without notice ; but
the executor, administrator, or special administrator is responsible for the
property, unless, after making a sworn return and on a proper showing, the
court or judge shall approve the sale. 
Sec. 2651. If claims against the estate have been allowed, and a sale of prop­
erty is necessary for their payment, or for the expenses of administration, or for
the payment of legacies, the executor or administrator may apply for an order
to sell so much of the personal property as may be necessary therefor. Upon
filing his petition, notice of at least five days must be given of the hearing of 
the application, either by posting notices or by advertising. He may also
make a similar application from time to time, so long as any personal property
remains in his hands, and sale thereof is necessary. If it appears for the best
interests of the estate, he may, at any time after filing the inventory, in like
manner, and after giving like notice, apply for and obtain an order to sell the
whole of the personal property belonging to the estate, whether necessary to
pay debts or not. 
Sec. 2652. Partnership interests or interests belonging to any estate by
·virtue of any partnership formerly existing, interests in personal property
pledged, and choses in action, may be sold in the same manner as other per­
sonal property, when it appears to be for the best interests of the estate. Be­ 
fore confirming the sale of any partnership interest, whether made to the
surviving partner or any other person, the court or judge must carefully in­
quire into the condition of the partnership affairs, and must examine the
surviving partner, if in the county and able to be present in court. 
Sec. 2653. If it appears that a sale is necessary for the payment of debts or
the family allowance, or for the best interest of the estate and the persons in­
terested in the property to be sold, whether it is or is not necessary to pay the
debts or family allowance, the court or judge must order it to be made. In 
making orders and sales for the payment of debts or family allowance such articles as are not necessary for the support and subsistence of the family of
the decedent, or arc not specially bequeathed, must be first sold, and the court
or judge must so direct. 
Sec. 2654. The sale of personal property must be made at public auction,
after public notice given for at least ten days by notices posted in three public
places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, or both, containing the
time and place of sale and a brief description of the property to be sold, unless
for good reason shown the court or a judge thereof orders a private sale or a 
shorter notice. Public sales of such property must be had at the courthouse
door or at the residence of the decedent, or at some other public place: but no
sale shall be made of any personal property which is not present at the time
of sale, and the sale must be for cash, unless the court or judge otherwise
order. 

Sec. 2660. When it appears from the inventory that the estate consists, in
whole or in part, of mines or interests in mines, orof shares, interests, or stocks
in a mining corporation, such mines, interests, stocks or shares may be sold
under the order of the court or judge. 
Sec. 2661. The executor or administrator, or any heir at law, or creditor of
the estate, or any partner or member of any mining company or corporation,
in which interests or shares are held or owned by the estate, may file in the
court a petition, in writing, setting forth the general facts of the estate being
then in due course of administration, and particularly describing the mine, in­
terests or shares which it is desired to sell, and particularly the condition and
situation of the mines or mining interests, or of the mining company or cor­
poration, in which such interests or shares are held, and the grounds upon
which the sale is asked to be made. 
Sec. 2662. Upon the presentation of such petition, the court or judge must
make an order directing all persons interested to appear before such court or
judge, at a time and place specified, not less than four nor more than ten weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order should not be
granted to the executor or administrator to sell such mine, mining interests,
shares, or stocks, as set forth in the petition and belonging to the estate. A
copy of the order to show cause must be personally served on all persons inter­
ested in the estate, at least ten days before the time appointed for hearing the
petition, or published at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as the
court or judge shall specify. If all persons interested in the estate signify in
writing their assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed with. 
Sec, 2663. If, upon hearing the petition, it appears to the satisfaction of
the court or judge that it is to the interest of the estate that such mining
property or interests of the estate should be sold, or that an immediate sale is
necessary in order to secure the just rights or interests of the mining partners
or tenants in common, such court or judge must make an order authorizing
the executor or administrator to sell such mining interests, mines or shares, as 
herein provided.
Sec. 2664. After the order of sale is made, all further proceedings for the 
sale of such mining property, and for the notice, report, and confirmation
thereof, must be in conformity with the provisions of Articles 11. and IV., of
this Chapter. 
ARTICLE II
THE SALE OF REAL ESTATE, INTERESTS THEREIN, AND CONFIRMATION
THEREOF. 
Sectio» 2670. To sell real estate, wlte11. 
ARTICLE III. 
ARTICLE IV. 
'l671. Verified petitio,.for sale, wltat it may coetai« a11d to -wl,at it may refer.
2672. Order to /erso#.s interested to appear.
2673. Copy to he served, as.sent give•, or p11hlicatio11 made.
2674. Heari11gafter proof of service. Presentation of clai,n. 
l675. Adnii•utrator, esecetor a•d -wit11e.sses may /Je examined. 
To sell real estate, or a"y /art, wl1e11.
Order of sale, wke11 lo /Je •ade.
Wl,at tle order of sale 111Ht contai», Ma_-,, /Je at /11/Jlic or jrr"vate sal«, 
/11terest,d jer.,011s may aJJly for order of sale. For• of Jetilio11.
Notice of sale.
Ti111e and /lace.
Prt'vate sale of real estate, /,ow made a"d Notice. Bid«, wl,r11 a"d .io~:· 
received,
Ni11et_v Jer ce,,t. of a//raised val11e ,,,,,st be offered.
P11rda.Je 111o•ey 011 sale o" credit. How secered,
Heart'"g a"d settt'11g aside sale, a11d wl,en resale 111ay /Je ordered.
May file ol>jectt'o11s, wl,e11 a11d w.io.
W.ie• order of co11jirmalio11 is lo /Je •ade a•d wl,e,, •ot.
co,,veya11cu.
Order of co•ftr•atio11, w!,at to state,
Sale ma.v /Je /osl/o,,ed. 
N otice of post/o,,eme11/.
Wl,ere jayme"t of debt», etc., /rovt'dedfor /Jy will.
Sale witl,011/ order. May req11t're uc•rily.
Wl,ere Jrovi.JiOH hy 'Wt'// ;,,s11jficie11/.
Estate .,111>ject lo debts, etc,
Co,,trt'h11tio11 a111011g legatu.J.
Co11/racl for J•rcl,ase of la11d.J may be sold, !,ow.
Co11dilio,11 of sale.
Pflrdaser to gt've ho11d.
E:&ecfltor to asst'g,, contract,
Sales h_y executor or admint'.Jlra/or.J of tands 1111der mortgage or lie«,
Tl,e !,older of tl,e mortgage or lt'e• •ay J•rcl,ase /1,e la11d.J. His receijt to 
tl,e amo1111/ of .iis claim a valt'd /aymefft.
Adm,·,,,·.,tra/or a11d esecetor liable for misco11d•ct ;,, sale.
Frafld11le11t sales, 
/..imitatio• of actio11.J for vacati11g sale, etc.
To wl,at rase« Jreced,,,K Section 110/ to a/Jly.
Acco•11t of sal« to he ret11r11ed.
Exec11tor, etc., not to /Je /11rcl,a.Jer, 
Sec. 2670. When a sale of the property of the estate is necessary to pay
the allowance of the family, or the debts outstanding against the decedent, or
the debts, expenses, or charges of administration, or legacies, the executor
or administrator may also sell any real as well as personal property of the
estate for that purpose, upon the order of the court or judge; and an appli­
cation for the sale of real property may also embrace the sale of personal
property. 
Sec. 2671. To obtain such order for the sale of real property, he must pre­
sent a verified petition to the court or judge, setting forth the amount of per­
sonal property that has come to his hands, and how much thereof, if "any, re­
mains undisposed of; the debts outstanding against the decedent, as far as can
be ascertained or estimated: the amount due upon the family allowance, or that
will be due after the same has been in force one year; the debts, expenses, and
charges of administration already accrued, and an estimate of what will or may
accrue during the administration ; a general description of all the real property
of which the decedent died seized, or in which he had any interest, or in which
the estate has acquired any interest and the condition and value thereof; and
the names of the legatees and devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the deceased.
so far as known to the petitioner. If any of the matters here enumerated can·
not be ascertained, it must be so stated in the petition; but a failure to set
forth the facts showing the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subse­
quent proceedings, if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and
the general facts showing such necessity be stated in the order. 
Sec. 2672. If it appears to the court or judge, from such petition, that it is
necessary to sell the whole or some portion of the real estate for the purposes
and reasons mentioned in the preceding Section, or any of them, such petition
must be filed and an order thereupon made, directing all persons interested in
the estate to appear before the court or judge, at a time and place specified;
not less than four nor more than ten weeks from the time of making such order, 
to show cause why an order should not be granted to the executor or adminis­
trator to sell so much of the real estate of the decedent as is necessary. 
Sec. 2673. A copy of the order to show cause must be personally served
on all persons interested in the estate, any general guardian of a minor so
interested, and any legatee or devisee, or heir of the decedent, provided they
are residents of the county, at least ten days before the time appointed for 
hearing the petition, or be published four successive weeks in such newspaper
in the county as the court or judge shall direct. If all persons interested in
the estate join in the petition for the sale, or signify in writing their assent
thereto, the notice may be dispensed with, and the hearing may be had at any
time. 
Sec. 2674. The court or judge, at the time appointed in such order, or at
such other time to which the hearing may be postponed, upon satisfactory
proof of personal service or publication of a copy of the order, by .affidavit or
otherwise, if the consent in writing to such sale of all parties interested is not
filed, must proceed to hear the petition, and hear and examine the allegations
and proofs of the petitioners, and of all persons interested in the estate, who
may oppose the application. All claims against the decedent not before pre­
sented, if the period of presentation has not elapsed, may be presented and
passed upon at the hearing. 
Sec. 2675. The executor, administrator and witnesses may be examined on
oath by either party, and process to compel them to attend and testify may be
issued by the court or judge in the same manner and with like effect as in
other cases. 
Sec. 2676. If it appears necessary to sell a part of the real estate, and that
by a sale thereof the residue of the estate, real or personal, or some specific
part thereof, would be· greatly injured, or diminished in value, or subjected
to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that after any such sale the residue
would be so small in quantity or value, or would be of such character, with
reference to its future disposition among the heirs or devisees, as clearly to
render it for the best· interest of all concerned that the same should be sold,
the court or judge.may authorize the sale of the whole estate, or of any part
thereof necessary and for the best interest of all concerned. 
Sec. 2677. If the court or judge is satisfied, after a full hearing upon the
petition and an examination of the proofs and allegations of the parties inter­
ested, that a sale of the whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary,
for any of the causes mentioned in this Article, or if such sale be assented to
by all the persons interested, an order must be made to sell the whole, or so
much and such parts of the real estate described in the petition, as the court
or judge shall judge necessary or beneficial. 
Sec. 2678. The order of the sale must describe the lands to be sold and
the terms of sale, which may be for cash, or on a credit not exceeding one year
payable in gross or in installments, with interest, as the court or judge may 
direct. The land may be sold in one parcel or in subdivisions, as the executor
or administrator shall judge most beneficial to the estate, unless the court or
judge otherwise specially directs. If it appears that any part of such real es­
tate has been devised, and not charged in such devise with the payment of
debts or legacies, the court or judge must order the remainder to be sold be­
fore that so devised. Every such sale must be ordered to be made at public
auction, unless, in the opinion of the court or judge, it would benefit the estate
to sell the whole or some part of such real estate, at private sale. The court
or judge may, if the same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such real
estate or any part thereof, to be sold at either public or private sale, as the ex­
ecutor or administrator shall deem to be most beneficial for the estate. If the
executor or administrator neglects or ref uses to make a sale under the order,
and as directed therein, he may be compelled to sell, by order of the court or
judge, made on motion, after due notice, by any party interested. 
Sec. 2679. If the executor or administrator neglects to apply for an order
of sale when it is necessary, any person may make application therefor, in the
same manner as the executor or administrator, and notice thereof must be giv­
en to the executor or administrator, before the hearing. The petition of such 
applicant must contain as many of the matters set forth in Section 2671 as he
can ascertain, and the order of sale must fix the period of time within which
the executor or administrator must make the sale. 
Sec. 2680. When a sale is ordered, and is to be made at public auction, notice
of the time and place must be posted in three of the most public places in the
county in which the land is situated, and published in a newspaper, if there be
one printed in the same county, but if none, then in such paper as the court or
judge may direct, for three weeks successively next before the sale; the lands
and tenements to be sold must be described with common certainty in the
notice. . 
Sec. 2681. Sales at public auction must be made in the county where the
land is situated, but when the land is situated in two or more counties, it may
be sold in either. The sale must be made between the hours of nine o'clock in
the morning and the setting of the sun on the same day, and must be made on
the day named in the notice of sale, unless the same is postponed. 
Sec. 2682. When a sale of real estate is ordered to be made at private sale,
notice of the same must be posted up in three of the most public places in the
county in which the land is situated, and published in a newspaper, if there be
one printed in the same county ; if none, then in such paper as the court or
judge may direct, for two weeks successively next before the day on or after
which the sale is to be made, in which the lands and tenements to be sold must
be described with common certainty. The notice must state a day on or after
which the sale will be made, and a place where offers or bids will be received.
The day last referred to must be at least fifteen days from the first publication
of notice, and the sale must not be made before that day, but must be made
within six months thereafter. The bids or offers must be in writing, and may
be left at the place designated in the notice, or delivered to the executor or
administrator personally, or may be filed in the office of the clerk of the court
to which the return of sale must be made, at any time after the first publica­
tion of the notice and before the making of the sale. If it be shown that it
will be for the best interest of the estate, the court or judge may, by an order,
shorten the time of notice, which shall not, however, be less than one week,
and may provide that the sale may be made on or after a day less than fifteen,
but not less than eight days from the first publication of the notice, in which
case the notice of sale, and the sale, may be made to correspond with such
order. 
Sec. 2683. No sale of real estate at private sale shall be confirmed by the
court or judge, unless the sum offered is at least ninety per cent. of the ap­
praised value thereof, nor unless such real estate has been appraised within one
year of the time of such sale. If it has not been so appraised, or if the court
or judge is satisfied that the appraisement is too high or too low, appraisers
must be appointed, and they must make an appraisement thereof in the same
manner as in case of an original appraisement of an estate. This may be done
at any time before the sale or the confirmation thereof. 
Sec. 2684. The executor or administrator must, when the sale is made upon
a credit, take the notes of the purchaser for the purchase money, with a mort­
gage on the property to secure the payment. 
Sec. 2685. The executor or administrator after making any sale of real
estate, must make a return of his proceedings to the court, which must be filed
in the office of the clerk, at any time subsequent to the sale. A hearing upon
the return of the proceedings may be asked for in the return or by petition
subsequently, and thereupon the court or judge must fix the day for the hear­
ing, of which notice thereof of at least ten days must be given by the clerk, 
by notices posted in three public places in the county, or by publication in a
newspaper, or both, as the court or judge shall direct, and must briefly indicate
the land sold, the sum for which it was sold, and must refer to the return for
further particulars. Upon the hearing the court or judge must examine the
return and witnesses in relation to the same, and if the proceedings were unfair,
or the sum bid disproportionate to the value, and if it appear that a sum ex­
ceeding such bid at least ten per cent., exclusive of the expenses of a new sale,
may be obtained, the court or judge may vacate the sale and direct another to
be had, of which notice must be given, and the sale in all respects conducted
as if no previous sale had taken place. If an off er of ten per cent. more in
amount than that named in the return be made to the court in writing, by a
responsible person, it is in the discretion of the court or judge to accept such
off er and confirm the sale to such person, or to order a new sale. 
Sec. 2686. When return of the sale is made and filed, any person interested
in the estate may file written objections to the confirmation thereof, and may
be heard thereon, when the return is made by the court or judge, and may pro­
duce witnesses in support of his objections. 
Sec. 2687. If it appears to the court or judge that the sale was legally made
and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid was not disproportionate to the value
of the property sold, and that a greater sum, as above specified, cannot be
obtained, or if the increased bid mentioned in Section 2685 be made and
accepted by the court or judge, the court or judge must make an order con­
firming the sale and directing conveyances to be executed. The sale from that
time is confirmed and valid, and a certified copy of the order confirming it and
directing conveyances to be executed, must be recorded in the office of the
county clerk of the county in which the land sold is situated. If after the
confirmation, the purchaser neglects or refuses to comply with the terms of
sale, the court or judge may, on motion of the executor or administrator, and
after notice to the purchaser, order a resale to be made of the property. If
the amount realized on such resale does not cover the bid and the expenses of
the previous sale, such purchaser is liable for the deficiency to the estate. 
Sec. 2688. Conveyances must thereupon be executed to the purchaser by the
executor or administrator, and they must refer to the orders of the court
authorizing and confirming the sale of the property of the estate, and directing
conveyances thereof to be executed, and to the record of the order of confir­
mation in the office of the county clerk, either by the date of such recording,
or by the date, volume, and page of the record, and such reference shall have the
same effect as if the orders were at large inserted in the conveyance. Convey­
ances so made convey all the right, title, interest, and estate of the decedent in
the premises, at the time of his death ; if prior to the sale, by operation of law
or otherwise, the estate has acquired any right, title or interest, other than or
in addition to that of the decedent, it also passes by such conveyances. 
Sec. 2689. Before an order is entered confirming the sale, it must be proved
to the satisfaction of the court or judge that notice was given of the sale as
prescribed, and the order of confirmation must show that such proof was
made. 
Sec. 2690. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the executor or adminis­
trator deems it for the interest of all persons concerned therein that the same
be postponed, he may postpone it from time to time, not exceeding in all
three months. 
Sec. 2691. In case of a postponement, notice thereof must be given, by
a public declaration, at the time and place first appointed for the sale, and if
the postponement be for more than one day, further notice must be given, by
posting in three or more public places in the county where the land is
situated, or publishing the same, or both, as the time and circumstances will 
admit.
Sec. 2692. If the testator makes provision by his will, or designates the, 
estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the expenses of ad­
ministration, or family exrenses, they must be paid according to such provi­
sion or designation, out o the estate thus appropriated, so far as the same is 
sufficient.
Sec. 2693. When property is directed by the will to be sold, or authority is 
given in the will to sell property, the executor may sell any property of the
estate without order of the court or judge, and at either public or private sale,
and with or without notice, as the executor may determine ; but the executor
must make return of such sales, as in other cases; and if directions are given
in the will as to the mode of selling, or the particular property to be sold, such
directions must be observed. In either case no title passes unless the sale be
confirmed by the court or judge. 
Sec. 2694. If the provision made by the will, or the estate appropriated
therefor, is insufficient to pay the debts, expenses of administration, and
family expenses, that portion of the estate not devised or disposed of by the
will, if any, must be appropriated and disposed of for that purpose, according
to the provisions of this Chapter. 
Sec. 2695. The estate, real and personal, given by will to legatees or dev­
isees, is liable for the debts, expenses of administration and family expenses,
in proportion to the value or amount of the several legacies, or devises, but
specific devises or legacies are exempt from such liability, if it appears to the
court or judge necessary to carry into effect the intention of the testator, and
there is other sufficient estate. 
Sec. 2696. When an estate given by will has been sold for the payment of
debts or expenses, all the devisees or legatees must contribute according to
their respective interests to the devisee or legatee whose devise or legacy has
been taken therefor, and the court or judge, when distribution is made, must,
by order for that purpose, settle the amount of the several liabilities, and order
the amount each person shall contribute, and reserve the same from their dis­
tributive shares, respectively, for the purpose of paying such contribution. 
Sec. 2697. If a decedent, at the time of his death, was possessed of a con­
tract for the purchase of lands, his interest in such land and under such con­
tracts may be sold on the application of his executor or administrator, in the
same manner as if he had died seized of such land, and the same proceedings
may be had for the purpose as are prescribed in this Chapter for the sale of
lands of which he died seized, except as hereinafter provided. 
Sec. 2698. The sale must be made subject to all payments that may there­
after become due on such contracts, and if there are any such, the sale must
not be confirmed by the court or judge until the purchasers execute a bond to
the executor or administrator for the benefit and indemnity of himself
and of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent in the lands so
contracted for, in double the whole amount of payments thereafter to
become due on such contract with such sureties as the court or judge shall
approve. 
Sec. 2699. The bond must be conditioned that the purchaser will make all
payments for such land that become due after the date of the sale, and will
fully indemnify the executor or administrator and the persons so entitled.
against all demands, costs, charges, and expenses by reason of any covenant
or agreement contained in such contract. 
Sec. 2700. Upon the confirmation of the sale, the executor or administrator
must execute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract, which vests in
the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, all the tight, title and interest of the es­
tate, or of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent, in the lands
sold at the time of the sale ; and the purchaser has the same rights and reme­
dies against the vendor of such land as the decedent would have if he were
living. 
Sec. 2701. When any sale is made by an executor or administrator, pur- 
suant to provisions of this Chapter, of lands subject to any mortgage or other
lien, which is a valid claim against the estate of the decedent, and has been
presented and allowed, the purchase money must be applied, after paying the
necessary expenses of the sale, first, to the payment and satisfaction of the
mortgage or lien, and the residue, if any, in due course of administration. The
application of the purchase money to the satisfaction of the mortgage or lien
(must be made without delay; and the land is subject to such mortgage or
lien)* until the purchase money has been actually so applied. 
No claim against any estate, which has been presented and allowed, is
affected by the Statute of Limitations, pending the proceedings for the settle­ 
ment of the estate. The purchase money, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to pay such mortgage or lien, with interest, and any lawful costs and
charges thereon, may be paid into the court, to be received by the clerk there­
of, whereupon the mortgage or lien upon the land must cease, and the purchase
money must be paid over by the clerk of the court without delay, in payment
of the expenses of the sale, and in satisfaction of the debt to secure which the
mortgage or other lien was taken, and the surplus, if any, at once returned to
the executor or administrator, unless for good cause shown, after notice to the
executor or administrator, the court or judge otherwise directs. 
• Omitted in enrollment. 
Sec. 2702. At any sale under order of the court or judge, of lands upon
which there is a mortgage or lien, the holder thereof may become the pur­
chaser, and his receipt for the amount due him from the proceeds of the sale
is a payment pro tanto. If the amount for which he purchased the property
is insufficient to def ray the expenses and discharge his mortgage or lien, he
must pay to the court, or the clerk thereof, an amount sufficient to pay such 
expenses.
Sec. 2703. If there is any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings of the 
executor in relation to any sale, by which any person interested in the estate
suffers damage, the party aggrieved may recover the same in an action upon
the bond of the executor or administrator, or otherwise. 
Sec. 2704. Any executor or administrator who fraudulently sells any real
estate of a decedent contrary to or otherwise than under the provisions of this Chapter, is liable in double the value of the land sold, as liquidated damages,
to be recovered in an action by the person having· an estate of inheritance
therein. 
Sec. 2705. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by an executor or
administrator, under the provisions of this Chapter, can be maintained by any
heir or other claiming under the decedent, unless it be commenced within
three years next after the settlement of the final account of the executor or 
administrator. An action to set aside the sale may be instituted and main­
tained at any time within three years from the discovery of the fraud, or other 
grounds upon which the action is based. .
Sec. 2706. The preceding Section shall not apply to minors or others under 
any legal disability to sue at the time when the right of action first accrues;
but all such persons may commence an action at any time within three years
after the removal of the disability. 
Sec. 2707. When a sale has been made by an executor or administrator of
any property of the estate, real or personal, he must return to the court or
judge within thirty days thereafter, an account of sales, verified by his affi. 
davit. If he neglects to make such return, he may be punished by attach­
ment, or his letters may be revoked, one day's notice having been first given
him to appear and show cause why such attachment should not issue, or such
revocation should not be made. 
Sec. 2708. No executor or administrator must, directly or indirectly, pur­
chase any property of the estate he represents, nor must he be interested in
any sale. 
ARTICLE V. 
MORTGAGES AND LEASES OF REAL ESTATE IN CERTAIN CASES. 
Sectio• :2710. 'J•dp n,ay en,/ower admi11istrator to mortgage or lease real utate. 
17:21. Jfla1111er of o/Jtai11i11g a•tl,ority to mortgage. 
711. O/Jtai11i11g order to lease. 
Sec. 2720. Whenever it appears to the court or judge, to be for the advan­
tage of the estate to taise money by a mortgage of the real property of the
decedent, or any part thereof, or to make a lease of said realty, or any part
thereof, the court or judge, as often as occasion therefor shall arise in the ad­
ministration of any estate, may, on a petition, notice, and hearing as provided
for in this Article, authorize, empower and direct the executor or administra­
tor to mortgage or lease such real estate or any part thereof. 
Sec. 2721. To obtain an order to mortgage such realty the proceedings to
be taken and the effect thereof must be as follows: 
1. The executor, administrator or any person interested in the estate, may
file a verified petition showing : The particular purpose or purposes for which it is
proposed to make the mortgage, which shall be either to pay the debts, lega­
cies, or charges of administration, or to pay, reduce, extend, or renew some
lien or mortgage already subsisting on said realty, or some part thereof. A
statement of the debts, legacies, charges of administration, liens or mortgages
to be paid, reduced, extended, or renewed, as the case may be. The advan­
tage that may accrue to the estate from raising the required money by mort­
gage, or providing for the payment, reduction, extension, or renewal of the
subsisting liens, or mortgages, as the case may be. The amount to be raised,
with a general description of the property proposed to be mortgaged ; and, the
names of the legatees and devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the deceased, so
far as known to the petitioner. 
2. Upon filing such petition, an order must be made by the court or judge,
requiring all persons interested in the estate to appear before the court or
judge, at a time and place specified, not less than four nor more than ten
weeks thereafter, then and there to show cause why the realty (briefly indicat­
ing it), or some part thereof, should not be mortgaged the amount mentioned
in the petition, stating such amount, or such lesser amount as to the court or
judge shall seem meet, and referring to the petition on file for further particu­
lars. 
3. The order to show cause may be personally served on the persons inter­
ested in the estate, at least ten days before the time appointed for hearing the
petition, or it may be published for four successive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the county. 
4- At the time and place appointed in the order to show cause, or at such
other time and place to which the hearing may be postponed (the power to
make all needful postponements being hereby vested in the court or judge),
having first received satisfactory proof of personal service, or publication of
the order to show cause, must proceed to hear the petition, and any objections
that may be filed or presented thereto. Upon such hearing, witnesses may be
compelled to attend and testify in the same manner, and with like effect, as in
other cases; ·and if after a full hearing the court or judge is satisfied that it
will be for the advantage of the estate to mortgage the whole or any portion of
the real estate, an order must be made authorizing, empowering and directing
the executor or administrator to make such mortgage. The order may direct
that a lesser amount than that named in the petition be borrowed, and may
prescribe the maximum rate of interest, and period of the loan, and require
that the interest, and the whole or any part of the principal, be paid, from
time to time, out of the whole estate or any part thereof, and that any build­
ings on the premises to be mortgaged shall be insured for further security of
the lender, and the premiums paid from such income. 
5. After the making of the order to mortgage, the executor or administra­
tor shall execute, acknowledge and deliver a mortgage of the premises for the
amount and period specified in the order, setting forth in the mortgage that it
is made by authority of the order, and giving the date of such order. A certi­
fied copy of the order shall be recorded in the office of the county clerk of
every county in which the incumbered land or any portion thereof lies. No
bond, note, or other personal obligation shall be given 4'Vith the mortgage or
created thereby. 
6. Every mortgage so made shall be effectual to mortgage and hypoth­
ecate all the right, title, interest and estate which the decedent had in the
premises described therein, at the time of his death, and any right, title or
interest in said premises, acquired by his estate, by operation of law, or other­
wise, since the time of his death. Jurisdiction of the court to administer the
decedent's estate shall be effectual to vest such court and judge with jurisdic­
tion to make the order for the mortgage, and such jurisdiction shall conclu­
sively inure to the benefit of the mortgagee named in the mortgage, his heirs
and assigns. No irregularity in the proceedings shall impair or invalidate the
same, or the mortgage given in pursuance thereof ; and the mortgagee, his
heirs and assigns, shall have and possess the same rights and remedies on the
mortgage, as if it had been made by the decedent prior to his death. Upon
any foreclosure, if the proceeds of the incumbered property are insufficient to
pay the mortgage, no judgment or claim for any deficiency of such proceeds,
to satisfy the mortgage, or the costs, or expenses of sale, shall be had or
allowed, except in cases where the mortgage was given to pay, reduce, extend
or renew a lien· or mortgage subsisting on the realty, or some part thereof, at
the time of the death of the decedent, and the indebtedness secured by such
lien or mortgage was an allowed and approved claim against his estate. The part
of the indebetedness remaining unsatisfied must be classed and paid with other
demands against the estate, as provided in Article III., Chapter X., of Title
XII., Part III., of this Code, with respect to mortgages subsisting at the time
of death. 
Sec. 2722. To obtain an order to lease the realty, the proceedings to be
taken and the effect thereof shall be as follows: 
1. The executor, administrator or any person interested in the estate, may
file a verified petition showing: The advantage or advantages that may accrue
to the estate from giving a lease. A general description of the property pro­
posed to be leased. The term, rental and general conditions of the proposed
lease; and, the names of the legatees and devisees, if any, and of the heirs of
the deceased, so far as known to the petitioner. 
2. Upon filing such petition an order must be made by the court or judge
requiring all persons interested in the estate to appear before the court or
judge at a time and place specified, not less than two nor more than four
weeks thereafter; then, and there to show cause why the realty, briefly indicat­
ing it, should not be leased for the period, stating it, at the rental mentioned
in the petition, stating it, and referring to the petition on file for further partic
ulars. 
3. The order to show cause may be personally served on the persons inter­
ested in the estate, at least ten days before the time appointed for hearing the
petition, or it may be published for two successive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the county. 
4. At the time and place appointed in the order to show cause, or at such
other time and place to which the hearing may be postponed, the court or
judge having first received satisfactory proof of personal service or publication
of the order to show cause, must proceed to hear the petition and any objec­
tions that may be filed or presented thereto. Upon such hearing witnesses
may be compelled to attend and testify in the same manner and with like
effect as in other cases, and the court or judge, may, in its or his discretion, 
appoint one or more, not exceeding three, disinterested persons to appraise
the rental value of the premises, and direct that a reasonable compensation for
their services, not to exceed five dollars per day, to be paid by the estate. If, 
after a full hearing, the court or judge is satisfied that it will be for the ad­
vantage of the estate to lease the whole or any portion of the real estate, an
order must be made authorizing, empowering and directing the executor or
administrator to make such lease. The order may prescribe the minimum
rental to be received for the premises, and the period of the lease, which must
in no case be longer than for five years, and may prescribe the other terms and
conditions of such lease. · 
5. After the making of the order to lease, the executor or administrator
must execute, acknowledge, and deliver a lease of the premises, for the rent,
and period, and with the conditions specified in the order, setting forth in the
lease that it is made by authority of the order, and giving the date of such
order. A certified copy of the order shall be recorded in the office of the
county clerk of every county in which the leased land or any portion thereof lies. 
6. Every lease so made shall be effectual to demise and let, at the rent,
for the term, and upon the conditions prescribed therein, the premises de­
scribed therein. Jurisdiction of the court to administer the decedent's estate
shall be effectual to vest such court and judge with jurisdiction to make the
order for the lease, and such jurisdiction shall conclusively inure to the bene­
fit of the lessee, his heirs, and assigns. No omission, error, or irregularity in
the proceedings impairs or invalidates the same, or the lease made in pursu­
ance thereof. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS, AND THE
MANAGEMENT OF ESTATES. 
Sectio« 2730. E:1tecNtor., lo lake possessio• of Ike eetire estate. 
2731. Executors ma:v s•e a11d be s•ed for recovery of propert_y. 
273l. Afay maintai11 actions for waste, con oersion, and lre.,pa.,s. 
2733. Executor and admi11islrator may be seed for waste or lresfass of decedeet, 
2734. S•rvit.•i11g part11er lo settl« •P b11si11ess. l•tere.fl tkerei11 lo he appraised.
Acco1111t lo be reedered; 
2735. Actions on bond of execetor or admi11islralor 111ay he bro•g!,t by a11otlur
admi11istralor. 
2736. Wkal ,.,uc"tors are 110! parties to actions, 
2737. ltfay co111po1111d.
2738. Ruover_v of propert_v f ra•d11le11tly disposed of by testator, 
2739. 1v1,,.,, executor lo sue, as provided in /recedi11g Section, 
2740. Dis/.sitio11 of estate recovered. 
Sec. 2730. The executor or administrator must take into his possession all
the estate of the decedent, real and personal, and collect all debts due to the
decedent or to the estate. For the purpose of bringing suits to quiet title, or
for partition of such estate, the possession of the executors or administrators
is the possession of the heirs or devisees ; such possession by the heirs or
devisees is subject, however, to the possession of the executor or administrator.
for the purposes of administration, as provided in this Title. 
Sec. 2731. Actions for the recovery of any property, real or personal, or for
the possession thereof, and all actions founded upon contracts, may be main­
tained by or against executors and administrators, in all cases in which the
same might have been maintained by or against their respective testators or
intestates. 
Sec. 2732. Executors and administrators may maintain actions against any
person who has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away, or converted to his
own use, the goods of their testator or intestate, in his lifetime. They may also
maintain actions for trespass committed on or damage to the real estate of the
decedent in his lifetime. 
Sec. 2733. Any person or his personal representatives may maintain an 
action against the executor or administrator of any testator or intestate who in
his lifetime has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away, or converted to his
own use, the goods or chattels of any such person, or committed any trespass
on the real estate of such person. 
SEC. 2734. When a partnership exists between the decedent, at the time of
his death, and any other person, the surviving partner has the right to continue 
in possession of the partnership, and to settle its business, but the interest of
the decedent in the partnership must be included in the inventory, and be
appraised as other property. The surviving partner must give a bond with
sufficient sureties in favor of the executor or administrator in a sum at least
equal. to the value of the interest of the deceased partner in the property of the
partnership. The amount of said bond must be fixed and the bond approved
by the judge. In case he fails to give such bond, the court or judge may com­
pel its execution by attachment or other proper order. 
The surviving partner must settle the affairs of the partnership without
delay, and account with the executor or administrator, and pay over such
balances as may from time to time be payable to him, in right of the de­
cedent. Upon the application of the executor or administrator, the court
or judge may, whenever it appears necessary, order the surviving partner to
render an account, and in case of neglect or refusal may, after notice, compel
it by attachment; and the executor or administrator may maintain against him
any action which the decedent could have maintained. They surviving partner
is a trustee of the estate or interest of the deceased partner in the property of
the partnership, for every purpose, and the court or judge may require the sur­
viving partner to account at any time. 
Sec. 2735. An administrator may, in his own name, for the use and benefit
of all parties interested in the estate, maintain actions on the bond of an
executor, or of any former administrator of the same estate. 
Sec. 2736. In actions by or against executors, it is not necessary to join
those as parties to whom letters were issued but who have not qualified. 
Sec. 2737. Whenever a debtor of the decedent is unable to pay all his debts,
the executor or administrator, with the approbation of the court or judge, may
compound with him and give him a discharge upon receiving a fair and just
dividend of his effects. A compromise may also be authorized when it appears
to be just and for the best interests of the estate. 
Sec. 2738. When there is a deficiency of assets in the hands of an executor
or administrator, and when the decedent, in his lifetime, has conveyed any real
estate, or any rights or interests therein, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or to avoid any right, debt, or duty of any person, or has so conveyed such
estate that by law the deeds or conveyances are void as against creditors, the
executor or administrator must commence and prosecute to final judgment any
proper action for the recovery of the same; and may recover for the benefit of
the creditors all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may also, for
the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods, chattels, rights or credits
which have been so conveyed by the decedent in his lifetime, whatever may
have been the manner of such fraudulent conveyance. 
Sec, 2739. No executor or administrator is bound to sue for such estate, as
mentioned in the preceding Section, for the benefit of the creditors, unless on
application of creditors, who must pay such part of the costs and expenses of
the suit, or give such security to the executor or administrator therefor as the
court or judge shall direct. 
Sec. 2740. All real estate so recovered must be sold for the payment of
debts, in the same manner as if the decedent had died seized thereof, upon ob­
taining an order therefor from the court or judge ; and the proceeds of all
goods, chattels, rights, and credits so recovered must be appropriated in pay­
ment of the debts of the decedent in the same manner as other property in the
hands of the executor or administrator. 
CHAPTER III
THE CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS
IN CERTAIN CASES. 
Section 2750.
2751. 
2752.
2753. 
2754.
2755. 
2756.
2757. 
2758.
27 59- 
276o. 
CHAPTER IX. 
Executor to complete contracts Jor sale of real estate.
Petition for executor to 111alle co11veya11ce, and notice of l,eari•g.
/11tere.rted parties may contest.
Comseyances, w/,e11 order to hr. made. 
Executio11 of ro#veya,.ce a#d record tl,ereof, !ow e#forced.
Ri'gl,ts of petitioner to enforce contract.
Elfect of conve_ya,rce.
ff/feet of record,·11K a copy of fl,e order. 
Recordi11g order does ,rot supersede power of coert to enforc« ii.
Wker« part_y to w/,om coscueyance to he made is dead.
Order may direct po.rsessio11 to he surrendered, 
Sec. 2750. When a person who is bound by contract in writing to convey
any real estate dies before making the conveyance, and in all cases when such
decedent, if living, might be compelled to make such conveyance, the· court or
judge may make an order authorizing and directing his executor or adminis­
trator to convey such real -estate to the person entitled thereto. 
Sec. 2751. On the presentation of a verified petition by any person claim­
ing to be entitled to such conveyance from an executor or administrator, set­
ting forth the facts upon which the claim is predicated, the court or judge must
appoint a time and place for hearing the petition, and must order notice
thereof to be published at least four successive weeks before such hearing, in
such newspaper in this State as he may designate. 
Sec. 2752. At the time and place appointed for the hearing or at such other
time to which the same may be postponed, upon satisfactory proof by affi­
davit or otherwise, of the due publication of the notice, the court or judge
must proceed to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate may appear
and contest such petition, by filing their objections in writing, and the court
or judge may examine, on oath, the petitioner and all who may be produced
before him for that purpose. 
Sec. 2753. If, after a full hearing upon the petition and objections, and ex­
amination of the facts and circumstances of the claim, the court or judge is
satisfied that the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the real estate de­
scribed in the petition, an order authorizing and directing the executor or ad­
ministrator to execute a conveyance thereof to the petitioner must be made,
entered on the minutes of the court and recorded. 
Sec. 2754. The executor or administrator must execute the conveyance ac­
cording to the directions of the order, a certified copy of which must be re­
corded with the deed in the office of the county clerk of the county where the
Iands lie, and is prima f 'acie evidence of the correctness of the proceedings, and
of the authority of the executor or administrator to make the conveyance. 
Sec. 2755. If, upon hearing, as hereinbefore provided, the right of the peti­
tioner to have a specific performance of the contract is found to be doubtful,
the court or judge must dismiss the petition without prejudice to the right of
the petitioner, who may, at any time within six months thereafter, proceed by
action to enforce a specific performance thereof. 
Sec. 2756. Every conveyance made in pursuance of an order as provided in
this Chapter, shall pass the title to the estate contracted for, as fully as if the
contracting party himself was still living, and executed the conveyance. 
Sec. 2757. A copy of the order for a conveyance as provided in this Chap­
ter, duly certified and recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county
where the lands lie, gives the person entitled to the conveyance a right to the
possession of the lands contracted for, and to hold the same according to the
terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as if they had been conveyed
in pursuance of the order. 
Sec. 2758. The recording of the order, as provided in the preceding Sec­
tion, shall not prevent the court or judge making the order from enforcing the
same by other process. 
Sec. 2759. If the person entitled to the conveyance dies before the com­
mencement of proceedings therefor under this Chapter, or before the comple­
tion of the conveyance, any person entitled to succeed to his rights in the con­
tract, or the executor or administrator of such decedent, may, for the benefit
of the person so entitled, commence such proceedings or prosecute any already
commenced, and the conveyance must be so made as to vest the estate in the
persons entitled to it, or in the executor or administrator, for their benefit. 
Sec. 2700. The order provided for in this Chapter may direct the possession
of the property therein described to be surrendered to the person entitled
thereto, upon his producing the deed and a certified copy of the order, when,
by the terms of the contract, possession is to be surrendered. 
CHAPTER X. 
ACCOUNTS AND PAYMENT OF DEBTS • 
.A.rtick. I. Liabilities aed com/e11satio11 of executors,
I I. Aaofl11li11g aed seltleme11ts !,y execfltors a11d admi11i.JtratOY8. 
III. Tl,e payme11t of debt« of tlte estate. 
ARTICLE I. 
LIABILITIES AND COMPENSATION OF EXECUTORS. 
S«tin. 2770. Wien exec#tor or admiwistrator ;erso11ally lia/Jle. 
2771. Execetor to be ckarged wi'tll all estate, etc. 
2772. Not to profit or lose !,y estate, 
li73· U11collected debts wit!,o"t faNlt. 
2774. Compe11satio11 of tl,e execetor a11d administrator, 
2775. .Not to /"rcltase claims agai11st Ike estate. 
2776. E"ec11tor's aed administrator's commissions, 
Sec. 2770. No executor or administrator is chargeable upon any special
promise to answer damages or to pay the debts of the testator or intestate out
of his own estate, unless the agreement for that purpose, or some memorandum
or note thereof, is in writing and signed by such executor or administrator, or
by some other person by him thereunto especially authorized. 
Sec. 2771. Every executor and administrator is chargeable in his account
with the whole of the estate of the decedent which may come into his posses­
sion, at the value of the appraisement contained in the inventory, except as
provided in the following Sections, and with all the interest, profit and income
of the estate. 
Sec. 2772. He shall not make profit by the increase, nor suffer loss by the
decrease or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the estate. He must 
account for the excess when he sells any part of the estate for more than the
appraisement, and if any is sold for less than the appraisement, he is not
responsible for the loss if the sale has been justly made. 
Sec. 2773. No executor or administrator is accountable for any debts due
the decedent, if it appears that they remain uncollected without his fault. 
Sec. 2774. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care, manage­
ment and settlement of the estate, including reasonable fees paid to attorneys
for conducting the necessary proceedings, and for conducting actions in courts,
and for his. services such fees as provided in this Chapter; but when the de­
cedent by his will, makes some other provision for the compensation of his
executor, that shall be a full compensation for his services, unless by a written
instrument, filed in the court, he renounces all claim for compensation pro­
vided by the will. 
Sec. 2775. No executor or administrator shall purchase any claim against 
the estate he represents ; and if he pays any claim for less than its nominal
value, he is only entitled to charge in his account. the amount he actually paid. 
Sec. 2776. When no compensation is provided by the will, or the executor
renounces all claim thereto, he must be allowed commissions only on all sums
of money actually received by him from the sale of property of the estate, or
actually disbursed by him in the settlement ot the same as follows : For the
first thousand dollars at the rate of seven per cent. ; for all above that sum
not exceeding ten thousand dollars at the rate of five per cent.; for all above
ten thousand dollars, not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, at the rate of four
per cent. ; and for all above twenty thousand dollars, at the r.ate of two per
cent. If there be more than one executor, only one commission must be al·
lowed. The same commissions must be allowed to administrators. In all
such cases further allowance may be made as the court or judge may deem just
and reasonable for any extraordinary services. The total amount of such extra
allowance must not exceed the total amount of commission allowed by this Section. 
ARTICLE II. 
ACCOUNTING AND SETTLEMENTS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS. 
Sectio« ::z78o. E:cl,il,t't of receipts and dish•rse,nents a11d claims allowed. 
2781. Citatio• to accoent, 
::1782. Petition for citatio11 to render fi11al or otker acco••t. 
2783. Citatio« to acco•11t on applicat,on. 
278+ Ohjectio•s to accoent; wl,o May file. 
2785. A ttacl,ment for 1101 oheyi11g- citation, 
2786. To render accoent« at tl,e expiration of term. 
::1787. E:cecutor to acco•11t after l,is a•fl,ority revolted. 
2788. Revoki11g a•tltority of esecetor, wl,e11. 
278<). To prod•ce and file t•oudter.,, wl,icl, may remai11 ;,, coert, 
2790. Voeckers for items less fl,a11 twe11ty dollars, wl,en acceptecl. 
::1791. Day of settle,ne11t to he a//oi11ted, a11d 11otice tlureof. 
::1791. Fi11af settleme11t, /artitio11 a11d distrih•tio11 made at same tim«:
2793. Interested ;arty may file e:cceptio11s to accoeet, 
2794. A II matters may he coetested /Jy tke l,eirs. Heari"I!'· 
2795. Settlement of acco•nts to /Je cosctesioe, wke11 a11d wken 110/, 
27<1:,. Proof of «otice of settle111e11t of acco•11ts. 
27Cf'l· Sale of /ersoNal property. 
27cJ). Moneys i11vested hy order of cour], 
Sec. 2780. Six months after his appointment, and at any time when re­
quired by the court or judge, either upon his own motion or upon the applica­
tion of any person interested in the estate, the executor Qr administrator must
render, for the information of the court or judge, an exhibit under oath, show­
ing the amount of money received and expended by him, the amount of all
claims presented against the estate, and the names of the claimants, and all
other matters necessary to show the condition of its affairs. 
Sec. 2781. If the executor or administrator fails to render an exhibit for
six months after his appointment, the court or judge must cause a citation to
be issued requiring him to appear and render it. 
Sec. 2782. Any person interested in any estate may, at any time before the
final settlement of accounts, present his petition to the court or judge, praying
that the executor or administrator be required to appear and render such ex­
hibit, setting forth the facts showing that it is necessary and proper that such
an exhibit should be made. 
Sec. 2783. If the court or judge is satisfied, either from the oath of the ap­
plicant or from any other testimony offered, that the facts alleged are true, and
considers the showing of the applicant sufficient, he must direct a citation to
be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him to appear, at some
day to be named in the citation, and render an exhibit as prayed for. 
Sec. 2784. When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or administrator,any
person interested may appear, and by objections in writing, contest any ac­
count or statement therein contained. The court or judge may examine the 
executor or administrator, and if he has been guilty of neglect, or has wasted,
embezzled, or mismanaged the estate, his letters must be revoked. 
Sec. 2785. If any executor or administrator neglects or refuses to appear
and render an exhibit, after having been duly cited, an attachment may be
issued against him, and such exhibit enforced, 01 his letters may be revoked,
in the discretion of the court or judge. 
Sec. 2786. Within thirty days after the expiration of the time mentioned
in the notice to creditors within which claims must be exhibited, every execu­
tor or administrator must render a full account and report of his administration.
If he fails to present his account, the court or judge must compel the render­
ing of the account by attachment, and any person interested in the estate may
apply for and obtain an attachment: but no attachment must issue unless a
citation has been first issued, served and returned, requiring the executor or
administrator to appear and show cause why an attachment should not issue. 
Every account must exhibit all debts which have been presented and allowed
during the period embraced in the account. 
Sec. 2787. When the authority of an executor or administrator ceases, or
is revoked for any reason, he may be cited to account before the court or
judge, at the instance of the person succeeding to the administration of the
same estate, in like manner as he might have been cited by any person
interested in the estate during the time he was executor or administrator. 
Sec. 2788. If the executor or administrator resides out of the county, or
absconds or conceals himself so that the citation cannot be personally served,
and neglects to render an account, within thirty days after the time prescribed
in this Article, or if he neglects to render an account within thirty days after
being committed where the attachment has been executed, his letters must be
revoked. 
Sec. 2789. In rendering his account, the executor or administrator must
produce and file vouchers for all charges, debts, claims, and expenses which he
has paid, which must remain in the court: and he may be examined on oath
touching such payments, and also touching any property and effects of the de­
cedent, and the disposition thereof. When any voucher is required for other
purposes, it may be withdrawn on leaving a certified copy on file ; if a voucher
is lost, or for other good reasons cannot be produced on the settlement, the
payment may be proved by the oath of any competent witness. 
Sec. 2790. On the settlement of his account he may be allowed any item of
expenditure not exceeding twenty dollars, for which no voucher is produced, 
if such item be supported by his own uncontradicted oath positive to the fact
of payment, specifying when, where, and to whom it was made ; but such al­
lowances in the whole must not exceed five hundred dollars against any one
estate, and if, upon such settlement of accounts it appear that debts against
the deceased have been paid without the affidavit and allowance prescribed by
statute or Sections 26o4, 26o5 and 26o6, of this Code, and it shall be proven by
competent evidence to the satisfaction of the court or judge that such debts
were justly due, were paid in good faith, that the amount paid was the true
amount of such indebtedness over and above all payments or set off, and that
the estate is solvent, it shall be the duty of the said court or judge to allow
the said sums so paid in the settlement of said accounts. · 
Sec. 2791. When any account is rendered for settlement the court or judge
may appoint a day for the settlement thereof; the clerk must thereupon give
notice thereof by causing notices to be posted in at least three public places in
the county, setting forth the name of the estate, the executor or administrator,
and the day appointed for the settlement of the account. The court or judge
may order such further notice to be given as may be proper. 
Sec. 2792. If the account mentioned in the preceding Section be for final
settlement, and a petition for the final distribution of the estate be filed with
said accounts, the notice of the settlement must state those facts, which notice 
must be given by posting or publication, as the court or judge may direct, and
for such time as may be ordered. On the settlement of said account, distribu­
tion and partition of the estate to all entitled thereto may be immediately had,
without further notice of proceedings. 
Sec. 2793. On the day appointed, or any subsequent day to which the hear­
ing may be postponed by the court or judge, any person interested in the estate
may appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account, and contest the 
same.
Sec. 2794. All matters, including allowed claims not passed upon on the 
settlement of any former account, or on rendering an exhibit, or on making an
order of sale, may be contested by the heirs for cause shown. The hearing and
allegations of the respective parties may be postponed from time to time, when
necessary, and the court or judge.may appoint one or more referees to examine
the accounts, and make report thereon, subject to confirmation; and may allow
a reasonable compensation to the referees, to be paid out of the estate of the 
decedent.
Sec. 2795. The settlement of the account and the allowance thereof by the court 
or judge, or upon appeal, is conclusive against all persons in any way interested
in the estate, saving, however, to all persons laboring under any legal disability,
their right to move for cause to reopen and examine the account, or to proceed 
-by action against the executor or administrator, either individually or upon his
bond, at any time before final distribution ; and in any action brought by any
such person, the allowance and settlement of the account is (>rima faci« evi­
dence of its correctness. 
Sec. 2796. The account must not be allowed by the court or judge until it
is first proved that notice has been given as required by this Chapter, and the
order must show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the court or
judge, and is conclusive evidence of the fact. 
Sec. 2797. Whenever it appears to the court or judge on any hearing of an
application for the sale of real property, that it would be for the interest of the
estate that personal property of the estate, or some part of such property,
should be first sold, the court or judge may order the sale of such personal
property, or any part of it, and the sale thereof shall be conducted in the same
manner as if the application had been made for the sale of such personal prop­
erty in the first instance. 
Sec. 2798. Pending the settlement of any estate, on the petition of the ex·
ecutor, administrator or any one or more of the heirs, legatees or devisees, the
court or judge may order any moneys in the hands of any executor or admin­
istrator to be loaned, for such length of time as may be requested by the party
petitioning and the court or judge may think to the interests of the estate;
and on such security as the court or judge thereof may approve of, which shall
not be a period of time to exceed one year at any one time ; but no money
shall be loaned, except on United States, State, county or approved municipal
bonds or real estate fnortgage (and then only to the extent of one-half of the
market value of the real estate so loaned upon the value of said property, to
be estimated by the judge). The term "real estate " as herein used, does not
include mining property. Such order can only be made after notice in the
manner prescribed by the court or judge. 
ARTICLE Ill. 
THE PAYMENT OF DEBTS OF THE ESTATE. 
Sectio,, 2810. Order ;,, -u•l,icl, debts to ht! paid. 
2811. Wlurrt! proj>t!rt:v i,iHjficir.11t to /a.v mort.~ge. 
2812, Estate i11s".fficie,it, a divide•d to l,e paid. 
:1813. Fenrrat f'x/e11ses a11d e1'je11ses of last sidr11ess.
:2814. Order for Jaym,11t of debts a11d disl'kar,ire of tilt' e11ec•lor or ad•,"•istrator.
1815. Prouisia« for di.,p,ded a,id co,iti11ge"t claims. 
Section 2816. fter order for pa_v•e11t of debt», e11,c1dor perso11ally lia/J/, to a-editors.
l817. Clai•s 1101 i11cl11ded ;,, order for ;ay,,,,111 of delJts, l,ow di4po,ed of.
2818. Order for Ja_y•e•t of legacies a11d e1ttnuio11 of tiMe. 
2819- Fi11a/ acco1'11t, w/,e11 to IJe made.
28Jo. Neglect to render fi•al accot111t, /tow treated. 
Sec. 2810. The debts of the estate, subject to the provisions of Section 
2151, must be paid in the following order: 
1. Funeral expenses. 
2. The expenses of the last sickness.
3. Debts having preference by the laws of the United States, or of the 
State.
4- Judgments rendered against the decedent in his lifetime, and mortgages 
in the order of their date.
5. All other demands against the estate. .
Sec. 2811. The preference given in the preceding Section to a mortgage 
only extends to the proceeds of the property mortgaged. If the proceeds of
such property is insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part remaining unsatis­
fied must be classed with the other demands against the estate. 
Sec. 2812. If the estate is insufficient to pay all the debts of any one class,
each creditor must be paid a dividend in proportion to his claim, and no 
creditor of any one class shall receive any payment until all those of the pre­
ceding class are fully paid. 
Sec. 2813. The executor or administrator, as soon as he has sufficient funds
in his hands, may pay the funeral expenses and expenses of the last sickness,
and the allowance made to the family of the decedent. He may retain in his
hands the necessary expenses of administration, but he is not obliged to pay
any other debt or any legacy until, as prescribed in this Article, the payment
has been ordered by the court or judge. 
Sec. 2814. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the executor or adminis­
trator, as required in this Chapter, the court or judge must make an order for
the payment of the debts, as circumstances of the estate require. If there is
not sufficient funds in the hands of the executor or administrator, the court or
judge must specify in the order the sum to be paid to each creditor. If the
whole property of the estate be exhausted by such payment or distribution,
such account must be considered as a final account and the executor or admin­
istrator is entitled to his discharge on producing and filing the necessary
vouchers and proofs, showing that such payments have been made, and that he
has fully complied with the order of the court or judge. 
Sec. 2815. If there is any claim not due, or any contingent or disputed
claim against the estate, the amount thereof, or such part of the same as the
holder would be entitled to if the claim were due; established, or absolute,
must be paid into the court, and there remain to be paid over to the party
when he becomes entitled thereto; or, if he fails to establish his claim, to be
paid over or distributed as the circumstances of the estate require. If any
creditor whose claim has been allowed, but is not yet due, appears and assents
to a deduction therefrom of the legal interest for the time tho claim has yet to
run, he is entitled to be paid accordingly. The payments provided for in this Section are not to be made when the estate is insolvent, unless a pro rata dis­
tribution is ordered. 
Sec. 2816. When an order is made by the court or judge, for the payment
of creditors, the executor or administrator is personally liable to each creditor
for his allowed claim, or the dividend thereon, and execution may be issued on
such decree, as upon a judgment in the court, in favor of each creditor, and the
same proceedings may be had under such execution as under execution in
other cases. The executor or administrator is liable therefor on his bond to 
each creditor.
Sec. 2817. When the accounts of the administrator or executor have been 
settled, and an order made for the payment of debts and distribution of the 
estate, no creditor, whose claim was not included in the order for payment, has
any right to call upon the creditors who have been paid, or upon the heirs,
devisees or legatees, to contribute to the payment of his claim ; but if the ex.
ecutor or administrator has failed to give the notice to the creditors as pre­
scribed in Section 26o1,such creditor may recover on the bond of the executor
or administrator the amount of his claim, or such part thereof as he would
have been entitled to, had it been allowed. This Section shall not apply to
any creditor whose claim was not due ten months before the day of settlement,
or whose claim was contingent, and did not become absolute ten months before
such day. 
Sec. 2818. If the whole of the debts have been paid by the first distribu­
tion, the court or judge must direct the payment of legacies and the distribution
of the estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled, as provided
in the next Chapter; but if there be debts remaining unpaid, or if, for other
reasons, the estate be not in a proper condition to be closed, the court or judge
must give such extension of time as may be reasonable, for the final settlement 
of the estate.
Sec. 2819. At the time designated in the last Section, or sooner, if within 
that time all the property of the estate has been sold, or there are sufficient
funds in his hands for the payment of all the debts due by the estate, and the
estate be in a proper condition to be closed, the executor or administrator must
render a final account, and pray a settlement of his administration. 
Sec. 2820. If. he neglecta to render his account, the same proceedings may
be had as prescribed.Jlrlhis Chapter 'ii\, egard to the first account to be rendered
by him, and all the provisions of this hapter relative to the last mentioned
account, and the notice and settlement th eof, apply to his account presented 
for final settlement.
CHAPTER X. 
THE PARTITION, DISTRIBUTION AND FINAL SE 
~rtide I.
II. 
Ill. 
IV. 
V. 
Seetio,, 2830.
2831. 
P'!rti~l dtstrih•tio• /rior lo .ft•al selt/eme11t.
Dutr1h•lto11 011 .ft11al setl/eme11t. 
Distrih•lio11 a11d /arlilio11.
Agn,ts for a/,se11t i11ternled ;arlie.,. Disd,arge of e:tu or or ad•i•i.1tl'ator.
Setl/e,,,e11t of acco,o,ts of tr,utus after di.ftri/,"tioti. of esta 
2832.
1833. 
ARTICLE I. 
PARTIAL DISTRIHUTION PRIOR TO FINAL SETTLEMEN 
P11y'!'e11t of le,rades 11/011 gii•i11g ho11ds.
Not,ce of a/plicatio11 for legadu. 
E:uc11tor or ollur /erso11 may resist applicalt'o11.
Order /ra_yed for to r1q11ire ho_11d, wkick #Ill.fl /,e Ki?•e11• 
or /art of dare to /,e de/n•ered. Wiere parlitio11
•ade. Costs. 
:J834- Orde,: lo~ /a_ymr11I of l,011d, a#d s•it /iereo11.
2835. Apj/,cat,o• for Ji.clrihutio11. 
Sec. 2830. At any time after. t.he lapse of four months from the issuing
letters te~tame!1~ary or of administration, any heir, devisee, or legatee, m 
prese~t his J?Cht1~n to the cou~ or judg~ for the legacy or share of the estat
~o which he is entitled, to be given to him upon his giving bonds, with secur­ 
ity, for the payme~t of his proportion of the debts of the estate .
SEC. 2831. Notice of the application must be given to the executor or ad­ 
ministrator, personally, and to all persons interested in the estate in the same
manner that notice Isrequired to be given of the settlement of the account of 
an executor or administrator,
Sec. 2832. The executo~ or administrator, .or any person interested in the 
es~ate, m.ay appear at the time named and resist the application, or any other
heir, devisee, or legatee may make a similar application for himself. 
Sec. 2833. If, at the hearing, it appear that the estate is but little indebted,
and that the share of the party applying may be allowed to him without loss
to the creditors of the estate, the court or judge must make an order in con­
formity with the prayer of the applicant, requiring: 
1. Each heir, legatee, or devisee obtaining such order, before receiving his
share, or any portion thereof, to execute and deliver to the executor or
administrator a bond, in such sum as shall be designated by the court or judge,
with sureties to be approved by the judge, payable to the executor or adminis­
trator, and conditioned for the payment, whenever required, of his proportion of
the debts due from the estate, not exceeding the value or amount of the legacy
or portion of the estate to which he is entitled. 
2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir, legatee, or devisee,
the whole portion of the estate to which he may be entitled, or only a part
thereof, designating it. If, in the execution of the order, a partition is neces­
sary between two or more of the parties interested, it must be made in the
manner hereinafter prescribed. The costs of these proceedings shall be paid
by the applicant, or if there be more than one, shall be apportioned equally
among them. 
Sec. 2834. When any bond has been executed and delivered under the
provisions of the preceding Section, and it is necessary for the settlement of
the estate to require the payment of any part of the money thereby secured,
the executor or administrator must petition the court or judge for an order
requiring the payment, and have a citation issued and served on the party
bound, requiring him. to appear and show cause why the order should not be
made. At the hearing, the court or judge, if satisfied of the necessity of such
payment, must make an order accordingly, designating the amount and giving
a time within which it must be paid. If the money is not paid within the
time allowed, an action may be maintained by the executor or administrator
on the bond. 
Sec. 2835. At any time after the lapse of one year from the issuance of
letters testamentary, or of administration, any heir, devisee, or legatee may
present his or her petition to the court or judge for the distribution of the net
proceeds of the share of the said estate to which he or she will be entitled.
Notice of the application must be given, as required by Section 2831. The
executor or administrator, or any other person interested in the estate, may
appear at the time named and resist the application, or any other heir, devisee,
or legatee may make a similar application for himself. If at the hearing it
appear that the estate is but little indebted, and that the share of the party
applying may be allowed to him without loss to the creditors of the estate, the
court or judge must make an order in conformity with the prayer of the
applicant, requiring: 
1. Each heir, devisee, or legatee, obtaining such order, before receiving his
share or any portion thereof, to execute and deliver to the executor or admin­ 
istrator a bond, in such sum as shall be designated by the court or judge, with
sureties to be approved by the judge, payable to the executor or administrator,
and conditioned for the payment, whenever required, of his proportion of the
debts due from the estate, not exceeding the amount or portion of the pro­
ceeds of the estate which he has received; provided, that where the time for
filing or presenting claims has expired, and all claims that have been allowed
have been paid, or are secured by mortgage upon real estate sufficient to pay
them, and the court or judge is satisfied that no injury can result to the estate,
the court or judge may dispense with the bond. 
2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir, legatee, or devisee
the proceeds of the estate to which he may be entitled, or only a part thereof,
designating it. If, in the opinion of the court or judge, it be necessary, in
order to ascertain the proceeds that any or all of the heirs, legatees, or devisees
may be entitled, that the interest of any heir, legatee, or devisee in one or more 
pieces or parcels of property of the estate shall be determined or ascertained,
the court or judge may suspend proceedings and direct the petitioner or
petitioners to take proceedings under Section 2840 of this Code to ascertain the
interest the petitioner or petitioners will have under the will in any piece or
parcel of property. The order must describe the property in relation to which
proceedings are to be taken. Whenever any bond has been executed and
delivered, proceedings upon any such bond may be taken under Section 2834.
The cost of these proceedings shall be paid by the applicant, or if there be
more than one, shall be apportioned equally between them. 
ARTICLE II. 
DISTRIBUTION ON FINAL SETTLEMENT. 
Sectio« 2840. Pr0<udi11g4 ;,. tlte "at1're of 011 aclio• to dctcr m in« luirsltip.
l841. Appeara11ce of partie4,
2841. Trial n11d }"dgm,111.
2843. Distri/J•tio11 of estate, !,ow mad, a11d to wl,om.
2844. Wkal /1,e decree m"4I co11tai11, and is fi11al.
28.4~. Di4lril>11tio11 wke# deudrnl wa., 1101 a resident of tl11's State.
2846. Decree lo l>e •ade O#ly after notice. 
2847. No di.,tri/J"tio11 till tase» on /eno11al property are paid. 
Sec. 2840. Any person claiming to be heir to the deceased, or entitled to
the distribution in whole or in a part of an estate, may, at any time after the
expiration of one year from the issuing of letters testamentary or of admin­
istration upon such estate, file a petition in the matter ol such estate, praying
the court or judge to ascertain and declare the rights of all persons to said es­
tate, and all interests therein, and to whom distribution thereof should be
made. Upon the filing of such petition, the court or judge must make an
order directing service of notice to all persons interested in said estate to
appear and cause show, on a day to be therein named, not less than sixty days
nor more than four months from the date of the making of such order, in
which notice shall be set forth the name of the deceased, the name of the exec­
utor or administrator of said estate, the names of all persons who may have
appeared claiming any interest in said estate, in the course of the administra­
tion of the same, up to the time of the making of said order, and such other
persons as the court or judge may direct, and also a description of the real es­
tate whereof said deceased died seized or possessed, so far as known, described
with certainty to a common intent ; and requiring said persons and all persons
named or not named, having or claiming any interest in the estate of said de­
ceased, at the time and place in said order specified, to appear and exhibit, as
hereinafter provided, their respective claims of heirship, ownership, or interest
in said estate, to said court or judge, which notice shall be served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action; upon proof of which service, by affida­
vit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court or judge, the court or judge
shall thereupon acquire jurisdiction to ascertain and determine the heirship,
ownership, and interest of all parties in and to the property of said deceased,
and such determination shall be final and conclusive in the administration of
said estate, and of the title and ownership of said property. The court or judge
must enter an order establishing proof of the service of such notice. 
Sec. 2841. All persons appearing within the time limited, must file their
written appearance in person or through their authorized attorney, such attor­
ney filing at the same time written evidence of his authority to so appear,
entry of which appearance shall be made in the minutes of the court and in
the register of proceedings of said estate. And the court or judge shall, after
the expiration of the time limited for appearing as aforesaid, enter an order
adjudging the default of all persons for not appearing as aforesaid, who shall
not have appeared as aforesaid. At any time within twenty days after the
date of the order of the court or judge establishing proof of service of such 
notice, any of such persons so appearing may file his complaint in the matter
of the estate, setting forth the facts constituting his claim of heirship, owner­
ship, or interest in said estate, with such reasonable particularity as the court
or Judge may require, and serve a copy of the same upon each of the parties
or attorneys who shall have entered their written appearance as aforesaid, if
such parties or such attorneys reside within the county ; and in case any of
them do not reside within the county, then service of such copy of said com­
plaint shall be made upon the clerk of said court for them, and the clerk shall
forthwith mail the same to the address of such party or attorney as may have
left with said clerk his post office address. Such parties are allowed twenty
days after the service of the complaint, as aforesaid, within which to plead
thereto, and thereafter such proceedings shall be had upon such complaint as
in this Code provided in case of an ordinary civil action ; and the issues of law
and of fact arising in the proceeding shall be disposed of in like manner as _
issues of law and fact are herein provided to be disposed of in civil actions,
with a like right to a motion for a new trial and appeal to the Supreme Court;
and the provisions in this Code contained regulating the mode of procedure
for the trial of civil actions, the motion for a new trial of civil actions, state­
ments on motion for a new trial, bills of exception. and statements on appeal,
as also in regard to undertakings on appeal, and the mode of taking and per­
fecting appeals, and the time within which such appeals shall be taken, shall 
be applicable thereto; provided, however, that all appeals herein must be
taken within sixty days from the date of the entry of the judgment or the
order complained of. 
Sec. 2842. The party filing the petition as aforesaid, if he file a complaint,
and if not, the party first filing such complaint must in all subsequent proceed­
ings be treated as the plaintiff therein, and all other parties so appearing must
be treated as the defendants in said proceedings, and all such defendants shall
set forth in their respective answers, the facts constituting their claim of heir­
ship, ownership, or interest in said estate, with such particularity as the court
or judge may require, and serve a copy thereof on the plaintiff. Evidence in
support of all issues may be taken orally or by deposition, in the same man­
ner as provided in civil actions. Notice of the taking of such depositions shall
be served only upon the parties or the attorneys of the parties so appearing in
said proceeding. The court or judge shaH enter a default of all persons fail­
ing to appear, or plead, or prosecute, or defend their rights as aforesaid; and
upon the trial of the issues arising upon the pleadings in such proceeding, the
court or judge shaH determine the heirship to said deceased, the ownership of
his estate, and the interest of each respective claimant thereto or therein, and
persons entitled to distribution thereof, and the final determination of the
court or judge thereupon shall be final and conclusive in the distribution of
said estate, and in regard to the title to all the property of the estate of said
deceased. The cost of the proceedings under the last three Sections shall be
apportioned in the discretion of the court or judge. In such proceeding, the
court or judge may appoint an attorney for any minor not having a guardian. 
Nothing in the last three Sections shall be construed to exclude the right upon
final distribution of any estate to contest the question of heirship, title, or
interest in the estate so distributed, where the same shall not have been deter.
mined under the provisions of Sections 2840, 2841 and 2842, but where the
questions shall have been litigated under the provisions of these Sections, the
determination thereof, as therein provided, shall be conclusive in the distribu­
tion of said estate. 
Sec. 2843. Upon the final settlement of the accounts of the executor or ad­
ministrator, or at any subsequent time, upon the application of the executor
or administrator, or of any heir, legatee, or devisee, the court or judge, must
proceed to distribute the residue of the estate in the hands of the executor or
administrator, if any, among the persons who by law are entitled thereto; and 
if the decedent has left a surviving child, and the issue of other children, and
any of them, before the close of the administration, have died while under age
and not having been married, no administration on such deceased child's estate
is necessary, but all the estate which such deceased child was entitled to by in­
heritance must, without administration, be distributed to the other heirs at law.
A statement of any receipts and disbursements of the executor or adminis­
trator, since the rendition of his final accounts, must be reported and filed at
the time of making such distribution ; and a settlement thereof, together with
an estimate of the expenses of closing the estate, must be made by the court
or judge, and included in the order; or the court or judge may order notice of
the settlement of such supplementary account, and refer the same as in other
cases of the settlement of accounts. 
Sec. 2844. In the order the court or judge must name the persons and the
proportions or parts to which each shall be entitled, and such persons may de- 
. mand, sue for, and recover their respective shares from the executor or admin­
istrator, or any person having the same in possession. Such order is conclusive
as to the rights of heirs, legatees or devisees, subject only to be reversed, set
aside or modified on appeal. 
Sec. 2845. Upon application for distribution, after final settlement of the
accounts of administration, if the decedent was a non-resident of this State,
leaving a will which has been duly proved or allowed in the State of his resi­
dence, and an authenticated copy thereof has been admitted to probate in this
State, and it is necessary, in order that the estate, or any part thereof, may be
distributed according to the will, that the estate in this State should be deliv­
ered to the executor or administrator in the State or place of his residence, the
court or judge may order such delivery to be made, and, if necessary, order a
sale of the real estate, and a like delivery of the proceeds. The delivery, in
accordance with the order of the court or judge, is a full discharge of the ex­
ecutor or administrator with the will annexed, in this State, in relation to all
property embraced in such order, which, unless reversed on appeal, binds and
concludes all parties in interest. Sales of real estate, ordered by virtue of this Section, must be made in the same manner as other sales of real estate of
decedents by order of the court or judge. 
Sec. 2846. The order may be made on the petition of the executor or ad­
ministrator, or of any person interested in the estate. Notice of the applica­
tion must be given by posting or publication, as the court or judge may direct,
and for such time as may be ordered. If partition be applied for as provided
in this Chapter, the order of distribution shall not divest the court of jurisdic­
tion to order partition, unless the estate is finally closed. 
Sec. 2847. Before any order of distribution of an estate is made, the court
or judge must be satisfied, by the oath of the executor or administrator, or
otherwise, that all the State, county, and municipal taxes, legally levied upon
personal property of the estate, have been fully paid. 
ARTICLE III. 
DISTRIBUTION AND PARTITION. 
Sectio» l86o. Estate ;,, co"'"''"'· CoMmissio•e,-s.
:JS61. Partitio« a ed notice tl,erro.f, and tl,e ti"'e of Jili11g /etitio•. 
286.J. Estate ;,, differe11I coentirs, /,ow divided, 
:1863. Parlilio11 ,na_v IH •ade, a/11,o•gl, ,o,,,e of tl,e l,eirs, etc., Mt't' /arted will,
tl,eir ilfleresl. 
286+, Sl,ares lo be ul o•l 6v "'eles a11d 6o•tfds.
2865. WJ,o/e es/ale MO.'V bf' a.ui1:·1ud lo one, ;,, u,-fai11 mus. 
:a866. Pa.v111e11/1 for eq•ality of ,a,.litio", l>y u•kom atfd kow.
:a867. Eslal, "'ay hr sold, 
2868. To ,rive notic« lo all /ersolfS a•d g"ardia,,., before /artitio•. D•tit's of
ro,,,•iuiolfrrs. 
:a66g. To ,nake reJorl, atfd parliliolf lo be recorded, 
S6ctio• 2870. WA-r11 ,o••issio,urs to •alte /arlitio• are •ol 11«u.Jary. 
:J871. .Adt•a11u111t'11ts 111ade to Juirs. 
Sec. 2860. When the estate, real or personal, assigned by the order of dis­
tribution to two or more heirs, devisees or legatees, is in common and undi­
vided, and the respective shares are not separated and distinguished, partition
or distribution may be made by three disinterested persons, to be appointed
commissioners for that purpose by the court or judge, who must be duly sworn
to the faithful discharge of their duties. A ecrtified copy of the order of their
appointment, and of the order assigning and distributing the estate, must be
issued to them as their warrant, and their oath must be indorsed thereon.
Upon consent of the parties, or when the court or judge deems it proper and
just, it is sufficient to appoint one commissioner only, who has the same
authority and is governed by the same rules as if three were appointed. 
Sec. 2861. Such partition may be ordered and had in the District Court on
the petition of any person interested. But before commissioners are appointed,
or partition ordered by the court or judge, as directed in this Chapter, notice
thereof must be given to all persons interested who reside in this State, or to
their guardians, and to the agents, attorneys, or guardians, if any in this State,
of such as reside out of this State, either personally or by public notice, as the
court may direct. The petition may be filed, attorneys, guardians and agents
appointed, and notice given at any time before the order of distribution, but
the commissioners must not be appointed until the order is made distributing
the estate. 
Sec. 2862. If the real estate is in different counties, the court or judge may,
if deemed proper, appoint commissioners for all, or different commissioners for
each county. The estate in each county must be divided separately among
the heirs, legatees, or devisees, as if there was no other estate to be divided ;
but the commissioners first appointed must, unless otherwise directed by the
court or judge, make division· of such real estate wherever situated within this 
State.
Sec. 2863. Partition or distribution of the real estate may be made as pro. 
vided in this Chapter, although some of the original heirs, legatees or devisees
may have conveyed their shares to other persons, and such shares must be as­ 
signed to the person holding the same, in the same manner as they otherwise
would have been to such heirs, legatees or devisees. 
Sec. 2864. When both distribution and partition are made, the several
shares in the real and personal estate must be set out to each individual in pro­
portion to his right, by metes and bounds, or description, so that the same can
be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties interested consent to 
'have their shares set out so as to be held by them in common and undivided.
Sec. 2865. When the real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or 
inconvenience to the owners, the court or judge may assign the whole to one
or more of the parties entitled to share therein, who will accept it, always pre­
f erring the males to the females, and among children pref erring the elder to the
younger. The parties accepting the whole must pay to the other parties inter­
ested their just proportion of the true value thereof, or secure the same to
their satisfaction, or in case of the minority of such party, then to the satisfac­
tion of his guard,ian; and the true value of the estate must be ascertained and
reported by the commissioners. When the commissioners appointed to make
partition are of the opinion that the real estate cannot be divided without
prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, they must so report to the court or
judge, and recommend that the whole be assigned as herein provided, and must
find and report the true value of such real estate. On filing the report of the
commissioners, and on making or securing the payment as before provided, the
court or judge, if it appears just and proper, must confirm the report, and there­ 
upon the assignment is complete, and the title to the whole of such real
estate vests in the person to whom the same is assigned. 
Sec. 2866. When any tract of land or tenement is of greater value than any
one's share in the estate to be divided, and cannot be divided without injury to
the same, it may be set off by the commissioners appointed to make partition
to any of the parties who will accept it, giving preference as prescribed in the
preceding Section. The party accepting must pay or secure to the others
such sums as the commissioners shall award to make the partition equal, and
the commissioners must make their award accordingly; but such partition must
not be established by the court or judge until the sums awarded are paid to
the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their satisfaction. 
Sec. 2867. When it appears to the court or judge, from the commissioner's
report that it cannot otherwise be fairly divided and should be sold, the court
or judge may order the sale of the whole or any part of the estate, real or per­
sonal, by the executor or administrator, or by a commissioner appointed for
that purpose, and the proceeds distributed. The sale must be conducted, re­
ported and confirmed, in the same manner and under the same requirements
provided in Article IV., Chapter VII, of this Title. 
Sec. 2868. Before any partion is made or any estate divided, as provided in
this Chapter, notice must be given to all persons· interested in the partition,
their guardians, agents, or attorneys, by the commissioners, of the time and
place when and where they shall proceed to make partition. The commissioners
may take testimony, order surveys, and take such other steps as may be nec­
essary to enable them to form a judgment upon the matters before them. 
Sec. 2869. The commissioners must report their proceedings, and the parti­
tion agreed upon by them, to the court or judge, in writing, and the court or
judge may, for sufficient reasons, set aside the report, and commit the same to
the same commissioners, or appoint others; and when such report is finally
confirmed, a certified copy of the order of partition made thereon, attested by
the clerk under the seal of the court, must be recorded in the office of the
county clerk of the county where the lands lie. 
Sec. 2870. When the court or judge makes an order assigning the residue of any
estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, it is not necessary to appoint
commissioners to make partition or distribution thereof, unless the parties to
whom the assignment is made, or some of them, request that such partition be
made. 
Sec. 2871. All questions as to advancements made, or alleged to have been
made, by the decedent to his heirs, may be heard and determined by the court
or judge, and must be specified in the order assigning and distributing the
estate; and the final order of the court or judge, or in case of appeal, of the
Supreme Court, is binding on all parties interested in the estate. 
CHAPTER II
AGENTS FOR ABSENT OR INTERESTED PARTIES. DISCHARGE OF
EXECUTOR OR ADMINISTRATOR. 
s~ctio" 288o. Coert 111a_y ap;oi11t agr.11/ lo lake po.ueuio11 for abs~•l~tts.
2881, Aµ11t lo git•r /,o11d, and /tis co111pnualio11. • 
l88l. U11clai,,ud estate, /tow dis;oud of.
2883. Wltr11 real a"d /rr.co11al properly of al,u,,tee lo be sold. 
2SS... Lial,il,'t_y of agn,t 011 /tis l,o,,d.
2885. c~rli/icatr lo dai111n11/. 
2886, Fi11al s,lllt'111r11I, decree, discl,argr. 
2887. Discovery of proprrly. 
ARTICLE IV. 
Sec. 2880. When any estate is assigned or distributed by an order of the
court or judge, as provided in this Chapter, to any person residing out of, and
having no agent in this State, and it is necessary that some person should be
authorized to take possession and charge of the same for the benefit of such
absent person, the court or judge may appoint an agent for that purpose, and 
authorize him to take charge of such estate, as well as to act for such absent
person in the distribution. 
Sec. 2881. The agent must execute a bond to the State of Montana, to be
approved by the court or judge, conditioned that he I shall faithfully manage
and account for the estate. The court or judge appointing such agent may
allow a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for his services and ex­
penses. 
Sec. 2882. When the personal property remains in the hands of the agent
unclaimed for a year,and it appears to the court or judge that it is for the bene­
fit of those interested, it shall be sold under the order of the court or judge,
and the proceeds, after deducting the expenses of the sale allowed by the
court or judge, must be paid into the State treasury. When the payment is
made, the agent must take from the treasury duplicate receipts, one of which 
he must file in the office of the State Auditor, and the other in the court. 
Sec. 2883. The agent must render the court or judge appointing him, annu­
ally, an account, showing: 
1. The value and character of the property received by him, what portion
thereof is still on hand, what sold, and for what. 
2. The income derived therefrom.
3. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for what, and whether paid 
or unpaid. 
4- The expenses incurred in the care, protection, and management thereof,
and whether paid or unpaid. When filed, the court or judge may examine
witnesses and take proofs in regard to the account, and if satisfied from such
accounts and proofs that it will be for the benefit and advantage of the persons
interested therein, the court or judge may, by order, direct a sale to be made of
the whole or such parts of the real or personal property as shall appear to be
proper, and the purchase money to be deposited in the State treasury. 
Sec. 2884. The agent is liable on his bond for the care and preservation of the
estate while in his hands, and for the payment of the proceeds of the sale as
required in the preceding Sections, and may be sued thereon by any person
interested. 
Sec. 2885. When any person appears and claims the money paid into the
treasury, the court or judge making the distribution must inquire into such
claim. and being first satisfied of his right thereto, must grant him a certificate
to that effect, under seal; and upon the presentation of the certificate to him,
the State Auditor must draw his warrant on the treasurer for the amount. 
Sec. 2886. When the estate has been fully administered, and it is shown by
the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory vouchers, that
he has paid all sums of money due from him, and delivered up, under the order
of the court or judge, all the property of the estate to the parties entitled, and
performed all the acts lawfully required of him, the court or judge must make
an order discharging him from all liability to be incurred thereafter. 
Sec. 2887. The final settlement of an estate, as in this Chapter provided,
shall not prevent a subsequent issue of letters testamentary or of administra­
tion, or of administration with the will annexed, if other property of the estate
be discovered, or if it become necessary or prop_er for any cause that letters
should be again issued. 
CHAPTER III
SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS OF TRUSTEES AFTER DISTRIBUTION OF ESTATE. 
Sectio11 2900. Coert •ot to lose j11risdictio1t /Jy dislriblltio.. 
l<)OI. Co111p~11satio11. 
l()Ol. Appeal. 
ARTICLE V. 
Sec. 2900. Where any trust has been created by or under any will to con­
tinue after distribution, the District Court shall not lose jurisdiction of the
estate by final distribution, but shall retain jurisdiction thereof for the purpose 
of the settlement of accounts under the trust. And any trustee created by any
will, or appointed to execute any trust created by any will, may from time to
time, pending the execution of his trust, or may at the termination thereof,
render and pray for the settlement of his accounts as such trustee before the
District Court in which the will was probated, and in the manner provided for
the settlement of the accounts of executors and administrators. The trustee,
or in the case of his death, his legal representatives, shall for that purpose pre­
sent to the court or judge his petition setting forth his accounts in detail ; and
upon filing thereof, the court or judge shall fix a day for the hearing, and a
citation shall be issued citing all the beneficiaries of the said trust to appear
and show cause why the account should not be allowed ; such citation shall be
personally served upon all the beneficiaries in the State in the manner pro­
vided for the service of summons in civil actions, and shall be served upon all
the beneficiaries, who shall appear by affidavit to be absent from the State, by
publication in such manner as the court or judge may order, for not less than
two months. And any such trustee may, in the discretion of the court or
judge, upon application of any beneficiary of the trust, be ordered to appear
and render his account, after being cited by service of citation as provided for
the service of summons in civil cases. Upon the filing of the account so
ordered the same proceedings for the hearing and settlement thereof shall be
had as are hereinbefore provided. 
Sec. 2901. On all such accountings the court or judge shall allow the trustee
or trustees the proper expenses and such compensation for services as the
court or judge may deem to be just and reasonable, and shall apportion such
compensation among the trustees according to the services rendered by them
respectively, and may in its discretion fix a yearly compensation for the trus­
tee or trustees, to continue as long as the court or judge may deem proper. 
Sec. 2902. From an order settling such account appeal may be taken in the
manner provided for an appeal from an order settling the account of an execu­
tor or administrator. The order of the District Court, if affirmed on appeal or
becoming final without appeal, shall be conclusive. 
CHAPTER II
ORDERS, PROCESS, MINUTES, RECORDS, TklALS AND APPEALS. 
S,clio• 2910. Orders lo l,e entered ;,, miN#les. 
l<)l 1. I/ow ofte« /•blicalio• lo be madr. 
l<)ll. Rrrorded order to impart 110/ire /rom dale of /ili,,g. 
:i913. Prorreding jad before caert or 11ulgr. 
l<)I-4. Cilalio11, "ou1 directed a11d u•lwl to contai», 
2915~ Citation, "ow issNed. 
:i916. Cilalio•, "ow served, 
CHAPTER XII. 
:i917. Personal 110/ice gh.'rn by «itatio«,
:1918. Cilalio• lo be served Jfre da_, .. , before rcl11r11. 
~19- o,,e descri/lio11 oJ real estate, so11gl,f to he sold, hei11g /11blided, is s11tficirNt
for all /•r/oses. 
:Jc)lO. R11/rs of /rartiu grnerally.
1921. Neu· I rials aed ap/eals. 
~:i:a. WifJ,j,, wltat ti,ru appeal 1111ul l,e take,,.
1913. lssNrs joi,,ed, "ow tried and disposrd of. 
l<)l4> Court to try case wlu-11 "o j11r_r demanded, How and wl,at iss11rs lo be
tr ird , · 
:i9:25. Court to appoilft attorney for milfor or ahsr11l luirs, detrisres, or legatees or
creditors, wke", a11d wkal co111pr11.wlio11 "l' is lo receive, 
29:i6. Order relatir» lo komnlead, a11d rl/~rl lkereof.
1927. Costs, l>y wkom paid ;,. rerlai11 cases, · 
:1918. E"ec•lor, etc., lo he re111oved wl,•,, co,,,,nilted for co•le•/1.
:1919. Sert•ire •lo" !r"ardia11. 
1930. Ter111i11alio" of l,f,. estate. 
2931. Clerk lo 111akr certai« orders. 
Sec. 2910. Orders and judgments made by the court or judge, in probate
proceedings, need not recite the existence of facts, or the performance of acts 
upon which the jurisdiction of the court or judge may depend, but it shall
only be necessary that they contain the matters ordered, except as otherwise
provided in this Title. All orders of the court or judge must be entered at
length in the minute book of the court kept for probate proceedings. • 
Sec. 2911. When any publication is ordered, such publication must be
made daily, or otherwise as often during the prescribed period as the paper is
regularly issued, unless otherwise provided in this Title. The court or Judge
may, however, order a less number of publications during the period. 
Sec. 2912. When it is provided in this Title that any order of the court or
judge, or a copy thereof, must be recorded in the office of the county clerk,
from the time of filing the same for record, notice is imparted to all persons of
the contents thereof. · 
Sec. 2913. All orders mentioned in this Title and all proceedings in mat­
ters of probate may be made or heard either before the court or the judge
thereof in chambers, and when a jury is needed, the court or judge may order
the trial to take place in court as provided in Part II., of this Code. 
Sec. 2914. Citations must be directed to the person to be cited, signed by
the clerk and issued under the seal of the court, and must contain: 
1. The Title of the proceeding. 
2. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding.
3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and place specified.
Sec. 2915. The citation may be issued by the clerk upon the application 
of any party without an order of the judge, except in cases in which such order
is by the provisions of this Title expressly required. 
Sec. 2916. The citation must be served in the same manner as a summons
in a civil action. 
Sec. 2917. When personal notice is required, and no mode of giving it is
prescribed, it must be given by citation. 
Sec. 2918. When no other time is specifically prescribed in this Title, cita­
tions must be served at least five days before the return day thereof. 
Sec. 2919. When a complete description of the real property of an estate
sought to be sold has been given and published in a newspaper, as required in
the order to show cause why the sale should not be made, such description 
need not be published in any subsequent notice of sale or notice of petition
for the confirmation thereof; it is sufficient to refer to the description contained
in the publication of the first notice, as being proved and on file in the court. 
Sec. 2920. Except as otherwise provided in this Title, the provisions of
Part II., of this Code, are applicable to and constitute the rules of practice in
the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 
Sec. 2921. The provisions of Part II., of this Code, relative to new trials
and appeals-except in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
this Title-apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 
Sec. 2922. The appeal must be taken within sixty days after the order of
judgment is entered. 
Sec. 2923. All issues of fact joined in probate proceedings must be tried in
conformity with the requirements of Article I I., Chapter I I., of this Title, and
in all such proceedings the party affirming is plaintiff, and the one denying or 
avoiding is defendant. Judgments therein, on the issue joined, as well as for
costs, may be entered and enforced by execution or otherwise by the court or
judge, as in civil actions. 
Sec. 2914. If no jury is demanded, the court or judge must try the issues
joined. If on written demand a jury is called by either party, and the issues
are not sufficiently made up by the written pleadings on file, the court or
judge, on due notice to the opposite party, must settle and frame the issues to
be tried, and submit the same, together with the evidence of each party, to
the jury, on which they must render a verdict. Either party may move for a
new trial, upon the same grounds and errors, and in like manner, as provided in 
this Code for civil actions. If the trial of issues joined requires the examina­
tion of an account, the court or judge must try the matter or refer it, and no
jury can be called. 
Sec. 2925. At or before the hearing of petitions and contests for the pro­
bate of wills ; for letters testamentary or of administration ; for sales of real
estate, and confirmation thereof ; settlements, partitions and distributions of
estate, setting apart homesteads, and all other proceedings where all the par­
ties interested in the estate are required to be notified thereof ; the court or
judge may, in its or his discretion, appoint some competent attorney-at-law to
represent in all such proceedings the devisees, legatees or heirs, or creditors of
the decedent, who are minors and have no general guardian in the county, or
who are non-residents of the State ; ahd those interested who, though they are
neither such minors or non-residents, are unrepresented. The order must
specify the names of the parties so far as known for whom the attorney is ap­
pointed, who is thereby authorized to represent such parties in all such pro­
ceedings had subsequent to his appointment. The attorney may receive a
fee, to be fixed by the court or judge, for his services, which must be paid out
of the funds of the estate as necessary expenses of administration, and upon
distribution may be charged to the party represented by the attorney. If, for
any cause, it becomes necessary, the court or judge may substitute another
attorney for the one first appointed, in which case the fee must be apportion­
ately divided. The non-appointment of an attorney will not affect the validity
of any of the proceedings. 
Sec. 2926. When an order is made, setting apart a homestead, confirming
a sale, making distribution of real property, or determining any other matter
affecting the title to real property, a certified copy of the same must be recorded
in the office of the county clerk of the county in which the property is situated. 
Sec. 2927. When it is not otherwise prescribed in this Title, the District
Court, or Supreme Court on appeal, may, in its discretion, order costs to be
paid by any party to the proceedings, or out of the assets of the estate, as jus­
tice may require. Execution for costs may issue out of the District Court. 
Sec. 2928. Whenever an executor or administrator, or guardian is com­
mitted for contempt in disobeying any lawful order of the court or judge, and
has remained in custody for thirty days without obeying such order, or purg­
ing himself otherwise of the contempt, the court or judge may, by order
reciting the facts, and without further showing or notice, revoke his letters
"and appoint some other person entitled thereto executor or administrator, or
guardian in his stead. 
Sec. 2929. Whenever an infant, insane or incompetent person has a guardian
of his estate residing in this State, personal service upon the guardian of any
process, notice, or order of the court or judge, concerning the estate of a de­
ceased person in which the ward is interested, is equivalent to service upon the
ward, and it is the duty of the guardian to attend to the interests of the ward
in the matter. Such guardian may also appear for his ward and waive any
process, notice or order to show cause which an adult or a person of sound
mind might do. 
Sec. 2930. If any person has died, or shall hereafter die, who at the time of
his death was the owner of a life estate, which terminates by reason of the
death of such person, any person interested in the property, or in the title
thereto, in which such life estate was held, may file in the District Court of the
county in which the property is situated, his verified petition, setting forth
such facts, and thereupon, and after such notice by publication or otherwise,
as the court or judge may order, the court or judge shall hear such petition
and the evidence offered in support thereof, and if, upon such hearing, it shall
appear that such life estate of such deceased person absolutely terminated by
reason of his death, the court or judge shall make an order to that effect, and
thereupon a certified .copy of such order may be recorded in the office of the 
county clerk, and thereafter shall have the same effect as a final order of dis­
tribution so recorded. 
Sec. 2931. The clerk, in the absence of the judge, may issue notices of the
hearing for the probate of wills and letters of administration and guardianship
and upon the hearing grant such letters, including letters testamentary, when
no objections are made or filed; may order notices to creditors; may appoint
appraisers, file and approve all bonds, file and approve claims against the
estate, file and approve all accounts of executors, administrators and guardians,
except final accounts, when no objections are made or filed thereto ; make all
orders for hearings and orders to give notice, as may be necessary in the exer­
cise of any of the above powers. .The court or judge may at any time set
aside or modify any of the orders so made, and unless so set aside or modified
they have the same effect as if made by the judge or court. 
ARTICLE I.
II. 
Ill.
JV. 
v. 
YI. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR. 
Sec. 2940. The office of public administrator is provided for and defined in
the Political Code, Part IV .. Title II., Chapter III., Article IX. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
GUARDIAN AND WARD. 
(;•ardin,u of Mi,,ors.
G•ardia11s o/ /111,r,u a11d J,,ro#l/ele11t Persae«,
Tiu Powers a11d D11tin of G11ardia11s.
TAe Sale of Properl_y a11J Di.,josit,"011 of Proceeth.
No11·ResiJe11t G11ardia11s a11d H'ard.,.
Ge11,ra/ a11d Miscella11eo•s Prooisioe», 
ARTICLE I. 
GUARDIANS OF MINORS. 
S«tin 2950. '711dge to a//oi11t g•ardia,is, w!,e11, a11d 011 wl,at /ditio,,. 
3951. W.ie11 •i11or 111a_y 110Mi11ale pardia11, wlte11 1101.
2952. w1,,.,, ap/oi,,,,,.,,,, ntay be Made h_y j11dgt', wl,e11 ,,,;,,or is. ooer fo•rtu11. 
1953. No111i11al1'011 h_v 111i11ors after arrivi11_q- al fo11rlee11.
2954. Fallter or 1110/!,er r11tilled lo pardia116"iJ.
1955. Minor !,at,•in!f 110 fat!,rr or ntot!,er.
l()56. Powers a11d d11tirs of pardia11s.
295;. Bo11d of pardia11, co',,ditio,u of.
2958. Mai11te11a11u of 111i11or 0111 of i11co•• of /,is ou,11 l"oJerly. 
2959. Guardia« lo git-• bo11d, Jou•ers 1;,,,;1~d.
,efxJ. Power of caerts to a//oi11I _q'llardia11 a11d •ut f rie•d "ot ;,,,paired. 
Sec. 2950. The District Court of each county, when it appears necessary or
convenient, may appoint guardians for the persons and estates, or either of
them, of minors who have no guardian legally appointed by will or deed, and
who are inhabitants or residents of the county, or who reside without the State
and have estate within the county. Such appointment may be made on the
petition of a relative or other person on behalf of the minor, or on the petition
of the minor, il fourteen years of age. Before making such appointment, the
court or judge must cause such notice as.the court or judge deems reasonable
to be given to any person having the care of such minor, and to such relatives
of the minor in the county as the court or judge may deem proper. 
Sec. 2951. If the minor is under the age of fourteen years, the court or
judge may nominate and appoint his guardian. If he is fourteen years of age,
he may nominate his own guardian, who, if approved by the court or judge,
must be appointed accordingly. 
Sec. 2952. If the guardian nominated by the minor is not approved by the
court or judge, or if the minor resides out of the State, or if, after being duly 
cited by the court or judge, he neglects for ten days to nominate a suitable 
person, the court or judge may nominate and appoint the guardian in the same
manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years. 
Sec. 2953. When a guardian has been appointed by the court or judge, for
a minor under the age of fourteen years, the minor, at any time after he at. 
tains that age, may appoint his own guardian, subject to the approval of the
court or judge. 
Sec. 2954. The father of the minor, if living, and in case of his decease,
the mother, being themselves respectively competent to transact their own
business and not otherwise unsuitable, must be entitled to the guardianship of
the minor. A married woman may be appointed guardian. 
Sec. 2955. If the minor has no father .or mother living. competent to have
the custody and care of his education, the guardian appointed shall have the
same. 
Sec. 2956. Every guardian appointed shall have the custody and care of the
education of the minor, and the care and management of his estate, until such
minor arrives at the age of majority or marries, or until the guardian is legally
discharged. 
Sec. 2957. Before the order appointing any person guardian under this Chapter takes effect, and before letters issue, the court or judge must require of 
such person a bond to the minor with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
judge, and in such sum as he shall order, conditioned that the guardian will
faithfully execute the duties of his trust according to law, and the following
conditions shall form a part of such bond without being expressed therein. 
1. To make an inventory of all the estate, real and personal, of his ward,
that comes to his possession or knowledge, and to return the same within such
time as the court or judge may order. 
2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to law and for the best
interest of the ward, and faithfully to discharge his trust in relation thereto,
and also in relation to the care, custody and education of the ward. 
3. To render an account on oath of the property, estate and moneys of the
ward in his hands and all the proceeds or interests derived therefrom, and of the
management and disposition of the same, within three months after his appoint­
ment, and at such other times as the court or judge directs, and at the expira­
tion of his trust to settle his accounts with the court or judge, or with the ward,
if he be of full age, or his legal representatives, and to pay over and deliver all
the estate, moneys and effects remaining in his hands, or due from him on such
settlement to the person who is lawfully entitled thereto. Upon filing the
bond, duly approved, letters of guardianship must issue to the person appointed.
In form the letters of guardianship must be substantially the same as letters of
administration, and the oath of the guardian must be indorsed thereon that he
will perform the duties of his office as such guardian according to law. 
Sec. 2958. If any minor having a father living has property, the income of
which is sufficient for his maintenance and education in a manner more ex­
pensive than his father can reasonably afford, regard being had to the situation
of the father's family and to all the circumstances of the case, the expenses of
the education and maintenance of such minor may be defrayed out of the in­
come of his own property, in whole or in part, as judged reasonable, and must
be directed by the court or judge, and the charges therefor may be allowed
accordingly in the settlement of the accounts of his guardian. 
Sec. 2959. Every testamentary guardian must give bond and qualify, and
has the same powers and must perform the same duties with regard to the
person and estate of his ward as guardian appointed by the court or judge,
except so far as their powers and duties are legally modified.' enlarged or
changed by the will by which such guardian was appointed. 
Sec. 2960. Nothing contained in this Chapter affects or impairs the power
of any court or judge to appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any·
minor interested in any suit or matter pending therein. 
ARTICLE II. 
GUARDIANS OF INSANE AND INCOMPETENT PERSONS. 
Seclio• l'¥/O. G•ardia11s of ;,,_,a,,, n11tl o/1,,r i•co111/d,•I ,,rso11s 
l971. .A//oi•l•••I J_v jadr after "•ri•.~· 
l(j'/J. PO'TWrs a•d d11tiu of s11d pardiau. 
~J· Pdilio,, for r,sloratio• lo ca/arit_v. 
l97+ Sal, of tlt>W~r of itu,1•~ •arrird wo•cr•. 
Sec. 2970. When it is represented to the District Court, or a judge thereof,
upon verified petition of any relative or friend, that any person is insane, or
from any cause mentally incompetent to manage his property, such court or
judge must cause a notice to be given to the supposed insane or incompetent
person of the time and place of hearing the case, not less than five days before
the time so appointed ; and such person, if able to attend, must be produced
on the hearing. 
Sec. 2971. If, after a full hearing and examination upon such petition. it
appear to the court or judge that the person in question is incapable of taking
care of himself and managing his property, such court or judge must appoint 
a guardian of his person and estate, with the powers and duties in this Chapter
specified. 
Sec. 2972. Every guardian appointed, as provided in the preceding Section,
has the care and custody of the person of his ward, and the management of
all his estate, until such guardian is legally discharged; and he must give bond
to such ward, in like manner and with like conditions as before prescribed with
respect to the guardian of a minor. 
Sec. 2973. A person who has been declared insane or incompetent, or the
guardian, or any relative of such person within the third degree, or any friend,
may apply, by petition, to the District Court of the county in which he was de­ 
clared insane, to have the fact of his restoration to capacity judicially deter­
mined. The petition shall be verified and shall state that such person is then
sane or competent. Upon receiving the petition, the court or judge must ap­
point a day for a hearing before the court, and, if the petitioner request it, shall
order an investigation before a jury, which shall be summoned and impaneled in
the same manner as juries are summoned and impaneled in civil actions. The
court or judge shall cause notice of the trial to be giverr to the guardian of the
person so declared insane or incompetent, if there be a guardian, and to his or
her husband or wife, if there be one, and to his or her father or mother, if liv­
ing in the county. On the trial, the guardian or relative of the person so de­
clared insane, or incompetent, and, in the discretion of the court or judge, any
other person, may contest the right to the relief demanded. Witnesses may
be required to appear and testify, as in civil cases, and may be called and ex­
amined by the court or judge on its own motion. If it be found that the per­
son be of sound mind, and capable of taking care of himself and his property,
his restoration to capacity shall be adjudged, and the guardian of such person,
if such person shall be not a minor, shall cease. 
Sec. 2974. The right of dower of an insane married woman may be sold by
her guardian, and the title to the real estate transferred to the purchaser, under
the direction of the court or judge, in the same manner and with like effect, as
the property of any insane person may be sold and transferred. 
ARTICLE III. 
POWERS AND DUTIES OF GliARDIANS. 
Sectioe: 2g8o. G11ard,.a11 lo la.v drht.< of ward 011/ of U.'ard's estate, 
2q81. G11,1rdia11 to rrcotrr debts d11e 1,,-s ward a11d rrpresrnl lli,n. 
l<J<--;2. Guardia11 to ma11a.1.;e llis estate, 111ai11lai11 -uard, an d sel] real estate.
2()83. Mai11/r11a11a, s11pport. an d education of zcar d, ko:;: n1Jorced, 
:a()S+ Nay asse11t lo /arlilio11 of real estate. 
Sectio11 1()85. GNardia• to reter« i11t1e11tory of estate of ward; a/;raisers to H aJJoi11ted;
liJ:e /roceedi11.~s wl,e,, oiler ;ro;erly acq"ired. 
1<}86. Seltle,,,uls of g-,,ardiaH. 
2cj!,7. Allowance of auo""ls to joi•t pardiaH. 
2g88. E11t/e11ses a•d com/eHatio11 of g•ardia11s. 
Sec. 2980. Every guardian appointed under the provisions of this Chapter,
whether for a minor or any other person, must pay all just debts due from the
ward, out of his personal estate, and the income of his real estate, if sufficient :
if not, then out of his real estate, upon obtaining an order for the sale thereof,
and disposing of the same in the manner provided in this Title for the sale of
real estate of decedents. 
Sec. 2981. Every guardian must settle all accounts of the ward, and de­
mand, sue for, and receive all debts due to him, or may, with the approbation
of the court or judge, compound for the same and give discharge to the debtor,
on receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and effects; and he must ap­
pear for and represent his ward in all legal suits and proceedings, unless
another person be appointed for that purpose. 
Sec. 2982. Every guardian must manage the estate of his ward frugally and
without waste, and apply the income and profits thereof, as far as may be
necessary, for the comfortable and suitable maintenance of the ward and his
family, if there be any: and if such income and profits be insufficient for that
purpose, the guardian may sell the real estate upon obtaining an order of the
court or judge therefor, as provided, and must apply the proceeds of such sale,
as far as may be necessary, for the maintenance and support of the ward and
his family, if there be any. 
Sec. 2983. When the guardian has advanced for the necessary maintenance,
support or education of his ward, an amount not disproportionate to the value
of his estate or his condition of life, and the same is made to appear to the
satisfaction of the court or judge, by proper vouchers and proofs, the guard­
ian must be allowed credit therefor in his settlements. Whenever a guardian
fails, neglects or refuses to furnish suitable or necessary maintenance, support,
or education for his ward, the court or judge may order him to do so, and en­
force such order by proper process. Whenever any third person, at his re­
quest, supplies a ward with such suitable and necessary maintenance, support
or education, and it is shown to have been done after refusal or neglect of the
guardian to supply the same, the court or judge may direct the guardian to
pay therefor out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due process. 
Sec. 2984. The guardian may join in and assent to a partition of the real
estate of the ward, whenever such assent may be given by any person. 
Sec. 2985. Every guardian must return to the court an inventory of the
estate of his ward within three months after his appointment, and annually 
thereafter. When the value of the estate exceeds the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars, semi-annual returns must be made to the court. The court
or judge may, upon application made for that purpose by any person, compel
the guardian to render an account to the court of the estate of his ward. The
inventories and accounts so to be returned or rendered must be sworn to by the
guardian. All the estate of the ward described in the first inventory must be
appraised by appraisers appointed, sworn and acting in the manner provided
for regulating the settlement of the estate of decedents. Such inventory,
with the appraiscment of the property therein described, must be recorded 
by the clerk of the court in a proper book kert in his office for that purpose.
Whenever any other- property of the estate o any ward is discovered, not in­ 
cluded in the inventory of the estate already returned, and whenever any
other property has been succeeded to, or acquired by any ward, or for his
benefit, the like proceedings must be had for the return and appraisement
thereof that are herein provided in relation to the first inventory and 
return.
Sec. 2986. The guardian must, upon the expiration of a year from the 
time of his appointment, and as often thereafter as he may be required, pre.
sent his account to the court or judge for settlement and allowance. 
Sec. 2987. When an account is rendered by two or more joint guardians,
the court or judge may, in its or his discretion, allow the same upon the oath
of any of them. 
Sec. 2988. Every guardian must be allowed the amount of his reasonable
expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and he must also have such
compensation for his services as the cour.t or judge in which his accounts are 
settled deems just and reasonable. 
CHAPTER II
SALE OF PROPERTY AND DISPOSITION OF THE PROCEEDS. 
Seaio» 3000. Ma.v u/1 ;rop,rt_v ;,, rertai» cases,
3001. Sale of reai estate to /,, 111ad, •/011 order of court,
3001. A/Jluatio11 of /roc,rd., of sates.
3003. bn!ol#l,11t ot' /rou,d., <>l sales. 
J<>0.4· Order for sal,, .iou· ohl,ii11rd.
3005. Nolie, lo"'"' of J:i11, /,ow .srfr,11. 
3oo6. Co/.v of order to be served, /•hlidd or cO#snl jilttl.
J007 H,ari•g of aJ/licatio11. 
3oo8: JV.io 11ta_v hr ,:ca,,,,·,,,d 011 s•cl, t,,ar,·11g.
3009, Costs lo 1,, awarded, lo wl,o•. 
3010. Order of sal«, lo spu,/._v ·:dal. 
3011. Bo11d before .t,/li11g. 
301:1. All /rou,di11.~s for sales of /roJerl_v l>y pardiaH lo co11for• lo Cl,a/l•r
VI I., oft.ii., rut-. 
3013. Limit ll( order of sale, 
ARTICLE IV. 
3014,, Co11dil1'ou of sales of real estate of ,,,;,,or leirs. Bo11d u11d 111orlgage to he
gi1·n1 for deferred /a.v111,11ts. 
3015. Court ma_v order /1,, i11t•,st#le11t of 111011e.v of /1,e ·u .. ard, 
Sec. 3000. When the income of an estate under guardianship is insufficient
to maintain the ward and his family, or to maintain and educate the ward, when
a minor, his guardian may sell his real or personal estate for that purpose, upon
obtaining an order therefor. 
Sec. 3001. When it appears to the satisfaction of the court or judge, upon
the petition of the guardian, that for the benefit of his ward his real estate, or
some part thereof, should be sold, or his ward being an insane married woman,
and it is necessary for all the parties interested, that her dower right be sold,
and the proceeds thereof put out at interest, or invested in some productive
stock, or in the improvement or security of any other real estate of the ward,
his guardian may sell the same for such purpose, upon obtaining an order
therefor. 
Sec. 3002. If the estate be sold for the purposes mentioned in this Article,
the guardian must apply the proceeds of the sale to such purposes, as far as
necessary, and put out the residue, if any, on interest, or invest it in the best
manner in his power, until the capital is wanted for the maintenance of the
ward and his family, or the education of his children, or for the education of
the ward when a minor, in which case the capital may be used for that purpose,
as far as may be necessary, in like manner as if had been personal estate of the
ward. 
Sec. 3003. If the estate be sold for the purposes of putting out or investing
the proceeds, the guardian must make the investment according to his best
judgment, or in pursuance of any order that may be made by the court or
judge. 
Sec. 3004. To obtain an order of such sale the guardian must present to the
District Court, or judge of the county in which he was appointed guardian, a
verified petition therefor, setting forth the condition of the estate of his ward,
and the facts and circumstances on which the petition is founded, tending to
show the necessity or expediency of a sale. 
Sec. 3005. If it appears to the court or judge from the petition that it is
necessary or would be beneficial to the ward that the real estate, or some part
of it, should be sold, or that the real and personal estate should be sold, the
court or judge must thereupon make an order directing the next of kin of the
ward, and all persons interested in the estate, to appear before the court at a
time and place therein specified, not less than four nor more than eight weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order should not be
granted for the sale of such estate. If it appear that it is necessary or would
be beneficial to the ward to sell the personal estate, or some part of it, the
court or judge must order the sale to be made. 
Sec. 3006. A copy of the order must be personally served on the next of
kin of the ward, and on all persons interested in the estate, at least fourteen
days before the hearing of the petition, or must be published at least once a
week for three successive weeks in a newspaper printed in the county, or if
there be none printed in the county, then in such newspaper as may be speci­
fied by the court or judge, in the order. If written consent to making the
order of sale is subscribed by all persons interested therein, and the next of
kin, notice need not be served or published. 
Sec. 3007. The court or judge, at the time and place appointed in the order,
or such other time to which the hearing is postponed, upon proof of the serv­
ice or publication of the order, must hear and examine the proofs and allega­
tions of the petitioner, and of the next of kin, and of all other persons interest­
ed in the estate who oppose the application. 
Sec. 3008. On hearing, the guardian may be examined on oath and witnesses
may be produced and examined by either party, and process to compel
their attendance and testimony may be issued by the court or judge, in the
same manner and with like effect as in other cases provided for in this Title. 
Sec. 3009. If any person appears and objects to the granting of any order
prayed for under the provisions of this Article, and it appear to the court or 
judge that either the petition or the objection thereto is sustained, the court
or judge may, in granting or refusing the order, award the costs to the party
prevailing, and enforce the payment thereof. 
Sec. 3010. If, after a full examination, it appears necessary, or for the bene­
fit of the ward, that his real estate, or some part of it, should be sold, the court
or judge may grant an order therefor. specifying therein the causes or reasons
why the sale is necessary or beneficial, and may, if the same has been prayed
for in the petition, order such sale to be made either at public or private sale. 
Sec. 3011. Every guardian authorized to sell real estate must before the
sale give bond to the ward, with sufficient sureties to be approved by the court
or judge, with condition to sell the same in the manner, and to account for the
proceeds of the sale as provided for in this Chapter, and Chapter VII., of this Title. 
Sec. 3012. All the proceedings under the petition of guardians for sales of
property of their wards, giving notice, and the hearing of such petitions, grant­
ing or refusing the order of sale, directing the sale to be made at public or
private sale, reselling the same property, return of sale and application for con­
firmation thereof, notice and hearing of such application, making orders reject­
ing or confirming sales and reports of sales, ordering and making conveyances
of property sold, accounting and the settlement of accounts, must be had and
made as required by the provisions of this Title concerning the estates of
decedents, unless otherwise specially provided in this Chapter. 
Sec. 3013. No order of sale, granted in pursuance of this Article, continues
in force more than one year after granting the same. without a sale being had. 
Sec. 3014. All sales of real estate of wards, must be for cash, or for part
cash and part def erred payments, the credit in no case to exceed three years
from date of sale, as in the discretion of the court or judge is most beneficial to
the ward. Guardians making sales must demand and receive from the pur- 
chasers, in case of def erred payments, notes and a mortgage on the real estate
sold, with such additional security as the court or judge deems necessary and
sufficient to secure the prompt payments of the amounts so deferred and the
interests thereon. 
Sec. 3015. The court, on the application of a guardian, or any person inter­
ested in the estate of any ward, after such notice to persons interested therein 
as the court or judge shall direct, may authorize and require the guardian to
invest the proceeds of sales, and any other of his ward's money in his hands,
in real estate, or in any other manner most to the interest of all concerned
therein, and the court or judge may make such other orders and give such
directions as are needful for the management, investment and disposition of the
estate and effects, as circumstances require. 
CHAPTER II
NON-RESIDENT GUARDIANS AND WARDS. 
S«tio• 3030. G11ardia•s of •o•·rnidr•I /rrso•s. 
3031. Powers a11J detie» of ,s:,,ordia•s aJJoi•lrd ••der Jrecedi•g S«t,n. 
3032. S11d pnrdia•s lo gfr, lx,11ds. 
3033. To w/,a/ rardia11.~/,i/ sl,"/1 ,,,te•d.
303+ R,1110:·n/ of 11011-rrside11t fllard's /roJ•rly. 
3035. Prourdi,igs o• s11d1 re•o·val. 
3036. Sai« of sn,,,,.
3037. Rr/ort of sale. 
ARTICLE V. 
3038. Order o.l un,fir111a/io11.
3039- Power of attorney,
3040. Diultarg, of Jrrso11 ;,, Jossessio•. 
Sec. 3030. When a person liable to be put under guardianship, according to
the provisions of this Chapter, resides without this State and has estate therein,
any friend of such person, or anyone interested in his estate, in expectancy or
otherwise, may apply to the District Court of any county in which there is any
estate of such absent person, for the appointment of a guardian, and if, after
notice given to all interested, in such manner as such court or judge orders, by
publication or otherwise, and a full hearing and examination, it appears proper,
a guardian for such absent person may be appointed. 
Sec. 3031. Every guardian, appointed under the preceding Section, has the
same powers and performs the same duties, with respect to the estate of the
ward found within this State, and with respect to the person of the ward, if he
shall come to reside therein, as are prescribed with respect to any other guardian
appointed under this Chapter. 
Sec. 3032. Every guardian must give bond to the ward in the manner and
with the like conditions as hereinbefore provided for other guardians, except
that the provisions respecting the inventory, the disposal of the estate and
effects, and the account to be rendered by the guardian, must be confined to
such estate and effects as come to his hands in this State. 
Sec. 3033. The guardianship which is first lawfully granted of any person
residing without this State extends to all the estate of the ward within this
State, and excludes the jurisdiction of the District Court of every other
county. 
Sec. 3034. When the guardian and ward are both non-residents, and the
ward is the owner of or entitled to property in this State which may be re­
moved to another State or territory or foreign country, or sold without conflict
with any restriction or limitation thereupon and without injuring the right of
the ward thereto, such property may be removed to the State or territory or
foreign country of the residence of the ward, or sold and the proceeds of the
sale thereof removed to such State or territory or foreign country, upon the ap­
plication of the district judge of the county in which the estate of the ward or
the principal part thereof is situated. 
Sec. 3035. The application must be made upon ten days' notice to the resident 
executor, administrator, or guardian, if there be such, otherwise without notice,
and upon such application the non-resident guardian must produce and file
a certificate under the hand of the clerk or judge and seal of the court from
which his appointment was derived, showing: 
1. A transcript of the record of his appointment. 
2. That he has entered upon the discharge of his duties.
3. That he is entitled by the laws of the State or territory or foreign country 
of his appointment to the possession of the estate of his ward, or must produce
and file a certificate, under the hand of the clerk or judge and seal of the court
having jurisdiction in the State or territory or foreign country of his residence,
of the estate of persons under guardianships, or of the highest court of such
State or territory or foreign country, showing that by the laws of such State or
territory or foreign country, the applicant is entitled to the custody of the
estate of his ward without the appointment of any court. 
The said application shall also contain a description of the property of such
ward, together with an estimate of its value. Upon such application, unless
good cause to the contrary is shown, the judge must make an order granting
such guardian leave to take and remove the property of his ward to the State
or territory or foreign country of his residence, or to sell the same as may be
requested or prayed for in said application, which order shall be authority to
such guardian to sue for and receive the property therein described in his own
name, for the use and benefit of his ward. 
Sec. 3036. Property authorized to be sold under the provisions of the pre­
ceding Section may be sold at public or private sale with or without notice,
as the order of the district judge may direct, and upon such terms as such
order may prescribe, but before any sale thereunder the property must be ap­
praised by three appraisers to be appointed by the judge granting such order
either before or after the issuance of the order of sale, and that the property
must not be sold for less than ninety per cent. of the appraised value thereof. 
Sec. 3037. Upon making the sale of such property or any part thereof, the
guardian shall make a report thereof to the judge, showing the person or per­
sons to whom, and the price or prices for which the said property, or any part
thereof, was sold. Thereupon the judge shall proceed to hear such report, and
if the sale appears to have been fairly conducted, and the price or prices ob­
tained appear to be the reasonable market value of the property sold, the
judge shall make an order confirming such sale or sales, and directing a proper
deed or deeds of real property, or a proper bill of sale or other transfer con­
veying the property sold to the purchaser or purchasers. 
Sec. 3038. A certified copy of each order confirming the sale of real
property must be recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county
where such real property is situated. The guardian shall make and deliver to
the purchaser or purchasers the deed or other conveyance authorized by the
said order and in conformity thereto, and thereupon all right, title, inter­
est and estate of such ward shall be fully vested in such purchaser or
purchasers. 
Sec. 3039. Any guardian mentioned in this and the preceding Section may
by power of attorney, executed and acknowledged in the manner provided by
law for the execution and acknowledgment of conveyances of real property,
empower and authorize any person capable in law of executing a power of at­
torney for the sale of real estate, as attorney in fact to do any or all of the
things that the guardian himself might otherwise do, and in such case the acts
and proceedings of such attorney in fact have the same force and effect as the
acts and proceedings of such guardian. 
Sec. 3040. Such order is a discharge of the executor or administrator, local
guardian or other person in whose possession the property may be at the time 
the order is made, on filing with the court the receipt therefor of the foreign
guardian of such absent ward. 
ARTICLE VI. 
GENERAL AND MISCELLASEOUS PROVISIONS. 
Sttlio• 3050. E~a111i•alio• of /rrsou 6tuµclrd of drf ra.di•g ward$ or co•uali•K lrol-
rrtv, 
3051. Rr111ot·;,1 a11d rrJ1,r,,alio• ".l!r"ardia•, a11d J#rre•der oj estate,
JO~l. Cr11ardia11Jlli/, llow t,,,,,;,,alrd. 
JOH• N ru, l>o•d, trllr• rrq•irM.
JOH· <;•ardia•'s l>o•d lo I>, filed. Artio• 011.
3055. Li111ilalio11 of aclio• o• .1r•ardia11'6 l>o11d.
3056. /.i111ilt1/io11 of a<lio11 jor I/tr rrcot•er.v of /ro/rrl_y sold. 
30_,7. Mor, tlla11 011, .l!flardia11 of a ler6o• 111a_y M a//oi•led.
J0$8. Power ofj11d~r i11 clla111/,,rs.
3059- Provision» oj Sr<lio• 1&J9 a//ly lo g,,ardia,u. 
Sec. 3050. Upon complaint made to him by any guardian, ward, creditor
or other person interested in the estate, or having a prospective interest there­
in as heir or otherwise, against anyone suspected of having concealed, embez­
zled or conveyed away any of the money, goods, or effects, or any instrument
in writing belonging to the ward or to his estate, the court or judge may cite
such suspected person to appear before such court or judge and may examine
and proceed with him on such charge in the manner provided in this Title with
respect to persons suspected of and charged with concealing or embezzling the
effects of a decedent. 
Sec. 3051. When a guardian appointed either by the testator or a court or
judge becomes insane or otherwise incapable of discharging his trust or unsuit­
able therefor, or has wasted or mismanaged the estate, or failed for thirty days
to render an account or make a return, the court or judge may, upon such
notice to the guardian as the court or judge may require, remove him and
compel him to surrender the estate of the ward to the person found to be
lawfully entitled thereto. Every guardian may resign when it appears prop­
er to allow the same ; and upon the resignation or removal of a guardian, as
herein provided, the court or judge may appoint another in the place of the
guardian who resigns or was removed. 
Sec. 3052. The marriage of a minor ward terminates the guardianship of
the person of such ward, but not of the estate ; and the guardian of an insane
or other person may be discharged by the court or judge, when it appears, on
the application of the ward or otherwise, that the guardianship is no longer 
necessary.
Sec. 3053. The court or judge may require a new bond to be given by a 
guardian whenever such court or judge deems it necessary, and may discharge
the existing sureties for further liability, after due notice given as such court 
or judge may direct, when it shall appear that no injury can result therefrom
to those interested in the estate. 
Sec. 3054. Every bond given by a guardian must be filed and preserved in
the office of the clerk of the District Court, and in case of a breach of condi­ 
tion thereof, may be prosecuted for the use and benefit of the ward, or of any
person interested in the estate. 
Sec. 3055. No action can be maintained against the sureties on any bond
given by a guardian, unless it be commenced within three years from the dis­ 
charge or removal of the guardian; but if, at the time of such discharge, the
person entitled to bring such action is under any legal disability to sue, the
action may be commenced at any time within three years after such disability 
is removed.
Sec. 3056. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by a guardian can be 
maintained by the ward, or by any person claiming under him, unless it is
commenced within three years next after the termination of the guardianship,
or, when a legal disability to sue exists by reason of minority or otherwise, at
the time when the cause of action accrues, within three years next after the
removal thereof. 
Sec. 3057. The court or judge whenever necessary, may appoint more than
one guardian of any person subject to guardianship, who must give bond and
be governed and liable in all respects as a sole guardian. 
Sec. 3058. All orders must be entered in the minutes of the court kept for
probate proceedings. The provisions of this Title relative to the estates
of decedents, so far as they relate to the practice in the District Court, apply
to proceedings under this Chapter. 
Sec. 3059. The provisions of Section 1899 are hereby declared to apply to
guardians appointed by the court or judge, and to the bonds taken or to be
taken from such guardians, and to the sureties on such bonds. 

TITLE XIII. 
Sedio• 3070. Dower lo lJe ass,pr.d widow.
3071. Widow may su« for dower if «ot sel off. 
3op. How widow ma.v .u,e a"d Jroceedi11gs .
. 107.1. Trial of ri'gM contested,
3074. G11ardz'n•s to he a//oi•ted for mi#ors.
3075. '711,~{fllletft for widows to he entered,
3076. Appoi11/meNt of commissioner» a11d oa/J,. 
3077. D11lin of commi.uio•r.n aed re/orts. 
3078. If /a,,ds ra11,,ot he divided widow's itfterut may H appraised lJ_y a [ery,
3079. '7"d.srnu11/ for yearl_v val11e or gross s11m. 
3o8o. Damll![n for witltl,oldi#g dower.
3o81. Writ of posussio• may H iss11ed. 
Sec. 3070. It is the duty of the heirs at law, or other person in posses­
sion or having the next estate of freehold, or inheritance in any lands or estate 
of which the widow is entitled to dower, to lay off and assign such dower as
soon as practicable after the death of the husband of such widow. 
Sec. 3071. If such heirs or other person do not within one month next after
the decease of the husband, assign and set over to the widow to her satisfaction,
her dower in and to all lands, tenements, and hereditaments, whereof by law
she is or may be dowable, then such widow may sue for and recover the same
in the manner hereinafter prescribed against such heirs or other person having
the next immediate estate of freehold or inheritance, or tenant in possession,
or other person or persons claiming rights or possession in said estate. 
Sec. 3072. Every widow claiming dower may file her complaint in the
District Court of the proper county, against the parties aforesaid, stating their
names, if known, setting forth the nature of her claim and particularly speci­
fying the lands, tenements, and hereditaments in which she claims dower, and
praying that the same may be allowed to her, whereupon the clerk must issue
a summons and the pleadings and proceedings must be as in other cases. 
Sec. 3073. Where the right of the widow to dower is contested, the court
must try the case or direct an issue for that purpose, as the circumstances may
require. 
Sec. 3074. When any of the parties defendant are minors and without
guardians, the court must appoint guardians ad /item for such minors. 
Sec. 3075. When the court adjudges that the widow is entitled to dower,
it must be so entered of record, together with a description of the land out of
which she is to be endowed. 
Sec. 3076. The court must thereupon appoint three commissioners not con­
nected with any of the parties by consanguinity or affinity, and entirely dis­
interested, each of whom must take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear
that I will fairly and impartially allot and set off to A B, widow of C D, her
dower out of lands and tenements described in the order of the court for that
purpose, if the same can be made consistent with the interest of the estate, 
according to the best of my judgment, so help me God ;" which must be filed
in the proceedings. 
Sec. 3077. The commissioners, after being so sworn, must, as soon as may
be, set off the dower by metes and bounds, according to the quantity and 
quality of all the lands, tenements and hereditaments described in said order,
and make return in writing with the amount of their charges and expenses to
the court, and the same being accepted and recorded, and a certified copy
thereof recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county where the
lands are situated, remain fixed and certain, unless such confirmation is set
aside and reversed on appeal. The costs of such proceedings may be awarded
in the discretion of the court. 
Sec. 3078. If the commissioners report that the lands or other estate is not
susceptible of division without great injury thereto, a jury must be impaneled
to inquire of the yearly value of the widow's dower therein, and assess the
same accordingly. 
Sec. 3079. The court must thereupon render a judgment that there be paid
to such widow as an allowance in lieu of dower, on a day therein named, the
sum so assessed as the yearly value of her dower and the like sum on tlle same
day in every year thereafter during her natural life. The widow may at any
time consent to a gross sum to be paid to her for her dower in her deceased
husband's estate, or the jury may find in lieu of a yearly allowance a gross sum
to be paid to the widow and the court may award a judgment for the same. 
Sec. 3080. Whenever in an action brought for the purpose, the widow re­
covers the dower in lands of which her husband died seized, she may also
recover damages for the withholding of such dower ; such damages shall be
one-third part of the annual value of the mere profits of the land in which she 
so recovers her dower, to be estimated in an action against the heirs of her
husband from the time of his death ; and in actions against. other persons, from
the time of her demanding dower of such persons, but such damages must not
be estimated for the use of any permanent improvements made after the death
of her husband, by his heirs or any other person after claiming title to any
lands. 
Sec. 3081. In all cases where the report of the commissioners assigning
dower is approved, the cburt must forthwith cause the widow to have posses­ 
sion by a writ directed to the sheriff for that purpose. 
Title I. 
II. 
Ill. 
IV. 
v. 
VI.
VII. 
TITLE I. 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS OF EVIDENCE. 
Sectio• 3100. Deft11itio11 of roicle11cr. 
3101. Deft•ilio• of /roof. 
PART IV. 
310J. De/i11itio• of la-w of evide11ce.
3103. Tie degree of certai•ty req•ired to utal,/id facts. 
31o+ Foer lti11ds of e1.•ide11ce s/ec1"jied.
3105. Several degren of rvide•ce s/ecified.
31o6. Pri111ary euidenc« deft11ed. 
3107. Seco•dary et•ide11ce deji11ed.
31o8. Direct eoideec« deft11ed.
3109- Indirect etridence deji11ed. 
EVIDENCE. 
Ge•eral deji11itioH of ,vide11ce.
Ge11eral /ri11d/ln of rt1ide•ce.
Ki11ds 011d de!["US of er,ide11ce.
Prodertio» of et•ide11ce.
Effect of eoidesc«.
ll"igj/s at1d d•tin of w1't11esus. 
Et•ide11ce ;,, /artic•lar cases a•d ge•eral /rovisio•8. 
3110. Pri"'a facie eridr11ce deft11ed.
3111. Partial rl'ide11ce defi11et!. 
S«tio• 31 ra. Satisfactory efJide•u de/i.ed. 
3113. J,,disj)u.,a/Jle ruide•u defi•ed. 
3114. Co•cl,uive evide•u dtt/iHed. 
3115. C##l#lafive e1.'idHce Jefi•ed. 
3116. Corro/Jorntive evide•ce d1Ji•ed. 
Sec. 3100. Judicial evidence is the means sanctioned by law, of ascertaining
in a judicial proceeding the truth respecting a question of fact. 
Sec. 3101. Proof is the effect of evidence, the establishment of a fact by
evidence. 
Sec. 3102. The law of evidence, which is the subject of this part of the
Code, is a collection of general rules established by law : 
1. For declaring what is to be taken as true without proof. 
2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those which arc disputable
and those which are conclusive. 
3. For the production of legal evidence.
4- For the exclusion of whatever is not legal. 
· 5. for determining in certain cases the value and effect of cvidcn~.
Sec. 3103. The law does not require demonstration; that is, such a degree of 
proof as, excluding possibility of error, produces absolute certainty, because
such proof is rarely possible. Moral certainty is only required or that degree of
proof which produces conviction in an unprejudiced mind. 
Sec. 3104. There arc four kinds of evidence : 
' 1. The knowledge of the court. 
2. The testimony of witnesses.
3. Writings.
4- Other material objects presented to the senses.
Sec. 3105. There are several degrees of evidence: 
1. Primary and secondary. 
2. Direct and indirect.
3. hima facie, partial, satisfactory, indispensable and conclusive.
Sec. 3106. Primary evidence is that kind of evidence which, under every 
possible circumstance, affords the greatest certainty of the fact in question.
Thus, a written instrument is itself the best possible evidence of its existence
and contents. 
Sec. 3107. Secondary evidence is that which is inferior to primary. Thus,
a copy of an instrument, or oral evidence of its contents, is secondary evidence
of the instrument and contents. 
Sec. 3108. Direct evidence is that which proves the fact in dispute direct­
ly without an inference or presumption, and which in itself, if true, conclusive­
ly establishes that fact. For example, if the fact in dispute be an agreement,
the evidence of a witness who was present and witnessed the making of it, is
direct. 
Sec. 3109. Indirect evidence is that which tends to establish the fact in
dispute by proving another, and which, though true, does not of itself conclusive­
ly establish that fact, but which affords an inference or presumption of its exist­
ence. For example, a witness proves an admission of the party to the fact in
dispute. This proves a fact, from which the fact in dispute is inf erred. 
Sec. 3110. Prima facie evidence is that which suffices for the proof of a
particular fact, until contradicted and overcome by other evidence. For
example, the certificate of a recording officer is prima facie evidence of a
record, but it may afterward be rejected upon proof that there is no such 
record.
Sec. 3111. Partial evidence is that which goes to establish a detached fact, 
in series tending to the fact in dispute. It may be received, subject to be re­
jected as incompetent, unless connected with the fact in dispute by proof of
other facts. For example, on an issue of title to real property, evidence of
the continued possession of a remote occupant is partial, for it is of a detached 
fact. which may or may not afterward be connected with the fact in dispute.
Sec. 3112. The evidence is deemed satisfactory which ordinarily produces 
moral certainty or conviction in an unprejudiced mind. Such evidence alone
will justify a verdict. Evidence less than this is denominated slight evidence. 
Sec. 3113. Indispensable evidence is that without which a particular fact
cannot be proved. 
Sec. 3114- Conclusive or unanswerable evidence is that which the law docs
not permit to be contradicted. For example, the record of a court of compe­
tent jurisdiction cannot be contradicted by the parties to it. 
Sec. 3115. Cumulative evidence is additional evidence of the same charac­
ter to the same point. 
Sec. 3116. Corroborative evidence is additional evidence of a different char­
acter to the same point. 
TITLE II. 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF EVIDENCE. 
Se<liO# JllO. 011, u•il••u .1t1J*cir11t lo /rov~ • fact.
3n1. T,.11;.,o,,y co11ft11,d to ~r.1o•nl l•tn1.1/,dp, 
31 Jl. Te.lli111o•y to H ;,. /r,.1,•u of /er.1tnu a.fectd. 
JllJ. Wil•n.1 /rut1.,,d lo .1/eal tJ, lr•II,.
313+ O•e /er.10• •ol a.ffrdrd /Jy acts of a•otlt•r. 
312.~. D«laratio•.1 of /rrdeu.1.1or ;,. title evidnu.
3126. Declaratio•• wl,frl, are a /art of tl,e lratuaclio,,.
3127. Evide•u reulli-r•, to tJ,frd /er.1011.
3n8. Declaratio« of duedr•t of /ed,"g'r,,.
31~ Declaratio• of d,,:ed,.t rt'idr11u ari111t ,,,.., .lflCU.I.IOr ... i•ureat. 
3130. WI,,,. 1art of l/,e lrnuactio• /rcn·,d, tJ,t' u•l,o/e i.1 ad•i$ai6k.
3131. Co•te11ls of writi11g, l,ou• /ro1.·,d.
313J. A• '1KJ'erllle11I rrd•ud to tvriti11g du•rd tl,e wl,ole. . 
3133. Coutr,utio• of la11pagt' relates to /lace u·lure ru,d.
3134. Co..1lrt1clio11 of .llatt1l,s 1111d i11.1lrt1111e•ts, ge•eral rel«;
3135. TJ,e i•le•lio• of tl,e Lrgi.1/al•re or /ortiu. 
3136. Tl,e ciret1111.1la11us to/,, c01'.lid,red.
3137. T,n,u to /Je coxstreed i• tJ,eir g,11,ral acu/latio11.
3138. Writt,• words co11trol tl,o.,r /ri•trd i• a /J/a11l for•.
3139- Per.1ou .1lilled •a_y te.llif.v lo dec11/,er cl,aractera.
3140. Of tu•o eo11.1lrt1clio11s. u•ji<J, Jref,rr,d.
31.41. A wrill,11 i11.1lrt1111e•I co11str•ed as ••der.1tood l>y /artie.1.
3142. Co11.1tr•elio11 ;,. favor of 11at•ral r,'gltt /r•f~rred.
3143. Malt'rial all,gatio11.1 011~v to /Je /roved.
3144. Et•ide11ce eo11Ji11,d to •alerial all,gatio11.1.
3145. Alfir.ctiT•r O#~V ca• /Je pror·,d.
3146. Facl.1 wl,irl, •a.Y !,~ /rond 011 trial. 
Sec. 3120. The direct evidence of one witness who is entitled to full credit
is sufficient for proof of any fact, except perjury and treason. 
Sec. 3121. A witness can testify to those facts only which he knows of his
own knowledge : that is, which are derived from his own perceptions, except
in those few express cases in which his opinions or inferences, or the declara­
tions of others arc admissible. 
Sec. 3122. A witness can be heard only upon oath or affirmation and upon
a trial he can be heard only in the presence and subject to the examination of
all the parties, if they choose to attend and examine. 
Sec. 3123. A witness is presumed to speak the truth. This presumption,
however, may be repelled by the manner in which he testifies, by the character
of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his character for truth, honesty or
integrity, or his motives, or by contradictory evidence, and the jury are the
exclusive judges of his credibility. 
Sec. 3124. The rights of a party cannot be prejudiced by the declaration,
act or omission of another, except by virtue of a particular relation between
them : therefore proceedings against one cannot affect another. 
Sec. 3125. Where, however, one derives title to real property from another, 
the declaration, act or omission of the latter, while holding the title in relation
to the property is evidence against the former. 
Sec. 3126. Where, also, the declaration, act or omission forms part of a
transaction, which is itself the fact in dispute, or evidence of that fact, such
declaration, act, or omission is evidence, as part of the transaction. 
Sec. 3127. And where the question in dispute between the parties is the
obligation or duty of a third person, whatever would be the evidence for or
against such person is prt."ma f ocie evidence between the parties. 
Sec. 3128. The declaration, act, or omission of a member of a family, who
is a decedent, or out of jurisdiction, is also admissible as evidence of common
reputation, in cases where, on questions of pedigree, such reputation is ad­
missible. 
Sec. 3129. The declaration, act, or omission of a decedent, having sufficient
knowledge of the subject, against his pecuniary interest, is also admissible as
evidence to that extent against his successor in interest. 
Sec. 3130. When part of an act, declaration, conversation or writing is given
in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired into
by the other ; when a letter is read, the answer may be given ; and when a de­
tached act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence, any other
act, declaration, conversation or writing, which is necessary to make it under­
stood, may also be given in evidence. 
Sec. 3131. There can be no evidence of the contents of a writing, other than
the writing itself, except in the following cases: 
1. Where the original has been lost or destroyed ; in which case the proof
of the loss or destruction must first be made. 
2. When the original is in the possession of the party against whom the
evidence is offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice. 
3. When the original is a record or other document in the custody of a
public officer. 
4- When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy of the record
is made evidence by this Code or other statute. 
5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents.
which cannot be examined in court without great loss of time, and the evidence 
soufht from them is only the general result of the whole.
n the cases mentioned in Subdivisions 3 and 4, a copy of the original or of 
the record must be produced; in those mentioned in Subdivisions I and 2, 
either a copy or oral evidence of the contents.
Sec. 3132. When the terms of an agreement have been reduced to writing 
by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those terms, and there­ 
fore there can be between the parties and their representatives, or successors
in interest, no evidence of the terms of the agreement other than the contents
of the writing, except in the following cases : 
1. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put in issue by the
pleadings. 
2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute. But this Section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances under which the
agreement was made, or to which it relates, as defined in Section 3136, or to
explain an extrinsic ambiguity, or to establish illegality or fraud. The term
agreement includes deeds and wills, as well as contracts between parties. 
Sec. 3131. The language of a writing is to be interpreted according to the
meaning it bears in the place of its execution, unless the parties have reference
to a different place. 
Sec. 3134. In the construction of a statute or instrument, the office of the
judge is simply to ascertain and declare what is in terms or in substance con­
tained therein, not to insert what has been omitted, or to' omit what has been
inserted; and where there are several provisions or particulars, such a construc­
tion is, if possible, to be adopted as will give effect to all. 
Sec. 3135. In the construction of a statute the intention of the Legislature.
and in the construction of the instrument, the intention of the parties is to be 
pursued if possible ; and when a general and particular provision are inconsist­
ent, the latter is paramount to the former. So a particular intent will control
a general one that is inconsistent with it. 
Sec. 3136. For the proper construction of an instrument, the circumstances
under which it was made, including the situation of the subject of the instru­
ment and of the parties to it, may also be shown, so that the judge be placed
in the position of those whose language he is to interpret. 
Sec. 3137. The terms of a writing are presumed to have been used in their
primary and general acceptation, but evidence is nevertheless admissible that
they have a local technical, or otherwise peculiar signification, and were so used
and understood in the particular instance, in which case the agreement must be
construed accordingly. . 
Sec. 3138. When an instrument consists partly of written words and partly
of a printed form, and the two are inconsistent, the former controls the latter. 
Sec. 3139. When the characters in which an instrument is written are diffi­
cult to be deciphered, or the language of the instrument is not understood by
the court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering the characters, or who 
understand the language, is admissible to declare the characters or the meaning
of the language. 
Sec. 3140. When the terms of an agreement have been intended in a differ­
ent sense by different parties to it, that sense is to prevail against either party
in which he supposed the other understood it, and when different constructions
of a provision are otherwise equally proper, that is to be taken which is most
favorable to the party in whose favor the provision was made. 
Sec. 3141. A written notice, as well as every other writing, is to be con­
strued according to the ordinary acceptation of its terms. Thus, a notice to the
drawers or indorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory note, that it has been
protested for want of acceptance or payment, must be held to import that the
same has been duly presented for acceptance or payment, and the same ref used,
and that the holder looks for payment to the person to whom the notice is
given. 
Sec. 3142. When a statute or instrument is equally susceptible of two inter­
pretations, one in favor of natural right and the other against it, the former 
as to be adopted.
Sec. 3143. None but a material allegation need be proved.
Sec. 3144. Evidence must correspond with the substance of the material 
allegations, and be relevant to the question in dispute. Collateral questions
must therefore be avoided. It is, however, within the discretion of the court 
to permit inquiry into a collateral fact, when such fact is directly connected
with the question in dispute, and is essential to its proper determination, or
when it affects the credibility of a witness. 
Sec. 3145. Each party must prove his own affirmative allegations. Evi­
dence need not be given in support of a negative allegation, except when such
negative allegation is an essential part of the statement of the right or title on
which the case of action is founded, nor even in such case when the allegation
is a denial of the existence of a document, the custody of which belongs to the
opposite party. 
Sec. 3146. In conformity with the preceding provisions, evidence may be
given upon a trial of the following facts: 
I. The precise fact in dispute. 
2. The act, declaration, or omission of a party, as evidence against such
party. 
3. An act or declaration of another, in the presence and within the observa­
tion of a party, and his conduct in relation thereto. 
+ The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a deceased person in respect 
to the relationship, birth, marriage, or death of any person related by blood
or marriage to such deceased person ; the act or declaration of a deceased
person done or made against his interest in respect to his real property; and
also in criminal actions, the act or declaration of a dying person, made under
a sense of impending· death, respecting the cause of his death. 
5. Af tcr proof of a partnership or agency, the act or declaration of a part­
ner or agent of the party, within the scope of the partnership or agency, and
during its existence. The same rule applies to the act or declaration of a joint
owner, joint debtor, or other person jointly interested with the party. 
6. After proof of a conspiracy, the act or declaration of a conspirator against
his co-conspirator, and relating to the conspiracy. 
7. The act, declaration or omission forming part of a transaction, as ex­
plained in Section 3126. 
8. The testimony of a witness deceased, -or out of the jurisdiction, or un­
able to testify, given in a former action between the same parties, relating to
the same matter. · 
9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or handwriting of a per­
son, when he has knowledge of the person or handwriting; his opinion of a 
question of science, art or trade, when he is skilled therein. 
10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing; the validity of which
is in dispute, respecting the mental sanity of the signer; and the opinion of in­
timate acquaintanceship respecting the mental sanity of a person, the reason
for the opinion being given. 
11. Common reputation existing previous to the controversy, respecting
facts of a public or general interest more than thirty vears old, and in cases of
pedigree and boundary. 
12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, contract or instrument.
where such true character is not otherwise plain ; but usage is never admissible,
except as an instrument of interpretation. · 
13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as evidence of common
reputation; and entries in family bibles, or other family books or charts,
engravings on rings, family portraits and the like, as evidence of pedigree. 
14. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence thereof is admissible. 
15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are presumed or arc logi­
cally inferable. 
16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a witness as explained in Section 3123. 
KINDS AND DE<.;REES OF EYIDENCE. 
CAalt,r I. K11owl,dge of tlu roert .
I I. IVilness,s. 
I I I. W rili•.I!·
IV. M,rt,rial ohjrct., /ru,11trd lo lkr senses, otltrr tka11 u,rili•gs. 
V. l11dire<I euidencr, 
VI. l11dislr,uahle ,t·ide11u. 
VII. Co11d,1Sfre a•d 1111a11swt'rah/, etidenc«. 
Su/1011 3150. Certain facts o_lgeneral 110/oriety a ssu med lob, true, S/ed/fratiot1 of .uui 
facts, 
KNOWLEDGE OF TIIE COURT. 
Sec. 3150. Courts take judicial notice of the following facts: 
1. The true signification of all English words, and phrases and of all legal
expressions. 
2. Whatever is established by law. 
3. Public and private official acts of the legislative, executive and judicial
departments of this State and of the U nitcd States. 
4 The seals of all the courts of this State and of the United States.
5. The accession to office and the official signatures and seals of office of 
the principal officers of government in the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of this State and of the United States. 
6. The existence, title, national flag, and seal of every State or sovereign
recognized by the executive power of the United States. 
7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of notaries
public. 
8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the geographical divisions
and political history of the world. 
In all cases these courts may resort for its aid to appropriate books or docu­
ments of reference. 
CHAPTER II. 
WITNESSES.
S«tio,, 316o. WitHss1s deJi•ed. · 
3161. All Jeno•• c11/ablr of /erultio•s a11d co••••fratio,, •ay H wit••1ses. 
316.J. Person» u,io ca••ot lrslif.'Y·
3163. Perso•s i• cerlai• relalio•s to /arties lroiil>iud.
3164. 'J•dge or J•r.v •a.v be wil•esses. 
3165. u,~,,.. a11 i•ler/retrr to be su,or11. 
Sec. 3100. A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is received
as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration be made on oral exami­
nation or by deposition or affidavit. 
Sec. 3161. All persons, without exception, otherwise than is specified in
the next two Sections, who, having organs of sense, can perceive, and perceiv- ...
ing, can make known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Therefor,
neither parties nor other persons who have an interest in the event of an
action or proceeding arc excluded; nor those who have been convicted of
crime; nor persons on account of their opinions on matters of religious belief ;
although, in every case, the credibility of the witness may be drawn in ques­
tion, as provided in Section 312 3. 
Sec. 3162. The following persons cannot be witnesses: 
1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their production for ex-
amination. · 
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving just
impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating
them truly. 
Sec. 3163. There are particular relations in which it is the policy of the
law to encourage confidence and to preserve it inviolate; therefore, a person
cannot be examined as a witness in the following cases: 
1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife, without her consent;
nor a wife for or against her husband, without his consent; nor can either, dur­
ing the marriage or afterward, be, without the consent of the other, examined
as to any communication made by one to the other during the marriage; but this
exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the
other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by one
against the other. 
2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be examined as
to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon
in the course of professional employment. 
3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of the person making
the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in his profes­
sional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which he
belongs. 
4. A licensed physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent of his 
patient, be examined in a civil action as to any information acquired in attend­
ing the patient which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the 
patient.
5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to him 
in official confidence, when the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.
Sec. 3164. The judge himself or any juror may be called as a witness by 
either party ; but in such case it is in the discretion of the court or judge to
order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another
judge or jury. 
Sec. 3165. When a· witness docs not understand and speak the English
language, an interpreter must be sworn to interpret for him. Any person, a
resident of the proper county, may be summoned by any court or judge to
appear before such court or judge to act as interpreter in any action or pro­
ceeding. The summons must be served and returned in like manner as a sub­
peena, Any person so summoned, who fails to attend at the time and place
named in the summons, is guilty of contempt. 
CHAPTER I
Private wrili•gs.
Ar-tick I. 
II.
Ill. 
S«tio,, 3170. Wrili•rs, p•/Jlic a•d privak.
3171. Pdlic wrili11gs drji11rd. 
317J. All otlt•rs private. 
Sec. 3170. Writings arc of two kinds: 
1. Public; and, 
Wrili11gs i• ge•eral.
P11/Jlic wrili•rs, 
2. Private.
Sec. 3171. Public writings are : 

1. The written acts or records of the acts of the sovereign authority, of
official bodies and tribunals, and of public officers, legislative, judicial and ex­
ecutive, whether of this State, of the U nited States, of a sister State, or of a
foreign country. 
2. Public records, kept in this State, of private writings. 
Sec. 3172. All other writings are private.
ARTICLE 11. 
PUBLIC WRITINGS. 
S~lio• 318o. Evrr_y citize• Htitled to i•s/rrt a•y coly of 111/Jlic writi•6'·
3181. P•hlic o.Jiur l>o11•d to gfre co;i•s.
318J. Foer Ji11ds of /"6/ic V!riti11![s.
318], Laws writle11 or f111-:i·rillr11. 
318-4. Wrifl•• laws drfi11rtl.
318-', Co11slit,"io11 a11J statutrs,
31&,. P•hlic a•d lrfrate stal•tes drji11ed.
318;. u.writlrll law drft11rd. 
3188. Bools co11tai11i11g la u:s prnumrd lo l>r correct,
318q. P•/Jlic sea] aNlke11ticatn a la u: or doru111r11t.
3190. Vtk,r rt•idr11cr ot' laws ot' otkrr Starrs: 
3191. Rrrital., ,.,, .,talN.lo, l,o,:: far r,·idr11r,·.
Jl<Jl. :f•dicinl record dr_/i11rd. · 
3193. Rrrord, kow (1Nfkr11ti<atrd as r:·id,.,,rr.
3194. Ruord of a /orril[II ro1111ln•, kow aulhr11ticnted. 
3195. Ura] n•t'dr11rr o/ ~l forl'i/[11. record,
31()6. l!_/frrt o_l n i11d,imr"11t •t;1,, r1'.i:!,t., ;,, tar ion» cases, 
3197. Eff,-r/ o_/ otkrr /11dicial orders, wlun n1,ul,ui:.•r.
31~. 11-"krrr 1arti,s are to hr dumed Ike same, 
Sutio• .11()().
JlOO.
Jl01. 
JJOJ. 
3203.
32~ 
320~. 
3:.1o6. 
3207.
32o8.
32oq.
3210.
3111. 
3212. 
3.213. 
3:.114. 
Sec. 3180. Every citizen has a right to inspect and take a copy of any pub­
lic writings of this State, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. 
Sec. 3181. Every public officer having the custody of a public writing,
which a citizen has a right to inspect, is bound to give him, on demand, a cer­
tified copy of it, on payment of the legal fees therefor, and such copy is admis­
sible as evidence in like cases, and with like effect as the original writing. 
Sec. 3182. Public writings are divided into four classes : 
I. Laws. 
2. J udidal records.
3. Other official documents.
4- Public records, kept in this State, of private writings.
Sec. 3183. Laws, whether organic or ordinary! are either written or un­ 
written.
Sec. 3184. A written law is that which is promulgated in writing, and of 
which a record is in existence.
Sec. 3185. The organic law is the constitution of government, and is alto­ 
gether written. Other written laws are denominated statutes. The written
law of this State is therefore contained in its Constitution and statutes, and in
the Constitution and statutes of the United States. 
Sec. 3186. Satutes arc public or private. A private statute is one which
concerns only certain designated individuals, and affects only their private
rights. All other statutes arc public, in which are included statutes creating
or affecting corporations. 
Sec. 3187. Unwritten law is the law not promulgated and recorded as men­
tioned in Section 3184, but which is, nevertheless, observed and administered
in the courtsof the country. It has no certain repository, but is collected from
the reports of the decisions of the courts and treatises of learned men. 
Sec. 3188. Books printed or published under the authority of a sister State,
or foreign country, and purporting to contain the statutes, code, or other writ­
ten law of such State or country, or proved to be commonly admitted in the 
, tribunals of such State or country, as evidence of the written law thereof, are
admissible in this State as evidence of such law. 
Sec. 3189. A copy of the written law or other public writing of any State
or country, attested by the certificate of the officer having charge of the origi­
nal, under the public seal of the State or country, is admissible as evidence of
such law or writing. . 
Sec. 3190. The oral testimony of witnesses, skilled therein, is admissible as
evidence of the unwritten law of a sister State or foreign country, as are also
printed and published books of reports of decisions of the courts of such State
or country, or proved to be commonly admitted in such courts. 
Sec. 3191. The recitals in a public statute are conclusive evidence of the
facts recited, for the purpose of carrying it into effect, but no further. The
recitals in a private statute are conclusive evidence between parties who claim
under its provisions, but no further. 
Sec. 3192. A judicial record is the record of official entry of the pro­
ceedings in a court of justice, or of the official act of a judicial officer, in an
action or special proceeding. 
Sec. 3193. A judicial record of this State, or of the United States, may be
proved by the production of the original, or by a copy thereof certified by the
clerk or other person having the legal custody thereof. That of a sister State
may be proved by the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court an­
nexed, if there be a clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the chief judge
or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form. 
Sec. 3194. A judicial record of a foreign country may be. proved by the
attestation of the clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk 
and seal, or of the legal keeper of the record, with the seal of his office annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the chief judge, or presiding
magistrate, that the person making the attestation is the clerk of the court, or
the legal keeper of the record, and, in either case, that the signature of such
person is genuine, and that the attestation is in due form. The signature of
the chief judge or presiding magistrate must be authenticated by the certificate
of the minister or ambassador, or a consul, vice-consul or consular agent of
the United States in such foreign country. 
Sec. 3195. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country is also admis­
sible in evidence, upon proof: 
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness· with the orig­
inal, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it. 
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court, or other
legal keeper of the same : and, 
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is proved to be the seal
of the court where the record remains, if it be the record of a court; or if 
there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signature of
the legal keeper of the original. 
Sec. 3196. The effect of a judgment or final order in an action or special
proceeding before a court or judge of this State, or of the United States,
having jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment or order, is as follows: 
1. In case of a judgment or order against a specific thing, or in respect to
the probate of a will, or the administration of the estate of a decedent, or in
respect to the personal, political or legal condition or relation of a particular
person, the judgment or order is conclusive upon the title to the thing, the will
or administration, or the condition or relation of the person. 
2. In other cases the judgment or order is, in respect to the matter directly
adjudged, conclusive between the parties and their successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special proceeding, liti­
gating for the same thing under the same title and in the same capacity ; pro­
vided, they have notice, actual or constructive, of the pendency of the action 
or proceeding.
Sec. 3197. Other judicial orders of a court or judge of this State, or of the 
United States, create a disputable presumption, according to the matter di­
rectly determined, between the same parties and their representatives and suc­
cessors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or
special proceeding, litigating for the same thing under the same title and in the
same capacity. 
Sec. 3198. The parties are deemed to be the same when those between
whom the evidence is offered were on opposite sides in the former case, and a
judgment or other determination could in that case have been made between
them alone, though other parties were joined with both or either. 
Sec. 3199. That only is deemed to have been adjudged in a former judgment
which appears upon its face to have been so adjudged, or which was actually
and necessarily included therein or necessary thereto. 
Sec. 3200. Whenever pursuant to the last four Sections, a party is bound 
by a record, and such party stands in the relation of a surety for another, the
latter is also bound from the time that he has notice of the action or proceed­
ing, and an opportunity at the surety's request to join in the defense. 
Sec. 3201. The effect of a judicial record of a sister State is the same in
this State as in the State where it was made, except that it can only be
enforced here by an action or special proceeding, and except also, that the
authority of a guardian or committee, or of an executor or administrator, does
not extend beyond the jurisdiction of the Government under which he was
invested with his authority. 
Sec. 3202. The effect of the judicial record of a court of admiralty of a
foreign country is the same as if it were the record of a court of admiralty of
the United States. 
Sec. 3203. The effect of the judgment of any other tribunal of a foreign
country having jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment is as follows : 
1. In case of a judgment against a specific thing, the judgment is conclu­
sive upon the title to the thing. 
2. In case of a judgment against a person, the judgment is presumptive evi­
dence of a right as between the parties and their successors in interest by a
subsequent titJe, and can only be repelled by evidence of a want of jurisdic­
tion, want of notice to the party, collusion, fraud or clear mistake of law or 
fact. .
Sec. 3204. Any judicial record may be impeached by evidence of a want of 
jurisdiction in the court or judicial officer, of collusion between the parties, or
of fraud in the party offering the record, in respect to the proceedings. 
Sec. 3205. The jurisdiction sufficient to sustain a record is jurisdiction over
the cause, over the parties, and over the thing, when a specific thing is the sub­
ject of the judgment. 
Sec. 3206. Other official documents may be proved as follows: 
1. Acts of the executive of this State, by the records of the State Depart.
ment of the State, and of the United States, by the records of the State De­
partment of the United States, certified by the heads of those departments
respectively. They may also be proved by public documents printed by the
order of the Legislative Assembly or Congress, or either house "thereof. 
2. The proceedings of the Legislative Assembly of this State or of Con­
gress by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either house thereof, or
by published statutes or resolutions, or by copies certified by the clerk or
printed by their order. 
3. The acts of the Executive, or the proceedings of the Legislature of a sis-
ter State, in the same manner. . 
4- The acts of the Executive, or the proceedings of the Legislature of a
foreign country, by journals published by their authority, or commonly re­
ceived in that country as such, or by a copy certified under the seal of the
country or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof in some public act of the Ex­
ecutive of the United States. 
5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this State, or of a Board or depart­
ment thereof, by a copy, certified by the legal keeper thereof, or by a printed
book published by the authority of such corporation. 
6. Documents of any other class in this State, by the original, or by a copy
certified by the legal keeper thereof. 
7. Documents of any other class in a sister State, by the original, or by a
copy, certified by the legal keeper thereof, together with the certificate of the
Secretary of State, Judge of the Supreme Court, District, or County Court, or
mayor of a city of such State, that the copy is duly certified by the officer hav­
ing the legal custody of the original. 
8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country, by the original or by
a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, with the certificate, under seal of
the country or sovereign, that the document is a valid and subsisting document 
of such country, and that the copy is duly certified by the officer having the
legal custody of the original. 
9. Documents in the departments of the United States government, by the
certificate of the legal custodian thereof. 
Sec. 3207. A public record of a private writing may be proved by the origi­
nal record, or by a copy thereof, certified by the legal keeper of the record. 
Sec. 3208. Entries in public or other official books or records made in the
performance of his duty by a public officer of this State, or any other person
in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law, are prima faci« evidence
of the facts stated therein. 
Sec. 3209. A transcript from the. record or docket of a justice of the peace
of a sister State, of a judgment rendered by him, of the proceedings in the
action before the judgment, of the execution and return, if any, subscribed by
the justice and verified in the manner prescribed in the next Section, is admis­
sible evidence of the facts stated therein. 
Sec. 3210. There must be attached to the transcript a certificate of the
justice that the transcript is in all respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction
of the action, and also a further certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of the
county in which the justice resided at the time of rendering the judgment,
under the seal of the county, or the seal of the court of common pleas or
county court thereof, certifying that the person subscribing the transcript,
was, at the date of the judgment, a justice of the peace in the county, and that
the signature is genuine. Such judgment, proceedings and jurisdiction may
also be proved by the justice himself, on the production of his docket, or by a
copy of the judgment, and his oral examination as a witness. 
Sec. 3211. Whenever a copy of a writing is certified for the purpose of
evidence, the certificate must state in substance that the copy is a correct copy
of the original, or of a specified part thereof, as the case may be. The certifi­
cate must be under the official seal of the certifying officer, if there be any, or
if he be the clerk of a court having a seal, under the seal of such court. 
Sec. 3212. The provisions of the preceding Sections of this Article applicable
to the public writings of a sister State, are equally applicable to the public
writings of the United States or a Territory of the United States. 
Sec. 3213. A certificate of purchase or of location of any lands in this State,
issued or made in pursuance of any law of the United States or of this State,
is pr,ma facie evidence that the holder or assignee of such certificate is the
owner of the land described therein ; but this evidence may be overcome by
proof that at the time of the location, or time of filing a preemption claim on
which the certificate may have been issued, the land was in the adverse posses­
sion of the adverse party, or those under whom he claims, or that the adverse
party is holding the land for mining purposes. 
Sec. 3214. An entry made by an officer, or Board of Officers, or under the
direction and in the presence of either, in the course of official duty, is prima 
facie evidence of the facts stated in such entry. 
ARTICLE III. 
PRIVATE WRITINGS. 
Sectio,, 3no. Pritiat, wrili11g., dassified. 
3JJI. Sral J,,fi,ud.
3n2. .\la,r11er of 111aki•g ii.
3123. EJf rct of seal,
3.u4. E.ucN/10# of a11 iulr#mr#I drfi,rrd. 
31.2_1;. Compromi..r of fl drht ·witlwut seat good.
_pi6. Suhsrrihi,r,: wil11r.~., dr_/i11rd.
Jl.27. Booes; 11urp.,, rtc .; kow t ar r1·id,·11rc. 
3: :S. (),,.i,:i,wl ·writi11g to br pro:·nl or tlt'Cotmfrd for. 
3l2(J, u·nrtl ;,. /o.ur.uio,, o] ad tr rse pnr/\', ,rofirc lo ,,,. .i:-ive•.
3.230. II 'riti11s:s cal/rd for a11d i11sprcted may be withkeld. 
Sulio• 3:31. JV'.1,r, l.lrrr is a ••/Jscril,it1K ,,.,ilt1t's.,, I.I, /roof. 
3.:3:J. Vt.l•r wil•nus "'"'' also /t'slifv.
Jl.'\J. Jf'.6,11 ,t•idr11u of ,:xrc•lio• ,,;,; •rcrssar.r. 
Jll+ Et•idr•u of .6at1Jwrili•g 
3235. Al/ou,•tl /J.v c'1111/arisot1. 
JJJ6. s •••. 
3.:37. E11tri,., of d,udr•I "s rr•id,•ce ;,. s/rcift,d cases,
Jl38: Co/in oj ,11trin a/lowrd. 
Jl J9, Prit-alr v:rili•gs adt•ou·l,d.irrd ,,,,d (',rtijied.
Jl<fO. P•l,lfr records 1101 lo N carried a"'1r.l. 
JJ+1. C,rtifted coJies ol records ,t·idr11cr. 
Sec. 3220. Private writings arc either: 
1. Sealed : or,
2. Unsealed.
Sec. 3221. A seal is a particular sign, made to attest in the most formal 
manner, the execution of an instrument.
Sec. 3222. A public seal in this State is a stamp or impression made by a 
public officer with an instrument provided by law to attest the execution
of an official or public document, upon the paper, or upon any substance
attached to the paper, which is capable of receiving a visible impression. A
private seal may be made in the same manner by any instrument, or it may be
made by the scroll of a pen, or by writing the word " seal " against the signa­
ture of the writer. A scroll or other sign, made in a sister State or foreign
country, and there recognized as a seal, must be so regarded in this State. 
Sec. 3223. There shall be no difference hereafter in this State between
sealed and unscaled writings. A writing under seal may therefore be changed,
or altogether discharged by a writing not under seal. 
Sec. 3224. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing and delivering
it, with or without affixing a seal. . 
Sec. 3225. An agreement in writing, without a seal, for the compromise or
settlement of a debt, is as obligatory as if a seal were affixed. 
Sec. 3226. A subscribing witness is one who sees a writing executed or hears
it acknowledged, and at the request of the party thereupon signs his name as
a witness. 
Sec. 3227. Historical works, books of science or art, and published maps·
or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the parties, are prima 
faci« evidence of facts of general notoriety and interest.
Sec. 3228. The original writing must be produced and proved, except as 
provided in this Part. If it has been lost, proof of the loss must first be made
before evidence can be given of its contents. Upon such proof being made,
together with proof of the due execution of the writing, its contents may be
proved by a copy, or by a recital of its contents in some authentic document,
or by the recollection of a witness, as herein before provided. 
Sec. 3229. If the writing be in the custody of the adverse party, he must
first have reasonable notice to produce it. If he then fail to do so, the con­
tents of the writing may be proved as in case of its loss. But the notice to
produce it is not necessary where the writing is itself a notice, or where it has
been wrongfully obtained or withheld by the adverse party. 
Sec, 3230. Though a writing called for by one party is produced by the
other, and it is thereupon inspected by the party calling for it, he is not obliged
to produce it as evidence in the case. 
Sec. 3231. Any writing may be proved either: 
1. By anyone who saw the writing executed ; or,
2. By evidences of the genuineness of the handwriting of the maker; or,
3. By a subscribing witness.
Sec. 3232. If the subscribing witness denies or does not recollect the exe­ 
cution of the writing, its execution may still be proved by other evidence.
Sec. 3233. Where, however, evidence is given that the party against whom 
the writing is offered has at any time admitted its execution, no other evidence 
of the execution need be given, when the instrument :s one mentioned in Sec­
tion 3236, or one produced from the custody of the adverse party, and has been
acted upon by him as genuine. 
Sec. 3234. The handwriting of a person may be proved by anyone who
believes it to be his, and who has seen him write, or has seen writings purport­
ing to be his, upon which he has acted or been charged, and. who has thus
acquired a knowledge of his handwriting. 
Sec. 3235. Evidence respecting the handwriting may also be given by com­
parison, made by the witness or jury, with writings admitted or treated as genu­
ine by the party against whom the evidence is offered, or proved to be genuine
to the satisfaction of the judge. 
Sec. 3236. Where a writing is more than thirty years old, the comparisons
may be made with writing proporting to be genuine, and generally
respected and acted upon as such, by persons having an interest in knowing 
the fact.
Sec. 3237. The entries and other writings of a decedent, made at or near 
the time of the transaction, and in a position to know the facts stated therein,
may be read as JWima facie evidence of the facts stated therein, in the follow­
ing cases: 
1. When the entry was made against the interest of the person making it. 
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and in the ordinary course
of professional conduct. 
3. When it was made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by
law. 
Sec. 3238. When an entry is repeated in the regular course of business,
one being copied from another or at or near the time of the transaction, all the 
entries are equally regarded as originals.
Sec. 3239. Every private writing, except last wills and testaments, may be 
acknowledged or proved and certified in the manner provided for the acknowl­
edgment of proof of conveyances of real property, and the certificate of such
acknowledgment or proof is JWima faci« evidence of the execution of the
writing in the same manner-as if it were a conveyance of real property. 
Sec. 3240. The record of a conveyance of real property, or any other
record, a transcript of which is admissible in evidence, must not be removed
from the office where it is kept, except upon the order of a court or judge, in
cases where the inspection of the record is shown to be essential to the just
determination of the cause or proceeding pending, or where the court is held
in the same building with such office. 
Sec. 3241. Every instrument conveying or affecting real property, acknowl­
edged or proved and certified, as provided in the Civil Code, and every instru­
ment authorized by law to be filed or recorded in the county clerk's office,
may, together with the certificate of acknowledgment or proof, be read in evi­
dence in an action or proceeding, without further proof; also, the original
record of such conveyance or instrument thus acknowledged or proved or a
certified copy of the record of such conveyance or instrument thus acknowl­
edged or proved, may be read in evidence, with the like effect as the original
instrument, without further proof. 
 
Sec. 3250. Whenever an object, cognizable by the senses, has such a rela­
tion to the fact in dispute as to afford reasonable grounds of belief respecting
it, or to make an item in the sum of the evidence, such object may be exhib­
ited to the jury, or its existence, situation, or character may be proved by wit- 
nesscs. The admission of such evidence must be regulated by the sound dis­
cretion of the court.
SECTION 1 
INDIRECT EVIDENCE, INFERENCES AND PRESUMPTIONS. 
S«tin 326o. /11dirttl •t•idnc, cl,usijittl. 
Jl61. /11frr,11r, dr./i11,d. 
J~. Pr,u•llio• deji11ed.
3263. W!,11 "" i•f,r,11u arises. 
316+ Prn••llio•s Ma.v IH> ro11lrtn.•,rt,d, wi,•. 
Jl65. S/,<ijiratio• of co11r/,uit·, ,,, •• ,,.Jtio•s.
3366. All otlur Jr,H•/lio•• "'".Y IH> ro11lrovert.i. 
Sec. 3260. Indirect evidence is of two kinds: 
1. Inferences ; and, 
2. Presumptions. 
Sec. 3261. An inference is a deduction which the reason of the jury makes
from the facts proved, without an express direction of the law to that effect. 
Sec. 3262. A presumption is a deduction which the law expressly directs to 
be made from particular facts.
Sec. 3263. An inference must be founded: 
1. On a fact legally proved : and, 
2. On such a deduction from that fact as is warranted by a consideration of
the usual propensities or passions of men, the particular propensities or pas­
sions of the person whose act is in question, the course of business, or the
course of nature. 
Sec. 3264. A presumption (unless declared by law to be conclusive) may
be controverted by other evidence, direct or indirect : but unless so con­
troverted, the jury are bound to find according to the presumption. 
Sec. 3265. The following presumptions, and no others, are deemed conclu­
sive: 
1. A malicious and guilty intent, from the deliberate commission of an un­
lawful act, for the purpose of injuring another. 
2. The truth of the facts recited, from the recital in a written instrument
between the parties thereto, or their successors in interest by a subsequent title : but this rule does not apply to the recital of a consideration. 
3. Whenever a party has, by his own declaration, act or omission inten­
tionally and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing true, and to
act upon such belief, he cannot, in any litigation arising out of such declara­
tion, act or omission, be permitted to falsify it. 
4- A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his landlord at the time of
the commencement of the relation. 
5. The issue of a wife cohabiting with her husband, who is not impotent,
is indisputably presumed to be legitimate. 
6. The judgment or order of a court, when declared by this Code to be
conclusive ; but such judgment or order must be alleged in the pleadings, if
there be an opportunity to do so; if there be no such opportunity, the judg­
ment or order may be used as evidence. 
7. Any other presumption which, by statute is expressly made conclusive.
Sec. 3266. All other presumptions are satisfactory, if uncontradicted. They 
are denominated disputable presumptions, and may be controverted by other
evidence. The following are of that kind : 
1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong. 
2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful intent.
3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence of his voluntary act.
4- That a person takes ordinary care of his own concerns.
5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse if produced.
6. That higher evidence would be adverse from inferior, being produced. 
7. That money paid by one to another was due to the latter. 
8. That a thing delivered by one to another belonged to the latter.
9. That an obligation delivered up to the debtor has been paid. 
10. That former rent or installments have been paid when a receipt for the
latter is produced. 
11. That things which a person possesses are owned l::fy him. 
12. That a person is the owner of property from exercising acts of owner­
ship over it, or from common reputation of his ownership. 
13. That a person in possession of an order on himself for the payment of
money, or the delivery of a thing, has paid the money or delivered the thing
accordingly. 
14 That a person acting in a public office was regularly appointed to it. 
15. That official duty has been regularly performed. 
16. That a court or judge, acting as such, whether in this State or any
other State or country, was acting in the lawful exercise of his jurisdiction. 
17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does still correctly deter­
mine or set forth the rights of the parties. 
18. That all matters within an issue were laid before the jury and passed
upon by them; and in like manner, that all matters within a submission to
arbitration were laid before the arbitrators and passed upon by them. 
19. That private transactions have been fair and regular. 
20. That the ordinary course of business has been followed. 
21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange was given or indorsed for a
sufficient consideration. 
22. That an indorsement of a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange
was made at the time and place of making the note or bill. 
2 3. That a writing is truly dated. 
24- That a letter duly directed and mailed was received in the regular course
of the mail. 
25. Identity of persons from identity of name.
26. That a person not heard from in seven years is dead. 
27. That acquiescence followed from a belief that the thing acquiesced in
was conformable to the right or fact. 
28. That things have happened according to the ordinary course of nature
and the ordinary habits of life. 
29. That persons acting as co-partners have entered into contract of co­
partnership. 
30. That a man and woman deporting themselves as husband and wife have
entered into a lawful contract of marriage. 
31. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being no divorce from bed
and board, is legitimate. 
32. That a thing once proved to exist continues as long as is usual with
things of that nature. 
33. That the law has been obeyed.
34- That a document or writing more than thirty years old, is genuine 
when the same has been since generally acted upon as genuine, by persons hav­
ing an interest in the question, and its custody has been satisfactorily ex­ 
plained.
35. That a printed and published book, purporting to be printed or pub­ 
lished by public authority, was so printed or published.
36. That a printed and published book, purporting to contain reports of 
cases adjudged in the tribunals of the State or country, where the book is pub­
lished, contains correct reports of such cases. 
37. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it was to convey real prop­
erty to a particular person, has actually conveyed to him, when such presump­
tion is necessary to perfect the title of such person or his successor in interest. 
38. The uninterrupted use by the public of land for a burial ground for
five years, with the consent of the owner and without a reservation of his 
rights, in presumptive evidence of his intention to dedicate it to the public for
that purpose. 
39- That there was a good and sufficient consideration for a written con­
tract. 
40. When two persons perish in the same calamity, such as a wreck, a bat­
tle, or a conflagration, and it is not shown who died first, and there are no par­
ticular circumstances from which it can be inferred, survivorship is presumed
from the probabilities resulting from the strength, age, and sex, according to
the following rules: 
First-If both of those who have perished were under the age of fifteen
years, the older is presumed to have survived. 
Second-If both were above the age of sixty, the younger is presumed to
have survived. 
Third-If one be under fifteen and the other above sixty, the former is
presumed to have survived. 
Fourth-If both be over fifteen and under sixty, and the sexes be different,
the male is presumed to have survived. If the sexes be the same, then the
older. 
Fifth-If one be under fifteen or over sixty, and the other between those
ages, the latter is presumed to have survived. 
Section 3J70. /11diJl•11$abl, ,vid,11cr, tdal.
Jl71, To 1rot•e 1,rj•r_v a11d tr,aJ011, •ore lka• 011, wi/11•$1 "'"l•irttl. 
3.27.z. Will to be i• wrili11g-. 
3.z73. How rn·d,d. 
CHAPTER VI. 
INDISPENSABLE EVIDENCE. 
Jl74· Tra11Jfer of r,11/ 1ro1rrly to lH i11 writi•g-.
Jln, LaJ/ S,ctio11 110/ lo ul••d lo certaie cases, 
3:J76. Aµ,,,,,,,,, 110/ i11 wrili•g, wke11 i11valid. 
p77. Rr/rr$e11/alio• of credit by wrili11g-. 
Sec. 3270. The law makes certain evidence necessary to the validity of
particular acts, or the proof of particular facts. 
Sec. 3271. Perjury and treason must be proved by testimony of more than
one witness. Treason by the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt
act; and perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and corro­
borating circumstances. 
Sec. 3272. A last will and testament, except a nuncupative will is invalid,
unless it be in writing and executed with such formalities as are required by
law. When, therefore, such a will is to be shown, the instrument itself must
be produced, or secondary evidence of its contents be given. 
Sec. 3273. A written will cannot be revoked or altered otherwise than as
provided in the Civil Code. 
Sec. 3274, No estate or interest in real property, other than for leases for
a term not exceeding one year, nor any trust over or power concerning it, or
in any manner relating thereto, can be created, granted, assigned, surrendered,
or declared, otherwise than by operation of law, or a conveyance, or other in­
strument in writing, subscribed by the party creating, granting, assigning, sur- 
. rendering, or declaring the same, or by his lawful agent thereunto authorized
by writing. . 
Sec. 3275. The preceding Section must not be construed to affect the power
of a testator in the disposition of his real property by a last will and testament,
nor to prevent any trust from arising or being extinguished by implication or
operation of law, nor to abridge the power of any court to compel the specific
performance of an agreement, in case of part performance thereof. 
Sec. 3276. In the following cases the agreement is invalid, unless the same
or some note or memorandum thereof be in writing, and subscribed by the 
party charged, or by his agent ; evidence, therefore, of the agreement, cannot
be received without the writing or secondary evidence of its contents: 
1. An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a year
from the making thereof. 
2. A special promise to answer for the debt, default, or fiiscarriage of
another, except in the cases provided for in Section 3612, of the Civil Code. 
3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other than a mu­
tual promise to marry. 
+ An agreement for the sale of goods, chattels, or things in action, at a
price not less than two hundred dollars, uriless the buyer accept and receive
part of .such goods and chattels, or the evidences, or some of them, of such
things in action, or pay at the time some part of the purchase money ; but
when a sale is made by auction, an entry by the auctioneer in his sale book, at
the time of the sale, of the kind of property sold, the terms of the sale, the
price, and the names of the purchaser and person on whose account the sale is
made, is a sufficient memorandum. 
S· An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than one year, or for
the sale of real property, or of an interest therein; and such agreement, if 
made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the au­
thority of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the party sought to be
charged. 
Sec. 3277. No evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a represen­
tation as to the credit of a third person, unless such representation, or some
memorandum thereof, be in writing, and either subscribed by, or in the hand­
writing of the party to be charged. 
Sec. 3280. No evidence is by law made conclusive unless
so declared by this Code. 
TITLE IV.
PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE. 
Cl,ajter I. By -wl,o., to be /rod11ud.
I I. MeaH of /rod11clio•. 
CHAPTER VII. 
I I I. Ma1111er of jrod11ctiot1. 
CHAPTER I. 
BY WHOM TO BE PRODUCED. 
Sectio• 32<)0. Evi~~·u to l>e Jrod•ced, hy -wl,om. 
3391. Wr,lt•g altered, -wl,o to e1tJlai11 • 
Sec. 3290. The party holding the affirmative of the issue must pr
evidence to prove !t ; ther~fore, the burden of proof lies on the pa 
would be defeated if no evidence were given on either side.
Sec. 3291. The party producing a writing as genuine which has been alt 
or appcar.s to. have been altered, after its execution, in a part material to 
question m dispute, f!lUSt account for the appearance or alteration. He ay 
show th.at the alteration was made. by another, without his concurrence, or as
!'lade with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly c: r
mnoce~tly made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning or languag 
of the ~nstrument. If he do that, he may give the writing in evid n b t
otherwise. e cc, u not 
Settion ,, 3300- S-1>1".a for wit11e.1s, d,ji11,d. 
3301. S•l>l«-•a, l,ow is.111,d. 
3301. S•hl«•a, l,ow served, 
3303- Hot», if wll11,.1s h, co•r,afhl. 
3304- Wl,r,1 a -a:il11ess is co•lell«i lo attnd. 
3305. P•r.1n /r•s••t eo•Jelled lo le.lti.fy. 
33o6. DisoWinu, .tow J••i1l,«/, 
3307· For.f,it•r, tl,•r,for. 
33o8. w arra11t •ay ;.,.,,,, '" ,,.,·,,r wit11ess, wl,,,,, 
3309- Co11tnt.1 of u,ar,a•I. 
3310. If tvil11u1 l>e a Jri.1o•e,, """' lwo11g-AI. 
3311. l>,, 111/,Me •ot,"o,,, 
33u. How ua•i•«I. 
CHAPTER II. 
MEANS OF PRODUCTION. 
Sec. 3300. The process by which the attendance of a witness is required is
by a subpoena, It is a writ 01 order directed to a person and requiring his
attendance at a particular time and place to testify as a witness. It may also
require him to bring with him any books, documents or other things under his
control. which he is bound by law to produce in evidence. 
Sec. 3301. The subpoena is issued as follows: 
1. To require attendance before a court, or at a trial of an issue therein, it 
is issued under the seal of the court before which the attendance is required,
or in which the issue is pending. 
2. To require attendance out of the court, before a judge, justice or other
officer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in any matter under
the laws of this State, it is issued by the judge, justice, or any other officer
before whom the attendance is required. 
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take testimony
by a court of a foreign country, or of the United States, or of any other State
in the United States, or of any other district or county within this State, or be­
fore any officer or officers empowered by the laws of the United States to take
testimony, it may be issued by any judge, justice of the peace in places within
their respective jurisdiction ; with like power to enforce attendance, and, upon 
certificate of contumacy to said court, to punish contempt of their process, as
such judge or justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of
the witness before their courts in a matter pending therein. 
Sec. 3302. The service of a subpoena is made by showing the original and
delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the witness personally,
giving or offering to him at the same time. if demanded by him, the fees to
which he is entitled for travel to and from the place designated, and one day's
attendance there. The service must be made so as to allow the witness a rea­ 
sonable time for preparation and travel to the place of attendance. Such service
may be made by any person. 
Sec. 3303. If a witness is concealed in a buildin~ or vessel, so as to prevent
the service of a subpeena upon him, any court or Judge, or any officer issuing
a 'Subpcena, may, upon proof by affidavit of the concealment, and of the ma­
teriality of the witness, make an order that the sheriff of the county serve the
subpcena : and the sheriff must serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may
break into the building or vessel where the witness is concealed. 
Sec. 3304. A witness is n9t obliged to attend as a witness before any court,
judge, or justice, or any other officer, out of the county in which he resides, 
unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of residence to the
place of trial.
Sec. 3305. A person present in court, or before a judicial officer, may be
. required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a sub­ 
poena issued by such court or officer.
Sec. 3306. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to 
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when required,
may be punished as a contempt by the court or officer issuing the subpoena or
requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the witness be a party, his complaint
or answer may be stricken out. 
Sec. 3307. A witness disobeying a subpeena also forfeits to the party
aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all damages which he may sus­
tain by the failure of the witness to attend, which forfeiture and damages may
be recovered in a civil action. 
Sec. 3308. In case of a failure of a witness to attend, the court or officer
issuing the subpeena, upon proof of the service thereof, and of the failure of
the witness, may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county to arrest the wit­
ness and bring him before the court or officer where his attendance was
required. 
Sec. 3309. Every warrant of commitment, issued by a court, or officer pur­
suant to this Chapter, must specify therein, particularly, the cause of the com­
mitment, and if it be for refusing to answer a question, such question must be
stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest or commit a witness, pur­
suant to this Chapter, must be directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witness may be, and must be executed by him in the same manner as process
by the District Court.
Sec. 3310. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison within
this State, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for
his temporary removal and production before a court or officer, for the pur­
pose of being orally examined, may be made as follows: 
1. By the court itself in which the action or special proceeding is pending,
unless it be a justice's court. 
2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of the District Court of
the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a
justice's court or before a judge or other person out of court. 
Sec. 3311. Such order can only be made on the motion of a party, upon
affidavit .showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected
from the witness, and its materiality. 
Sec. 3312. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the action or
proceeding is pending, his production may be required. In all other cases his
examination, when allowed, must be taken upon deposition. 
Article I. 
II.
Ill.
IV. 
J •• 
VI. 
MOOE OF TAKING THE TESTIMO!'l\' OF WITNESSES. 
Seclio11 3320. Toli111011y, ;,, wltat modr takr»;
3321. A /fidat',i dl'/i•ed. 
3312. A d,po.u'lio11 deft11ed.
3323. Oral ""ami•alio• drft•rd. 
3314. De/osilio11, l,ou.· lakr11. 
Sec. 3320. The testimony of a witness is taken in three modes : 
1. By affidavit. 
2. By deposition.
3. By oral examination. 
CHAPTER Ill. 
MANNER OF PRODUCTION. 
ARTICLE I. 
Sec. 3321. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made without
notice to the adverse party. 
Sec. 3322. A deposition is a written declaration under oath, made upon no­
tice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to attend and cross­
examine. 
Sec. 3323. An oral examination is an examination in presence of the jury
or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act upon it, the testimony being heard
by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the witness. 
Sec. 3324. Depositions must be taken in the form of questions and answers,
and the words of the witness must be written down, unless the parties agree to
a different mode. 
ARTICLE II. 
AFFIDAVITS.
S«tio,, 3330. A#dar.•i/$ a•d d,josilion, ltou, taltu. 
3331. l!t·ide•rr of ldliralio•, wl,at.
3332. Wlter, filed. '
3333. A_.lidat•its lo IH •s«l ;,, //,is Slate, i,,jore 111.60111 •",)' l>e /11ltn i• //,i$ Stat..
3334. If 111ad, ;,, 111101/ur St11/e of t.6• U•ll«l Siii/•$, l>efore w.60• taltn.
3335. If •ad, ;,, a for,iK" ct>•Niry, l>efor, w.io• /nit••· 
3JJ6. C,rlijicnle of llu rl•rlt if 111/t,11 '/,,fore a i•dgr of a co•rt o.t of I.Ii$ State. 
Sec. 3330. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading or a paper in a
special proceeding, to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other paper in
an action or special proceeding/to obtalna provisional remedy, the examination
of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other cases
expressly permitted by some other provision of this Code. 
Sec. 3331. Evidence of the publication of a document or notice required
by law, or by an order of a court or judge, to be published in a newspaper,
may be given by the affidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman
or principal clerk, annexed to a copy of the document or notice, specifying the
times when and the paper in which the publication was made. 
Sec. 3332. If such affidavit be made in an action or special proceeding
pending in a court, it may be filed with the court or clerk thereof. If not so
made, it may be filed with the clerk of the county where the newspaper is
printed, In either case, the original affidavit, or a copy thereof, certified by
the judge of the court or clerk having it in custody, is prima facie evidence of 
the facts stated therein.
Sec. 3333. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge or officer of this 
State, may be taken before any judge or clerk of any court, or any justice of
the peace, county clerk or notary public in this State. · 
Sec. 3334. An affidavit taken in another State of the United States, to be
used in this State, may be taken before a commissioner appointed by the Gov­
ernor of this State to take affidavits and depositions in such other State, or
before any notary public in another State, or before any judge or clerk of a
court of record having a seal. 
Sec. 3335. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in this State,
may be taken before an ambassador, minister, consul, vice-consul, or consular
agent of the United States, or before any judge of a court of record having a seal, 
in such foreign country.
Sec. 3336. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a court in another 
State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature of the judge,
the existence of the court and the fact that such judge is a member thereof,
must be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof. 
ARTICLE III. 
DEPOSITIONS.
Srclio11 3340. D,josilio11, wie• used, 
3341. Tesli,,,011.v of a u:ihu.u o•I of tlu Stair, wlten lakrn.
3342. I• tile State, wltr11 lakrn. 
Sec. 3340. In all cases other than those mentioned in Section 3330, where
a written declaration under oath is used, it must be a deposition as prescribed
by this Code. 
Sec. 3341. The testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or the ap­
pearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding at any time after a
question of fact has arisen therein, 
Sec. 3342. The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken by depo­
sition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or appearance
of the defendant, and in a special proceeding after a question of fact has arisen
therein, in the following cases : 
1. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or an officer or
member of a corporation which is a party to the action or proceeding, or a
person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or
defended. 
2. When the witness resides out of the county in which his testimony is to
be used. · 
3. When the witness is about to leave the county where the action is to be
tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required. 
+ When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is nevertheless
too infirm to attend. 
5. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other case
where the oral examination of the witness is not required. 
6. When the witness is the only one who can establish facts or a fact mate­
rial to the issue ; provided, that the deposition of such witness shall not be
used if his presence can be procured at the time of the trial of the cause. 

Sec, 3350. The deposition of a witness out of this State may be taken upon
the commission issued from the court, under the seal of the court, upon an
order of the court, or a judge thereof, on the application of either party, upon
five days' previous notice to the other. If issued to any place within the
United States, it may be directed to any person agreed upon by the parties, or 
if they do not agree, to any judge or justice of the peace, or commissioner,
selected by the court or judge issuing it. If issued to any country out of the
United States, it may be directed to a minister, ambassador, consul, vice-con­
sul, or consular agent of the United States in such country, or to any person
agreed upon by the parties. 
Sec. 3351. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective
parties may prepare to be settled, if the parties disagree as to their form, by
the judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a day fixed in
the order, may be annexed to the commission ; or when the parties agree to
that mode the examination may be without written interrogatories. 
Sec. 3352. The commission must authorize the commissioner to administer
an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the interroga­
tories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to
the question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to the court, in a sealed
envelope, directed to the clerk of the court or other person designated or
agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual channel of con­ 
veyance. 
ARTICLE IV. 
MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS OUT OF ·THE STATE. 
Sec. 3353. A trial or other proceeding must not be postponed by reason of
a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the court, 
that the testimony of a witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been
used to obtain it. 
Sec. 3354. The deposition mentioned in this Article may be used by either
party on the trial or other proceeding, against any other party giving or receiv­
ing the notice, subject to all just exceptions. 
ARTICLE V. 
MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS IN THIS STATE. 
S«lio11 3J6o. D,jo.1itio•1 •")' H taln /,,fore a i•dp, etc ; •Jo• 11otire lo tl,e adoers«
Jart_,·. 
3J61. Ma1111,r of tali•z de,01itiou. May H •sttl l>.Y eitlur 1art_y 011 tie triel, 
3J6:z. Wj,,. dr/ositio11 ,11d,uJ~d. 
3,363. A d•/osilio11 011u tale11 "'".Y I>, read at ,,._Y lillU, 
3J6.4. De/osilio11 ;,. t-'is Stat, lo I>, Ht'd i• o/1,er States. 
3365. How lo /r«•re u•ilHss •Jo# ro••issio11. 
3J66. Hou·, i/ •o ro••i1sio11. 
3J6i. D•Jo6•lio11, 1,ow ta!H•. 
Sec. 3360. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness in this
State, in either of the cases mentioned in Section 3342, before a judge or
officer authorized to administer oaths, on serving upon the adverse party rrc­ 
vious notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy o an
affidavit, showing that the case is within that Section. Such notice must be
at least five days, adding also one day for every twenty-five miles of the dis­
tance of the place of examination from the residence of the person to whom
the notice is given, unless, for a cause shown, a judge by order prescribe a
shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order must be
served with the notice. 
Sec. 3361. Either party may attend the examination and put such ques­
tions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when completed,
must be carefully read to the witness and corrected by him in any particular,
if desired ; it must then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the judge,
or officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope or wrapper sealed and
directed to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, or to such
person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the
judge or officer to the clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail, or
by some safe private means of conveyance; and thereupon such deposition 
may be used by either party upon the trial or proceeding against any party
giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions but if the parties
attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall
be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time of the examination.
If the deposition be taken under Subdivisions 2, 3, and 4, of Section 3342, proof
must be made at the trial that the witness continues absent or infirm, or is
dead. The deposition thus taken may be also read in case of the death of the 
witness.
Sec. 3362. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition, it may be excluded 
from the case upon proof that sufficient notice was not given to the party
against whom it is offered to enable him to attend the taking thereof, or that
the taking was not in all respects fair. 
Sec. 3363. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read by either
party in any stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any other action be­
t ween the same parties upon the same subject, and is then deemed the evi­
dence of the party reading it. 
Sec. 3304. Any party to an action or special proceeding in a court, or before
a judge, of a sister State, may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in
this State, to be used in such action or proceeding, in the cases mentioned in 
the next two Sections. 
Sec. 3365. If a commission to take such testimony has been issued from the
court, or a judge thereof, before which such action or proceeding is pending,
on producing the commission of a judge of the District Court, with an affidavit
satisfactory to him of the materiality of the testimony,he mayissueasubpcena
to the witness, requiring him to appear and testify before the commissioner 
named in the commission, at a specified time and place.
Sec. 3366. If a commission has not been issued, and it appear to a judge of 
the District Court, or to a justice of the peace, by affidavit satisfactory to him: 
1. That the testimony of the witness is material to either party. 
2. That a commission to take the testimony of such witness has not been
issued. 
3. That, according to the law of the State where the action or special pro­
ceeding is pending, the deposition of a witness taken under such circumstances,
and before such judge or justice, will be received in the action or proceeding;
he must issue his subpcena requiring the witness to appear and testify before 
him at a specified time and place.
Sec. 3367. Upon the appearance of the witness, the judge or justice must 
cause his testimony to be taken in writing, and must certify and transmit the
same to the court or judge before whom the action or proceeding is pending,
in such manner as the law of that State requires. 
ARTICLE VI. 
GENERAL RULES OF EXAMINATION. 
S«tin 3370. Order of /roof, kow replaled. 
3371. ' Wit•e.r.r •ol ••de, ,11a,,,i•alw• •ay be ••cltul«J. 
3372. Co.rt •ay co11trol "'ode of i•t,r,-ogr,liH. 
3373. Direct a•d rro.r.r-,1ea•i11atio• dtjiHd. 
3374. L,adi•g g,ustio• d,fi11ed. 
3375. Wk,,, -wil•e.r.r 111a_y refresk 11ee111or_y f,o., •olu. 
3376. CrHs·'11t1••'•atit,•, tu lo wllat. 
3377. Party JrodflC1'•g wit•e.rs, llow far •a.,• i•Jeacl, Ai, credit. 
3378. Wit•ess, """" exa•i11ed. WJ,e11 re·eaa111i•ed. 
3379- HO'fl.l i•Jeacl,ed. 
338o. Sa111e. 
3381. Et•id••u of good daracter, -wAe• allowed. 
338i. Writi•g s.low• lo wit11e.1.r •ay l,e i11.r/ected l>y adverse /arty. 
Sec. 3370. The order of proof must be regulated by the sound discretion of
the court. Ordinarily, the party beginning the case must exhaust his evidence
before the other party begins. 
Sec. 3371. If either party requires it, the judge may exclude from the 
court room any witness of the adverse party, not at the time under examina­ 
tion, so that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses. 
Sec. 3372. The court must exercise a reasonable control over the mode of
interrogation, so as to make it as rapid, as distinct, as little annoying to the
witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth as may be; but, subject
to this rule, the parties may put such pertinent and legal questions as they see
fit. The court, however, may stop the production of further evidence upon a
particular point when the evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude
reasonable doubt. 
Sec. 3373. The examination of a witness by the party producing him is de­
nominated the direct examination, the examination of the same witness, upon 
the same matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination. The direct ex­
amination must .be completed before the cross-examination begins, unless the
court otherwise direct. 
Sec. 3374. A question which suggests to the witness the answer which the
examining party desires is denominated a leading or suggestive· question. 
On a direct examination leading questions are not allowed, except in the sound
discretion of the court, under special circumstances making it appear that the
interest of justice require it. 
Sec. 3375. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory respec:ting a fact by
anything written by himself or under his direction at the time when the fact
occurred or immediately thereafter, or at any other time when the fact was
fresh in his memory and he knew that the same was correctly stated in the 
writing. But in such case the writing must be produced and may be seen by
the adverse party, who may, if he choose, cross-examine the witness upon it,
and may read it to the jury. So, also, a witness may testify from such a writ­
ing, though he retain no recollection of the particular facts, but such evidence
must be received with caution. 
Sec. 3376. The opposite party may cross-examine the witness as to any
facts stated in his direct examination or connected therewith, and in so doing
may put leading questions, but if he examine him as to other matters, such
examination is to be subject to the same rules as a direct examination. 
Sec. 3377. The party producing a witness is not allowed to impeach bis
credit by evidence of bad character, but be may contradict him by other evi­
dence, and may also show that he bas made at other times statements incon­
sistent with his present testimony, as provided in Section 338a 
Sec. 3378. A witness once examined cannot be re-examined as to the same
matter without leave of the court, but he may be re-examined as to any new
matter upon which he has been examined by the adverse party. And after
the examinations on both sides are once concluded, the witness cannot be
recalled without leave of the court. Leave is granted or withheld, in the
exercise of a sound discretion. 
Sec. 3379. A witness may be impeached by the party against whom he was
called, by contradictory evidence, or by evidence that his general reputation
for truth, honesty, or integrity is bad, but not by evidence of particular wrong­
ful acts, except that it may be shown by the examination of the witness, or
the record of the judgment, that he has been convicted of a felony. 
Sec. 3380. A witness may also be impeached by evidence that he bas made
at other times, statements inconsistent with bis present testimony ; but before
this can be done the statements must be related to him, with the circumstances 
of times, places, and persons present, and he must be asked whether he
made such statements, and if so, allowed to explain them. If the statements
be in writing, they must be shown to the witness before any question is put
to him concerning them. 
Sec. 3381. Evidence of the good character of a party is not admissible in a
civil action, nor of a witness in any action until the character of such party or
witness has been impeached, or unless the issue involves his character. 
Sec. 3382. Whenever a writing is shown to a witness, it may be inspected
by the opposite party, and if proved by the witness must be read to the jury
before his testimony is closed, or it cannot be read except on recalling the wit­
ness. 

Sec. 3390. The jury subject to the control of the court, in the cases speci­
fied in this Code, are the judges of the effect or value of evidence addressed to
them, except when it is declared to be conclusive. They are, however, to be 
instructed by the court on all proper occasions: 
1. That their power of judging of the effect of evidence is not arbitrary,
but to be exercised with legal discretion, and in subordination to the rules of 
evidence. 
2. They are not bound to decide in conformity with the declarations of
~ny number of witnesses, which do not produce conviction in their minds, 
against a less number or against a presumption or other evidence satisfying
their minds. 
3. That a witness false in one part of his testimony is to be distrusted in
others. 
4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be viewed with distrust,
and the evidence of the oral admissions of a party with caution. 
5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue must be proved, and when
the evidence is contradictory the decision must be made according to the pre­
ponderance of the evidence; that in criminal cases guilt must be established
beyond reasonable doubt. 
6. That evidence is to be estimated not only by its own intrinsic weight,
but also according to the evidence which it is in the power of one side to pro­
duce, and of the other to contradict; and, therefore, 
7. That if weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered, when it appears
that stronger and more satisfactory was within the power of the party, the 
evidence offered would be viewed with distrust. 
TITLE VI. 
RIGHTS AND DUTIES 01'' WITNESSES. 
Sectin 3400. Wil11ess H••d lo a1t,11d wlte11 s11/Jlr,11aed. 
3401. Wit11tfnes lx,1111d to a,uwer q11eslio11s. 
3401. Rig/ti of wil11esses to /rotectio11. 
3403- Wit•e.,us Jrotecled fro• arrest wlte11 atle11di11g, or goi•g or ret•r11,'11g. 
340~ ..A.rr,.,110 be ,nade void. a11d /art,y ,nali11g arrest liable. etc, 
3405. To ,naie affidavit if arrested. 
3400. Co11rt to aisclta;.ge wil11ess fro• arrest, 
Sec. 3400. A witness, served with a subpoena, must attend at the time
appointed, with any papers under his control required by the subpoena, and
answer all pertinent and legal questions ; and, unless sooner discharged, must
remain until the testimony is closed. 
Sec. 3401. A witness must answer questions legal and pertinent to the mat­
ter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against himself; but he
need not give an answer which will have a tendency to subject him to punish­
ment for a felony ; nor need he give an answer which will have a direct tendency
to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from
which the fact in issue would be presumed. But a witness must answer as to
the fact of his previous conviction for felony. 
Sec. 3402. It is the right of a witness to be protected from irrelevant, im­ 
proper or insulting questions, and from harsh or insulting demeanor ; to be de­
tained only so long as the interests of justice require it ; to be examined only
as to matters legal and pertinent to the issue. 
Sec. 3403. Every person who has been, in good faith, served with a subpoena
to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner, referee or other
person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a
contempt, is exonerated from arrest in a civil action while going to the place
of attendance, necessarily remaining there and returning therefrom. 
Sec. 3404. The arrest of a witness, contrary to the preceding Section, is void,
and when willfully made, is a contempt of the court ; and the person making it 
is responsible to the witness arrested for double the amount of the damages
which maybe assessed against him, and is also liable to an action at the suit of
the party serving the witness with a subpcena, for the damages sustained by
him in consequence of the arrest. 
Sec. 3405. An officer is not liable to the party for making the arrest in 
ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but is liable for any subsequent
detention of the party, if such party claim the exemption: and make an affidavit
stating: 
1. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a
court, officer or other person, specifying the same, the place of attendance, and
the action or proceeding in which the subpcena was issued; and, 
2. That he has not thus been served by his own procurement with the in­
tention of avoiding arrest. 
3. That he is at the time going to the place of attendance, or returning
therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena, The affidavit 
may be taken by the officer, and exonerates him from liability for discharging
the witness when arrested. 
Sec. 3406. The court or officer issuing the subpoena, and the court or offi-,
cer before whom the attendance is required, may discharge the witness from
an arrest made in violation of Section 3403. If the court have adjourned be­
fore the arrest, or before application for discharge, a judge of the court may
grant the discharge. 
CHAPTER II
EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES, AND MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS. 
Cl111Jte, I. Et•id11u, ;,, Jartic•lar case«. 
/ I. Prouedi11gs to lff'ld•ale tesli•o11y. 
/II. Ad•i11i.tralio11 of oallu ••d a~,.,atio.•. 
IV. Ge,ura/ Jrtn•i•io,u. 
TITLE VII. 
CHAPTER I. 
EVIDENCE' IN PARTICULAR CASES. 
S«J;n 3410. .A11 o..f'er «1•it1t1/e11t lo 1a.v•e11t.
3-411. Wj~t•,r Jays e11titl,d to reuipt. 
34u. Ohj,rlio11s to t,11der ••st H s/edji,d. 
3413. R11le• for co,ulr•i•g d,1er1'1lio• of la11d1. 
3414- Co111Jro•i•e ofer of •o avail. 
3415. /11 a11 ectio» for divorce, ad111is•io11 ""' ••,#cinl. 
Sec. 3410. An offer in writing to pay a particular sum of money, or to de­
liver a written instrument or specific personal property, is, if not accepted,
equivalent to the actual production and tender of the money, instrument, or 
property.
Sec. 3411. Whoever pays money, or delivers an instrument or property, is 
entitled to a receipt therefor from the person to whom the payment or deliv­
ery is made, and may demand a proper signature to such receipt as a condition 
of the payment or delivery.
Sec. 3412. The person to whom a tender is made, must at the time specify 
any objection he may have to the money, instrument, or property, or he must
be deemed to have waived it ; and if the objections be to the amount of money,
the terms of the instrument, or the amount or kind of property, he must specify
the amount, terms, or kind which he requires, or be precluded from objecting 
afterward. •
Sec. 3413. The following are the rules for construing the descriptive part of 
a conveyance of real property when the construction is doubtful and there are
no other sufficient circumstances to determine it. 
1. Where there are certain definite and ascertained particulars in the de­
scription, the addition of others which are indefinite, unknown or false, does
not frustrate the conveyance, but it is to be construed by the first mentioned
particulars. 
2. When permanent and visible, or ascertained boundaries or monuments,
are inconsistent with the measurement, either of lines, angles, or surfaces, the
boundaries or monuments are paramount. 
3. Between different measurements which are inconsistent with each other, 
that of angles is paramount to that of surfaces, and that of lines paramount to
both. 
4- When a road, or stream of water not navigable, is the boundary, the
rights of the grantor to the middle of the road or the thread of the steam arc
included in the conveyance, except where the road or thread of the stream is
held under another title. 
S· When a navigable lake, where there is no tide, is the boundary, the
rights of the grantor to low water mark arc included in the conveyance. 
6. When the description refers to a map, and that reference is inconsistent
with other particulars, it controls them if it appear that the parties acted with
reference to the map; otherwise, the map is subordinate to other definite and
ascertained particulars. 
Sec. 3414. An offer of compromise is. not an admission that anything is
due. 
Sec. 3415· In an action for divorce on the ground of adultery, a confession
of adultery, whether in or out of the pleadings, is not of itself sufficient to jus­
tify a judgment of divorce. 
CHAPTER II. 
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY. 
Sectio• l4lO. Evide•ce •a~v k ;,rjel•aled.
3421. Ma,,,,er of ajjlicalio• for order, 
34u. Nolfre of lime a•d /lace lo /,e ~it·e•. 
34:3. Ma••er of lali•g /je dejo8ilio•.
3424- D,po8ih'o•8 lo l>e .filed. . 
3.425. Wke• /1,e et•ide.ce Ma_y l,e ;rod11ced.
3426. Effect of,,,, de/08itio•. 
Sec. 3420. The testimony of a witness may be taken and 'perpetuated as
provided in this Chapter. 
Sec. 3421. The applicant must produce to a judge of the District Court a
petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating: 
1. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court in this
State, and, in such case, the names of the persons whom he expects will be
adverse parties; or, 
2. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect the title to property
in which he is interested, or to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any
other matter which may hereafter become material to establish, though no
suit may at any time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, he may not know the
parties to such suit ; and, 
3. The name of the witness to be examined, his place of residence, and a
general outline of the facts expected to be proved. The judge to whom such
petition is presented must make an order allowing the examination, and desig­
nating the officer before whom the same must be taken, and prescribing the
notice to be given, which notice, if the parties expectant arc knowri and re­
side in this State, must be personally served, and if unknown, such notice must
be served on the clerk of the county where the property affected by such evi­
dence is situated, or the judge making the order resides, as may be directed
by him, and by publication thereof in some newspaper, to be designated by
the judge, for the same period required for the publication of summons. The
judge must also designate in his order the clerk of the court to whom the depo­
sition must be returned when taken. 
Sec. 3422. The person appointed by the judge to take the depositions is
authorized, if a resident of this State, on receiving a copy of the order of the
judge, and of the notice prescribed in the last Section, with proof of its per­
sonal service or publication-or, if a resident without the State, on receiving the
commission mentioned in the next Section, with proof of like service of publi­
cation of the notice-to take the deposition of the witness named in the order 
of the judge, or in the commission, or, if more than one witness is thus named,
of such of them as appear before him, at the time designated, and the taking
of the same may be continued from time to time. 
Sec. 3423. The examination must be by question and answer, and if the
testimony is to be taken in another State, it must be taken upon a commission
to be issued by the judge allowing the examination, under the seal of the court
of which he is judge, and upon interrogatories, to be settled in the same man­
ner as in cases of depositions taken under commission in pending actions, 
unless the parties expectant, if known, otherwise agree. If such parties are
unknown, notice of the settlement of the interrogatories shall be published in 
some newspaper for such time as the judge may designate. The deposition
when completed, must be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, 
then certified by the officer or person taking the same, and shall then be
scaled up and delivered or transmitted to the clerk of the court designated in 
the order of the judge allowing the· examination, who shall file the same when
received. The judge allowing the examination shall file with the clerk the
order for the examination, the petition on which the same was granted, with 
proof of service of the order and notice.
Sec. 3424. The petition and order and papers filed by the judge, as pro­ 
vided in Section 3423, or a certified copy thereof, arc 'pri""' faci« evidence of the
facts stated therein to show compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
Sec. 3425. If a trial be had between the parties named in the petition as
parties expectant, or their successors in interest, or between any parties where­ 
in it may be material to establish the facts which such depositions prove, or
tend to prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witnesses, or that
they cannot be found, or are unable by reason of age or other infirmity to give
their testimony, the depositions or copies thereof may be used by either party,
subject to all legal objections; but if the parties attended at the examination,
no objection to the form of an interrogatory can be made at the trial, unless
the same was stated at the examination. 
Sec. 3426. The deposition so taken and read in evidence has the same
effect as the oral testimony of the witness, and no other, and every objection
to the witness or to the relevancy of any question put to him, or of any
answer given by him, may be made in the same manner as if he were examined
orally at the trial. 
CHAPTER II
ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS. 
Sectio11 3430. ':J•dicial a11d certai• o/licers a•llloriud to adt11i•isler oallls. 
3431. Form of ordi•ary oatf lo wil#eu.
3431. For111 "'"Y he varied to s•il wit11ess' belief. 
3433. Sa111e. 
CHAPTER UI. 
3434. A"J' Jerso• w.lo /refers it #lay declare or a.§ir,,,. 
Sec. 3430. Every court, every judge or clerk of any court, every justice
and every notary public, and every officer or person authorized to take testi­
mony in any action or proceeding, or to decide upon evidence, has power to
administer oaths or affirmations. 
Sec. 3431. An oath or affirmation, in an action or proceeding, may be ad­
ministered as follows, the person who swears, or affirms, expressing his assent
when addressed in the following form: "You do solemnly swear (or affirm, as
the case may be) that the evidence you shall give in this issue (or matter),
pending between---and---, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, so help you God." 
Sec. 3432. Whenever the court before which a person is offered as a witness
is satisfied that he has a peculiar mode of swearing, connected with, or in addi­
tion to the usual form of administration, which, in his opinion, is more solemn
or obligatory, the court may, in its discretion, adopt that mode. 
Sec. 3433. When a person is sworn who believes in any o~er than the
Christian religion, he may be sworn accordingly to the peculiar ceremonies of 
his religion, if there be any such.
Sec. 3434. Any person who desires it may, at his option, instead of taking 
an oath, make his his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting, when
addressed in the following form : " You do solemnly affirm ( or declare)," etc., 
as in Section 3431. 
 
Sec. 3440. All questions of fact, where the trial is by jury, other than those
mentioned in the next Section, are to be decided by the jury, and all evidence
thereon is to be addressed to them, except when otherwise provided by this 
Code.
Sec. 3441. All questions of law, including the admissibility of testimony, the 
facts preliminary to such admission, and the construction of statutes and other
writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the court, and all
discussions of law addressed to it. Whenever the knowledge of the court is,
by this Code, made evidence of a fact, the court is to declare such knowledge
to the jury, who arc bound to accept it. 
Sec. 3442. The provisions contained in this part of the Code respecting the
evidence on a trial before a jury, are equally applicable on the trial of a question
of fact before a court, referee or other officer. 
Sec. 3443. Whenever moneys are paid into or deposited in court, the same
shall be delivered to the clerk in person, or to such of his deputies as shall be
specially authorized by his appointment in writing to receive the same. He
must, unless otherwise directed by law, deposit it with the county treasurer,
to be held by him subject to the order of the court. The treasurer shall keep
each fund distinct, and open an account with each. Such appointment shall
be filed ,with the county treasurer, who shall exhibit it, and give to each person
applying for the same a certified copy of the same. It shall be in force until
a revocation in writing is filed with the county treasurer, who shall thereupon
write "revoked" in ink across the face of the appointment. 
CHAPTER II
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Seclio. 34~0. W!,e,, //,is Code taltes r.ffrcl. 
l4fil. Nol retroactive, 
3452. .\'o ro111t11011 /au:;,, /1,i.( .. State,
3-*S3· R11/r ot' co11.J/rwdio11 of tltis Codr, 
34.'4· Pro:·i3io11.f ot' t!,i:, Code, jow ro11slr11ed .
. H5~· R(s:kl:1 1101 ,iffrrll'd. 
34,:;6. l.imilatioN.( .,l,a/1 ro11li1111r lo r11• •
. H,:;7. LLotidavs, 
34.:;S. B11si11rss davs, 
]4_:;9. Co111;11talioi. of limr.. 
34<>0, Crrlai11 arts #Ol lo I>~ don« 011 jo/idt1ys.
3-4<,1. 7oi11I ""llu1r1tv. ·
346l. )Vorel., a"d /1,'rasn. 
,46_1. Trr11u drft11ed. 
34f•+ J\'otirr.
·H6:;. ("(111.tlr,uli:·r 110/iu. 
346t,. ff'j,.,, laws la/tr rl/al . 
.'H"7· "Fi11a/ p,1.csag,,"··,,.,."ni11.s: o_f: 
34t..S. Co1111IJ• d,rlt. 
CHAPTER IV. 
PART V. 
Sectio» 346q. 7•didnl rr•,dio d,Ji11,d.
, 34jo. Dit-isio• <>/ j11«licinl r,111,dio. 
3-471. Aclio• d,j111rd.
3472. s;,cial /rourdi•.e- d,Ji.,d. 
3,173. DiT.•isio. of aclio,u.
3474. Cit•il actioe«. 
34i5· 01,/i~a_lio• d,,ti11,d. 
:H;6. Dit•uio• of 111j11riu.
3 .. 77· l11_i•ri,.r lo ;ro;,rty. 
3478. /11j11ri,s to tlu f,rso•.
3479. Cit-ii actio»; I>)· u•ko• /ros«•lrd. 
,'l4So. Cri•i•al action»,
3481. Cit•il a•d cri•i•al r,111,di,s 110/ 111,rgrd. 
,,1S1. Stnt•trs i• """!Uri u•it.t cod, r,jenl,d.
3483. Slal•l,s r,jHlrd l>_Y I/tis Cod,, 
34f14. Tlti., cso, ltou· cited, 
Sec. 3450. This Code takes effect at twelve o'clock noon on the first day of
July. A. D. 1895. 
Sec. 3451. No part of it is retroactive, unless expressly so declared.
Sec. 3452. In this State there is no common law in any case where the law 
is declared by the Code or the statute; but where not so declared, if the same
is applicable and of a general nature, and not in conflict with the Code or other
statutes, the common law shall be the law and rule of decision. 
Sec. 3453. The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof
arc to be strictly construed, has no application to this Code. The Code estab­
lishes the law of this State respecting the subjects to which it relates, and its
provisions, and all proceedings under it, arc to be liberally construed with a
view to cff ect its objects and to promote justice. 
Sec. 3454. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are substantially the
same as existing statutes or the common law, must be construed as continua­
tions thereof, and not as new enactments. 
Sec. 3455. No action or proceeding commenced before this Code takes
effect, and no right accrued, is effected by itsrrovisions. 
Sec. 3456. When a limitation or period o time prescribed in any existing
statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or for any other purpose, has
begun to run before this Code goes into effect, and the same or any limitation
is prescribed in this Code, the time which has already run shall be deemed part
of the time prescribed as such limitation by this Code. 
Sec. 3457. Holidays within the meaning of this Code arc: Every Sunday,
the first day of January, the twenty-second day of February, the thirtieth day
of May, the fourth day of July, the first Monday of September, the twenty.
fifth day of December, every day on which an election is held throughout the
State, and every day appointed by the President of the United States, or by
the Governor of this State, for a public fast, thanksgiving, or holiday. If the
first day of January, the twenty-second day of February, the thirtieth day of
May, the fourth day of July or the twenty-fifth day of December, fall upon a
Sunday, the Monday following is a holiday. 
Sec. 3458. All other days than those mentioned in the next preceding Sec­
tion are business days for all purposes. 
Sec. 3459. The time in which any act provided by law is to be done is com­
puted by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day is a
holiday, and then it is also excluded. 
Sec. 3400. Whenever any act of a secular nature, other than a work of necessity
or mercy, is appointed by law or contract to be performed upon a particular
day, which day falls upon a holiday, such act may be performed upon the next
business day, with the same effect as if it had been performed upon the day
appointed. 
Sec. 3461. Words giving a joint authority to three or more public officers
or other persons are construed as giving such authority to a majority of them,
unless it is otherwise expressed in the act giving the authority. 
Sec. 3462. Words and phrases are construed according to the context and
the approved usage of the language ; but technical words and phrases, and
such others as have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, or are
defined in the succeeding Section, are to be construed according to such pecu­
liar and appropriate meaning or definition. 
Sec. 3463. Words used in this Code in the present tense include the future
as well as the present ; words used in the masculine gender include the fem­
inine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular; the word "person ,. includes a corporation as well as a natural person ;
writing includes printing; oath includes affirmation or declaration ; and every
oral statement, ,under oath or affirmation, is embraced by the term "testify,"
and every written one in the term "depose;" signature or subscription includes
mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and wit­
nessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness. 
The following words also have in this Code the signification attached to
them in this Section, unless otherwise apparent from the context. 
1. The word "property" includes both real and personal property. 
2. The words " real property " arc co-extensive with lands, tenements, and
hereditaments, and possessory title to public lands in this State. 
3. The words "personal property" include money, goods, chattels, things
in action, and evidences of debt. 
4. The word ''year" as used in this Code means calendar year, and the word
"month•• means a calendar month unless otherwise expressed. Fractions of
year are to be computed by the number of months, thus half a year is six
months. Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which
include more than one day and involve no questions of priority. 
5. The word "writ" signifies an order or precept in writing, issued in the
name of the State, or of a court or judicial officer, and the word "process" a
writ issued in the course of judicial proceedings, 
6. The word "State," when applied to the different parts of the U nitcd
States, includes the District of Columbia and the Territories; and the words
"United States" may include the District and Territories. 
7. The word "will" includes codicils.
8. The word "several," as used in this Code in relation, means two or more.
9. The words "third persons," as used in this Code, include all who are not 
parties to the obligation or transaction concerning which the phrase is used. 
10. Usage, within the meaning of this Code, is a reasonable and lawful
public custom concerning transactions of the same nature as those which arc
to be affected thereby, existing at the place where the obligation is to be per­
formed, and either known to the parties or so well established, general and
uniform, that they must be presumed to have acted with reference thereto. 
11. The words "usual" and "customary" as used in this Code, mean "ac-
cording to usage." · 
Sec. 3464. Notice is : 
1. Actual, which consists of express information of a fact ; or, 
2. Constructive, which is imputed by law.
Sec. 3465. Every person who has actual notice of circumstances, sufficient 
to put a prudent man upon inquiry as to a particular fact, has constructive
notice of the fact itself in all cases in which by prosecuting such inquiry he
might be informed of such facts. 
Sec. 3466. Every law, unless a different time shall be prescribed therein, shall 
commence and take effect throughout this State on, and not before, the twen­ 
tieth day after the day of its final passage.
Sec. 3467. The words "final passage," as used in the preceding Section, 
shall be held to mean the enactment into law of a bill which has passed the
Legislative Assembly, either with or without the approval of the Governor. as
provided in Section 12, of Article VII., of the Constitution. 
Sec. 3468. The county clerk of any county is also clerk of the county com­
missioners and ex-officio recorder. Any duty imposed by law upon such officer,
either as county clerk, clerk of county commissioners, or as recorder, shall be
performed by the county clerk, and any official acts performed or certified by
the county clerk shall be as valid and effectual as if performed and certified to
by him as clerk of the county commissioners, or as recorder. 
Sec. 3469. Judicial remedies arc such as are administered by the courts of
justice, or by judicial officers empowered for the purpose by the Constitution
and statutes of this State. 
Sec. 3470. These remedies are divided into two classes : 
1. Actions; and, 
2. Special proceedings.
Sec. 3471. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice by 
which one party prosecutes another for the enforcement or protection of a right,
the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense. 
Sec. 3472. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
Sec. 3473. Actions are of two kinds: 
1. Civil ; and 
2. Criminal.
Sec. 3474. A civil action arises out of: 
1. An obligation 
2. An injury. 
Sec. 3475. An obligation is a legal duty, by which one person is bound to
do or not to do a certain thing, and arises from : 
1. Contract; or, 
2. Operation of law.
Sec. 3476. An injury is of two kinds: 
1. To the person ; and, 
2. To property.
Sec. 3477. An injury to property consists in depriving its owner of the 
benefit of it, which is done by taking, withholding, deteriorating or destroying
it. 
Sec. 3478. Every other injury is an injury to the person.
Sec. 3479. A civil action is prosecuted by one party against another for the 
enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong.
Sec. 3480. The Penal Code defines and provides for the prosecution of a 
criminal action.
Sec. 3481. When the violation of a right admits of both a civil and criminal 
remedy, the. right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other.
Sec. 3482. No statute, law or rule is continued in force because it is con­ 
sistent with the provisions of the Code on the same subject ; but in all cases
provided for by this Code, all statutes, laws and rules heretofore in force in this
State, whether consistent or not with the provisions of this Code, unless
expressly continued in force by it, are repealed and abrogated. 
This repeal or abrogation does not revive any former law heretofore
repealed, nor does it affect any right already existing or accrued, or any action
or proceeding already taken, except as in this Code provided ; nor does it aflect
any private statute not expressly repealed. 
Sec. 3483. Subject to the provisions of the next preceding Section, and Sections 345 5 and 3456, the following statutes and parts of statutes are hereby 
repealed, to-wit: Section I to 830, inclusive, First Division, called the Code of
Civil Procedure; Sections I to 563 ; inclusive, Second Division, called the Pro­
bate Practice Act; Sections 102 to 116, inclusive, Fifth Division, General
Laws; also Section 162; also Sections 202 to 208, inclusive; also Sections 487,
488 and 48g; also Sections 685, 686 and 687; also Sections 821 to 828, inclu­
sive; also Sections g81 and g82; also Section 1203; also Sections 1287 to
1293, inclusive; also Sections 1294 and 1295 ; also Sections 1297 to 13o6, 
inclusive; also Sections 1434 to 1438, inclusive ; also Sections 1495 to 1507,
inclusive; also Sections 1556 to 1559, inclusive; also Sections 1977 to 1g82,
inclusive; also Section 1990; also Sections 2051 to 2055, inclusive, of the Com­
piled Statutes. 
Also an Act to amend Section 253, Second Division, Compiled Statutes,
approved September rath, 1887. 
Also an Act to regulate trial practice in District Courts in relation to excep­
tions and .instructions, approved September 13th, 1887. 
Also an Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to amend an Act relating to
liens of mechanics, approved March 9th, 1887, approved September 14th, 1887. 
Also an Act in relation to motion for new trial, approved September 14th,
1887. 
Also an Act to amend and authorizing the appointment of stenographers
by the District Court, approved March roth, 1887, approved September 14th 
1887. -
Also an Act to amend Section 102, Chapter IX., Fifth Division, Compiled 
Laws, relating of admission to practice of attorneys at law, approved February
13th, 188g. 
Also an Act authorizing the conveyance of dower rights of insane married
women, approved March 13th, 188g. 
Also an Act to amend Section 272, Second Division, Compiled Statutes,
entitled Probate Practice Act, approved March rzth, 188g. 
Also an Act to amend Section 229, df the Probate Practice Act, approved
March 14th, 188g. 
Also an Act to amend Section 255, First Division, Compiled Statutes,
relating to the formation of the jury, approved March ad, 1889. 
Also an Act relating to the drawing of juries, etc., approved March 14th,
188g. 
Also an Act entitled an Act to amend Chapter 82, Compiled Laws, relat­
ing to liens and to add thereto a Subdivision of Section 1394, approved March
14th, 188g. 
Also an Act to amend Sections 41 and 44, Chapter III., First Division,
Compiled Laws, relating to limitation of actions, approved March 9th, 1889. 
Sec. 3484. This Act, whenever cited, enumerated, referred to, or amended,
may be designated simply as the "Code of Civil Procedure," adding when
necessary, the number of the Section. 