
As Am‘ in addition to the Revised Statutes, entitled
“ Mills and Millers.”
Mill suit:
No trial or proceeding. now pending, or which may not
m a_
be hereafter commenced, according to the provisions of hate.

the said Revised Statutes, shall be abated, by the death
of either the plaintiff or defendant, or the marriage of

any female plaintiff or defendant therein; but every
such suit and proceeding shall be held and taken to be
within the operation of the ﬁrst six sections of the Re
vised Statutes, entitled “Abatemcnts,” in the same man
ner, and to the same extent, as if such suits and proceed~

ings had been expressly named therein.

AP PE A L S .

1842-3.—Ch. 1.
Sec. 1.

Whenever any appeal shall be granted from Cmk, to

the ﬁnal judgment. sentence or decree, or from any in- 5'9 2'1""
.
_
en 0 a terlocutory Judgment or order, rendered in any of the pegl to tile

Superior Courts of Law, or Courts of F-ouity, in this 2‘;::"‘°
State, to the Supreme Court, it shall be the duty of the


Clerk’,

nrnsns.

Clerk, or Clerk and Master of such Superior Court of
Law, or Court of Equity,’ to ﬁle such a transcript of the
record of the suit on which the appeal shall be granted,
as is required by law. together with the bond given for
the_ appeal, with the Clerk of the Supreme Court, on or
before the seventh day of the term next ensuing said
appeal; such Clerk. or Clerk and Master, shall be
allowed the sum of two dollars for such service in ad
dition to the fees now allowed by law, to be taxed in the
bill of costs: Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall prevent the appellant from ﬁling a transcript of the
record as provided for in the 25th section of said Act.
Sec. 2. Any Clerk, or Clerk and Master who shall
and corruptly fail to perform any of the duties
herein prescribed. shall forfeit and pay, to the party ap
pealing, the sum of one hundred dollars, recoverable by

Penalty for
wilfully
lleglecl.

action of debt in any Court of record, and shall further

be liable to an action on the case, at the instance of an

person injured by his neglect of duty.
1842-3.-—Ch. 2.

Sec. 1. Hereafter, when any free person shall be
Falon mm convicted, before any of the Superior Courts of Law in
ble to gin this State, of any capital felony, and upon whom sen

tence of death shall be pronounced, and shall be desirous
Pea|‘Wilh- of appealing from the sentence of said Court, upon his

out "'

or her making it appear to the satisfaction of‘ the Court
that he or she is unable to give security for said appeal,
it shall be the duty of the Court, by whom said judgment
of death shall be pronounced, to allow an appeal to the

Supreme Court without requiring the defendant to give
security for the same.
Ch. 3.
Master al

SEC. 1.

For all offences cognizable under the 41st

lowed ap- section of chapter 111, Revised Statutes, the master of

PM “°"‘ the slave shall be allowed an appeal from the decision

ofthe Justice to the County Court, under such 1:l1les,j‘:_dg';°“‘


regulatmns and restrictions, cs are now provided for in tic, again“
criminal cases.

his slave.

ARMS-PUBLIC.
1846-7—Ch. 2. '
\Vhenever out of the militia of this State any volun
teer company of infantry of the line, light infantry or
riﬁemen, artillery or cavalry may be formed, and it shall
bemade appear to the Governor of the State, by a cer
tiﬁcate of the Brigadier General of the Brigade, in which g°r"l;’r':i‘;‘;l
such company is formed. that the said corps has enrolled. volunteers

as its members, the number of officers and men required mm mm‘
by law for such companies, and is otherwise equipped, ex
cept as to arms and accoutrements, then the Governor
shall furnish, from the Public Arsenals, to such company,

on application being made, the arms and accoutrements
necessary to their full and complete equipment; the
commanding officer of said corps ﬁrst giving bond with
security. as is now required by law, for the safe keeping
of said arms and accoutrements.
Ch. 3.
His Excellency, the Governor, is hereby authorized
to establish in the Town of Newborn or its vicinity a
depot of arms ; to cause such portion of the State arms Governor

to be therein deposited as to him shall seem best; to lt1‘i’n';“‘:rb““'
employ a suitable person as the superintendent thereof‘, mm8_ for
at a salary not exceeding seventy ﬁve dollars per annum, ‘f,§P‘;s,§;,‘II,Z;1
and to contract for the use of a suitable building or rooms S“P"i“t’m
for the deposite and safe keeping of the said arms, pro

vided that not exceeding seventy-ﬁve dollars for the
salary of the superintendent and the use of a suitable
building, or “room,” in any one year be paid therefor;
to make such regulations respecting the duty of said

superintendent, require bond with security for the faith
ful discharge of his duty ; and from time to time, at his
pleasure, to remove any such superintendent and to ap
point another in his place.
An Act vesting in the United States of America
jurisdiction over a certain tract of land in the Town of
Fayetteville and County of Cumberland.
[Cedes to the United States, in the usual form, jurisdiction over a tract
oi"laud in Fayetteville for the purpose of an Arsenal, to continue as long an
the land shnll be used for that purpose, and reserving concurrent jurisdiction
as to civil and criminal process]
An Aer to amend an Act
thousand eight hundred
“Revised Statutes,” and
Attachments to issue for
directing the proceedings

passed at the session of one
and thirty six, one of the
entitled an Act authorizing
the recovery of Debts, and
thereon.

It shall be lawful for any person, against whose es
tate any Attachment has issued in pursuance of the Act
g‘;'|.".;‘:'“" to which this is an amendment, his other ‘attorney, agent
whose 125. or factor, at any time before ﬁnal judgment entered, or
tate at_

.
"wbmem
writ
of lnquiry
executed, upon giving
the ball. required
is issued by the said Act, to replevy the estate so attached, and
lvnya.Z,r;{:::,; plead to issue, so that the plaintiffis not thereby delayed

of his trial.
AN ACT to amend an Act of the Revised Statutes, Chap
ter 12, entitled “ Bastard Children.”
g°“!'1°da111The putative father of any illegitimate child or children may apply, by petition in writing, either in the
County or Superior Court of the County, in which such
father may reside, praying that such child or children be
declared legitimate. If it shall appear to the Court, that .
such petitioner is reputed the father of such child or
children, the said Court may thereupon declare and pro
nounce the said child or children legitimatcd according
ly : Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be so
construed as to extend such legitimation further than as provin

provided in the ninth section of the above recited Act:
Provided further, that no bastard child or children, whose

putative father was married at the time of his, her, or
their birth, shall come within the provisions of this Act
So much of the eighth section of the thirteenth
Chapter of the Revised Statutes, entitled “ An Act 0011- Damage.
cerning Bills, Bonds and Promissory Notes,” as ﬁxes the on P_m1est
rate of damages on protested bills drawn or endorsed in 

this State, upon any person or body corporate in any other e“_d°rs°d i“
of
excepting
the United
the States,
State oforLouisiana,
in any of the
at six
Territories'
per centum
thereof,
upon dsu:;‘;'1°
the principal sum, is hereby repealed, and the damages 3‘ per cent.
on all such bills shall be three per cent. on the principal
sum, and no more : any law, usage or custom, to the corntrary notwithstanding.
Sec. 1.

The Governor of this State is hereby au- A gents to

tborized, after the 1st day of March 1841, to appoint an be appoint-.
Milo "ﬁnd agent, who shall, after his appointment, reside in the

county of Macon or Cherokee, whose duty it shall be to
receive payment. from time to time, of all purchasers of
Cherokee lands of all or any part of the money due on
their several bonds ; to ascertain and report to the
Treasury department, once every three months, the con
dition of the debtors, as solvent, doubtful or otherwise,

and guard and protect the general interest of the State
in connection with the said lands, whether sold or unsold.

Sec. 2. The agent so appointed shall be authorized
to receive from the Public Treasurer such of the bonds

given for Cherokee lands, as the Public Treasurer, with
liver bond! the advice of the Governor, shall deem proper, for which
to the a.

Han, M his the said agent shall execute to the '1 reasurer hrs receipt:
‘£?:"}:°“|il‘;“ Provided, that at no time shall the said agent hold in his
,,,1vic,; of hands bonds and moneys received thereon, to an amount

:,':;.G°""' beyond the penalty of his bond : he shall take the bonds
to the county of his residence, and there receive such pay-.
ments as shall be voluntarily made,and institute suitin all

cases, where he shall be directed to do so by the Public
Treasurer, or when the interest of the State shall in the
least seem to require it.
Sec. 3. Theagent thus appointed shall receive in
what the payment gold and silver coin, and the notes of all specie
°HQr\} my paying banks in this State and South Carolina, and in
;,;cye,:'.°,,,'_n addition to which the agent may, and he is hereby re

quired to receive from debtors for Cherokee lands, whose
permanent residence may be west of the Blue Ridge, the
notes of the specie paying banks of Georgia, payable at
Augusta and Savannah : he shall, on the ﬁrst Monday of
every month, transmit to the Public Treasurer an accurate
statement of his receipts during the month ; and he shall
be required to pay over to the Public Treasurer, in such
bank as the Public Treasurer may designate, on the ﬁrst
Monday of the months of June, September, December
and March, in each and every year, all moneys by him
received during the three preceding months.
Sec. 4.

The agent thus appointed shall, before en

tering on the duties of his ofﬁce, take before the Gov- 3i‘::;*:ng°
ernor an oath for the faithful performance of all the du- bond given

ties enjoined by this act, and shall enter into bond, with 313° 8“
sufﬁcient securities. in the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, to secure the honest and faithful discharge of the

several requisitons of this act ; which bond shall be made
payable to the State of North Carolina, and, upon the

breach of the conditions thereof or any of them, the
Treasurer shall cause the bond to be put in suit in the
Superior Court of Wake County, and such bond shall not
become void upon the ﬁrst recovery, or ifjudgment shall
be given for the defendant, but may be put in suit and
prosecuted, from time to time, until the whole penalty
shall be recovered.

Sec. 5. The agent aforesaid shall receive, as a fair
compensation for all the services required of him, three
per centum on the amount of all sums received and col- agent.
lected ; and he may be dismissed from office, and a suc

cessor appointed, at any time that the Governor may be
lieve that his duties are not honestly and correctly dis
charged, and upon his dismissal from ofﬁce, it shall be his Agent my
duty to deliver over to the Treasurer, or to such person be dimin

ed by the

as the Governor may appoint to succeed him, such bonds Governor.
as may be in his hands and remain uncollected, and shall

immediately account with the Public Treasurer for all
moneys by him received upon such bonds.

‘ 1840-1'.--Ch. 5.
It shall be the duty of the Treasurer, whenever he
shall deliver to the agent, appointed by the act, to which Rmim
this a supplement, any Cherokee bonds, to take from the to bemkeu
said agent a memorandum or receipt, specifying the -r,'§{,‘,,*',Z,,
names of the obligors in the said bonds, the amount for which they were given, and the time when they become
due, and also the payments made on them severally;
and, in the event of any of said bonds being lost or de
stroyed before they may be collected, a copy of said mem

bond, m orandum or receipt, certified to

be accurate by the

:‘;:;:3'd‘:" Treasurer, whose hand-writing may be proven by the
copy ofthis oath of any person knowing it, shall be received as evi
:§€::,p'b‘;,°" dence in the same manner as the original bonds, and a
the Treas- recovery shall be had on them, without the production of

::.?,;e;:el:° the said bonds, any law, usage or custom to the contrary
8? if "1° °- notwithstanding: Provided, however, as preparatory to

the introduction of such receipts as evidence in the cases
above speciﬁed, the loss of the bonds shall be proved, in
the manner usual in other cases, where secondary evi

dence is offered in lieu of evidence of the ﬁrst degree
1842-3.—Ch. 56.

SEC. 1.

The further collection of the principal mo

Collections nies now due on the bonds executed to the State of North

““P°“ded' Carolina, by the purchasers of Cherokee lands is here
by suspended for the term of two years, from and

lroviso.

after the ﬁrst day of January, A. D. 1843 : Pro
vided nevertheless, that all persons, claiming the benefit
of this act, shall, and they are hereby required to pay to

the Treasurer, or to the agent authorized by law to re
ceive the same, on or beefore the ﬁrst day of January,
1844, all the interest that shall have accrued on their

bonds up to that period, and shallthereafter pay, annually,
the accruing interest, until the ﬁrst day of January,
A. D. 1845.
who aha“
Sec. 2. No person or persons shall be entitled to the
not be en- benefit of this act until the said persons shall have made
:ihlLN:,::,_ the payments herein before required to be made ; and all
5" °f ‘hi! persons refusing or neglecting to make said payments,
‘ca
within twenty days after the expiration of the periods
herein before speciﬁed for making the same, shall and
may be proceeded against by suit or suits, at Law or in
Equity, in the same manner and under the same rules,
regulations and restrictions, as heretofore prescribed
by law.

Sec. 8. Nothing in this act contained shall be so
construed as to prevent persons coming within the pur- Not to pre

view
.
of its
.
pI‘0V1SlOIlS,
. .
from paying
,
the whole, or any ::,x,':r;';ay
I
portion of the respective amounts due on their bonds, at menti
any time they may think proper.

Sec. 4;

The Treasurer of the State is hereby

authorized and directed’ to make out a fair state- Treasurer

ment of the amount due upon each of the bonds respec- shall make
tively given by the purchasers of Cherokee lands, to- ;),;',,tns:,ati:,'c_
gether with the names of‘ the obligors, and the amount
of interest, that may be due on each bond separately, up
to the ﬁrst day of January. A. D. 1844, and forward the
same to the agent for the collection of Cherokee Bonds.

Suc. 5.

Nothing in this act contained, shall be so

construed, as to prevent the agent from requiring a re-A t
newal of the bonds whenever, in his opinion, the public r,§:?t°m,?l
interest shall require it, or from instituing suit on said new“
bonds, in case of failure on the part of the principal
obligor or obligors, therein to give further and additional

securities, when required to do so, by the agent now au
thorized by law to demand the same.

1844-5.--Ch. 1.
It shall be the duty of the Agent or Agents em-Aunt‘,

ployed to collect monies arising from the sale of Cherokee "““''““‘°
the Comp
lands, to transmit or deliver to the Comptroller a dupli- trollera

cate statements of all said monies, which may hereafter s,‘;l;L':I°:;,.
be paid into the Treasury by such Agent or Agents.
cmntonerz nonns AND uses.
Sec. 1 . The Governor shall appoint some discreet per
C°mml" son, a commissioner. who, with the agent appointed under
'
be the act passed at the session of the General Assembly held
§',',’,',‘,‘,’,'.,t,",,i

:’z'r;l:;G°' on the third Monday of November, A. D. 1840, entitled
“ An act authorising the Governor to appoint an agent in
the County of Macon or Cherokee,” shall constitute a

board charged with the following duties, that is to say.
the board shall, as soon as conveniently may be, care

g';?;:L_°f fully examine all the bonds given by purchasers of
‘ioner Ind Cherokee lands, and ascertain in which of said bonds the

‘gum

principals are solvent, and in which the principals are
insolvent; and when this examination shall have been
completed, they shall make out duplicate lists of each

class of bonds, settingr out therein the names of the prin
cipals and their sureties ; the amount of the.said bonds;

the payments, if any, made thereon ; and the residue due
upon the same, respectively; and shall certify, under
their hands, that the said lists contain a true and faith
ful account of the matters stated therein ; and shall trans
mit, without delay, one list of each class of bonds to the

Governor, and the said agent shall retain the other of
said lists.
Inwlvems

Sec. 2.

The Governor is hereby authorised, to

shall sur

,,,,de, me cancel or surrender up to be cancelled all the bonds

;1‘:::dl;"n'é in which the principals shall be certiﬁed to be insol
bereleassd vent when their securities are purchasers as aforesaid,
£';’|;;a:i:')‘:; upon the following conditions, that is to say, that the
purchasers respectively, their heirs, devisees or assigns,
shall, within three months after such lists shall have been
made, surrender to the said agent, for the use of the State,

possession of the lands purchased, with all houses and
other improvements which have now been made or shall
. be made thereon at the time of such surrender ; and that
the purchasers, their heirs, devisees or assigns respective

ly shall deliver to the Governor a written surrender or
release of all right under such purchases, and of all claim
to any money which may have been paid on account
thereof; and if the said purchasers, their heirs, devisees,
or assigns, shall fail, refuse, or neglect to surrender pos

session of the said lands, with all the improvements there
on, and deliver to the Governor a written surrender or

release
to any money
of all right
which
under
may
such
have
purchases,
been paid
and on
of all
account
claim gzriesdugzgj
thereof, within the time prescribed in this section, then it e,',,,,t',h,,11

shall be the duty of the Governor to direct the collection hing ‘““
of the bonds given by such purchasers, by causing suit
to be brought thereon.

Sec. 3.

In order to ascertain to the Governor the

performance by the parties respectively of the said pre- Release“
cedent conditions, the said written release shall be proved h°“' P'°v'
or acknowledged before one of the Judges or m one of
the Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of this State ;

or, where the parties or witnesses reside beyond the State,
shall be proved or acknowledged in the mode prescribed
either by the 5th, 6th, or 16th section of the Revised
Statutes, entitled -“ Deeds and Conveyances ;” and the
said agent shall certify to the Governor that possession
of the lands, with the improvements, has been surrendered Agent to

to him as required by the second section of this act : af- Certify.
ter which, and not before, -the Governor may cancel or
deliver up to be cancelled the said bonds respectively.

Sec. 4. Oninthe
bondsaforesaid
in which to
thebeprincipals
be ascertained
manner
solvent, shall
pay-I How so!_
ment shall and may be received in the manner and at vent bonds
the times following, that is to say, one twentieth part of

the principal and interest shall be paid on the ﬁrst day
of December, 1845 ; and one twentieth of the principal
and interest due on said ﬁrst day of December, 1845, to

gether with all accruing interest thereon, - shall be paid
on the twenty-ﬁfth December in each and every year
thereafter, until the payment of the whole shall be made:
Providcd, that if the parties to any of said bonds shall
fail to make the said payments, or any of them, at the
Prov he.

time when the same shall respectively become due, the
Governor may direct the immediate collection by suit of
the whole amount which may be due on such bonds at
the time of such failure : and provided also, that when by
any report of said agent to the Treasurer, which may be
made under the ﬁrst section of the before recited act, it .

shall appear that the debtors bound by such bonds, or any
of them, are in doubtful circumstances. it shall be the

duty of the Governor to direct the immediate collection
by suit of the full amount due on. such bond or bonds ;
and the Treasurer shall, immediately after receiving any
report she,wing any such matters, communicate the same

to the Governor for his action thereupon.

Sec 5.
‘1'°mmiH-

Before entering upon the duties prescribed

by this Act, the said agent and commissioner shall, be

and fore the Governor, or one of the Judges of the Supreme
‘"1
or Superior Courts, take and subscribe an oath faithfully

and diligently, without favor, partiality or prejudice, to
discharge all the said duties; and if the said oath shall
be taken before a Judge, the same shall be transmitted to

the Governor and kept by him’.

Their

Sec. 6. As a full compensation for the performance
by them of the duties mentioned in the ﬁrst section of
pay.
this act, the said agent and commissioner shall each be
entitled to receive two dollars for each day he shall be
necessarily employed therein, to be allowed by the Gov
ernor. upon the affidavits of the said agent and commis
sioner, verifying the number of days so employed, and,

when allowed, to be paid out of the public treasury :pro
vided, that neither the said agent nor commissioner shall
receive, on account of such services, more in the whole
than two hundred dollars.
The provisions of the act passed at the last Session,
entitled “ An Act more effectually to secure the debts Provision,
due for Cherokee lands and to facilitate the collection of
the same,” are extended to the securities of insolvent pur. ties of in.

chasers, whenever it is ascertained to the Governor by “°"""“
purchaser:
the agent of the State, the principals are so insolvent
' and have removed beyond the limits of the State, so that
releases from them cannot be had, then and in that case,
whenever the said securities, as aforesaid, shall release

in manner prescribed, for the principals in said act, the
Governor shall be, and he is hereby authorized to deliver
up such bonds, to be cancelled in the same manner as if
such releases were made by the principals; any thing in
that law, to which this is an amendment, to the contrar)r

notwithstanding.
VVhereas, it appears that some tracts of land were
materially interfered with by Indian Reservations, for Preamble.
which payments have been made into the Public Treasury,
and to which the provisions ofthe present law do not ex
tend, according to the opinion of the Attorney General,
under said act: for remedy whereof,
Be it enacted by the General Assembly ‘of the State of
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
qf the same, That the provisions of an act passed in 1830,
entitled “ An Act for the relief of purchasers of the Cher-

M

okee lands,” shall extend to all cases where the pur- where pur
chase
well asmoney
wherehas
the bonds
been paid
are held
intoby
the
thePublic
PublicTreasury,
Treasurer;
as

and in case the interest or any portion of the principal
should under, the provisions of said act be remitted, then
and in that case, the Public Treasurer is hereby au

thorized to refund to the person or persons paying the
same, such sum as may be adjudged to them under the
provisions of said statute,

16

salmon:-zr. nouns AND LANDS.

Ch. 13,
It shall be the duty of the agent appointed to
receive payment for Cherokee lands, to attend at the
town of Murphy, in the county of Cherokee, on the three
ﬁrst days of each Superior Court for said county, for the
purpose of receiving payments upon all bonds entrusted
to his care by virtue of such agency.
Ch. 14.

Preamble.

WVhereas, under the Act of the last General Assem
bly, entitled “an act more effectually to secure the debts
due for Cherokee lands, and to facilitate the collection of
the same,” several tracts of land, commonly known as
the Cherokee lands, were surrendered to the State, and
ought to be again sold, as well to secure homes to the
ﬁrst purchasers, as for the beneﬁt of the State, no re

venue whatever being derived by the State from said
lands at present : for remedy whereof,
,
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of

lorlh Caroling, imd it is herehy‘enacted by the authority of
Land8 up the same, That all the lands sui-renderedby insolvents. un
rendered

der the provisions of said act, shall be again sold,under the

sgnilzsfgbe following rules and restrictions, that is to say, the County
tiOld under Court of Cherokee, (a majority of the Justices of said
of board County bemg present) shall appomt one discreetperson,
:;Pg::‘::l residing in Cherokee county, and the Governor shall ap
valuation

and the

point two others, not residents of Cherokee county, who

G°"""°" shall constitute a board of valuation, whose duty it shall
be to value the lands so surrendered to the State, at a
fair cash valuation, in the following manner: 1st, at

their present worth, including the improvements placed
upon them, by the former purchasers, or their assigns:
2nd, the worth of said lands when sold by the State in
September, 1838, including such improvements as were
on them at that time: taking into consideration in both

cases the locality of said lands, and the facilities the pur.
chasers may have in the transportation of their produce
to market; and the said board of valuation shall make

out duplicate lists of each class of valuation, as soon as
may be, one copy of each class of such lists to be ﬁled in
the clerk’s oﬁice of the County Court of Cherokee, and the
other they shall transmit to the Governor ; and such copy
ﬁled in the elerk’s office, asby this act directed, shall be

klept by the clerk among the records of said Court: Pro
vided, that in no case shall the board of valuation hereby
authorized place a less valuation upon the aforesaid
land, than the rate ﬁxed by the Act of Assembly of 1836,
for the respective classes.
'
,
‘
Sec. 2.‘

The ﬁrst purchasers who have surren

dered said lands, their heirs, devisees, or assignees,Pm.°mp.

respectively, shall have a pre.emption right to purchase

lion right
to ﬁrst pur

the lands they, or either of them, have so surrendered, at chasers, 6;
how bonds
the second valuation
by
_
‘ said board: Provided, the right are paya
of pre-emptmn afolesmd, shall extend to no assignee, who ble
may have b-ecome such since the surrender aforesaid;
the said purchasers first paying one fourth of the pur- ,

chase money, and giving bond with two or more ap

proved securities, (each of whom shall be considered good
in his individual capacity for Zhewhole debt,) to the agent

of the State heretofore appointed under the act passed at
the session of the General Assembly, held on the 3rd
Monday of November, A. D. 1810, entitled “ an act au
thorizing the Governor to appoint an agent, in the county
of Macon or Cherokee ;” and such bonds, for the residue

of the payment of the purchase money, shall be made
payable, in four equal annual instalments, bearing in

terest from date ; and upon such bonds, when due and

unpaid, suit shall be brought as upon the other bonds
given for Cherokee lands, under the laws now in force
concerning Cherokee bonds : Provided, nevertheless, that

no suit shall be instituted in any Court of the State, when
the amount due is within the jurisdiction of a Justice of
the Peace; and in all such cases, the agent is hereby re
quired to warrant for the same before some Justice of
the Peace; And provided further, that in all cases where
it may be necessary to bring a suit in Court, on any of
the Cherokee bonds, the amount due and owing by the

same parties, (although the same may be on severa
bonds) shall be consolidated in one action.
‘
Sec. 3. If the person or persons, who surren
N lJ°lMrlstiered said lands, his, her, or their heirs, devisees, or
;:l;:e::dr- assigns, should fail to comply with the requisitions of the
do no,
second section ofthis act within three months after the
c°mP|y' =* valuation by the said board. then and in that case, the
gent tosell
or report said agent for the State is hereby authorized and required
t° G°""' to sell and dispose of any tract or tracts so surrendered,
110:‘ who

shall di. to any other person or persons desirous of purchasing the
met public
ad.)
same, at the price
of improved
lands. upon such pur~
chaser or purchasers ﬁrst paying one fourth of the pur
chase rrioney and giving the necessary bonds as required
in said second section: Provided however, that if the
Agent of the State shall not be able to sell or dispose of
the said lands at the price of improved lands, as herein
provided, within six months from the expirationof the
three months mentioned in this section, then, and in that

case it shall be his duty to report that fact forthwith to
the Governor of the State, accompanied by a list of all
such lands, so remaining unsold; and the Governor, if

he shall deem the same expedient, shall appoint one or
two commissioners, as in his judgment may be deemed
necessary, to superintend the sale of the said lands, at
public auction, who, before entering on the discharge of
their duty, shall execute to the Governor, for the use of
the State, bond With approved security, in the sum of ten
thousand dollars each, conditioned for the faithful per
formance of their duty, and accounting for all monies
coming into their hands by virtue of their appointment
as commissioners aforesaid.
Sec 4. In the event of a public sale being directed
G°""‘°' by the Governor, as aforesaid, it shall be his duty to ad
to adververtise the same, for at least six weeks in not less than “BO; all}!
three newspapers of this State, setting forth the time and
placeof sale, which shall beheld at the town of Murphy,
in the County of Cherokee, and at such time as the Gov
ernor may appoint; and he shall also set forth, in the
said advertisement, the terms!‘ and conditions of the said .

sale, which shall be the same as those mentioned in the
second section of this act; and the Commissioners, ap

pointed as aforesaid, shall make a full report of their pro
ceedings, together with an account of the cash by them
received, to the Governor, within two months from the
close of the said sales; and shall pay over, at the same

time, to the Public Treasurer, all sums of money by them;
received on account of said sales; for which services

they shall be allowed such sum as the Governor may
deemju_st and reasonable, not exceeding three dollars

per day;for every day they may be engaged in travelling

to the place and superintending the said sales, and mak
ing the necessary returns to the seat of Government:
Provided however, that the public sale, hereby authorized,
shall not continue for a longer time than two weeks.
Src. 5.. \Vhenever it shall appear to said agent, that
,, a part of any tract of land surrendered under the act of
1844, had been previously sold by the purchaser from the Hm" age“
State to any other person or persons, then and in that t,:h:,,m;,e,,er‘:

case, it shall be the duty of the agent to have due regard 2;“ b"e':n°“'
to the interests of such sub purchaser at the time of sur- sold.
render, and to re-sell to each, under the provisions of this

act, according to the interest he or she may have had at
the time of such surrender.
"'
.,.
Sec. 6}. The pre-emption right,granted by the second
section of this act, shall not extend toany person or per-1?'°'°"'P'
imn to set
sons who are not actual settlers on the lands, or who do his only,

not desire to become perrnanent residents in'said coun
ties of Cherokee and Macon:

Provided, that nothing in

this act contained, shall interfere with any right which
any person or personsymay have acquired under any ex
isting law of the State.
Sec. 7.

Each and every purchaser of any section or

-pmh sections of said land, having obtained a certificate from

:fi':g'tn;’::‘tf§ the board constituted by this act, shall have full power
and authority to institute an action of ejectment in the
name of the State of North Carolina, against any person
or persons, who may be in possession of such section of
land, and shall, on application, refuse to deliver up quiet
and peaceable possession thereof, or ‘who shall intrude
upon said purchasers, after they enter into possession, or
who may hold over after their tenancy shall have ex
pired. And the certiﬁcate of the board, to such pur
chaser, or his assignee. shall be evidence of title and

right to sustain said action : Provided nevertheless, the
said purchaser sh-tll give bond and security for the pay
ment of all costs accruing in said action, in case of his

failure to recover.
Sso.8. As a full compensation for the performance
by them of the duties herein required, the said board shall
C;mp,,,. be allowed the sum of three dollars, each, for every day
‘Sud they may be necessarily engaged in the discharge of the
agent.
duties herein imposed, to be paid by the agent of the
Cherokee lands, out rof monies in his hand. upon the
affidavits of each of the members of said board, setting
forth the number of days each may have so served ; the
receipt of the members of which board shall be received
by the Public Treasurer, from the said Cherokee agent
as cash, in any future settlement with him; and the said
agent shall be allowed such compensation for the services
required of him by this act. as the ‘Governor, Treasurer
and Comptroller may allow. upon satisfactory proof made
to them, of the number of days which the said agent may
' have served, or ' such other evidence of the amount of
service performed by him under this act ; which compen
sation shall in no case amount to more than two dollars
per day, for each whole day, the said agent may have

been so employed.
How restored to persons convicted of infamous crimes.
1840-1.—Ch. 3 6.

Suci 1. _ Any person either now or "hereafter con
victed of any infamous crime, whereby the rights of Rules for‘
citizenship are forfeited, may be restored to the same un-restoring

der the following rules and regulations : First, he shall
ﬁle
his petition in' the Superior Court of Law, setting cl

P.

forth his conviction and the punishment inﬂicted, and
shall state therein his place or places of residence, and
his occupation since his conviction. and shall also state
the'meritorious causes, which, in his opinion, entitle him

to be restored to his forfeited rights. Secondly, upon
ﬁling the petition, the,Clerk of the Court shall advertise
the substance thereof, at .the Court House door of his

county, for the space of three months next before the
Court, when the petitioner proposes that the same shall
be heard. Thirdly, at the hearing thereof, the Court, on
being satisﬁed of the truth of the facts set forth in the
petition, and on its being proved by ﬁve respectable wit
nesses, who have been acquainted with the petilioner’s
character for three years next preceding the ﬁling of the

petition, that his character for truth and honesty during
that time has been good, shall decree his restoration to
the lost rights of citizenship, and the petitioner shall ac

cordingly be restored thereto.

Sac.
At the hearing of such petition, no deposi- No dePosi_
tion relatmg to the character of the petitioner shall be “OM to be
read, and the Court shall examine all proper testimony, used‘
which may be otferpd either by the petitioner, or any
who may oppose the grant of his prayer.

t1;°l;2'nﬁ1|le°$

Sec. 3. ‘N0 petition for the purposes aforesaid shall

in |,,,th,,Ln be ﬁled within less time than fopr years of conviction.
4 years.

Sec. 4. The petition shall be ﬁled in the county
Whm thewhere the indictment was found, upon which the convic
Elizillligilizr tion took place; and, in case the petitioner may have
his pemion been convicted of an infamous crime more than once, and

indictments for the same may have been found in dif
ferent counties, then the petition shall be ﬁled in that

county where the last indictment was found.

F

No perm
Sec. 5. If any person, who has once been restored
to receive to the forfeited rights of citizenship under this Act, shall
the beneﬁt
of
mi’ Act afterwards commit an infamous crime, he shall not again
more than have the beneﬁt of this Act, but shall remain infamous.
once.

.

.Sr.c. 6.
Females

Females may have the beneﬁt of this Act

as well as males; and in every case the petitioner shall
give bond with security, payable to the State, for the

Bond to be costs of the application, which costs shall be paid by the
M applicant. ‘_ _
Sec. 1.

JWhcre any appointment shall be made. by

a Judgeof the Superior Court, in pursuance of the pow
¢E3,n;p°JvY,::?_ers vested in him by law, of a Clerk of any Superior
“S to ad‘ Court, and it may not be convenient for the said Judge
:';il.‘l,isl:‘fr0i'. personally to administer the oaths or tak\e the bonds re
|

ii” and ‘° quired from a Clerk, it shall and may be lawful for the

said Judge to issue a commission to any two Justices of
the Peace of the county for the Superior Court of which
the said Clerk is appointed, to take the oath and bonds
required by law ;, and it shall be the duty of the said Jus

. take bonds.
tices, to administer the said oaths, ta cause them to be

subscribed by the Clerk appointed, and to take the said

bonds, and to return the bonds and oaths so taken, to the

next term of the Superior Court of Law for their County.
Sec. 2. Upon failure of any person so appointed, to Y
exhibit to the Superior Court of his county, at the term

next succeeding his appointment, such evidence ofhis bond given?‘
appoint

having taken the oaths or having given the bonds; or in ment va_g ' ‘
case of the bonds so given, being unsatisfactory to the "M
Judge holding the Court next after such appointment, the
said appointment is hereby declared to be vacated, and
,
the Judge holding the Court shall proceed to make an

appointment according to law.

I“
Whenever any Clerk of the County Court of any
county within this State shall die, after the adjournment Vacancies
of the Court and before the setting of the Court next suc- :;’i:"d_s“P'

ceeding, not having a lawful deputy, it shall be the duty
of the Sheriff of such county to summon the magistrates
of the county to meet at the court house of the county,

within ﬁfteen days after the demise of such clerk ; a ma
jority of whom shall proceed to elect a clerk, who shall
hold oﬂice until the next regular election by the people,
he giving bonds and taking the prescribed oaths, as in
other elections under the Act, Reyised Statutes, chap.
19, section 5.
Hereafter it shall and may be lawful for a majority By"“,b°m,
or twelve of the acting magistrates in the several coun-the bind:

ties
in
this
State to take the official
bonds of the clerks ma
mil 0' M

of their respective County Courts.

1844.5.—Ch. 5.

om“, to

Sec. 1.

It shall belthei duty‘of the County Solicitor,

E; °;;'"bl:' at, or shortly before. the session of each and every County
licitor.
Court, to examine the oﬂices of,the Registers and of the
Clerks of the County and Superior Courts, for the purpose
of ascertaining whether inventories, accounts of sale, ac
counts current, wills, deeds -and bills of sale, reports,

Po‘viso.

official bonds, and all other papers required to be re
corded and registered,’ have been duly recorded and
registered according to law; and also whether the
several dockets of the Courts have been written out and
kept up in due and proper manner: Provided, that the
County Courts of the respective counties, a majority of
the Justices being present, may make an order dispensing
with such examination and report ; and providedfurther,
that the County Attorneys, shall not make the examina
tion until after-thirty days from the rise of the Court.

Sec. 2. Such examinations shall take place in the
Examina- presence of the respective oﬂicers.
tion in pre

eence of

oﬂicers.

Sec. 3. A faithful report shall be made in wntmg
by the Solicitor aforesaid, of the several matters hereby.

Solicitor Wdirected to be examined,specially stating in what respect,

if any, there has been omission of their duty by the ofﬁ
cers aforesaid, in the matters aforesaid: which reports
shall be made to the County Courts at every session there
of, except those which concern the Superior Court ; and
these shall be made to the Attorney General or Solicitor

of said Court, at each and every term of said Court.
Sec. 4. When it shall appear, by such report, that

:2“%°ft there has been any omission of duty in any of the officers
our
in one ofaforesaid, the County Court, or the prosecuting officer in

°mi“l°“ ofthe Superior Court, if in their or his opinion the public
duties.

mterest require it, may cause an indictment to be in

stituted for such reported breach or breaches of‘duty ;
and on conviction, the defendant shall be ﬁned, or ﬁned

andremoved from his office, at the discretion of the Court.
Sec. 5.

The several County Courts shall allow the Pay of th.

Solicitor adequate compensation for the duties hereby S°“°“°‘
required of him, to be determined by the ~Court, a ma
jority of the Justices being present, or by any number of
trustees which by special law may be authorized to allow
claims against the County.
Sec. 6.

Whenever, upon death or resignation, re

moval from oﬂice, or at the expiration of his term‘ ofg£:°a‘;ig:°of
oﬂice, it may appear that any‘of the oﬂicers aforesaid any of the

shall have failed to discharge any of the duties aforesaid ?§,‘fﬁ 5::
of his office, the Courtshall cause the same to be per- coll" shall
formed by another person, who shall receive for such fsiizfsdoéu.

services the fees allowed by law ; and such portion :::m:‘t’edl:°
thereof as may be paidby the County maybe recovered
back by the County by suit on the ofiicial bond of such
oﬂicer, to be brought in the‘ name of the Countysueing.

Sec. 7. This actpshall not be so construed as to
prevent any of the said officers from being indicted for
breach of duty, as now prescribed by law.

‘ 1842-3.—Ch.50.

; ,, _,
,Si:c. 1.

The

lerks and Masters of the Courts of

Equity, shall be, each one of them, a Commissioner to
take depositions to be read in any suit in Equity, and as aulhoriwl
such, they are hereby authorized to administer all neces- ;,:;§ﬁ,i°'
sary oaths for that purpose, and, in the taking of deposi
tions, shall have all the power and means of compelling
the attendance of witnesses and of compelling them to
give testimony as other Commissioners have ; and all de
positions taken by them shall be subject to the same rules,

as govern depositions taken by other Commissioners.
The
Clerks and Masters shall
be entitled for '
pmmiom takmg depositions, to such compensation as may be al

Theireom-

lowed them by the Court to which the depositions are re
turnable, to be paid as the Court may direct by either
party, or by both, in such proportions as the Court shall
decree, to be taxed with and aspart of the costs.
l846-7.—Ch. 52.
' I

See. 1.
A succss-

Whenever any land has been sold by a de
.

nor to a cree of the Court of Equity, and the purchase money has
gllzglcerand been paid and no title conveyed to the purchaser, and the
may make Clerk and Master, who made such sale, has died or is out
:,,::“;:,y' of ofﬁce, his successor in oiﬁce shall make and execute a

land S°1d- conveyance to such purchaser for the land so sold.
Sec. 1. Hereafter one Engrossing Clerk shall be ap-'
0” En_ pointed by the General Assembly, at the commencement
growing

ofits session; and all other Engrossing Clerks which

§,3,',§",,'f‘,d“‘b*y may be needed, not exceeding two, shall be appointed as
tllﬂgislazh the business may require it, by the Principal Clerks of
agleli; . the two Houses; and the pay of such clerks shall com
cl°'k"

menee from the day of appointment:

Prpvided, that no

one of the said clerks Shall receive more than three dol
lars per day as compensation for his services.
18‘l6-7.—0h. 63.

Term of
Sec. 1. The Principal Clerk of the Senate, and
dies of Principal Clerk of the House of Commons, shall hold their

respective ofﬁces for the term of two years. or until others the princi
are appointed, and shall meet at such time and place as Pal Cl°""'
may be appointed for the meeting of the General Assem
bly, by adjournment or otherwise, on the ﬁrst day ap
pointed for that purpose, and perform the duties of their
oﬂice ; for which they shall receive the per diem pay and
mileage now allowed by law to said ofﬁce.
SEC. 1.

It shall and may be lawful for any person

or persons employed under and by virtue of an Act ofAut1,o,;z"

the Congress of the United States, passed the 10th day LLjnsl;At;
of February, A._D. 1807, and any supplements thereto, rgnake sur

at any time hereafter, to enter upon any lands within veys‘
this State, for the purpose olf exploring, surveying, trian
gulating, or levelling, or doing any other matter or thing
which may be -necessary to elfect the objects of said Act
and its supplements, and erect any works, stations, build
ings or appendages requisite for that purpose, doing no
‘unnecessary injury to private or other property.
Sec. 2. In case of an entry being made upon any
lands as aforesaid, for the purposes aforesaid in this Act, Mode_ of
the person so authorised to make the entry and do proceeding

other acts provided for’in this Act,may tender to the gggzgn
party injured a reaspnable compensation for any injury
or damage done to or upon. lands so entered upon ; and
if the parties cannot agree as to the amount of damages,
then, either party may call upon any Justice of the Peace
‘in the county in Which said land lies, who shall summons

three disinterested freeholders of the county,’ who being
duly sworn by some Justice, or other person authorised
to administer an oath, to do justice between the parties,

shall proceed to hear the testimony, or upon their owe
view of the lands, upon the matters in dispute, and they,
or a majority of them, shall assess the damages sustained
by the owner or possessor of the lands so entered upon ;
‘ and inthe event of either party being dissatisfied with
the assessment made by said frecholders. the party so dis
satisﬁed, may pray an appealjto the next County Codrt of
the county in which the land so entered upon lies; and in
the event of such an appeal, the said frecholders shall
make a return of their proceedings in the matter in wri
ting, to the said Court, which shall be considered and
acted upon by the said Court as an appeal from a Justice
of the Peace in civil cases isnow considered and acted
upon, and be left to a jury in like manner as such appeals
are, and the same costs shall be taxed as in such appeals.
Sno. 3. No decision of the question of damages shall
be made by said frecholders, until it is made to appear
to them that the parties interested have had five days

N9“°° re~notice of the time and place at which, and when, they
quired.
will sit to hear the matter in dispute, and that they shall
be allowed the sum of two dollars each for adjudicating
the matter.
‘
SEO. 4. Upon the ﬁnal decision of the,dispute as to
damages, if the pai'ty'whb seeks to recover damages for
injury done to'or upon his lands, does not recover a larger
0! costs. sum than the party m"aking entry on the lands has or may
offer before the trial, as a compensation for such damages,
then he shall be liable for all the costs incurred, as well
thoselbefore the frecholders, as the costs in Court.

Sec. 5. If any person or persons shall wilfully in
jure, or deface, or remove any signal monument, build
ings or appendages thereto erected, used, or constructed
‘:5 by virtue of this act, or the act of Congress, herein before

wbrka.

mentioned, such person or persons, so offending shall
.severally forfeit and pay for each and every otfence, the
sum of one hundred dollars, to be sued for and recovered
. before any tribunal in this State, whose jurisdiction extends to that sum in civil suits, by any person who may
sue for the same, half the money to be paid in the Trea-Till ' ,_,,

sury of the County where the offence is committed, the
other half to the informer; and further, be or they shall
be liable in an action on the case, for any injury or in
juries so committed, to be sued and recovered for the
beneﬁt, and in the name of the United States, before any

Court of competent jurisdiction in this State.
..""q

Sec. 6. This act shall go into effect from and after
its passage ; and all laws and clauses of laws com
ing within the meaning and purview of this act, be, and


the same are hereby repealed.

1838-9.—Ch. S.

U i‘

AN ACT to divide the Counties into School Districts and

W for other purposes.
[This Act supersededby an Act passed at the Session

of 1844-5, Ch, 36, and an Act at the Session of 1846-7,
Ch. 106.

[This Act is also superseded by the Acts last mentioned]
[This Act' superseded
1S42-3.—Ch.
in like
58. manner.]

Sec. 1. The nett annual income of the Literary
Fund, (exclusive of monies arising from the sale of How fund
Swamp Lands) shall annually be distributed among the :'_“tl|,bb: d
several Counties of this State, in the ratio of their Federal H H u 

population, to beiascertained by the census next preced
ing such distribution.
Sec. 2.
The Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions

Com, ,0 of the Counties which have adopted the School system,
“PP°““- shall, at the Term next preceding the ﬁrst Monday of

' October, in each and every year, a majority of the Jus
tices of the Peace of said County being present, appoint
not less than ﬁve nor more than ten, Superintendents of
Common Schools, who shall hold their appointments for
one year, and until others are chosen.

when

Sec. 3.

The term of said superintendents shall com

mence on the ﬁrst Monday of October, and they shall as
mence and semble at the ofﬁce of the Clerk of the County Court,
°h“'""““ on the day thereafter and appoint one of their number
may be appointed.

Chairman.

Sno. 4. The Clerk of the County Court shall be ex
oﬂicio clerk of the Board of superintendents, and shall re
Clerk of cord in a book to be kept for that purpose, the proceed
the Board. ings of the board, and such other papers touching the
‘
subject of Common Schools, as the board may direct; and
shall safely keep all papers which may be committed to
his custody by said board.
'
Sec. 5.

The share of the Literary Fund, to which

$22211° each County may be entitled, under the provisions of this
and how Act, shall be due and payable on or before the ﬁrst Mon

Paul’

day of October, in each and every year, and shall be paid
to the chairman of the board of superintendents or his
lawful attorney, upon the warrant of the Comptroller.

Tu my;
Sec. 6. The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of
be levied each and every County, a majority of the Justices being

:§dCc°°‘H:,_ present, may in their discretion levy a tax in the same
2: Pg,’
ﬁll

.

manner that other County taxes are now levied for other
common scuoons.
County purposes, which shall not be less than one half
of the estimated amount to be received by said County
for that year from the Literary Fund ; and the Sheriff is
hereby required to collect and pay over the same to the
chairman of the board of superintendents on the day of
their ﬁrst meeting as prescribed in the third section of
this act ; and his bond given, to secure the payment of
"County,-taxes, shall contain a condition for the faithful 1: ’
collection and payment of the school taxes to the persoh
' authorized to receive the same ; and for a breach of said

condition by the Sheriff, the chairman of the? board of
superintendents shall have the same remedies against
him and his securities, as are given to the County Trustee
for enforcing the payment of ordinary County taxes: ex
cept that his right of actiori shall arise‘ on the ﬁrst day

of November ineach and every year, and the Sheritf’s
penalty shall go to the use of Commop Schoiils in his

County.
Sec. 7. The Board of Superintendents shall have
_
power to lay off in their Counties School Districts, and
number the same of such form and size as they may think laid °‘£
most conducive' to the convenience of the inhabitants of
' said County, and alsoto ‘alter the boundaries of the same,
causing said boundaries and such alteratiopsto4 be re
corded by their Clerk in the book in which the record of
their proceedings is kept.
Sec. 8. The free white men of the several School
Districts, who are entitled to vote for members of the S°h°°l,

i House of Commons, on the last Saturday in September §§£‘T{1i?
in each apd every year, shall vote by ballot for ‘three “
men, to be entitled “ The School Committee,” whose term

shall commence on the ﬁrst Monday in Octpber and con
tinue for one year, and until others are chosen; and

said election shall be held at such convenient place in
the school districts severally, as the said superintendents

common scuoou.

may designate; and the three persons having the highest
number of votes at such election, shall be declared elec

ted as the “ School Committee” of their respective dis
tricts; and the superintendents shall have power to ﬁll
tymjrcdfdofany vacancy which may occur in said committee by death,
ig‘é6'7£s°:; removal, or other cause.
Poslea.)

The chairman of the board of

superintendents, whose term of service is to expire on the

ﬁrst Monday of October, shall give public notice in wri
ting at three or more public places in each district, of the
election to be held as provided in this section, at least
ten days before the day of such election ; and the said
board of superintendents shall appoint two freeholders of
the district to conduct such election of the " school com
mittee.” The said freeholders shall give to the board of
superintendents. whose term of service commences on the

first Monday of October, on the day of their ﬁrst meeting;
as prescribed in the third section of this act, a certiﬁcate
under their hands, of the number of votes received by
each person ; and the said board shall declare the three

persons receiving the highest number of votes the
“ school committee,” as herein provided: provided, never
theless, that whenever the districts fail to make an elec
Proviso.

tion, the board of superintendents shall appoint the school
committee, who shall continue in ofﬁce till others are

chosen at the next annual election : And whenever the
people, or any number of persons of any district, may
consider themselves aggrieved by the committee, or any
of the committee.men of their respective districts, an ap
peal may be taken or had to the board of superintendents
of common schools ; and said board shall have power to

appear and decide on the merits of all such complaints,
and also have power to remove any committee.man, who,
in their opinion, has violated his duty, and, in case of such

removal, to appoint another in his stead.

Sec. 9.

Each committee of the several school distriets shall be, and is hereby constituted a body corporate,
rncorpora

mi.

by the name and style of“ School Committee of District
number — of the County of
,” as the case may be ;
and in that name shall be capable of purchasing and
holding real and personal estate for school purposes ; of
selling and transferring the same ; and prosecuting and
defending all suits for and against said corporation.
Sec. 10. Whenever suit is brought against any
“school district,” the process shall be by summons; atS"“ol‘*1'gb't‘_°W
copy of which shall be left with some one of the com
mittee of said district.

Sec. 11. It shall be the duty of the school committee Schooi
to designate and purchase or lease, or receive by dona. house, how
tion, a suitable site for a school house, as near the central b“m'
4“.n‘_-__';.4_‘.n. :-~‘.r

part of each district as may be convenient ; to hire, pur
chase, build or receive by donation, a school house of such

form and dimensions as they may deem suitable.
Sec. 12. The school committee shall, in one month Commit“,
after their appointment, report in writing to the chairman to rePMt
of thqboard of superintendents the number and names

of

of the white children in their districts, of five and under
twenty-one years of age.
Sec. 13. It shall be the duty of the school com
mittees to contract with a suitable teacher for their Teacher!
respective districts, for such time as the monies to which l;:iv,:t;,p;nd

said district may be entitled will permit; and strict re-their dmi"
gard shall be had to the qualiﬁcation and moral charac
ter of said teacher: it shall be the duty of the teacher, at
the end of the time for which he was employed, to give
to the committee the number and names of the children
who may have gone to his school, specifying the number
of days each one went ; and upon his rendering this

statement, the committee shall pay him by giving an
order on the chairman. ,And no committee-man, whilst

acting as such, shall be a teacher in any common school.

Sec. 14. Any branch of English education may be
3,v}iL“m:;‘,d taught in said schools: and all white persons over. the
be taught. age of four years shall be permitted to attend the School
of their district, as scholars, and receive instruction there

in : Provided, That the children in any one district may,
by the consent of two or more superintendents, attend the
schools in any adjoining district‘

SEC. 15.. It shall i be the duty of said school com
mittees to visit the schools from time to time, and gen

Committee
to visit and erally to perform all such duties as they may deem ne

contmumg
Schools.

cessa-ry to the successful operation of said schools ; and

said committees shall have power to umte with individuals
or other districts for the purpose ofraising a sum sufﬁcient
to carry on their schools for the longest time.

Bond“,
SEC. 1.6. Within one month after the school com
ma" “Pd mittee shall have reported to the chairman the number
determme

number of of children 1nthe1r respectwe districts, the chairman shall

‘°“°he-’s" call a meeting of the board, who shall determine how
and money
shall be

many teachers are necessary for each district of their
County; and the monies, received from the Literary Fund
tio.

Chairman

and from the County taxes, shall be distributed among
the school districts of their County in the ratio of the
number of teachers. required.
'
Sec. 17.

It shall be the duty of'the chairman of the

mgivef 110- board of superintendents to give notice, by written pub
tice 0 a
mount due

each diB-

lication at the Court House door of each County, of the '
amount due each school district in the County in which

‘rich

publication shall be made, soon after the money is first
received.

Sec. 18. The Board of Superintendents shall have
1_1ag“la- power, and they are hereby authorized, to make such
tions board
may make, other regulations relating to the schools of their County,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as they
may deem necessary to the usefulness of said schools.

Sec. 19- The school committees shall annually, on
or before the ﬁrst Monday of October of each and every
year, make a report to the Board of Superintendents, committee.
shewing the number and names of children in their res
pective dist-ri-cts, who have received instruction at their
schools the preceding year ; the length of time the same
was kept up; the name of the teacher and the amount
paid him ; and such other facts in relation to their schools
as theyr may deem expedient.
Sec. 20. It shall be the duty of the Board of Super
intendents to keep a true and just account of all monies
received and expended by them, during the year for

which they shall have been chosen, when and of whom re- Superin
ceived, and for what and to whom paid, and the balai1ce,l'~mdEmtsto
keep an

if any, remaining on hand; and shall lay the same be- account,
fore the Committee of Finance of their respective col1n-2:3,r'Lay It
ties; and if no Committee of Finance, then before the c°mml"e°

support
Clerk of of
thetheCounty
charges
Court,
therein
together
made,
with
on the
or vouchers
before the
in ;:l;:rtS:‘o“ll
second Monday of October, in each year ; which account Lit. Board.

it shall be the duty of the said Committee of Finance, or
the Clerk of the County Court, as the case may be, to
carefully examine, and if found correct, to certify the

same: and the chairman shall annually, within ﬁfteen
days after the first day of November, report in writing to
the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, or to
such other ofﬁcer or Board as may be appointed by the
General Assembly to manage said fund, a copy of the above
account together with the number of children in his

county—the number who may have been taught in the
schools of his County the preceding year; for what time
the schools may have been kept up in the several dis
tricts ; with such other facts and suggestions as he may

deem useful; and he shall make two additional copies of
said‘report---one of which he shall ﬁle with the Clerk of
the.Board, to be recorded in the Book in which are kept all the proceedings of the board, and the other he shall

put up for public inspection in some conspicuous place
in the court house of his county.
Sec. 21. If in settling their accounts as required by
Board to the foregoing section, any balance shall be remaining in
32:°2)!‘

the hands of the said board of superintendents, or any of

successors-them, the same shall immediately be paid by them or
him, to his or their successors in office: and if the pay
ment of the same be improperly delayed, it shall be the
duty of such successors in office, to bring suit in their
name of office, in the Superior or County Court of their
County, for its recovery with interest.

Sec. 22. If the Board of Superintendents, or any
MiSaPPH_ member thereof, in this"State, shall misapply to purposes

cation of unconnected with CommonnSchools, any of the school
‘ {:“l‘l‘}‘,!s'f')l’r'fn~ funds placed in the possession of the said Board, or any
member thereof, the person or persons so offending and
assenting thereto, if he be a member of said Board, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in oﬂice, and shall
be subject to indictment in the County or Superior Court
of the county where the offence shall have been commit
ted, and on conviction thereof shall be fined or imprisoned

at the discretion of the Court.
SEC. 23. It shall not be lawful for any County Court
I(,::,u:;:}f'rie in this State, to tax any free person of colour, for the

Persons of support and maintenance of any common school or
color.

schools.

SEC. 24. It shall not be lawful for any committee to
receive into their hands any of the funds set apart for
How com. the support of common schools: but whenever it shall

Eigffedraw become necessary for any such committee to incur any
money.

expense in the purchase of a piece of land on which to
erect a school house, or to rent, build?' or repair a
school house, it shall be lawful for such committee

to state an account for such expense, and to draw on

the Chairman of the Board of Superintendents for the

same, which account shall accompany the draft so drawn,
and shall be paid by the said Chairman, provided the
school district they represent shall have in the hands of

the Chairman a sum sutﬁcient to pay the same.
25. It shall be the duty of the several County Courts
of this State, to require the Chairman of the Board of Bend and
Superintendents of Common Schools, before he enters upon c_0mpcnn.

the duties of his ofﬁce, to give bond with good and sufﬁcient security in such] sum as they may deem reasonable
and adequate, conditioned for the faithful application of
the funds that may come to his hands, and the discharge
of all duties ; which bond shall be payable to the State
of North Carolina, and shall be approved and received
by a majority of the Superintendents, and shall be ﬁled
by them with the Clerk of the County Court ; and the
said Chairman shall be allowed to retain not exceeding
two and one half per centum of the monies which shall
pass through his hands, as a compensation for his services.
See. 26.
The President and Directors of the Lite

rary Fund shall prepare proper forms to enable the

Chairman of the Board of Superintendents and the school he Prep"

ed by Lit.
committee men to make the returns required of them by Board,
this Act, and shall cause the same to be printed and dis
tributed to the counties which have voted or may here
after vote, for schools : and shall defray the expense in
cident to the printing and distribution of said forms, out
of the Literary Fund.
/
. Sec. 27. If any Superintendent or committee man Penal“, on
appointed agreeably to the provisions of this act, such superinten
dents and
superintendent or committee man having accepted the otheI_ M

appointment, or any Clerk of the County Court, shall re- Effect °5
fuse or neglect to perform the duties required of him by
law, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to
to be recovered by action of debt, in the name of the

State, in any Court of record in this State; and such penalty, When recovered, shall be paid over to the Chair
man of the Board of Superintendents of the county in
which said default may occur, to be applied as the other
monies which shall come to his hands from the Literary
Fund and the county; and it shall be the duty of the
county attorney for the State to prosecute suit in all such
cases, for and on behalf of his county.
Sec. 28. v If the Chairman shall fail or neglect to
Penalty on pay, on demand, any draft which he may by law be bound
Chairman to pay, he shall be liable to suit before any tribunal hav
{:rpaf;'h"° ing cognizance thereof, in the name of the person in
whose favour said draft may be drawn: and the plaintiff
shall be entitled to recover, over and besides the amount

of said draft, twelve per centum damages for its unlaw
ful detention.
Majorilyto
Sec. 29. A majority of the Board of Superinten
act‘
dents, and amajority of a school committee, shall be
competent to do any duty required of the Board and of
a Committee in this act.

to
continue

Sec. 30.

The superintendents and committee.men

now in office in the several counties, shall so continue

zlllgzfzdand remain until others are chosen as required by
this act.
Sec. 31. The teachers and pupils of any common
schools shall be exempt from performing military duty,

1'mm.

working on the road, or serving as Jurors whilst engaged

in teaching in said schools, or attending them as scholars.
Snc. 32. The President and Directors of the Literary
Lit. Board Fund shall cause to be printed copies of this act, and shall

to distribute the same to the Counties which have or may
5° Primed‘ hereafter vote for schools, in the proportion of twenty
five copies for every member in the House of Commons;
and shall forward the same to the Chairman in the
several Counties at the time the Acts of the present
General Assembly may be distributed ; and the expense

incident to the printing and distribution shall be paid out
of the Literary Fund.
Sec. 33.
shall be the duty of‘ the Sheriffs of’the
Counties in this State, which have not adopted the com- In _coumie|l
rnon school system,

established by law, when they ad

Vertise the next election for members of the General As- schqols the

sembly, to give notice at the same time, by public ad- shmﬁshall

give notice

vertisement in every election precmct, that an election Ind hold all

will be held to ascertain the voice of the people upon the
subject of common schools, and all persons who may be

entitled to vote for a member of the House of Commons,
shall be entitled to vote in said election : and every voter
in favor of schools, will deposite his vote with the word
.‘ School” upon his ticket: and those opposed to it, will
vote “ No School” upon their tickets: And it shall be
the duty of the poll-keepers to count the votes given at

each precinct for “School” or “No School,” and return the
same to the Sheriff who shall count together all the votes

and certify the numbers for “ School,” and “ No School,”
separately, to the Presideht and Directors of the Literary

Board, within thirty days after said election, and to the
County Court of his County next ensuing said election:
and any Sheriff failing to comply with the requsitions of

this Act shall suffer all the pains and penalties imposed
by law for failing to discharge his duty in any election
for members of Assembly.
Sec. 34.

Should a majority of the qualiﬁed voters

of any of said Counties vote in favor of schools, then What my

such County shall be entitled to draw from the Literary f;:,‘lgn“{'°:°_
Fund, by warrant from the Comptroller, in favor of the B¢h°°l
Chairman of the Board of Superintendents of such County,

the portion to which such County is properly entitled, to
place it on a footing of equality with the Counties which
have already received their portion of the said fund—and

shall be entitled to all the beneﬁts, privileges and advan
tages, and subject to all the duties and responsibilities of
the laws passed for the regulation and government of
common schools.
"
Sec. 35. The President and Directors of the Lite
;-',,,,d for rary Fund, shall vest so much of said fund as Counties,
not accepting the school system, would have been en
the system titled to receive under the ratio prescribed for its distri
‘.‘:,_b° "es" bution, in the stock of any of the Banks of this State, or
to loan the same, upon such terms as may,¢4in their opin

ion, be best calculated to improve the value thereof; and
the County Courts of such Counties shall take no action
on the subject of “ Common Schools” until a‘majority of
the people of such County shall have voted for the sys
tem agreeably to the provisions of this Act.
This Act to be in force from and after its

ratiﬁcation, 9th of January, 1845.

'

1846-7.-Ch. 106.

Sec. 1. The school committee of the several school
commm” districts shall be elected on the last Saturday of June in
election of- each and every year, whose term of service shall com
mence on the ﬁrst Monday in July, and continue for one
year and until others are chosen.
Sec. 2.

The board of superintendents of common

schools in the several Counties of this State, are au

nation.

thorized and empowered to appoint a committee of ex
amination, consisting of not more than ﬁve persons, whose

duty it shall be to examine into the qualiﬁcations, both
mental and moral, of all such persons as may apply for
employment as teachers in any of the common schools
in their respective Counties, which said committee of

examination shall and may be convened by said board at
such time and place as to them may seem expedient.

Sec. 8. Hereafter, no person shall be employed as
a teacher in any of the common schools in any county of Certiﬁcate
to teachers
the State, in which an examining committee is appointed,

unless he obtain from a majority of the committee of ex
amination for the County,in which he seeks employment,
at certiﬁcate of his good moral character and sufﬁcien-t
mental qualiﬁcations as such teacher.

Sec. 4.

The Chairman of the Board ofSuperinten

dents of Common Schools in this State, shall in no case

pay any draft drawn on him for any of the funds set,I,),,r,':,l[',l,)t-i_W'
apart for the support of Common Schools, unless such
draft shall be accompanied with a report from the com
mittee of the district, stating the name of the teacher in

'-said district, the length of time for which the school may
have been kept during the current year, and the several
branches taught.

The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions

of the counties of Granville and Wake, shall at the term Time of
next preceding the ﬁrst Monday of June, in each and :,{’::€_nh
every year, a majority of the Justices of said county be
ing present, appoint not more than ﬁve nor less than ten
Superintendents of Common Schools, who shall hold their

appointment for one year and until others are chosen.
_' I

Sec. 2. The term of said Superintendents shall com Chairman.
mence on the ﬁrst Monday of June, and they shall assem
ble at the ofﬁce of the clerk of the County Court, on the
said day, and appoint one of their number Chairman.
I

Sec. 3. Free white men of the several school dis
tricts in said counties, who are entitled to vote for mem- §:,l:,:l;m.,

bers of the House of Commons, shall vote by ballot, on
the last Saturday in May, in,each and every year, for
three men, to be entitled “ The School Committee,” whose

term shall commence on the ﬁrst Monday in June, and
continue for one year, and until others are chosen ; and
the said election shall be held and conducted under
same rules, regulations and restrictions, except as to
time of holding the same, and the commencement of
term of the committee as provided and set forth in
eighth section of an act, entitled “ an act to consolidate
and amend the act heretofore passed on the subject of
common schools,” ratified. the 9th of January, 1845. r

Sec. 4.
"Examining County

It shall be theduty of the Justices of the

Court of Granville county, a majority of the Jus

committee.

tices being present.. once a year, and every year to ap

point three competent committee men, to be called the
"examining committee” for said county-;. and it shall be
the ﬁlty of said committee, either jointly or separately,
to examine every one who proposes to teach any of the

common schools in said County; and if such‘ applicant
shall be found to possess a competent knowledge of the
branches usually taught in common schools, they shall
give him or her a certiﬁcate to that effect; and on pre
sentation of such certiﬁcate to the school committee for
any of the districts of said county, it shall be competent
for suchschool committee to employ such applicant ifthey
deem it advisable. But it shall not be lawful for any of
said committee to appoint any teacher who shall not ﬁrst
produce to. them such certiﬁcate of competency; and if
they should employ any teacher without such certiﬁcate,
it shall not be lawful to pay such teacher his or her wages
or any part thereof out of the school fund belonging to
said county.

Sec. 1.

The Governoriwhen he causes the report of

the Comptroller to be published in the year when the Leg- Co,mpt1-ol
islature has not its regular sessions, as directed by the act 1:5,? 552;“
aforesaid, shall also cause two hundred and ﬁfty copies
lizvr:
of the same to be printed in pamphlet form, whereof ten ho; to b,
copies shall be placed in the State Library ; ﬁve in each Primed‘
of the""ofﬁces of Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer,
and Comptroller; ﬁve for the University, and the residue" "

shall be kept for the succeeding Legislature.

Sec. 2. And thal; so much of said act as requires the T be b_
Governor
this State,tobe.publish
and thesaid
same
report
is hereby
in ﬁve
repealed
newspapers
; and that
of“S(}’,ed
::|°_PaP°f'
eIl‘.i

hereafter the Governor shall cause the said report to be
published in two newspapers in the city of Raleigh.

1838-9.--Ch. 9.

Sec. 1. The inhabitants of each Captain’s district,
in each County in this State, shall, within thirty days be
fore the County Court' of any County, which shall com-i‘jwieln t°d‘

mence its session either on the fourth or last Monday in 0 0 we
December, or ﬁrst Monday in January, proceed to the
election of Constables, under the same rules and regula

tions as are now prescribed by law for holding such elec
tions before the ﬁrst Court which shall be held after the
ﬁrst day of January in each and every year; and it
shall be the duty of the several County Courts, com
mencing their sessions as aforesaid, to qualify the per
sons elected as Constables, under the same rules, regula
tions and restrictions as are now in force.

’? Sec. 2. Nothing herein contained shall repeal any
law concerning the election ofConstables in any individual
County in this State.


Ch. 20.

AN Aer to amend the 4th Section of the Revised Statutes, ,
I

entitled " An Act concerning Constables.”

Sec. 1. When it shall become necessary. under the
Court aha“ provisions of the 4th section of the above recited act, for
appointone the Court to appoint a Constable in any Captain’s dis
living in
thedismw
trict in this State, the Court shall appoint some one re
siding in the district for which the appointment shall be
made.

sea snnmrrs AND CONSTABLES.

Sec. 1.
manta.

The power of the Courts of this State, to

issue attachments, and to inﬂict summary punishments
for contempt of Court, shall not hereafter extend to any

cases, except the misbehavior of any person or persons,
in the presence of said Court,or so near thereto as to ob
struct the administration of justice; the misbehavior of

any of the ofticers of the said Court, in their oﬁicial
transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any
ofﬁcer of the said Court, party, juror, witness, or any
other person,or persons to any lawful writ, process. order,
decree, or command of the said Courts.

Sec. 2. When any Court shall adjudge or award
Particularsany summary punishment for a contempt, such Court
shall cause the particulars of the offence to be speciﬁed
501-

on the record, and in every committal, attachment, writ

or process in nature of an execution, founded upon such
judgment br award, or in a written schedule thereto an
nexed and therein referred to, such particulars of the
offence shall be set out; or otherwise the same shall be

unlawful and void.

Sec. 1. An act entitled “ an act concerning Coro
ners,” Revised Statutes, chapter 25, sebtion 4, is so

amended, that whenever it shall so happen, either by
death or otherwis|_e, that there shall be no Coroner in any appoint

county in this State, it shall be the duty of any three °'”°“°“
Justices of the Peace of said county to appoint some
person to, act as Coroner in said county, until the next
Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of said county; and
the Coroner so appointed, shall be clothed with the same

powers and subject to perform all the duties now required
of Coroners by law.

Sec. 2. The Coroner so appointed shall, before en
tering upon the discharge of his duties as such, give bond Coroner to

and sufﬁcient security, as required by section third .ofWe b°“d'
said act, to be approved by the said Justices of the Peace,
for the performance of his duties while in oﬂice.
In

Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of the said Justices of
the Peace, to place the said bond of the said Coroner, Bond to be
with a certiﬁcate under their hands and seals of his ap-ﬁled with
pointment appended thereto, in the hands of the Clerk of dark‘

the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of said county,
whose duty it shall be to ﬁle and keep the said bond and

certiﬁcate among the records of his office, in like manner

as the ofﬁcial bonds of Coroners are now kept.

Whenever any death shall happen in any county in
this State, that shall render it necessary for a Coroner to

gn“:;,'c:;_ act in his ofﬁcial capacity, and there shall be no Coroner

in such county, it shall be the duty of any three Justices
of the Peace of such county, to appoint some ﬁt person
to act as Coroner for that special purpose ; and such per
son, so appointed, is hereby empowered to act, and shall
be entitled to the same compensation as is allowid by
law to Coroners for such services.

Sec. 1. All that part of Macon County bounded as
follows, viz :' beginning at the junction of the Tennessee
chemke° and Tuckaseegee Rivers ; thence down the main channel
',,§l?§Z,£"of the Tennessee River to the State line of Tennessee ;
‘ thence with said Tennessee line, to where it intersects

the Georgia line ; thence with the line dividing this State
from Georgia, Eastwardly, to the Mountain dividing the
waters of Hiwassee and Valley Rivers, from those of the
Nantahala River ; thence along the highest summit, and

various courses of the said Mountain, to the point of be
ginning, be, and the same is hereby erected into a separate
and distinct County, by the name of Cherokee, with all
the rights, privileges, and immunities of the other Coun
ties of this State.
Ch. 12.

I . Sec. 1. All the Southern portion of Bunconibe
Hendmon County, beginning on the top of Pisgah Mountain, on the
c°“mY 8* Haywood line, and from thence taking the dividing ridge
ublishei between Hominy Creek and Mills’ River, to the dividing


ridge between Mills’ River and Avery’s Creek ; from 58! P0"
thence, keeping said ridge, to the head of Israel’s Branch ; 1846.1
from thence, taking down said Branch, to French Broad

River ; from thence, up said River, opposite the mouth of
Cane Creek; from thence, crossing the River, to the
mouth of Cane Creek ; from thence, taking up Cane
Creek, to the Buncombe Turnpike Road; from thence,

taking said Road, to the top of the. ridge between Cane
Creek and Mud Creek; from thence, taking the main

dividing ridge, between Cane Creek and Clear Creek
waters, to the top of the Bear Wallow Mountain, on the
Rutherford line ;‘ from thence, with the Rutherford line,


to the South Carolina line; from thence, with the South
Carolina line, to the Macon line; from thence, with the
Macon line, to the Haywood line; from thence, with the
Haywood line, to Pisgah, the beginning, be, and the same

is hereby erected,-g'nto a separate and distinct County, by
the name of Henderson.

Sec. 1. "A County is laid off and established by the Cloavehmi
name of Cleaveland, to be composed of parts of the Coun- county 88- ‘ ‘
ties of Rutherford and Lincoln, beginning at a point in “:“'h°d'

the South Carolina line, and running a north course, so 5:, post.

as to pass within fourteen miles east of Rutherfordton, 1542'3until it strikes the Burke County line, thehce with the

dividing line of Burke and Rutherford to-the Lincoln line,
thence to the thirteen mile post on the Lucas‘ ford road,
thence to the twelve mile post on the new dost road lead- ‘
ing from Lincolnton to Qwin’s ferry, thence to the twelve
_
mile post leading from Morganton to Yorkville, South.

Carolina thence with the road, passing Abernathy’s Store
by the Gold mine at King’s mountain, to the South Caro

lina‘1ine, then with it to the beginning.

All that portion of the counties of Burkeand Wilkes,Caldwelr
county 0|

beginning at Lovelady ford, on the Catawba river, in the ,‘b|i,h,d'

3a° Poll county of Burke, from thence to Corpening’s bridge, on
1846-7.

Lower creek, thence to John’s river, at the upper end of

the plantation of the late John Perkins, crossing the
same, to and with the dividing ridge between Warrior

creek and Wilson creek to the Yancey line, thence with
said line to the Ashe line, and with the Ashe line to the

dividing ridge between Butfalow and Elk Creeks, thence
with the said ridge to the Yadkin River, at the mouth
of Elk Creek, crossing the same to and with the

dividing ridge between Beaver creek and King’smcreek
to the top of the Brushy mountain at the Burke line,
thence with the said line to the corner of Iredell county,
and with the said line to the Catawba river, thence with

the river to the beginning, is erected into a separate and
distinct county, by the name of Caldwell.
1 840-1 .—Ch. 13. '

A county is hereby laid off and established in the
territory now comprehended in the western limits of
Montgomery county, in manner as follows, viz : that the

I

Stanly

ir

/ ::i:l?,ll,,;s'rivers Pedee and Yadkin, as now running through the

l
l

, - county of Montgomery, shall be the dividing line between

the counties of Stanly and Montgomery; and all that
part of the present county of Montgomery, lying and

’ '

being west of the said rivers Pedee and Yadkin, shall
hereafter constitute a separate and distinct county, to be
called and known by the name of Stanly.


All that portion of Rutherford County-lying

Rulherfordbetvveen the Counties of Lincoln and Cleaveland, is

ceded to, and made a part of the County of Cleaveland./

All that portion of Lincoln County, beginning

at a point on the Catawba River and running West, so as

to pass within one mileand a half north of Lincolnton, to
the Cleaveland County line, and thence with the dividing
line between Cleaveland and Lincoln to the Burke line ;

' thence with theline dividing Burke and Lincoln to-the
Catawba River; and thence with the _meanderings of
said river to the beg-inning—is hereby erected into a new '

and separate County by the name of Catawba.

All that portion of the Counties of Rutherford
and Burke, beginning at a point two miles south ofgggggwggf /
the corner of Burke and Rutherford, in-said line ; from tablished.
thence a direct course to Cove Creek, at a point two miles

south of John Br-adley’s; thence to, and with the dividing '
ridge betweeri Rock House ' Creek and ' Stony Creek,

crossing Second Broad River at the mouth of Rock House
Creek; thence a direct course to the Burke line, at or near
Conway’s Knob; thence with the Burke and Rutherford

line, to a point on the South Mountains, two and one half
miles east of Cane’s Creek; thence a direct line crossing .
the top of the Pilot Mountain, to the mouth of Shadrick’s

Creek; . thence a direct course to the top of Linvilley
Mountain, and with the said mountain to the Yancey
line; thence with the Yancey line, to the Buncombe line,

and with said line to the beginning, is hereby created
into a separate and distinct County by the name of Me

1842--3.--Ch. 12.
A new County, by the name of Union, is hereby laid_ _.
off and established of parts of the Counties of Mecklenburg 3'33; e,_ ‘
and Anson: Beginning at the cornerof Anson and Mecklen- ‘sb1iBh°d
burg. on the South Carolina line, and runs east on the South
Carolina line eleven miles; thence east of a parallel of the
County line, so that it shalhbe thirteen miles East of the Ca
barrus corner,onRocky River; thence up the various cour


ses of Rocky River to the corner of Anson and Mecklen
burg ; thence with the Cabarrus line,'three miles; thence
a direct line to where the Providence road crosses Six
Mile Creek; thence with the meanders of the creek, to
the South Carolina line ; thence with the South Carolina

line to the beginning.
1846--7.—Ch. 22.

A new county is hereby laid off and established by
the name of Alexander, to be composed of parts of the
counties of Iredell, Caldwell and Wilkes; beginning on

lubllshod- the Wilkes and Iredell line, where the same crosses the

Cove Gap road, and running thence a westwardly or
north.westwardly direction, as the case may be, so as to
strike the top of the main ridge of'the Brushy Mountain,
near James Robinett’s, leaving the said Robinett’s house
on the south side of said line; thence with the main di

viding ridge of said mountain to a point two miles east
of Coxe’s Knob, provided the said knob be found on the
main ridge; if not, then to a point two miles east of a

' line, running the nearest and most direct course from the
top of said knob to the top of the main ridge. of the said
Brushy Mountain; thence a direct line to the mouth of
the branch on the main road near Steel’s Old Mill; thence

a south-westerly direction to a point on the Catawba
river, one mile, in_a direct line, below the mouth of upper
Little river; thence down the said Catawba river to

Nimrod Pendergrasses’; thence a north east direction to
the Ferry Road ; thence with the Ferry Road to the
Mountain Road; thence a direct line to the eleven mile
post, on the Statesville Road ; thence a direct course to

Robert G. Martin’s; thence direct to the Wilkes line,
one and a half miles west of the widow Jane Redman’s;
thence with the said Wilkes and Iredell line to the be
ginning.
1846~7.-.Ch. 23.

A new and: separate county, by the name of
tablished. Gaston, is heieby formed of that part of the county

of Lincoln, which lies to the south of the following

line, to-wit:—Beginning at a point onlthe Cleaveland
line, six miles due south of the present dividing line of
Lincoln and Catawba; thence running parallel with said
line to the Catawba river.
1846-7.--Ch. 24.
So much of the county of Catawba, as lies south of pan Own.

the following line, to-wit :—Bcginnin'g at the Catawbatawlm ‘“~
river, and four miles due north of the present dividing
line between Lincoln and Catawba counties, and running

,parallel. with said line to the western boundary of said
county, is hereby annexed and madepart of Lincoln

county.
1846-7.—Ch. 26.

WHEREAS,‘ the late Col. William Polk, of this State, Prembk.
was a meritorious officer in the continental line, during

the war of the revolution, and in the capacity of Major
and Lieutenant Colonel, rendered distinguished services
in the battles of Germantown, Brandy Wine and Eutaw,
in all of which he was ‘wounded: and whereas this

General Assembly is desirous of testifying their respect
for his memory, by calling one of the counties by his
name:

Therefore,

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the same, That a new county by the ‘name of “ Polk,” Polk munbe, and the same is hereby laid off and established of }i§;h°:éab'
parts of Rutherford and Henderson, (that portion of Hen'
derson which originally belonged to Rutherf‘ord,) begin
ning on the top of the SugarLoaf Mountain, at the Hen
derson corner, and running nearly cast down to the ridge
between the waters of Green and Broad rivers, and with

said ridge to Gray’s Chapel; and from Gray’s Chapel,
continuing the same ridge, down to the lands of Thomas

Miller; thence nearly east, including said lands, to Broad
' river ; thence‘ with Main Broad river to Pore’s ford, and
' from Pore’s ford with the old road to the South Carolina
line; to the old Bunconibe corner; and thence._witb the

old Buncombe line to the original point, Sugar Loaf
Mountain.

1844-5.—Ch. 27.
It shall be lawful for the County Courts, whenever
the ofﬁce of County Surveyor is vacant, to appoint a
The Coun- special Surveyor to survey any lands that may be entered,

ghsingire who shall be governed by the laws now in force regula
iﬂ =1 vwm- ting the duties of Cou/nty Surveyors, and the plots and
;§i.T{“!s§§I certiﬁcates of such special Surveyor,'aceompanied by the

order of the County Court appointing,r hiIn,shall be deemed
and heldvalid,' asif done by a County Surveyor, elected‘ '
according to the provisions of“ the 42d Chapter of the
Revised Statutes.

The Justices of the Courts of Pleas and Quarter Ses

Justices

sions, in the several Counties in this State (amajority be
ing present,) shallhave full power and authority to restore

of County the ofﬁces of County Trustee, and Treasurer of Public

Z:_‘s::"‘,";re Buildings, or either of them. in any County where the
heretofore same may have been heretofore abolished ; and this
ab°lished' Act shall be in force from and after its ratiﬁcation. '

l The County Court of CherokeeCounty shall be held Cherokee

on the first Monday before the fourth Monday in March C°' C°“"

when held.

and September, and the second Monday before the last S8° Post.
Monday in January and the third Monday before the last 1842'3‘
Monday in June.


The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the Henderson
County of Henderson shall be held on the third Monday €,‘;,'en(3||°e'1?_
in February and July, and the ﬁfth Monday after the s;;4213m
fourth Monday in March and September.

No action of debt, other than on a penal Statute, no :-",:1 -_ ‘
action of detinue or replevin, no action of account, assault Alliavil l
and battery, or for the unlawful taking of goods, no ac- SH“! ‘O W
tion upon the case, no suit for legacies, or for distributive ::,‘:,l:,gtl;,n W
sharesof intestates’ estates, shall be brought to any Court

of Pleas and Quarter Sessions, other than the Court of resides.


the County in which the defendant resides ; and if any
such action or suit shall be brought in any other Court of
Pleas and Quarter Sessions, the same may be abated on
the plea of the defendant: Provided, that nothing here
in contained shall be construed to repeal the forty-eighth
section of the Revised Statutes, entitled “ An Act con
cerning Courts of Justice, Practice, Pleas and Process.”

The several Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions in
‘
Court em-'
each County of this State may, when they deem it ne- p,,w,,,,d to
cessary, cause to be drawn the names of forty two per- ‘fl::‘wl;lc“'°".
sons, to serve as Jl1l‘0I'S at the next succeedmg Court, any ding lonn.(

law to the contrary notwithstandinm
The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the

g';“enC::"(§: County of Cleaveland shall be held on the 2rd Monday in
See Pean March, the 2rd Mdnday in January, the 2rd Monday in
18428‘ August and the 6th Monday after the 4th Monday in
March.

Caldwell


The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions df Cald

Co. Court,

when held- well County shall be held on the 4th Mondays in April,
Sf§42ri‘;L, July, October and January.
lt shall not be lawful for the Clerks of. the Superior
Courts for the Counties of Hyde, Northampton and Davie,

,1Z'tr|::t('3°|I-‘ks to issue to the Judge, who may preside at any of the Sn
°f certain perior ,.Courts for the counties aforesaid, a certiﬁcate,
counties as

m,,,uing unt1l four o’clock on Thursday evemng 1n each week,

zsritililfates when the said Courts shall be held; Provided, that this
Judges.

Act shall not be so construed as to prevent the Judge from
holding said Courts the whole week, if the state of the
docket shall require it: and provided further, that this
Act shall not be so construed as to prevent the Clerk from
issuing the certiﬁcate, should any unavoidable circum
stance happen to prevent the Court from being held the
prescribed time.
Time of
1. The Superior Coiirt of Stanly County shall be
h0ldingSu. opened and held on the ﬁrst Monday of March and the

ﬁrst Monday of September, in each and every year.
Co. Courts
2. The Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of the
;’,,‘|,f,‘,‘‘|‘,‘,',{,;, county of Stanly, shall be held on the second Monday in Feb
ruary May, August, andNovember, in each and e very year.
Provided, that the said Courts of Pleas and Quarter Ses
of jury ca- sions, shall not have or hold jurisdiction of, or try and
.'it
determine, causes civil or criminal, in which the inter

vention of a jury may be nec-essary.
3.

The Superior Courts of Law and Equity for the guperiorf

county of Moore, shall be holden on the Monday before M°;,',i°‘°
the last Monday in February and August, in each and Wh°nh°1d-

every year.
4.

The Superior Courts of Law and Equity for the Sup. Court

county of Montgomery, shall be holden on the last Mon.
dayin February and August in each and every year.

when held-

5. The county of Stanly shall constitute a part ofc-o.ofStan
the ﬁfth Judicial district.
1840-.-1.—Ch. 20.

The county of Henderson shall constitute a part 0fCo.of Hen.

the 7th Judicial district.

dmon PMt
of 7th cir’,L
J

1840-1 .—Ch. 23.
[This act repeals an act passed in 1831, entitled, “ an

act to give exclusive jurisdiction to the Superior Courts

of Moore.”]

The terms of the Courts of Pleas and Quarter Ses- Time of

sions for the county of Lincoln, which are now held on h‘?|di"¢
the third Mondays of July and January, shall hereafter i:J:,lTc:l3:u,t,

be opened and held on the ﬁrst Mondays of June and De
cember in each and every year.
Ch. 21.

(Private Acts.)

The Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the Tim, of
county of Camden shall be held upon the second Mondays l(':°'dig8
in June, September, December and March, instead of the c:fn(:e:u,t,

days heretofore appointed.


A Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions is hereby es

C°' tablished for the county of Union, to be held by the Jus
when held- tices of the said county on the ﬁrst Mondays in January,
April, July and October, in each and every year.
1842-3.-—Ch. 20.
The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of Catawba
when held- county shall be held on the second Mondays of June and
sf§£‘,’;f . December in
. each and every year.

1842.3.--Ch. 18.

County_

1. The winter and summer Courts of Pleas and
Quarter Sessions of the several counties composing the

-?,'|’|“;§:c''::,7th Judicial Circuit, shall be opened and held at the fol
WhQl1he1d- lowing times, to.wit: Cherokee, on the ﬁrst Monday in
December and June ; Macon, on the second Monday in

December and June ; Haywood, on the third Monday in
December and June ; Henderson, on the fourth Monday
in December and June; Buncombe, on the ﬁrst Monday

after the fourth Monday in December and June ; Yancy,
on the second Monday after the fourth Monday in De
cember and June; Burke, on the third Monday after the

fourth Monday in December and June; Caldwell, on the
fourth Monday after the fourth Monday in December and
June; McDowell, on the ﬁfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in December and June ;' Rutherford, on the sixth
Monday after the fourth Monday in December and June ;
Cleaveland, on the 7th Monday in December and June,
in each and every year after the ﬁrst day of May, in the
year one thousand eight hundred and forty-three. .

1. The Spring and Fall Terms of the Court of
See 1846-7 Pleas and Quarter Sessions of Caldwell county, shall be

held at the same time of holding the Superior Courts for
that county. '

3. The Spring and Fall Terms of the.Court of Pleas
and QuarteriSessions of McDowell county, shall be held g[°:1')t:W‘;tl'l
on the 7th Monday after the fourth Monday of March
and September in each and every year.
l842-3.—Ch. 1 9 .

The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of Carteret, _
county, shall be hereafter opened and held on the third ,f;{§§,§"
Monday in February, May, ‘August and November, in C°rferet

‘Co. Court,
6V€I‘_Y year.

1842-3.—Ch. 37.‘. (Private Acts),
There shall be a term of the Court of Pleas and Additional
Quarter Sessions, opened and held for"the county ofgrm offCo.

Cleaveland on the 6th Monday after the 4th Mbnday of Gf;‘,I§,|§5d,
September in each and every year.
1842-3 —Ch. '41‘. ‘ (Private Acts.)
The Justices of Mecklenburg county shall have power
andauthority to cause jurors to be summoned to attend
at the January and July Terms of the said Court, or to lenburg. '
dispense with the same, as the necessity of the case may ‘
require.

1842-3.—Ch. 43.

(Private Acts.)

The terms of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions
Moore Co.

for the county of Moore shall hereafter be opened and Court,

held on the 4th Mondays of January, April, July and Oc-Wh"n held‘
tober, in each and every year.
1842-3.—Ch. 48.

(PrivateActs.)
J

1. An Act passed in the year one thousand eight Restoring
hundred and twenty.ﬁve, entitled an Act, giving exclu- ifrfhérgg
sive jurisdiction to the Superior Court of Anson, of Pleas Courts of
and prosecutions of the State; and also so much_ of an Ansm
Act, passed in the year one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-ﬁve, as relates to the county of Anson, entitled an

Act to give exclusive jurisdiction to the Superior Courts
for the counties of Anson and Montgomery, in all cases
where the intervention of a Jury shall be necessary, are
hereby repealed.
2. lt shall be in the power ofa majority of the act
Jus“ces ing Justices of the county of Anson, if they shall think it
,‘};"1,YS,d‘j;,,h expedient, to dispense with the Grand Jury at any or all
9 2"mdJury.

the terms of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for
said county ; and not more than twenty.four Jurors shall
be drawn for such term or terms, in which the Grand

Jury shall be dispensed with.
1.s;42_‘3._Ch. 9..
Catawba

A Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions is hereby es

tablished in and for the county of Catawba, to be held by
léoldiggtllf the Justices of the said county on the second Mondays of
0' our ‘June and December, in each and every year.
L844-5.--.Ch. 6.

McDowell

6.

The county of McDowell shall hereafter con

gictstitute a part of the 7th Judicial District.
7. The Superior Courts of Law and Courts of Equity
in the counties comprising the seventh Judicial -Circuit
shall be opened and held at the following times, to-wit :
Cherokee, on the second Monday in March and Septem

K23 Wh°“ ber; Macon, on the third Monday in March and Sep
.’
tember; Haywood, on the fourth Monday in March and
See Post. September ; Henderson, on the ﬁrst Monday after the

1846'7'

fourth Monday in March and September; Buncombe, on
the second Monday after the fourth Monday in March
and September; Yancy, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday in March and September; Burke, on the
fourth Monday after the fourth Monday in March and
September; Caldwell, on the ﬁfth Monday ‘after the fourth

counrs.

50

Monday in March and September; McDowell, on the

sixth Monday after the fourth Monday in March and Sep
tember; Rutherford, on the seventh Monday after the

fo.urth Monday in March and September, in each and
every year after -the ﬁrst day of July next.
. S. The Spring and Fall Terms, of the non-Jury When the
Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions shall be opened and non.jury
held,-in the several_counties composing the seventh Ju- C°““sh°l‘l

, dicial Circuit, at the same time of holding the Superior
Courts of Law and Courts of Equity in the same as is
prescribed by this act.
1844-5:--Ch. 8.

It shall ‘not be lawful for the Clerks of the ‘Superior
Courts for the counties of Currituck and Person to issue When C»
to the Judge, who may preside at any of the Superior glﬁc°ﬁ°éo
Courts for said counties, a certiﬁcate until four‘ o’clock she," 2,5:

on Thursday evening in'each week when the said Courts l‘:ck(i‘:1"5i'
shall be.held:

Provided, that this act shall not be so Person

construed as to to prevent the Judge from holding said °°“““°"'
Courts, as it is now his duty, the whole week, if the state

of the dockets’shall require it; and provided further, that
this act shall not be so construed as to prevent the Clerks
from issuing the certiﬁcate, should any unavoidable cir

cumstance happen to prevent theCourts from being held
for the prescribed time.
1S.44-5.—Ch. 10.

1.

When it shall so happen that the business upon

the civil docket, in any of the Superior Courts, cannot be AuthorinB

done at the regular term thereof, the Judge holding said special ‘
Court may, and he is hereby empowered and required, to
appoint a special term of said Court, which shall be held or C011"m'1
at the time by such Judge appointed ; and all the causes
in the civil docket tried under the same rules and regu
lations, as are now prescribed for holding the regular
terms of said Courts.
2.

VVhen any Judge shall, under the provisions of

hO‘l':,'i‘:lg"’f this act, believe a special term necessary, he shall make
Judge to

an order at the regular term at which he shall see the

aPPOmt'

necessity for such extra tcrin, appointing the time for
holding the specialterm of said Court. which time shall
be before the beginning of the next Superior Court Cir
cuit; and it shall be the duty of the Witnesses summoned.
in all’civil causes ‘upon such docket, the clerks, sheriffs,

and all oﬂioers and persons bound to attend the regular
term of said court on the civil docket, tq attend in the

same manner, and be subject'to the same penalties for
non attendance. as they would be for non-attendance at
a regular term.

3. Eighteen jurors shall be drawn, as jurors 'are re
iTl::;"§;awn quired bylaw to attend the regular terms of the Superior
Court of Law, and shall be summoned by the Sheriff to

attend said extra terms as other jurors are required to be
summoned ; and the jurors so drawn and summoned shall
attend the extra term of such court under the same pen

alties as jurors are under to attend the regular terms of

the ‘Superior Court.‘ And in case no County Court should
intervene in such counties, between the time of appoint
ing the extra,term and the time of holding thbreof, it shall

be the duty of the sheriff to notify three Justices of the
Peace'for said county, to attend at the office of the clerk
of the County Court for said county, whose duty it shall
be, with the clerk of said County Court and sheriff, to

draw eighteen jurors, who shall be summoned and attend
said extra court as jurors herein required to be drawn by
the County Court.
'
Process W
turnablm

4.

No process, except subpoenas, or other process to

require the attendance 'of witnesses, shall be made re

turnable to such special term ; and all other process
shall be returnable‘-to the next regular term.
Judgesha“
5. ‘When any Judge shall appoint a special:term'of
notify the the Superior Court to be held for any county in this State,
he ‘shall notify the Governor thereof; and itshall be the G°v°"1°1"
duty of the Governor to appoint some one of the Judges,:iaiht:::,?

other than the one appointing such special term, to attend :Php‘;is:ta;l
and hold said special term of the court for one week, 1111-Judge to
less the business of the civil docket should be sooner dis- Mm ii‘
posed of; and the Judge so appointed shall have all the
power and authority to .hear' and determine all civil
causes in such special court, that he would by law have

at the regular term of. such court; and the judgments
by
him rlertdered shall have the same force and effect, as
if the's'ame had ‘been rendered at the regular terms of
such court.

6.- Each Judge holding a special court, as authorized Judge ‘obs
by this act, shall be entitled te receive ninety dollars from paid by the

the county in which such special term of the Superior county‘
Court is held, and said county shall pay the said sum of
ninety dollars to the Judge for holding the same ; and it

shall be the duty of tliedustices of the Peace for said
courts to lay a tax for thatpurpose, unless that _sum is
on hand in the county treasury.

1. It shall not be lawful for the clerk of the Su
perior Court for the county of Cleaveland, to'issue to the
Judge, who may preside at-any of the Superior Courts of

said county, a certificate, until four o’clock on Thursday
evening in each_week. when the said courts shall hem Judge
held : Provided, that this act shall not be so construed,
1‘;
as to prevent the Judge from holding said courts the the Clerk

whole week, if the state of the docket shall require it, f§n§'§:‘;j
nor to prevent the clerk from issuing the certiﬁcate, rior Court
should any unavoidable circumstance prevent the court
from being held for the prescribed time.
From and after the ﬁrst day of March next, it Co_ Cums
~shall not be lawful for the Justices of the Courts of Pleas in cetryain

and Quarter Sessions for the counties of Yancy, Bun-

no

combe, Henderson, Haywood, Macon and Cherokee, toJ""Y cause
try any causes, where ajury may be ncessary, nor shall
they summons any Jury to attend said courts,
1' {"5 3. From and after the ﬁrst day of March next, all
Suits shall suits in said counties, whether civil or criminal, shall

rn originate in the Superior Courts of said counties respec
C°“"'-

tively, and all appeals from the Justices of the Peace in
said counties of“ Yancy, Buncombc, Henderson, Hay
wood, Macon and Cherokee, in civil cases, and all re

cognizances, by them taken, in criminal cases, shall be
returnable to the next Superior Courts of the county in

which they are taken.

,
wills wk


When any will or paper, purporting to be the last

tested to be will and testament of any person, is brought into the
°S‘:,';:;‘il0:° Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions, for probate, and
Courts.

the probate of which is contested, the clerk shall imme

diately enter the same on a docket to be kept by him for
that purpose, and shall within ten days after the rise of
the court, at which the said will or paper purporting to
be a will was presented, make out a transcript from his
docket ; which transcript, with the original will or paper

purporting to be a will, Shall be delivered by him to_the
clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which the
same may be presented; and the clerk of the Superior
Court aforesaid is hereby authorized to receive and enter
the same on his docket, and on application of either
plaintiff or defendant, to issue subpoenas for the attendance
Cl’ks. shall

issue sub. of witnesses ; and the said Superior Courts shall have full
P‘““ ‘SW power and authority to hear, settle and Fdetermine such

case ; and it is also declared to be the duty of the clerk
of the Superior Courts of any or all of the aforesaid coun
ties, whenever a case may be determined in accordance
with the above provisions, to issue a certiﬁcate thereof
to the clerk of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions,

from which the same may have originated, with the
original will or paper, which shall be recorded by the
County Court as evidence of the probate or rejection of

said will; andalso in all cases of caveat for land, where

the intervention of a- jury may be necessary, the same
proceedings shall be had and observed by the said clerks
of the County and Superior Court, as are prescribed in

the 6th section of this act in regard to wills.
1844-5.—Ch. 16.

r In addition to the two terms of the Court of Pleas Two addi_
and Quarter Sessions, now authorized to be held in £1-l1Cltionalt’l'ms

for' the county of Catawba, there shall be two other terms
"é°°urt
of the said court in said county, at which terms‘ there “Catawba
shall be no jury trials; which said terms shall be held on
the eighth Monday after the fourth Monday in February
and August, in each and every year.
1 s4 6-7.—Ch. 22.

A Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions shall be held,
and the ame is hereby. established, in and for the county

of Alexander, to be held by the Justices of said county ; County 6!
the ﬁrst Court to be held- on the ﬁrst Monday of June, (S;§§§{§°f,,
December, September and March, in the year one thou- Al°"“d°"
sand eight hundred and forty-seven; the Su.perior Court :l‘::;y1;.|a_

of Alexander to be held on the' ninth Monday after the _
fourth Monday in March and September, in each and
every year, and shall belong to, and form part of the sixth
Judicial circuit.

A Court of‘ Pleas and Quarter Sessions shall

be, and the same is hereby established in and for the C°- c°‘""
county of Gaston, to be held by the Justices of said ::h:l\.llblll.'

county, on the third Monday in February and August in
each and every year ; provided, that there shall be two
other terms of said court in said county, at which terms
there shall be no jury trials; which said terms shall be
held by the Justices of the Peace of said county at the
times and‘ places of holding the Superior Courts of said
county
19.

The’ county of Gaston shall compose a part of

°° 'the sixth Judicial district.
1846-y7.—Ch. 27.

Polk coun_
4. The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the
lyi when county of Polk shall be held on the sixth Monday after
Co. Court

held.

the sixth Monday in June and December, in each and

every year.
. Y

supcoum

,

i

. \'

14. ‘ The Superior Court for Polk county shall be

of Polk iiiid held on the 8th Monday after the 4th Monday in March
Cleaveland

c(,u,,,ies, and September, in each and every year—and the Su
when held-perior Courts of Cleaveland cpunty shall be held on the
9th Monday after the 4th Monday of March and Sep
tember.

poik cody ‘

16.

The county of Polk shall compose apart of the

7th circuit.


1s4c-1--Ch.30. ,

y.

T 41¢

N°n__ury
The-non jury terms of the county Courts of Caldwell
iiiiiiiti of county shall be opened and held on the second Mondays
Caldwell of May and October, in each and every year.
Co. Courts
when held.

,

1846-I-Ch.3l.

The Superior Courts of Law and Equity, in the sixth
Judicial Circuit, in the several counties thereof, shall be
g:l':i“:g°{he opened and held at the times hereinafter expressed, and

Sup.C0u1-tS63.Cll respective court shilll continue in session one week
;‘i'“‘::i°}.6‘h as heretofore, unless the business of the court shall be

sooner determined,viz : In the county of Surry, the said
courts shall be held on the ﬁrst'Monday in March and
September ; in the county of Ashe, on the second Monday
’ in March and September; in the county of Wilkes, on
the third Monday in March and September; in the coun

ty of Davie, on the fourth Monday in March and September; in the county of Iredell, on the ﬁrst Monday ‘after
the fourth Monday in March and September; in the
county of Catawba, on the second Monday after the
fourth Monday in March and September; in the county
of Lincoln,‘on the third Monday after the fourth Monday
in Maich and September; in the county of Gaston, on

the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday in March
and September; in the county of Cabarrus, on the ﬁfth

Monday after the fourth Monday in March and Septem
ber; in the county of Union,-on the sixth Monday after

the fourth Monday in ‘March and September ; in the
county of Mecklenburg, on the seventh Monday after the

fourth Monday in March and September; and in the

county of Rowan, 0n_ the eighth Monday after -the fourth
Monday in March and September.

' 1846-7.--Ch. 32.
1. The Superior Courts of Law and Equity for the
of
several counties hereinafter mentioned, shall be opened Times
holding the
and held on the several days hereinafter expressed, that Superior
is to say, the Superior Court of Law and Equity for the liiL“§:.-vile
county of Duplin shall be opened and held onithe fourth circuit
Mondays of March and September, in each and every

year; the Superior Court of Law and.Equity for the
county of Wayne, on the ﬁrst Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, in each and every
year ; the Superior Court of Law and Equity for the
county of Greene, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, in each and every
year; the Superior Court of Law and Equity for the
county of Lenoir, on the Wednesday next after the third

Monday after the fourth Monday in March and Septem
ber, in each and every year; the Superior Courts of Law
and Equity for the county of Craven, on the fourth Mon
day after the fourth Monday of March and September, in
each and everyyear; the Superior Courts of Law and
Equity for the county of Jones, on the Wednesday next

after the ﬁfth Monday after the fourth Mondays of March
and September,’ in each and every year; the Superior

Courts of Law and Equity for the county of Onslow, on
the sixth Monday after the fourth Monday of March and
September, in each and every year; the Superior Courts
of Law and Equity for the county of Carteret, on the
seventh Monday after the fourth Monday of March and
September, in each and every year; the Superior Courts
of Law and Equity for the county of Beaufort, on the
eighth Monday after the fourth Monday of March and
September, in each and every year; and the Superior
Courts of Law and Equity-for the county of Hyde, on the
Wednesday, next after the ninth Monday after the fourth
Monday of March and September, in each and every
year; under the same rules and regulations as are now

prescribed by law for holding said courts.
I

2.
Proceed
ings &c.
continued;

All proceedings and process of every kind, after

the next ensuing terms thereof, depending in, or returna

ble to, any of the said Superior Courts of Law and Equity,
shall stand continued, and be returnable to the several
terms herein before expressed, respectively; any law to
the contrary notwithstanding.
The Coun
ty Courts,
when to be
held

3. From and after the 15th of July next the Court
of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the county of Onslow
shall hereafter be holden on the ﬁrst Mondays of March,
June, September and December, in each and every year ;
the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the county
of Craven, shall hereafter be holden on the second Mon
day in March, June, September and December; the Court
of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the county of Beaufort,

shall hereafter be holden on the third Mondays in March,
June, September, and December, in each and everyyear;
the Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the county
of Hyde shall hereafter be holden on the ninth Mondays
after the fourth Mondays in March and September; on

the fourth Mondays in August and February, in each and


every year; and the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions
for the county of Jones, shall hereafter be holden on the
ﬁfth Mondays after the fourth Mondays in March and
September, and on the last Mondays in July and January,
in each and every year; and the Court of Pleas and
Quarter Sessions for the county of Lenoir shall hereafter
beholden on the third Mondays after the fourth Mondays
in March and September, and on the ﬁrst Mondays in

July and January, in each and every year. n.

1. Hereatterthe severalCourts of Equityinthis State Coma of
shall have full power and authority, in any decree of sale Equity
made by the said Courts, to appoint the time and place ::)?gt”§’i;n‘
of sale; and, without such appointment, the sales shall and place
be as heretofore required by law.
°f sales
\

2. Sales oflands and slaves, made by any Sheriff, '
Coroner or Constable, or by any Clerk and Master in Whenlmd
Equity, under any exe-cution or decree, may be made at ::l':s“:nay
the court house of'the1r respective counties, on the ﬁrst be made

day of the term of the Superior Courts of Law.

The Judges of the Supreme Court shall have

Supreme

power annually to appomt a proper ofﬁcer, to be de- Court“,

nominated Marshall of the Supreme Court, to attend up- alvfgggzllto
on the said court during the session thereof, who shall attend their

discharge the duties and receive the compensation, im- '°“l°n'

posed upon and granted by the 18th section of the Re
vised Statute, entitled “ An Act concerning the Supreme
Court,” to the sheriff of Wake county; and so much of
the said section as requires the said sheriff to attend said
court is hereby repealed.’ And the said Supreme Court
shall have power to remove said Marshall and appoint
another, when'they may deem it proper. ' ,_
certiﬁcate
2. The Clerk of the Supreme Court, in giving‘ the
ti» the Mar. usual certiﬁcate to said Marshall for attending said court,
;?:h?;_ shall tax only the number of days, which the Marshall
dance.
actually attended in pursuance of the order of the court.

1s4_2-3._Ch. 15.
The term of the Supreme Court which is directed
grlgliz beito be holden on the last Monday of December, in each
on the 30th and every year, shall hereafter be holden on the thirtieth

°f D°°‘

day of December, in each and every year: Provided al
ways, that if the said thirtieth day of December shall
happen on a Sunday, the Court shall not be opened until
the succeeding day.


1. A session of the Supreme Court of this State, shall
A session be held yearly and every year hereafter, at Morganton
;£;:: S“' in the county of Burke, on the ﬁrst Monday of August ;
g:l':l':tt°b° and the said session shall continue from day to day so
Morgantonlong as the business may require ; and should no one of

the Judges of said Court attend on the day appointed for
holding said session in any year, it shall be the duty of
the Sheriﬁ' of Burke county to open and adjourn the same
until the next day, and so from day to day, for six days,
. (unless one of the Judges should sooner attend) and then,
no one of the said Judges having attended, to adjourn
the same without day.

All appeals taken, and causes transmitted, after

the ratiﬁcation of this act, from the Superior Courts of
Law or the Courts of Equity of the counties of Stokes,
Of appeals.

Davidson, Union, Stanly, and of the counties lying west
of the same, shall be taken and transmitted to the said

4 Supreme Court sitting at Morganton, and shall be there
heard, tried and disposed of, as to right and justice shall
appertain, according to the course and practice of the
said Court, which shall, at the said session of Morganton,

have, and exercise all the powers, and possess all the
jurisdiction in respect to the said counties of Stokes,
' Davidson, Union, Stanly, and the counties west thereof,

which the said court at its sessions at Raleigh, now have,
in respect to any of the courts and counties in this State :
Provided however, that all appeals, taken from any of
said Superior Courts of law, at the fall terms thereof;
in criminal cases, where the defendant shall be conﬁned

in prison pendingthe appeal, shall be returned to, and
heard and determined by the Supreme Court holding its
sessions at Raleigh as heretofore : Provided however,
that if either party to any appeal taken from any of the
said counties of Stokes, Davidson, Stanly, Union, Surry,

and Davie, shall prefer to have the appeal returned to the

said Supreme Court at Raleigh, it shall be the duty of
the presiding Judge so to order, that the appeal shall be
returned to, and tried by said court at Raleigh as here
tofore.
3. It shall be the duty of the Judges of the said Su
preme Court to appoint some ﬁt and suitable person, re
siding within one of the said counties of Stokes, David

Of appoint
ment of

clerk.

son, Union, Stanly, or the counties west of them, to act
as clerk of said court, at said session to be held at Mor

ganton; and the clerk so appointed shall keep his office
at Morganton, and perform all the duties, and receive the
same fees, that the clerk of the Supreme Court at Ra

' leigh is entitled by law ; and that he shall give bond and
security in the like sum, and with the same condition,

and act under the same rules and restrictions and under
the same penalties, that the clerk of the Supreme Court
now gives and is. liable to according to law.

4. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of Burke coun
ty to attend the said court during its session at Morgan
Of Sheriﬁton ; and he shall receive as a c gmpensation therefor,
to mud" two dollars a day during such his attendance, to he paid
by the Public Treasurer, upon the certificate of the Clerk,

. under the seal of the court, showing the number of days
for which he is entitled to pay.
5. The Reporter for the Supreme Court, at its ses
om“ '°'sions at Raleigh, shall act as reporter to the said court at
Wm.
its session at Morganton, unless the Judges of said court
shall orderotherwise; and in case they so order, they

shall have the power to appoint some other competent
and suitable person for that purpose.
C‘am
6. The Judges may in their discretion adjourn
ggzﬁs ad‘ causes in law and equity, from the dockets of the court
from one in Morganton to the dockets of the court in Raleigh, and

:3;‘::_‘°‘h° in like manner from the dockets in Raleigh to those in
Morganton.

1846-7.—Ch. 29.

All the appeals, 'both in law and equity, remain

iug on the docket of the Supreme Court, after the ex

wm. uh-piration of the present term of the Supreme Court at
dRe,,cll:;;h,at
' d
Raleigh,
.

undecided,
.
where the same were taken from any

may 1“ '°' of the counties west of Stokes, Davidson, Rowan, Davie,

moved'

Union, Stanly or Surry, shall be removed to the Supreme
Court at Morganton, unless both parties shall agree to
retain one or more of such causes in the court at Raleigh
for hearing ; and in that event, the cases so agreed to be
retained shall be heard and determined at the session at

Raleigh ; and any of the cases from any of the said coun

ties of Stokes, Davidson, Davie, Rowan, Union, Stanly

and Surry, may, by the consent of both of the parties
thereto, be sent to the court at Morganton; otherwise

they shall be heard and determined at Raleigh.._ .
2.

In alllthekcases directed, by the ﬁrst section of '

this act. to be removed, it shall be the duty of the clerk glzgktrizah
of the Supreme Court to make out a transcript of the re- cript 811%
papers 0

cord in his ofﬁce, not including the records and papers mm W

sent up from the respective Superior Courts; but all such m°"’°d
transcripts, papers and records, as were sent to said Su
preme Court at Raleigh, shall be sent to the court at
Morganton, with, and form part of’, the record of such
case in that court ; and that this duty shall be performed

by the ﬁrst day of June, 1847 ; and shall deliver said records
and papers to the Clerk, to be appointed for said court at
Morganton, on his application for them ; and the cases so
made out, shall be placed on the docket of said court at
Morganton, and shall be there heard and determined. as

the case directed to be returned to said court from the
counties aforesaid.

3. The Judges of the Supreme Court shall have
power to appoint the clerk for said court at Morganton,
as soon as they may deem it advisable ; and it shall be
their duty to make the appointment before the ﬁrst day Appdn" .
ment of

of June next ;, and any one or more of said Judges shall clerk and
have power to take and receive the bond of said c1erk._f;'::°;f “'"
and to administer to him the oath of office; and that it Beam!’

shall be the duty of the Attorney General to attend to all
the business Which may be carried up for adjudication to
the session of the Supreme Court of this State hereafter
to be held at Morganton, Burke county, on the ﬁrst Mon-4

day in August in each and every year, wherein the State
may be concerned, or in any manner haveany interest
therein : And for said services the Attorney General
shall receive the same compensation that is now allowed
him for the performance of like services at thesession oh
the Supreme Court at Raleigh,

4. Should the Attorney Geheral fail to attend the
session of the Supreme Court at Morganton, from sick
failing tol" ness
or other
cause, itsome
shallCounsellor,
be the duty
of theinJudges
of
said court
to appoint
learned
the law,
l)°iI"'_-WI}-to'supply the place of the Attorney General during his
;T2::_'u M absence, who shall be subject to the performance of all
4m
.,_,

the duties of such office, and be entitled to receive the

same compensation, as is allowed to the Attorney General
for like services.
AN Aer to explain and amend the 86th section of An Act
passed at the session of 1836, one of the Revised
Statutes, entitled “An Act concerning crimes and

punishments.”
It is hereby declared and enacted to have been, and
to be, the true intent and meaning of the section recited
in the title of this Act, to refer to and include Notes or

Due Bills, issued by individuals or by corporate bodies,
for sums under one dollar, intended to pass as the repre
sentative, or as a substitute for money, and the said

Act shall be construed accordingly.
18 38-9.-Ch. 22.

It shall not be lawful for any white person to play
with any Slave or Slaves at any game of Cards, or at any
Gaming game of hazard or chance, for any money, liquor, or any ,
¥EQFJZLf'kind
of property,
the same
or to
notindiet; and _ if
any white
person,whether
so offending,
shallbebestaked
subject
ment, and, on conviction, shall be ﬁned or imprisoned, at 4

the discretion of the Court :

Provided, such imprison- .

ment shall not exceed six months.

Every person who shall wilfully or maliciously re
move any monument of Wood, Stone, or other durable Pe,,°,,,d._
material, erected for the purpose ‘of designating the spot
N
where any dead body is interred, or of preserving‘ or per- miy P|§c,

petuating the birth, age, death or memory of any dead

323S:?

person in any public or private Burying.ground or Church, ment ofthe

or who shall wilfully or malicious-ly deface or alter anygzaihjvggéz
such monument, or the marks or letters, or any inscrip- W‘ g_'"l_ly _
tion upon any such monument, made and erected as afore

said, for the purpose aforesaid, or who shall wilfully de. P““iﬁh9d
face any part of any Church or other Building devoted to |a;,mdmz_
the service of Almighty God, shall, upon conviction in
any Court of record, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor,
and fined or imprisoned at the discretion of the Court.
1840-,l.—Ch. 50.

If any free negro, mulatto, or free person of color
shall wear, or carry about his or her person, or keep in Free n,.
his or her house, any shot gun, musket, riﬂe, pistol, sword, §‘;‘?:p'::“°
dagger, or bowie knife, unless he or she shall have ob- carry mm.

tained a licence therefor from the Court of Pleas and
Quarter Sessions of his or her county, within one year
preceding the wearing, keeping or carrying thereof, he
or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be in
dicted therefor.
1842-3.—Ch. 29.

1. In every presentment or indictment, to be prose
cuted against any person, for wilful and corrupt perjury, What may
it shall be sufﬁcient to set forth the substance of the of- be set forth
fence charged upon the defendant, and by what Court, or 12,527:
before whom, the oath or affirmation was taken, (averring;1i°""e.nt

such Court, or person or persons, to have a competent OIPQUMY.
authority to administer the same,) together with the pro
per averment or averments, to’ falsify the matter or mat
ters, wherein the perjury or. perjuries is or are assigned,

without setting forth the bill, answer, information, indict

ment, declaration or any part of any record or proceed
ings, either in law or equity, other than aforesaid, and‘

without setting forth the commission or authority of the
Court, or person or persons, before whom the perjury
was committed.
2. Irr every presentment or indictment for subor
wlm for nation of perjury, or for corrupt bargaining or contract
a,uborn_a1ion ing with others to commit wilful and corrupt perjury, it
°fp°']ury' shall be suiﬁcient to set forth the substance of the offence
charged upon the defendant, without setting forth the
bill, answer, infornmtion, indictment, declaration or any

part of any record or proceedings, either in law or equity,

and without setting forth the commission or authority
of the Court or person or persons, before whom the

perjury was committed, or was agreed or promised to be
committed.

1. Any person who is not a citizen of this State,
who shall use drag nets in the waters of the Pamlico

t};l':hLbai::h_ Sound‘, for the purpose of catching Terrapins, shall, upon
ing of Tar. conviction before any Justice of the Peace, for each and

every such offence, forfeit and pay the sum of one hun
by those

dred dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, by any

:;3;’e";:_“°"person, who may warrant for the same; one half to the
use of the informant, and the other half to the wardens

of the poor in such county where the offence may be
committed.

2. If any free white person shall violate the provis
ions of this act, said person so offending, and being una
ble to pay the ﬁne imposed, shall, upon conviction, be
imprisoned at least twenty days.

3. If any free person of color, shall violate the
Z:E'ﬁ¥_°" provisions of this act, said person so offending, and being
sons of
0010:.

convicted thereof, shall receive on his or her bare back,
thirty-mne lashes.

l844-5.—Ch. 22.

As Aer to repeal the 8th section of the Revised Statutes,
entitled “An Act concerning crimes and punishments.”
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the same, That the said section be, and the same is

hereby repealed
1846-7.—Ch. 42.

It shall not be lawful for any person or persons to
sell or barter and deliver, to any slave, or slaves, any gun §;:i:L°'b°
cotton, ﬁre arms, swords, dirks or other side arms, -unless sold to

those articles be for the owner or employer, and by the slave!’ ‘
written order of the owner or employer of such slave or
slaves, under the penalty of one hundred dollars for each
offence, to he recovered, by warrant, before any Justice

of the Peace, and applied, one half to the use of the party
suing for the same, and the other half to the wardens of
the poor of the county; and, moreover, may be indicted
in the County or Superior Courts of Law; and the defendant, on -conviction, shall be ﬁned or imprisoned at the
discretion of the Court; the ﬁne, however, not to exceed

ﬁfty dollars, or the imprisonment three months.

If any person or persons shall unlawfully and wil- Injuries ,3
fully burn any uninhabited house, out house or other dwelling

buildings, or shall unlawfully and wilfully demolish, pull ‘l}§;',“§;,“,‘,‘_°'
down, deface, or by other ways or means destroy, injure i8h°dor damage any dwelling house, or any uninhabited house,
out house, or other building, or shall unlawfully or wil

fully burn, destroy, or remove any fence, wall, or other
inclosure or any part thereof, surrounding or about any
yard, garden, or cultivated grounds, he, she, or they shall

be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction

thereof. shall be punished by ﬁne or imprisonment, or
both, at the discretion of the court in which such convic
tion shall be had.

Whereas the United States, in Congress assem

bled, have authorized the erection of a Custom House
Prosmbla

and a Ware House in the town of Wilmington, and the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, through
his agent, has purchased or contracted to purchase, as
suitable sites for said buildings, the piece or parcel of

land herein after described, viz 2 a certain piece or parcel
of land in the town of Wilmington, in the county ofNew
Hanover, lying between Market street and Princess street,

beginning at the north western corner of Smith’s Alley,
running thence eastwardly with the northern line of said
Smith’s Alley, about one hundred and ﬁve feet, to the

southwestern intersection of Wright’s Alley with said
Smith’s Alley ; thence northwardly with the western line
of Wright’s1 Alley, about seventy-six feet to the south
western intersection of Wright’s Alley with Ewing’s
Alley ; thence westwardly with the southern line of Ew
ing’s Alley, about twenty-eight feet to the northeastern
corner of a lot or parcel of land, belonging to the heirs at
law of the late Murdock McKay ; thence southwardly
with the eastern line of said lot or parcel ofland last re
ferred to, about thirty-nine feet, to the southeastern

corner of said lot or parcel of land, belonging to the heirs
of Murdock McKay; thence westwardly with the southern
line of said lot or parcel of land referred to, about seven
ty-feet ; thence southward] y in a right line to the be

ginning: And whereas, by a joint resolution of the Sen
ate and House of Representatives of the Congress of the

United States, approved September 11th, 1841, the ex-

penditures of any public money upon any site or land
thereafter to be purchased by the United States for the
purpose of erecting any public building, is forbidden un
til the consent of the Legislature of the State, in which
the land or site maybe, shall be given to the United
States to make such purchase.
1.

Be it therefore enacted‘ by the General Assembly of

the State of North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by
the authority of the same, That the United States he, and Amminz
is hereby authorized and empowered, to purchase, have, to pumhm

hold, occupy and possess the piece or parcel of land de- byll" us
scribed in the preamble hereto; and that exclusive juris

diction of said piece or parcel of land is hereby ceded to
and vested in the United States, upon condition that the
United States shall continue and keep upon said piece or
parcel of land a Custom House and Ware House, or such
otherbuildings as shall be necessary or convenient for
the collection of the revenue accruing to the United
States within the Port of Wilmington, or necessary and

convenient for other public purposes connected with the
administration of one or more of the different branches of
the Government of the United States.
2. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed
as to debar or hinder any of the ofﬁcers of this State from €i?§’,.‘::'
serving any process or levying execution within the limits Sm" 05-,
of the before described piece or parcel of land, in the
same manner, and to the same eﬂ'ect as if this act had P"°°°"'

never been passed.

There shall be annually appropriated, out of the A

proceeds of the Literary Fund, ﬁve thousand dollars for ,i:£r::,r":; 
the maintenance and_ education of such. poor and desti- °"
new murse ac.

tute deaf mutes and blind persons, as are unable to pay
for such maintenance and education, to be selected in
the mode that shall be prescribed by the Literary Board:
Provided, that Such selection shall be made with a due

regard to the claims of every portion of the State.
2.

gzdta

The sums hereby appropriated shall be expended,‘

at the discretion of the Literary B08-rd. eithl’-1' by hiring

discretion teachers to open schools in this State, or by placing such

;;roI.‘:;'“'y pupils as may be selected by them to such institutions of
the sister States, for the instruction of the deaf and dumb
and the blind, as they may deem most advisable, due re

gard being had to the expense of the instruction and
maintenance in said institutions.

3. The Justices of the several Courts of Pleas and
Quarter Sessions, at the terms of their respective Courts
Tu’ court when the taxes are laid, may levy, in the same manner
m‘? lWY- as taxes are now by law levied for the support of the
poor, seventy-ﬁve dollars for the support and maintenance
of every such deaf mute and blind person as shall be
selected from their respective counties, by the Literary
Board, for the purpose of education.
l846-7.--Ch. 48.

Suitable buildings for the accommodation ofsuch

deaf mutes and blind persons as now are, or may hereaf

bulldinga ter become, pupils or inmates of the institution estab
lished in the city of Raleigh, for their education and
maintenance, shall be erected in or near the said city, of

good and durable materials, according to the plan sub
mitted herewith:

Provided, the whole cost of said build

ings shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars.
2. The said buildings shall be erected under the
To bu 6!» control and management of the President and Directors
f,‘:§':‘,,§{‘,;,| of the Literary Fund, who are authorized and empow

°'1'"»B°'d eredto contract for said work; but before any con-'

tractor or contractors, who may be employed by them,
shall be allowed to commence the work, the

said

board shall require him or them to enter into bond,
with good and suﬂicient security, in the sum of ﬁfteen
thousand dollars, conditioned that the said contractor or
contractors shall execute the said work in such time as

may be prescribed and speciﬁed by the said board, and
in a substantial and workmanlike manner.

3. The President and Directors of the Literary
Fund are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to ‘l;“:g:d‘°
use, for the execution of said buildings, any u-nexpended
'
balance of the annual appropriation made at the last ses
sion of the General Assembly, for the maintenance of

- deaf mutes and blind persons of the State, as may remain
on hand at the expiration of the present and the next
ﬁscal years; and also to apply, for said purpose, the
additional sum of ﬁve thousand dollars from the Literary
Fund.

4. The said President and Directors of the Literary
for
Board are hereby authorized, empowered and directed Lot
building
to cause said buildings to be erected on any one of the

public lots in or near the city of Raleigh, now owned

by the State, which they may select for that purpose,
and to take and hold possession of such lot until further
provision shall be made by law in relation thereto,
1. The registry or duly certiﬁed copy of the record CW6“
of any deed or conveyance of land, or power of attorney 30p)’ of

for conveying the same, registered or recorded, as by the :.°:‘°:'°‘
Revised Statute, chap. 87, entitled “deeds and convey

attorney,
may be ev
idonce

ances,” is directed, shall and may be given in evidence in
any court of record, and shall be held to be full and

sufficient evidence of such deed, conveyance. or power of
attorney, although the party offering the same shall be
entitled to the possession of the original, and shall not
account for the non-production thereof‘, unless by a rule
or order of the court, made upon afﬁdavit suggesting
some material variance from the original in such registry,

or other sufficient grounds, such party shall have been
previously required to produce the original ; in which
case the same shall be produced, or its absence duly ac
counted for according to the course and practice of the
court.

2.

According to the true intent and meaning of the

sixteenth section of the said statute, each and every

officer in the said section mentioned, and thereby au
thorised to certify the execution of any power of attorney,
hath power and is authorised to take and certify the
certify
proof by a proof thereof by a subscribing witness, or the acknowl
subscribing
edgement thereof by the party or parties thereto; and
wiuma.
all powers of attorney, which, upon such certiﬁcate of
Oﬂicen
who may
take and

proof or acknowledgement, shall have been ordered, or

shall hereafter be ordered to be registered, and shall have
been, or shall be registered accordingly, shall be held and

taken to have been, or to be duly proved and registered
within the true intent and meaning of the said sixteenth
section; and duly certiﬁed copies of theregistry or record
of all powers of attorney, registered according to the said
sixteenth section, shall and may be given in evidence in
any court of record in this State, in manner and under
the circumstances in the ﬁrst section of this act pre

scribed : Provided, always, and it is hereby declared,
that nothing in the said sixteenth section contained does
extend, or shall be held or taken to extend, to any power

of attorney executed or attested, or which shall be exe
cuted or attested in the State, by a person or persons re
sidingin the same.
. 3.

All powers of attorney of the description referred
to in the said sixteenth section, executed or attested by a §t‘:“')"r'!"':y°'

person or persons residingr in this State, may be proved acknowll
or acknowledged before any Judge of the Supreme or Zggemen‘
Superior Court, or in the Court of Pleas and Quarter

Sessions of the county in which the attorney or attornies
therein named, or the person or persons executing the
same, shall reside, and may be thereupon ordered to be
registered.

l.- VVhenever any Superior Court of Law, or any
Superior Court of Equity in this State, shall grant a di- Custody of
vorce, whether from the bonds of matrimony, or from bed ‘he chlld
or children
and board, if the parties divorced have any child or chil- toibe cor_n-:

dred under the age of twenty-one years, the said Courts :',1,'e‘:etd0 1:‘
may commit the custody and tuition of such child or ther or mo
children, either to the father or mother, as the Court may they’

think the interest of the child or children shall require ;
and, if any such child or children shall have any estate,
real or personal, or be entitled to any such estate, the

said Court shall and may appoint a ﬁt and proper person
or persons to take the care and management of such es-'
tate or estates, and the person or persons so appoin-ted,
shall enter‘ into bond with security, as r'e'quire'd of Guar
Guard'ia1:‘.
dians of Orphans, and shall have the same authority as
Guardians, and be regulated in all respects by the law
relative to Guardians of Orphans, so far as respects the

property and rights of Orphans ; but shall not have any
care
children,
of, orunless
authority
the person
over appointed
the personto take
of such
the care
childand
or
management ofthe estates of such child or ‘children, be

either the father or mother to whom the custody and
tuition of the said child or children have been committed
by the Court.

nnscrions.

Temporary
custody.

2. The Court granting a divorce, may commit the
custody of the infant child or children of the parties, in
the ﬁrst place, to one of the parties for a time, to be
limited by the Court, and after the expiration of that
time, to the other party.
1842-3.—Ch. 43.

suiu'b°_
Suits commenced or which may be commenced in
fore hear- any of the Courts of this State under the Revised Statute,

afezzzed entitled “An Act concerning Divorce and Alimony,” may
:§°:;Itpr'me be removed into the Supreme Court, before a hearing, in
'

like manner as suits in Equity may now be removed into

that court by virtue of the sixteenth section of the Re
vised Statute, entitled “ An Act concerning Courts of
Equity,” any thing in the ﬁrst mentioned statute to the
contrary notwithstanding.
18.

Each voter shall be required to have the names of
mom; in all the persons for whom he votes in the Commons Box, on
:2," the same scrip of paper or ticket, so that there shall not

on the . be more tickets than voters.
same scrip.

I.

It shall be the duty of the Sheriffs of the several

counties in this State to ﬁle the returns and poll books,
?::%;;' in made to him by the returning officers of the votes taken
:;L‘li‘l>:c_t° for Governor, in each year. when there shall be a Gov
mm “Go. ernor’s election, with the clerk of the County Court; and
""'°'- it shall be the duty of the clerks to receive said returns
and polls books, and deposite and safely keep them in his
ofﬁce, and give the sheriff a receipt therefor, stating for
what precincts the returns and poll-books are made‘

And it shall be the duty of the sheriffs to transmit to the
Secretary of State the said receipt, at the time be trans
mits his duplicate of votes taken for Governor; and in
case any sheriff or clerk shall fail to comply with the
provisions of this Act, he or they shall forfeit and pay
the sum of one hundred dollars, to be sued for and re
covered, as is now provided in the sixteenth section of
the Revised Statutes, ﬁfty-third Chapter, Sec. 2nd.

It

shall be the duty of the sheriffs of the several counties in
the State to transmit to the Governor, on or before the

ﬁrst day of October in every year, when there shall be
an election for Governor, a statement of the votes taken
for Governor, which statement shall be made from the
poll books, in the following form, viz :
STATE or None CAROLINA,

County.

I,

Sheriff of the the county of

Form_ of

do hereby certify, that, at the elections held in said coun- 2:32: '
ty to elect a Governor of this State for two years from
the first day of January next, at the places appointed by
law for holding elections in said county, on the
day
of
and

18—,
votes for

votes were given for —
—-—.

Given under under my hand this

day of
Sheriﬂi

The election of Electors provided for by the ﬁrst

section of the Revised Statute, entitled “ An Act provid- Time of

ing for the appointment of Electors to vote for President holding .
and Vice President of the United States,” shall be here
8:
after held in the several years, in which it is directed to President

take place, on the ﬁrst Monday in November, and the }‘;§,§;§Z,
certificate and returns of the elections, held in pursuance
of the said section of the Statute aforesaid, and now, by
the provisions thereof, required to be returned to the
Tim? "T

nnncrions.

Governor of the State within eight days after holding the

makmg re

mm, to

polls. shall hereafter be returned to the.Governor within'

lh° G°"-

ten days after holding said polls. And, in case of failing
to make such return, within the time herein prescribed,
the sheriff or other ofﬁcer, whose duty it shall be so to do,

shall forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars, to
Penalty for be recovered by the Attorney General, in the mode pre

failure‘

scribed by the said ﬁrst section of the Statute aforesaid,
in the name of‘ the State ; and the Governor, within three

days after the expiration of the time for the receipt of
such certiﬁcates and returns, shall proceed to ascertain
Eleven e- therefrom the (ﬁfteen) persons elected as Electors, and
l;,'ftm cu' make out and deliver the lists of the names of said Elec
tors, according to the mode in said section prescribed.

2. At the expiration of the time allowed to the Gov.
Governor ernor to ascertain the persons elected as Electors, it shall
to pubhsh be his duty to issue his proclamation, and cause the same
tion of the to be published in the public gazettes of the City of Ra..

proclama

persons e-liegh, wherein he shall set forth the names of the persons
lmml

duly elected as Electors, and warn them and each one

of them to attend at the City of Raleigh, on the ﬁrst
Wednesday in December, then next ensuing, to vote for
President and Vice President of the United States,
1.

Elections for members of the General Assembly

of’ this State, Representatives in Congress, Governor of
1‘.;,|°;I"°“'. the State, Sheriffs of the several counties, Clerks of the
O
em
ber, of As,County and Clerks of the Superior Courts, shall be uni

‘embly 5“ form throughout the State ; and, in all the counties, shall
to be an the
1-t Thurs be holden on the ﬁrst Thursday in August, in the several —
day
gust;of Au

years in which they are now required to be held; and
the said elections shall be conducted in every respect as
they are now conducted, and under the same rules, regu
lations and restrictions, as are now prescribed.
85

The returns of the said several elections shallll§°""l:ls W

3 ma

can

be made in the same manner and at the same times and at Present,

places, as are now required by law, except,
First—in the counties of Currituck, Carteret and

Hyde, the statement of the number of votes given for Excop“on
each candidate, and also the names of the persons voting, a_s to Our
made out and signed by the inspectors, and directed to :‘:la“r‘::_'et
be handed to the Sheriffs of the said counties respectively, and Hy“
on the day after the election, shall be handed to the said
Sheriﬁ's thereof‘, or other persons authorized by law to
receive the same, on the ﬁrst Tuesday after the elections,
Secondly—the Senatorial returns now required by
the ninth section of the Revised Statute, “concerning £Xl°°°P:(i::_
the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina,” paying
to be compared on the third Thursday of August, shall
be compared on the ﬁrst Thursday after the day of elec
tion; or, if not compared on that day, by reason of the

causeset forth in the said section,they may be compared
on the day following, as provided for under the proviso
of the said section, they may be compared on the day
following, as provided for under the proviso of the said
section; and the Sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, failing to at

tend as by law required, shall be subject to indictment,
and be ﬁned at the discretion of the Court.
I

T/zz'rdly—when any election of members of Congress
shall be held in pursuance of the ﬁfth section of the Special

Revised Statutes, “concerning the mode of choosing Congreg
Senators and Representatives in the Congress of the :i‘§::li:M
United States,” the returns of the inspectors for the Curﬂtuch

counties of Currituck, Carteret and Hyde, shall be made ,(,,:,,‘,;t°§‘;,t,1,_
at the time before speciﬁed for said counties, by this Act,
to-wit,on the ﬁrst Tuesday after the election.
3. Any sheriff, who shall fail or refuse to make the Penalty on
returns, or to transmit the duplicates, as required and sliqﬁﬁi for

enjoined by the sixteenth section of the Revised Statute, ram“: ‘°
£t.nc'r1oss.

2:3: "' entitled “ An Act concerning the Governor and Council
of State,” shall forfeit and pay the sum of ﬁve hundred
dollars, to be recovered in the mode and for the use pre
scribed in the said section. And if any sheriff, or other
officer, whose duty it waste hold any election, mentioned
in the ﬁrst section of this Act, shall fail to do so, accord

ing to the mode and form prescribed by law, or shall fail
to make due return thereof (except in the case of election
for Governor, hereafter provided for, and in the case of
the election of Members of Congress, also fully provided
for,) as by law he is required to do. he shall forfeit and
pay the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars, for each and every
neglect of duty in holding said elections and making said
returns as aforesaid ; which said sum of ﬁve hundred

dollars may be recovered, by action of debt in the name
of the State, in any Court of the State, having jurisdic

tion thcreof, by any person who will sue for the same.

Fofeituru

4. Wherever, by the provisions of this Act. any for
feiture is declared to be incurred by any sheriff or other i

under this

wt only 1° ofﬁcer, for any default or omission of duty in relation to

2:l.tec°v“' any of the elections mentioned in this Act, for which said
default or omission of duty in relation to any of the elec
tions mentioned in this Act, a forfeiture is already pre
scribed by the existing law, the forfeiture created by this

Act only shall be recovered.
1842-3.—Ch. 29.

If any returning ofﬁcer of the returns of Electors for
Penalty ,0, President and Vice President of the United States, shall

"f“'i“g_ °' wilfully or of malice, refuse or neglect to make such re
neglcctmg,

10 ml“

turn or returns, or to make them within the time pre

°°ff scribed by law, he shall be deemed guilty of felony; and
Electors. upon conviction, shall be ﬁned, not less than one thou
sand dollars, and be imprisoned, not less than one, nor

more than three years—shall be disabled from holding
any office of proﬁt or trust, under the authority of this

8'!

State ; and it shall not be lawful for the Governor to par
don said ofﬁcer, or the punishment which may be in
ﬂicted therefor.
l842-3.—Ch. 30.

1.

The proper returning ofﬁcer of every county in Smemm

this State, shall, on or before the ﬁrst day of October, of vom for

succeeding any election for Governor, transmit to the }(,;o°,',',°:',',:r'
seat of Government, and deliver to the Secretary of State, wk" W b’

a statement of the votes taken in his county for Governor, mi“
made out as required in the second section of the above
recited Act of 1840, and scaled up as required by the
ﬁrst section of the above recited Revised Statute, and
directed by an endorsement upon the sealed packet or
envelope, containing the said statement, to the Speaker
of the Senate ; and such returning officer shall also en

dorse upon the said packet, a memorandum of the con
tents thereof, in this form :
in the county of

“ A statement of votes taken,

, at the election for Governor, held

memorandum
on the
with
day of
his name ,”
; and
andsuch
shall
returning
sign theofficer
said ::r‘ire:;'i“~
iii;
shall, on or before the said ﬁrst day of October succeed- despatch a

ing such election, transmit to the Secretary of State, the '“e“°“g°'

for correct

duplicate of the votes in his county. required by the six- statement.
teenth section of the said Revised Statute ; and the Sec.
,::,,d°
retary of State, shall, immediately after receiving such Wh" "9
original and duplicate statements, proceed to examine the
packets containing the said original statements, and to

ascertain whether the same are properly endorsed and
directed; and he shall also examine the duplicates, to
ascertain if the statements are duly made out in the form
required by the second section of the act of 1840 ; and if
any such packet containing an original return, shall not

be properly addressed or directed, or shall not be proper
ly sealed up, or if any such duplicate return shall be de
fective or informal, the said Secretary shall forthwith
employ some suitable and discreet person as a messenger,

to proceed to the county from which such return shall
have been received, and require from the returning oﬁ"1

cer a proper and formal return, duly sealed up, directed
and endorsed, and a proper duplicate ; which return and
duplicate, it shall be the duty of such officer, upon the
demand of the said messenger, forthwith to make out and
deliver to him, to be transmitted to the seat of Govern-'

ment: and the Secretary of State, shall proceed in like
manner, when no return or duplicate shall be transmitted
and delivered to him from any county ; and he shall
furnish every such messenger with a written authority.
or commission to make the said demand. and shall sign
the same, and certify it under the Great Seal of the State,

which the Governor is hereby required to affix, upon ap—

plication of said‘Secretary.
2.

Should it so happen that, at the meeting of the

General Assembly next after any election for Governor
shall be held, there shall not be proper returns made as

and S_peu. aforesaid, from any county or counties in the State, it

shall be the duty of Secretary of State immediately to
mm P“y communicate the fact to the Speakers of the two Houses,
for the information of the General Assembly, who shall
A'"mblY- forthwith cause the returning oﬂicer to be summoned to

appear and make complete, or correct his return, as the
case may require ; and should it seem to the General
Assembly advisable, likewise to cause the Clerk of the
County Court to be summoned to produce the returns and
poll books, required by the ﬁrst section of the said act of
1840, to be ﬁled with him, and to take such other steps

as may be deemed necessary for supplying, counting and
completing such returns.
8.

It shall be the duty of the Secretary of State, ‘in’

Secretary each and every year in which an election for Governor}
;:,,,l;:ep;;: shall be held, to cause proper forms of returns to be pre
pared and printed, and to send copies thereof, with plain
I
directions as to the manner of endorsmg, directing and
transmitting the same to the seat of Government, to all

A ﬁg the returning officers in the State, at least thirty days
1before the time of holding such elections.
2,,

"54.

If any Sheriff, Coroner, or other returning officer,

shall negligently omit to do and perform any act, matter
or thing, by this act, or by the said Revised Statute, or P_eI1al_tY for
the said act of 1840 required, in the manner and form,{i:,Ia,t,',(:,I:,i:f

and within the time required for the same, he shall, for ms °f thi’
such offence, forfeit and pay the sum of ﬁve hundred dol-a lars, to be recovered in the name, and to the use of this

State, on motion in the Superior Court of Law of the
county of VVake, ten days’ previous notice in writing, of
such intended motion, being given to such ofﬁcer ; which
notice the Secretary of State shall cause to be given, and
which motion it shall be the duty of the Attorney General
to make, and the proceedings thereon shall be summary;
and if any matter of fact shall be in issue, the same shall
be tried at the ﬁrst term ; and on such trial, or for any

other purpose in the prosecution of such motion to judg
ment, the certiﬁcate of the Secretary of State, of the

particular default on which the said motion shall be
founded, shall and may be received as competent prima
facie evidence to prove ‘the same ; and such ofﬁcer shall
further be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in ofﬁce, and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be ﬁned and imprisoned at

the discretion of the Court.
5. If any Sheriff, Coroner, or returning ofﬁcer what
ever, shall wilfully or of malice, refuse or neglect to per- nlaiicious
form any duty, act, matter or thing, by this act, or by ::§$:°;el°_

either of the before recited acts, required or directed, in ny.
the time, manner and form, ip which such duty, act, mat
ter or thing is required to be performed, the person so
offending, shall be deemed guilty of felony, and upon con
viction, shall be ﬁned not less than one thousand, nor
more than ﬁve thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not

nnncrrous.

less than one, nor more than three years-—shall be dis
abled from holding any office of proﬁt or trust, under the
authority of this State, and shall moreover forfeit the
sum of one thousand dollars, to be recovered in the court,
and in the manner in the last section directed.

What m_

6. The Superior Court of Law of the county of

b““‘1|_sh{\“ Wake, shall have jurisdiction of all offences under this
have _]ur|s

d;,,,;,,,, of act ; and no such offence shall be pardoned, nor any of

‘ét::“1%°;‘-4_5 the penalties therefor remitted by the Governor.
7. The forfeitures declared in the fourth and ﬁfth
Fork’itures sections of this act, shall be recovered from the securi

my be re- ties of the Sheriff, Coroner or other returning officer; and
covered
from secu_ the motion directed 1n the sand section may be made as

well against the said securities or any of them,as against
the officer, and when any messenger shall have been
employed in manner herein before directed, the expenses
attending his employment shall, when certiﬁed by the
Secretary of State, be taxed and allowed as costs upon
the said motion,

8. The third section of the aforesaid! Act of the
R°P"'““8‘ General Assembly, passed in the year 1840, and all other
dame’

laws and clauses of laws coming in conflict herewith,

and for which this is intended as a substitute, are hereby
repealed.
1842-3 —Ch. 3!.

If in any election directed to be held by the Sheriff,
there shall be no Sheriif qualiﬁed to act, the duties re

f::?:°J.:? quired of such Sheriff shall be performed by the Coroner
tion-_ if no or Coroners of the county where such vacancy in the
‘helm:
Sheriffalty exists; and furthermore, if after any election
shall be held by any Sheriff, he ‘shall die before the re

turns required of him are made, the succeeding Sheriff

shall make the same, provided there be such Sheriff at

the time when said returns are by law required to be
made ; and if there shall be no Sheriff at such time, then
said returns shall be made by the Coroner or Coroners of
the county in which such vacancy in the Sheriffalty exists;
in all which events the returns shall be made in the form
and manner now prescribed by law; and if any person
upon whom the duty is devolved by this section, of mak
ing returns, shall fail to do so, he shall be subject to the

same pains and penalties, recoverable in the same man
ner, as are prescribed in cases where the Sheriffs fail to
make such returns.

If any person shall hereafter knowingly and fraudu
lently vote at any election, who by law shall not be en
titled to vote at such election, he shall be liable to in- punislfed.
dictment in the County or Superior Courts of Law, and,
on conviction, shall be ﬁned or imprisoned, or both, at the

discretion of the Court; the amount of the ﬁne to be not
less than ten nor more than one hundred dollars, and the

term of imprisonment to be not less than ﬁve nor more
than thirty days.

AN Aer to amend An Act, entitled “ An Act to punish the
default of returning officers in the election of Electors

for President and Vice President of the United States,"
passed 1842-'3, chapter 29.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority

of the same, That the olfence created by the above re- £:£ar:l:°g_
cited act shall be cognizable in the Superior Court ofnimble

Law of the county wherein the defaulting ofﬁcer
resides.

1.

This State shall be, and is hereby divided and

laid oﬁ‘ into eleven districts, for the purpose of choosing
Electors for a President and Vice President of the United
States, in the following manner, to-wit : the counties. of
1)imic,MfCurrituck, Camden, Pasquotank, Perquimons, Gates,
whatc0lm- Chowan, Hertford, Northampton and Bertie, shall com
lies compo
pose the ﬁrst district; the counties of VVashington, Tyr
sad.
rell, Beaufort, Hyde, Pitt, Martin, Edgecomb and Nash,

shall compose the second district ; the counties ‘of Hali
fax, Vvarren, Franklin, VVake and Granville, shall com
pose the third district; the counties of Greene, Lenoir,
Craven, Jones, Carteret, \Vayne Duplin, and Johnston,

shall compose the fourth district ; the counties of Samp
son, Onslow, New Hanover,

Brunswick, Columbus,

Bladen, Robeson, and Richmond, shall compose the ﬁfth
district; the counties of Cumberland, Moore, Chatham,

Randolph, Stanly and Montgomery, shall compose the
sixth district ; the counties of Orange, Guilford, Caswell
and Person, shall compose the seventh district ; the coun

ties of Rockingham, Stokes, Davidson, Surry and Davie,
shall compose the eighth district ; the counties of Anson,
(as known on the twenty-ﬁrst day of November, 1842,)
Mecklenburg, (as known on said day,) Cabarrus, and

Lincoln, (as known on said day,) shall compose the ninth
district; the counties of Rowan, Iredell, Wilkes, Ashe,

Caldwell and Burke, (as known on the twenty-ﬁrst day
of November, 1842,) shall compose the tenth district ; the
counties of Cleaveland, Rutherford, (as known on the

twenty.ﬁrst day of November, 1842,) Yancy, Buncombe,
Henderson, Macon, Haywood and Cherokee, shall com

pose the cleventh district.

2. The election of Electors, provided for by the
fourth section of the Revised Statute, shall be conducted §"o"‘:°ti‘:)‘:1_

in all respects, according to the provisions of the act, ducted.
mentioned in the next section, which passed in the year
1840 and 1541.

3. Save in the particulars above stated, the said
act shall be, and remain in full force, except as amehded Portions of
by an act of the General Assembly, entitled “ An‘ Act to ?i?,t,,,t,oiﬁ.n'

amend the Revised Statute,” entitled “An Act providing f°"=°
for the appointment of Electors to vote for President and
Vice President of the United States,” passed at the ses
sion of1840 and 1841.

ENTRIES AND GRANTS.
1844-5.—Ch. 39.

1. All persons who have made entries of vacantE _
lands and paid the purchase money to the State for the palirileiilow
same, since the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand eight |°"g dligw

hundred and forty, shall have until the ﬁrst of .lanuary,’emn e I
one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, to perfect

their titles to the same by grants.
2.

All persons who have heretofore made entries

of lands according to law, within the time aforesaid, and Entries not

have not paid the purchase money into the Treasury, ?:;Z: h°"
shall have until the said ﬁrst of January, one thousand
eight hundred and forty-seven, to make said payment and
perfect their titles to said lands: Provided. that nothing
in this act contained shall be so construed as to affect
the titles of persons who have heretofore obtained grants Proviso.
for said lands, or the rights of junior enterers, or to ex

tend to swamp lands in the eastern portion of the ‘State.

1846-7.—Ch. 33.
The provisions of the Act, passed at the last session,

ch. 39, are hereby extended to the ﬁrst day of January,
1849.
1846-7.—Ch. 34.

From1842

1.

All persons who have made entries of vacant

to 1849, “lands and paid the purchase money to the State for the

Pa“

same, since the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-two, shall have until the ﬁrst day of

January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, to
perfect titles to the same.
2. All persons who have heretofore made entries
'1_'h° 'am° of lands according to law, within the time aforesaid, and
tune to pay

andperfecgha-V6 not paid the purchase money into the Treasury,

shall have until the ﬁrst day of January one thousand
eight hundred and forty-nine to make said payment, and

perfect their titles to said lands. Provided, that nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to affect the
titles of persons who have heretofore obtained grants
for said lands, or the right of junior enterers, or extend

ing to swamp lands in the eastern part of the State.
l846-7.—Ch. 35.

1. All persons who have made entries of vacant
Entries lands and paid the purchase money to the State for the
,,m,,1835, same, since the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand eight

‘nd Paid- hundred and thirty-ﬁve, shall have until the ﬁrst of Jan
uary, one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, to per
fect their title to the same by grants.

U“P‘id'

2. All persons who have made entries of lands ac
cording to law, since the ﬁrst day of January, one thou
sand eight hundred and forty, and have not paid the
purchase money to the State, shall have until the ﬁrst of

January, one thousand eight hundred and forty.nine to
make said payments, and perfect their titles to said land :
Provided, That nothing in this act contained, shall be so

construed as to affect the titles of persons who have
heretofore obtained grants to said lands, or the rights of
junior entries, or to extend to swamp lands in the eastern
portion of the State.
1846-'7.—Ch. 36.
1.

It shall not be lawful to enter any land covered Land cow

by any navigable sound, river or creek ; and entries ered by ne

of land lying on any navigable water, shall be surveyed ;f§f::° not
in such manner, that the water shall form one side of the "able to

survey, and the land be laid off back from the water.

‘my’

2. This Act shall be in force from and after its
ratiﬁcation.

In actions brought upon the ofﬁcial bonds of
Masters
Clerks of in
theEquity,
County Sheriffs,
and Superior
Coroners,
Courts,
Constables
Clerks and
and 3:22:
be admit

other public otﬁeers, and also upon the bonds of executors, ;:?e‘:§3:'“'t
administrators and guardians, where it may be necessary upon vili

for the plaintiff to prove any official default of any ofml bond“
the said oﬁicers, any receipt or acknowledgement of such
oﬂicer, or any other matter or thing, which by law would
be admissible and competent for or towards proving the
same as against such otﬁcer himself, shall in like man

ner be admissible and competent against all or any of
his sureties, who may be defendants with or without such
oﬁicer in said actions.

Property
levied

up

on, shall

be speciﬁed
in bond and
a list given
to secunty,
&c.

Hereafter when any execution shall be levied upon
personal chattels, and bond and security taken for their
forthcoming on the day of sale, it shall be the duty of the
ofﬁcer making said levy and taking said bond, to specify
in said bond the property levied upon, and, moreover, to
furnish, under his hand and seal, to the security, a list

of the property levied upon, attested by at least one
credible witness, and stating therein the day of sale ; and

all the property so levied upon shall be deemed in the
custody of the security to the forthcoming bond, as the
bailee of the oﬂicer; and all other executions thereafter

levied on said property shall create a lien on the same
from and after the said respective levies, and shall be
satisfied accordingly out of the proceeds of said property ;
but said oliicer thereafter so levying shall not take the
said property out of the custody of the said security for
the forthcoming of the same on the day of sale : provided,
that all such sales shall take place within thirty days after
the said levy : provided further, that if such sale shall
not be made within the time aforesaid, any other ofﬁcer
who may have levied upon said property may sell the
same.
1S44-5.—Ch. 35.

It shall not be lawful for any sheriff, coroner, con
stable or other oﬁicer, to levy an execution on any grow
ing crops.
.
lS46-7.

AN A01‘ to repeal in part an Act, passed in 1844 and I845,
Ch. 34, entitled “An Act to prevent frauds in levying
executions issued by a single magistrate and to en
courage and facilitate the practice of taking security
for the forthcoming of property seized under execution,
and to amend the same.”
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the same, That so much of the above recited act as '
provides that all sales of personal chattels shall be made $1215: :2
within thirty days after the levy, be, and the same iSslaves.
hereby repealed, so far as relates to slaves which may be
so levied upon ; and that hereafter, when any execution

issued by a Justice of the Peace shall be levied on any
slave or slaves, the sale thereof shall take place within
sixty days after the said levy, under the same rules,
regulations and restrictions as are provided in said act:
Whenever any executor or executrix, who may not
have given bond for the discharge of his or her duties, How pm
shall absent him or herself from the State after qualiﬁca- cemaybd
tion, or shall so abseond or conceal him or herself, that served °“
those who

process of law cannot be served on him or her, personally, may not
it shall be lawful for the Sheriff, or other officer having Ezgglgzﬁg
process against him or her, of a civil nature, to leave aabfent

copy of the same, at his or her last place of residence ;th mam"
and the said Sheriff or other oﬂicer shall make return of
the service thus made upon said process, stating the facts
specially ; whereupon the Court or Justice of the Peace,
as the case may be, shall order advertisement to be made
in some newspaper, for the space of six weeks, to appear
at such time as may be directed ; and if he or she, should
fail so to do, such service by the Sheriff or other ofﬁcer,
and the advertisement aforesaid, shall be deemed and

held good and sufficient service of such process and al
together as available for every intent and purpose, as
though the same had been made personally on him or her.

When the goods and chattels of any deceased

3;
person, in the hands of his executor or administrator,
“nee of shall be insufficient to pay all his debts with the charge
C°“"'
of administering the estate, his executor or administrator

shall sell his real estate, upon obtaining a license there
for, and proceeding therein in the manner in this act
provided.

£3112’
taingd.

2. In order to obtain such license, the executor or
administrator shall present to the County Court, or to the
Superior Court of law of the county in which letters tes
tamentary, or letters of administration were granted, a
petition setting forth the amount of the debts due from
the deceased, as nearly as they can be ascertained, and
the amount of the estimated charges of administration,

and the value of the personal estate ; and if it shall be
necessary to sell a part only of the real estate, he shall
also set forth the value, descriptions, and conditions of

the estate, or such part thereof as he shall propose to
sell; and the court may, in all cases where it is not ne
cessary to sell the whole, decide and direct what speciﬁed
part of the estate shall be sold.
3. If it shall be represented in such petition, and
shall appear to the court, that it is necessary to sell some
‘E21: :5

part of the real estate, and by such partial sale, the

whole may residue of the estate, or some speciﬁed part or piece

be hcemed thereof, would be greatly injured, the court may license
a sale of the whole estate, or such part thereof as the
court may think necessary, and most beneﬁcial for the

interest of all concerned therein.

No such license shall be granted until the heirs

and devisees, or other persons interested in said estate,§:'{::°t:°

shall be made parties to said petition, and served with petiﬂou _
notice, either actually or by advertisement as in otherggg’ not“
petitions ﬁled in the County or Superior Courts of law,
or in the Courts of law, or in the Courts of Equity.
5.

As soon as all the parties are before the court, Pemmou

either by personal service.or advertisement, the court may Court mafy

proceed to hear the petition and decree the sale, if ne- hear‘
cessary, unless such cause to the contrary be shown as
,, may induce the court to refuse it, or postpone the ﬁnal
hearing to another term.
6.

Whenever the court may decree a sale of real

Terms of

estate, under the provisions of this act, the sale shall be sale, Court

made upon such terms, and upon such credit, as the court

d"

may direct, and the title shall be made to the purchaser
by such person and at such time, as the court shall
prescribe.
7. The executor or administrator shall make atﬁ- Aﬁ3d'"“'
davit of the facts stated in his petition.
8. All the proceeds of the real estate which may
be sold under this act, and which may not be necessary PI°°_°eds

considered

to pay debts and charges of administration, shall be con-real estate,

sidered real estate, and as such shall be paid over by the
executor or administrator, to such persons as would be
entitled to the land, had it not been sold, or in the case
of feme coverts, invested as proceeds of sale made for

partition.
9. The proceeds of real estate sold under this act,
to pay debts and charges of administration, shall be as- Proceedn

sets in the hands of the executor or administrator for that 3:
purpose and applied in the administration as though the
same were proceeds of personal estate, and bonds and

other obligations in which the ancestor hath bound his
or her heirs. shall not be put in suit against the heirs or
devisees ofthe deceased.an(-l the same shall be considered,
in the payment of debts, as of equal dignity with other
specialties, bills, promissory notes and liquidated accounts.
10.

N0 proceeding shall be had under this act by

WM.“ Pm‘ administrators appointed, or executors of wills proven,
ceedmgs

may be before the ﬁrst day of February, 1847; and on and after

:2?‘ that day all bonds executed by administrators or execu
tors, when they qualify, shall be deemed and taken to
have been executed, as well to secure the performance
of the duties imposed by this act as those already re
quired of administrators or executors.

11. The real estate liable to be sold under this act
shall include all the deceased may have conveyed with
What real intent to defraud his creditors, and all rights of entry and

rights of action, and all other rights and interests in
lands tenements, and hereditaments, which by law would
descend to his heirs: Provided, That lands so fraudu
lently conveyed shall not be taken from any one who
purchased them for a valuable consideration, and with
out the knowledge of the fraud ; but they shall be liable
only in the same cases in which they would have been
liable to attachment or execution by a creditor of the
grantor in his life time.

12. Whenever an executor or administrator shall
ﬁle his petition to sell land which may have fradulently

been conveyed as aforesaid, of which there may have
lent con- been a subsequent bona ﬁde sale, whereby he cannot

Wyan°°' have a decree of sale of the land, it shall be lawful for
the court to give judgment in favor of such executor or ad
ministrator, for the value of said land, against all persons

Whatever who may have fradulently purchased the same ;
and in case the whole of said recovery shall not be ne

cessary to pay the debts and charges aforesaid, the
residue thereof shall be restored to the person or persons
of whom such recovery was made.
13. \/Vhenever the land which is sought to be sold
_
Issue to try
shall be claimed by another, under any pretence what-“L1,,
soever, the court may order an issue to try the title ; and
if it shall be found for the executor or administrator, he

shall have his writ of possession, and a decree of sale
according to the provision of this act.
14. VVhen an executor, other than such as may have
given bond with security, is licensed to sell any portion
of the real estate for the payment of debts, he shall exe- Exeputor
cute a bond with good and suﬂicient securities, payable 3,55?‘
to the State of North Carolina; conditioned for the faith

ful application of the proceeds of sale to the debts of the
Testator and for accounting and paying over all the pro
ceeds ofsale that shall remain after payment of the debts
and charges for which the real estate may be sold, and

fordisposing of the same according to law: which bond
may be put in suit by any person or persons, or body
politic or corporate, injured by breach thereof.
15. Whenever an executor or administrator with
the Will annexed, or other person, shall sell real estate Proceeds“,
for payment of debts, by virtue of any devise, power or be |eg,,l

trust, contained in the Will, the proceeds of sale shall be amis
deemed legal, and not equitable, assets, and shall be ap
plied as directed by this act in the discharge of debts,

any distinction in said Will, or any law to the contrary
notwithstanding.
16.

If upon the hearing of any petition ﬁled, for

the sale of real estate, the Court shall decree a sale of
Of special
any part that may have been speciﬁcally devised, the duiu.
devisee shall be entitled to a contribution from other
devisees, according to the principles which govern Courts
of Equity, in respect to contribution among legatees:
nxscuTons AND AD.\llNlS'l'ZlATORS.

and children provided for by the ﬁfteenth and sixteenth
sections of the “Revised Statutes entitled “_ An Act con

cerning last Wills and Testaments,” shall be regarded as
speciﬁc devisces in such contribution.
17. When any part of the real estate of a testator
shall descend to his heirs, by reason of its not being de
:i::::ed“‘::f vised or disposed of by the will, the undevised real estate
by will. shall be ﬁrst chargeable with payment of debts, in ex
oneration, as far as it will go, of the real estate that is

devised, unless from the will it shall appear otherwise to
be the wish of the testator.
18.

The mode of proceeding against the real estate

Actto up- of deceased persons, prescribed by this Act, shall be in

,':Ll:,e°§lv"i|ls use in all cases only, when the will may have been
proven at.proven, or letters of administration granted on or after

eb' 1’the first day of February, eighteen hundred and forty
seven; and the present mode of proceeding against such
real estate, shall be in use in all cases where the will

may have been proven or letters of administration granted
prior to that day.
,
19. 'The commissions allowed to executors or ad
Commis- ministrators for selling real estate, and collecting and

mlgaig; paying over the money according to the provision of this
6141-

act, shall not exceed two and a halfper centum, upon the

amount actually applied in the payment of debts:

Pro

vided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to

prevent any executor or administrator from retaining the
necessary charges and disbursements in the same man

ner as hath heretofore been allowed by law.
20. All laws and clauses of laws inconsistent with
Repe‘ung the provisions of this act. and which allow the creditors
clause.
of deceased persons to subject the lands descended by some
facias, after obtaining judgment against the estate' of
such deceased persons, are hereby repealed : Provided
however, that such repeal shall not affect the provision of’
the seventeenth section of this act; and provided further,
that nothing herein contained shall affect the right of
dower.

1. No person or persons shall hereafter use or cause
to be used, in anyofthe navigable waters of this State,any
weir, net, hedge or seine, for the purpose of catching or None but‘
taking ﬁsh for sale or exportation, unless each and every citizen °f
such person shall have resided and continued to reside ,l,il,:|1S2l,i:

in this State, at least twelve months next preceding the lnaglingiz
day, on which he, she or they shall commence to use, or lira.

cause to be used, as aforesaid, any weir, net, hedge or
seine, for the purpose aforesaid ; nor shall any person or
persons assist in using. or be interested in using or causing
to be used, in any of the navigable waters of this State,
for the purpose aforesaid, any weir, net, hedge or seine,

in the using or causing to be used of which any person
may have an interest, who shall have resided and con

tinued to reside in this State at least twelve months next

preceding the day on which the same shall be used:
provided, that nothing in this act contained shall be so
Pl'avian.
construed as to prevent any person from ﬁshing with
seines, hauled to the shore at any ﬁshery situated on the
shore of any of the navigable waters of this State, the
title to which ﬁshery, or any interest therein, such per

sons may have acquired by purchase or inheritance : and
provided further, that this act shall not extend to those

who may be hired to ﬁsh by any person or persons not
prohibited by this act from ﬁshing in any of the naviga
ble waters of the State.

Q. Each and every person, who shall violate any
of the provisions contained in the ﬁrst section of this act,
p
shall, for each and every such offence, forfeit and pay
the sum of one hundred dollars. to be recovered by war
rant before a Justice of the Peace of the county where
the offence was committed, or by action of debt in any
Court of record in said county; one half of said sum to

be applied to the use of the person suing for the same,
and the other half to the use of the wardens of the poor
in said county ; and shall, moreover, for each and every
such offence be guilty ofa misdemeanor, and, upon eon

viction thereof in any Court of record having cognizance
of the same, be ﬁned or imprisoned at the discretion
of the Court.

3. No person or persons shall, for the purpose of
Ofmarshes taking or catching ﬁsh, at any time hereafter between

gg‘:,:‘;“g the ﬁrst day of February and the ﬁrst day of May of the
and P‘m|i' same year, use or cause to be used at or within half a
W
mile of the marshes separating the waters of Croaton and
Pamlico sounds, any weir, hedge, net, or seine.

4. No person or persons shall hereafter throw, or
cause to be thrown into the channel of any of the navi

€f",lh';:l“:: gable waters of this State, any ﬁsh offal, in any quantity
in channel that shall be deemed likely to hinder or prevent the pas
of streams sage of ﬁsh along such channel, where such offal may
have been thrown.

5. Each and every person who shall violate any of
the provisions contained in the third or fourth sections of

this act, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and,

upon conviction thereof in any Court of record having
cognizance of the same, shall be ﬁned or imprisoned at
the discretion of the Court.

Net how

6.

Each and every net (unless the same be a drag

to bi an in net and hauled to the shore)- which shall be used for the

P“““°°'

purpose of catching shad in that portion of the waters

of Pamlico sound, lying be-tweena line drawn eastwardly
from Stumpy Point and the southern side of Long shoal
in said sound, shall,be set and ﬁxed in .said waters in a

direction from north to south, and shall not be used in
said waters in any other manner whatever; and each

and every person olfending against the provisions hereof,
shall, for each and every such offence, forfeit and pay the
sum of ﬁve dollars, to be recovered, by warrant, before
a Justice of the Peace, or -by action of debt in a Court

of record having cognizance thereof, by any person who
will sue for the same ; and furthermore, each and every
person so offending shall, for each and every such offence,
be liable to indictment for a nuisance.
7. It shall be the duty of each and every person,
who shall set, place or use in any of the navigable wa-'
ters of Pamlico and Croatan sounds, any ﬁshing stake or
pole, to remove the same within three months after such Stake or
person shall have discontinued the use of the same; and pole to be

each and every person offending against the provisions “""°'°d' -'
and meaning hereof, shall for each and every stake not

removed as herein required, forfeit and pay the sum of
two dollars, to be recovered by any person who will sue
for the same, by warrant before a Justice of the Peace,
or by action of debt in a Court of record having cogni
zance thereof; and furthermore, each and every person,
so offending, shall, for each and every such offence, be
liable to indictment for a nuisance.

1. No person shall be hereafter held or taken to be
a purchaser for good consideration, within the meaning Who shall
of the second section of the Revised Statute, ch. 50, en- 2:ed°°;;5‘d'
titled “ an act for the prevention of frauds and frudulent Pmhl‘erl
convdyances, except he who shall have purchased or
dgfzfi shall purchase, for the full value thereof, any lands. tene
ti0u-

ments, or rents, or proﬁts, out of the same, without notice
before and at the time of his purchase, of the convey

ance, charge, lease or incu-mbrance by him alleged to
have been made for intent to defraud, and possession

taken or held by or for the person or persons, claiming
under such alleged fraudulent conveyance, charge, lease

or i-ncumbrauce,shal-l be always deemed and taken as
notice in law of the same.

Frwduvm
2. No conveyance, charge, lease, or incumbrance-,
,,,,,,vey,,,,. shall he held or taken to be fraudulent, within the said
2°5second section, unless the same be made or shall have
been made, with an actual intent in fact to defraud.
3dsec.of

3.

The third section. of the said. statute is hereby

Stat. rep’d. rePeaIC‘L

4.

And whereas it hath lately been made a ques

tion, where a person, making a gift or voluntary settle

Preamble _ment of property, is at the time thereof indebted, whether
the same is not in law and of itself fraudulent and void,
as against creditors prior to such gift or settlement, with
out regard to the value of the property given or settled,
of that rctainedby the donor or settler; the amount of
the debts, or the actual purpose and nature in making

the gift or settlement ; and whereas upon the said ques
tion conﬂicting judiciall opinions have been pronounced,
and it is highly expedient that the law should be cer

tainly declared, and future doubts prevented ; therefore,
£)‘;°:’:;l°';u_ It is enacted
that no such gift or settlement by one
ture.

indebted, (property at the time fully sufficient and‘ avail‘
able for the satisfaction of all his then creditors being
retained by such donor, or settler) shall be hereafter taken
or held (by reason merely of the indebtedness of such
donor or settler) to be fraudulent or void in law as against
such creditors, but the indebtedness of the donor or set
tier, at the time of such gift or settlement, shall be held

and taken (as well with respect to creditors prioras
creditors subsequent to such gift or settlement,) to be
evidence only, from which an intent to delay, hinder or
-defraud creditors may be inferred, and, in any trial at

law, shall, as such, be submitted and left by the Court
to the jury, with such observations as may be right and
proper: due regard being bad to all the circumstances
of the case.
All contracts for leasing, or leases of lands, for the ‘Leno, for
purpose of digging for gold or other minerals, -or for th-e‘mi'§i“g
be in wri

purpose of mining generally, shall be Void and of no ef-ting,
feet, unless such contract or lease, or some memorandum

-or note thereof, shall be put in writing and signed by the
party to be charged therewith, or by some other person
by him thereto lawfully authorized.
1. For the purpose of electing members to the Sen
ate of the General Assembly of the State of North Car
olina, this State shall be divided into ﬁfty districts, as
follows: that is to say, the 1st district, shall consist o'fD.
istricts,

the counties of Pasquotank and Perqmmons; the 2nd of what
district, of Camden and Currituck; the 3d district, of
Gates and Chowan ; the 4th district, of Washington and
Tyrrell; the 5th district, of Northampton; the 6th dis
trict, Hertford; the 7th district, Bertie ; the 8th district,
Martin; the 9th district, Halifax; the 10th district,
Edgecomb; the 11th district, Pitt; the 12th district,
Beaufort and Hyde; the 13th district, Craven; the 14th
district, Carteret and Jones; the ]5th district, Lenoir
and Greene; the 16th district, New Hanover; the 17th

district, Onslow ; the 18th district, Duplin; the 19th dis
trict, Brunswick, Bladen and Columbus; the 20th dis
trict, Cumberland; the 21st district, Sampson; the 22d
district, Wayne; the 23d district, Johnston; the 24th dis
trict, Wake; the 25th district, Nash; the 26th district,
Franklin; the 27th district, Warren; the 28th district,
Granville; the 29th district, Person; the 30th district,
Orange; the 31st district, Chatham; the 32d district,
Moore and Montgomery; the 33d district, Robeson and
Richmond; the 34th district, Anson; the 35th district.
Randolph; the 36th district, Guilford, the 37th district,
Casivell; the 38th district, Rockingham; the 39th dis
trict, Mecklenburg; the 40th district, Cabarrns and Stan
ly; the 41st district, Rowan and Davie; the 42d district,
Davidson; the 43d district, Stokes; the 44th district,

Surry and Ashe ; the 45th district, Iredell ; the 46th dis
trict, Lincoln and Catawba; the 47th district, Ruther
ford and Clcaveland ; the 48th district, Burke, Caldwell
and Wilkes; the 49th district, Buncombe, Yancey and
Henderson; the 50th district, Haywood, Macon and
Cherokee; each of which districts shall be entitled to

one Senator, to be elected under the same rules and reg
ulations as are now provided by law: Provided, that all

that territory included in the counties of Mecklenburg,
Pmlsoi

Burke, Rutherford, Anson and Lincoln, as the said coun

ties were known on the third Monday of November, one
thousand eight hundred and forty-two, shall be deemed

to be respectively included under the names of Mecklen
burg, Burke, Rutherford, Anson and Lincoln, whenever

the same may occur in this hill.

2.

Wherever any Senatorial district, as laid off by

P0“. when this act, is composed of more than one county, the Sheriff
and where or other returning ofﬁcer of each of the counties com

;'a:;‘:;°°m' posing such Senatorial district, shall, after receiving the
returns from the inspectors, as now prescribed by law,

meet on the second Thursday in August, after each elec

tion, at the following places, in their respective districts,

for the purpose of comparing the polls in said district,
viz: in the lst district, composed of the counties of Pas
quotank and Perquimans; in the 2d district, composed of
the counties of Camden and Currituck; in the 3d dis
trict, composed of the counties of Gates and Chowan;
in the 4th district, composed of the counties of Washing
ton and Tyrrell; in the 12th district, composed of the
counties of Beaufort and Hyde; in the 14th district, com

posed of the counties of Carteret and Jones; in the 15th
district, composed of the counties of Lenoir and Greene;

in the 19th district, composed of‘ the counties of Bruns
wick,Bladen and Columbus; in the 33d district, composed
of the counties of Robeson and Richmond—at the seve

ral places now prescribed bylaw; in the 23d district,
composed of the counties of Moore and Montgomery, at
the house of Daniel Chisholm, in Moore county; in the
40th district, composed of the counties of Cabarrus and
Stanly, at Mount Pleasant, in Cabarrus county; in the
41st district, composed of the counties of Rowan and

Davie, at Hall’s Mills, in the county of Davie; in the
44th district, composed of the counties of Surry and Ashe,

at the house of John Thompson, in Surry county; in the
47th district, composed of the counties of Rutherford and
Cleaveland, at Rutherfordton, in Rutherford county; in

the 48th district, composed of the counties of Burke,
Caldwell and VVilkes, at Lenoir, in Caldwell county ; in
the 49th district, composed of the counties ot'Buncombe,
Yancey and Henderson, at Ashville, in Buncombe county;

and in the 50th district, composed of the counties of
Haywood, Macon and Cherokee, at Franklin, in Macon

' county.
1842-3 -Ch. 28.

Until the ﬁrst session of the General Assembly, after Number of
the year one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty-one, the members
House of Commons shall be composed of members elected each Conn.
from the counties, in the followmg manner:

ty may

The counties of Lincoln and Orange, shall elect four members each;
the counties of Chatham, Granville, Guilford, Iredell,
Mecklenburg, Stokes, Surry and Wake, shall elect three
members each ; the counties of Anson, Beaufort, Bertie,
Buncombe, Burke, Cabarrus, Caswell, Craven, Cumber
land, Davidson, Duplin, Edgecomb, Franklin, Halifax,
Johnston, New Hanover, Northampton, Pitt, Randolph,
Robeson, Rockingham, Rowan, Rutherford, Sampson,

Warren, Wayne and Wilkes, shall elect two members
each ; the counties of Ashe, Bladen, Brunswick, Caldwell,
Carteret, Camden, Cherokee, Chowan, Cleveland, Colum
bus, Currituck, Davie, Gates, Greene, Haywood, Hender
son, Hertford, Hyde, Jones, Lenoir, Macon, Montgomery,
Martin, Moore, Nash, Onslow, Pasquotank, Perquimons,
Person, Richmond, Stanly, Tyrrell, Washington and
Yancy, shall elect one member each ; under the same

rules and regulations, as are now provided by law: pro
vided, that nothing in this act contained, shall be so con

strued, as to affect the manner of holding an election for
members of the House of Commons, before the next regu
lar election, to be holden on the ﬁrst Thursday in August,
one thousand eight hundred and forty.four ; and provided

further, that all that territory included in the counties of
'Meckleuburg, Burke, Rutherford, Anson and Lincoln, as

the said counties were known on the third Monday of
November, one thousand eight hundred and forty-two,

shall be deemed to be respectively included under the
names of Mecklenburg, Burke, Rutherford, Anson and

Lincoln, wherever the same may occur in this act.

Tuition &
1. It shall and may be lawful for the Superior Courts
wﬂody ofof Law and Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions, when
appointing Guardians for orphans, according to the second orphan!
section of the Revised Statute. entitled “ An Act concern- ::,a,L,¥ml;I,t,d

ing the appointment of guardians and the management:;’,:‘:;,a‘:;g
of orphans and their estates,” to commit the tuition and of his as

eustody of the orphan’s person to one, and the charge of:)‘:,t,‘;:°P“e'::
his estate to another person, whenever it shall appear son
best for the orphan and most conducive to the proper
care of his estate, and the suitable nurture and education

of himself so to do, instead of granting the general guar
dianship to one person ; and in such cases it shall be
lawful for the Court, granting the same, to order and ap

point what yearly sums of money or other provision, shall
be made, to and for the support, nurture and education

of the orphan.

And the said Court, or the Court of Equity

of the same County, may, from time to time, reduce or

enlarge the allowance so appointed, and prescribe the
time and manner of paying the same, and take all such
further order, as, due regard being had to the situation
of the orphan, his condition in life, and the kind and

value of his estate, may seem just and proper. And all
payments made by the guardian of the estate to the tutor
of the person, according to any such order or appoint
ment, shall be deemed just disbursements, to be allowed

in the settlement of his accounts. And the Court grant
ing such guardianship, or the Court of Equity of the
County, may, from time to time, make such orders fbr the
yearly passing and auditing the accounts of the tutor,

having the custody of the orphan’s person, touching the
moneys so paid to him or her, as the Court shall deem
best, so that the amount of security to be required from
the said tutor may be reduced (as nearly as may be with
out hazard to the ward) to the yearly sum allowed for
the nurture and education of the ward‘. And all pro
ceedings under this section shall be summary, either up

on petition or motion, and upon notice to such person or
persons, as the Court may deem reasonable to require.
2. Where any general guardianship shall have been
already granted or shall be hereafter granted, the said

when 8°‘ Courts shall have power, upon application made, to
neralguar
dimship separate the care and tuition of the orphan’s person from

;‘r‘:n:!‘;"3w the care and management of his or her estate, and to
Court. may, make the same orders and give the same directions, in

fi‘;na,p:'e';:: all respects, as are authorized by the foregoing section,
we léwh where the charge of the person and of the estate shall be
:21: L: separated at the ﬁrst granting of the guardianship of any
the estate. Orphan.

N9 9°11»

3. No payment made by such guardian to the tutor,
having the custody of the orphan’s person, according to

:li:s,l:e':1'°n the ﬁrst section of this Act, shall be deemed a disburse

P‘Y"'°“‘ ment on which commissions may be allowed ; and the
,
.
receipt of such sum by said tutor shall not be deemed a
receipt by him, on which commissions may be allowed ;
'cI;‘:|‘Z{;:i°nsbut said tutor shall be allowed commissions only upon
to tutors.

actual disbursements made by him, for and on account of
his ward’s nurture and education.

_
4. The settlement and passing of the tutor’s ac
f:l“,:',';ga:feounts, in manner directed by the ﬁrst section of this Act,
counts to shall be held and deemed to be conclusive.
be conclu
‘lVQ.

l842-3.—Ch. 38.

1. Guardians of orphans, residing in any other
State or Territory or in the District of Columbia, or who
How guar- may have removed to such State, Territory or District,
32:‘; ifleii: who shall be entitled to any money arising from the sale
"1"S"1l_esof real estate sold for partition, or otherwise, or to any

$25,233 personal property substituted by decree of court for realty,
"“_a:h"?"“e may call upon any person having possession of such pro


perty, and obtain the same as Guardian, in the same‘
manner and under the same rules, regulations and re
strictions, as are now prescribed for Guardians of orphans

residing out of the State, by the twenty-third section of
the Revised Statutes, entitled “ An Act concerning the
appointment of Guardians and the management of or
phans and their estates.”
2.

113

The Guardians oforphans, residing in the District

person
of Columbia, and entitled to personal property in this 01'
al property
State, may be allowed to demand and receive the same,

in the same manner, and under the same regulations and

restrictions. as are prescribed in the said section of the
act aforesaid for the Guardians of‘ orphans residing in
other States and the Territories.
1 844-.5.—Ch. 41.

\Vhereas it sometimes happens where the Courts Ofpreamblm
Pleas and Quarter Sessions are required, by the seventh
section of the Revised Statute concerning Guardian and
Ward, to remove a guardian and to appoint another, that
no suitable person is willing to accept such guardianship,

and by reason of the waste and misapplication of the
ward’s effects, and the subsequent insolvency as well of
the guardian, as of his securities, before the ward’s
arrival of full age, great loss and injury is sustained:
for remedy whereof‘,
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
.North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority Directs
of the same, That where any guardian shall be rem0ved,::§;:5:;n::
under the said section, and another person shall not be delinqflent

appointed to and accept the said ofﬁce, or where any guardlm
guardian shall, by reason of not complying with the re
quirements of the said section, becomeliable to be re

moved, although such order of removal may not be made,
it shall be the duty of the Clerk 0f.the Court to certify to
the Attorney General, or to the Solicitor of the circuit,
the name of the ﬁrst guardian and his sureties and the
proceedings had hgainst him under the directions of the
said section, and it shall be the duty of the Attorney
General or Solicitor forthwith to institute a suit in the
Court of Equity, in the same County, by bill, petition or

other proper proceeding, as well against the sureties as
the guardian, for an account of the guardianship, and

for securing the estate of the ward; and upon such bill
or proceedings, all proper accounts may be taken. all ne
cessary orders made, and a decree had, according to the
course of the Court, as well against the sureties as the

guardian.
2. The said Court of Equity shall have power, upon
such bill or other proceedings, to appoint the Clerk and
Court to
appoint Master, or other discreet person, a receiver, to take pos
°ei"°"
session ofthe ward’s estate, to collect and receive all‘

monies due to him, and to pay the same into Court, or, to
secure, loan, invest or apply the same, and to superintend
and direct his estate, for the beneﬁt and advantage of

the ward; and out of the same to defray the charges of
his support, nurture, and education, under the direction,
and subject to such rules, order, and directions, in any
respect, as the Court may, from time to tim_e, make in

regard thereto; and the Court shall cause the accounts
of such receiver to be returned, audited and settled, from

time to time as the Court may direct, making such al
lowances to such receiver, for his time and trouble and

responsibility, as the Court shall deem proper and rea
sonable.

3.

It shail be the duty of the Attorney General or

Solicitor to prosecute the said suit, and to move for, and

Am)’ Gen’ attend to, the execution of all necessary orders, for se
or Solicitor

duty of

curing the full beneﬁt and effect thereofto the said ward; '
for which services, the Court may make to him reason

able compensation, according to the circumstances of
the case.
9

4. Whenever such guardian shall be duly appointed,
Guardian he may apply by petition to the said Court of Equity, for
:;,;i;n:-°;o an order upon the receiver to pay over to, and possess
°"‘°'-

him of, all the money, estate and effects of his ward; and

in case no such guardian shall be appointed, then the


ward, on his coming of age, or, in case of his death, his

' _ executor or administrator, may have the like remedy by
petition.
l846—7.—Ch. 43.

Whenever any orphan, having any estate, has been,
or shall hereafter be, presented by a grand jury, in pur- Where

suance of the nineteeth section of the 54th chapter of the tgl:::fdi':n“°
Revised Statutes, and for which orphans no suitable per- toinfantor
son will act as guardian; and whenever any person has i§':::,‘c’,°
been, or shall hereafter be, declared lunatic or non com;/10.r‘aim °“°
mentis, according to the regular course of the law, and :£;,:_he ea.

for whom no suitable person_ will act as guardian, then
it shall be the duty of the Court of Equity to proceed to
secure the estate of such orphan or lunatic, or person non
,_ compos mentis, according to the provisions of the Act of

1844-5, entitled “An Act to amend the seventh section
of theltevised Statutes, entitled “ Guardian and Ward."

HOTCHPOT.
1844-5.—Ch. 51.
1. Where any person shall die intestate, who had
in his or her lifetime, advanced to any of his or her

children personal property, of what nature or kind socver,

of value more than equal to a distributive share of the having "
personal estate of said intestate, said child or children, or f:,i::d,|,,,,
those legally representing them, shall, in the division of

the real estate of said intestate, if there be any, be charged aonal es.

with the excess in value which he or she has received, as gllzrgtgd be
aforesaid, over and above an equal distributive share of with exce’a

said personal estate; and the said excess shall be a charge rde:'|isL::
upon the share or shares of the real estate of such child tate
or children as have been excessively advanced as
aforesaid.
2.

When any person shall die intestate, seized and

‘:v‘:e::::: possessed of any real estate, who had in his or her life
of real, to time settled any real estate on any child or children of

:;:n°h;,'§: said intestate, of more value than equal to the share
88'

which shall descend to the other children of the intestate,
such child or children, or their legal representatives, shall,

in the distribution of the personal estate of said intestate,
if there be any. be charged with the excess in value of
said real estate settled as aforesaid over and above the
share which shall descend to the other children ; and the

said excess in value shall be a charge upon the shares of
personal estate ofthe child or children having real estate
settled on him or her as aforesaid.

INSOLVENT DEBTORS.
1838-9.—Ch. 23.

If any person shall be convicted in any Court of
Record in this State, of any crime or misdemeanor, and
_PersonB shall be in execution for the ﬁne and costs of prosecution,
and shall have remained in prison for the space of twenty
10 Pay "1° days, it shall be lawful for the person so in execution to
ﬁnes and
com in be discharged from imprisonment, under the same rules
and regulations as are prescribed for the discharge of
be dischiu.debtors in execution, by the ﬁrst and fourth sections of
$53
an act, Revised Statutes, ch. 58, entitled “ An Act con

vent laws cerning insolvent debtors: Provided. That nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to release any person
from imprisonment, who shall be in prison for any deﬁ
nite length of time, under sentence of any Court.

lS40-l .—Ch. 2 9.

The foregoing act is repealed, so far as it extends,
or may be construed to extend, to free negroes or free
persons of color.
1840-1.-—Ch. 32.

Every person, having a family, shall be entitled to
have one cow and calf, free and exempt from execution.I'"'°|\'ent
and also have two barrels of corn and ﬁfty pounds ofweil:|t,m;;mi.

bacon. or ﬁfty pounds of pork, or beef, or one barrel 0fR;";:°e‘;‘J:il;d
ﬁsh.

Provided, however, that nothing herein contained allowances

shall interfere with the collection of debts contracted pre
vious to the ﬁrst day of March one thousand eight hun
dred and forty-one.

1840-1.—Ch. 33.

Any person, who now is or may hereafter be conﬁned Pom“
in jail, by virtue of a judgment in any action or suit for conﬁned in

damages to the person, property or reputation of another,0
or for failing to give a bond, with sufﬁcient security for be allowed

the maintenance of any bastard child or children, whose :;;sb°l|:::t
father he is charged to be, or for failing to pay such Wh

Sums of money as he may be ordered to pay for such
child or children, and shall remain in jail for the space

of twenty days, may be discharged from imprisonment,
under the same rules and regulations as are prescribed
for the discharge of debtors in execution, by the ﬁrst
second and third sections of the ﬁfty-eighth chapter of
the Revised Statutes, entitled “insolvent debtors.”

The persons, for whose relief the (foregoing) act
was passed, must give notice in writing of their inten
tion to avail themselves of the beneﬁt of the act, to the Tho“ in_
Clerk of the Court, by which the ﬁne was imposed: such tending to

notice to be served under the same rules and regulations,
as are prescribed for the service of notice by debtors in"_1° wt to

execution, by the ﬁrst and fourth sections of an Act, (Ch. gm Home‘

58 Revised Statutes,) entitled “ Insolvent Debtors.”_
1.

Hereafter no capias ad saiisfaciendum shall issue,

No c_apias11l'll8SS the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall make
:l;:Llp':':,‘;_' affidavit, in writing, before the clerk of the court in which

on aﬂidavitsaid judgment may be, or the Justice of the Peace to

Zfcfraud’ whom application is made for such process, that he be
lieves the defendant has not property to satisfy such judg
ment which can be reached by a ﬁcri facias, and has
property, money or effects, which cannot be reached by
jierifacias, or has fraudulently concealed his property,
money or effects, or is about to remove from the State.

2. No court in this State shall permit an issue of
fraud to be made up and tried, under the provisions of

ifzuifz,e if the act for the relief of insolvent debtors, Rev. Stat. chap.
"ied, M. 58, sec. 10th, unless the creditor, his agent or attorney,

l;:?u:‘l:°“ shall ﬁle a suggestion, in writing, of such fraud or con
suggestion cealment, therein specifying the particulars of such fraud
:3? aﬂid*" or concealment, and shall annex to the said suggestion
his aﬂidavit that he verily believes the matters therein
stated are true.

3. Whenever the plaintiff in any judgment shall be
desirous of subjecting the bail of the defendant in such
judgment to the payment thereof, such plaintiff shall be
at liberty to proceed. in the ﬁrst instance, by scirefacias
against such bail, without having previously issued any
capias ad sati.s:faciendum against the defendant ; but
such scire facia: shall not stand for trial at the ap
pearance term.
1.

In addition to the property now by law exempted

Property from execution, there shall hereafter, in favour of every
;::x‘1”l;tX°_ house keeper, be exempted from seizure under execution,

cution.

on debts contracted after the ﬁrst day of July next, the
necessary farming tools for one labourer; one bed, bed
stead and covering, for every two members of the family ;

two months’ provision for the family ; four hogs ; and all
necessary household and kitchen furniture, not to exceed
ﬁfty dollars in value.
2. Whenever any poor debtor shall apply for the
beneﬁt of this act, it shall be the duty of the Justice of Portion,

the Peace to whom such application shall be made, to :§:wl“id
appoint three respectable freeholders, disinterested and
unconnected with the parties, to lay off and assign to such
poor debtors the portion to which he is entitled under the
provisions of this act, and to make report thereof to the

next Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the county
in Which they reside.
3. All and every conveyance by sale, deed of trust,
or otherwise, for the payment of any debt or demand S:‘“::iYd‘_“~
whatsoever, of the property hereby exempted from execu
tions, shall be deemed and held and is hereby declared to

be null and void and of no effect.

The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the

County of New Hanover, a majority of the Justices ofCo Court
said County being present, shall, at the Sessions at which of ‘New

they appoint Inspectors for the Town of Wilmington, al- g‘“:;;;.,
so appoint one Inspector for each of the Saw Mills in the Innpectom
vicinity of said Town, for the inspection of Lumber only,
and if either of the Inspectors appointed for the inspec
tion of Lumber, at either of said Steam Saw Mills, shall

fail, when called upon by the proprietors, or their agents,
promptly, faithfully and diligently to discharge their

duties as such, they shall for every failure, forfeit and.
pay to the party aggrieved, the sum of ﬁfty dollars to be
recovered before any Justice of the Peace.

2. All Saw Mill and other Lumber on the Cape
Fear River, and at the several ports belonging to the
R“"?' "8' same, shall hereafter be governed by the following rules
ulatmg

Lumber.
and mspectwn, viz : all sound boards and plank With

square edges, showing heart one-half the length, and as
near an equal thickness at both ends as may be, shall be
merchantable, and also all sound boards and plank with
square edges, and showing heart one.half the length, and
as near an equal thickness at both ends as may be, and

split not more than one-third of the length shall be
merchantable; all sound scantling with square edges,

and as near the same dimensions at both ends as may be,
shall be merchantable ; and all sound scantling with
square edges two-thirds of their length, and the bark no

more than one inch wide, and as near the same dimen
sions as may be at both ends, shall be mcrchantable, and
all Saw Mill and other Lumber, not being of the descrip
tion aforenamed. shall be refused.

II‘

M

3. The fees for inspection of lumber shall be thirty
cents
for every
feet,
and forfeet.
ton or square tim
ber, ﬁfteen
centsthousand
for every
thousand

‘ All ton and square timber and Saw Mill lumber. at
_
the several markets and mills in this State, shall be
3,‘; Zﬁier measured by superﬁcial or board measure ; and any per

mi“ |“'"' son or persons, who shall fail to be governed by this
:?;r:;°adb|:y Act, shall be liable to a ﬁne of ten dollars for every such

"°“d ma‘ failure, to be recovered before any Justice of the Peace,
mm

by any person suing for the same; Provided, That the
provisions of this Act shall not extend to the counties of
Tyrrell, Washington, Gates, Bertie, Chowan and North
ampton.

1840-4l.-_Ch. 41.
AN Aer supplementary to an Act passed in 1839, ch. 30,
(private Acts) entitled “ An Act to amend the inspec
tion laws.
Whereas it was not the intention of the aforesaid
act (see ante 1838-9) to repeal the penalty on inspectors Prumblw
for failing to comply with the provisions of the laws.
Be it enacted, <§»c. That any inspector or inspectors,
who shall, at any time hereafter, inspect saw mill lum- Penalty °1l'
ber, by any rule or rules different from those prescribed Inspector“

by the aforesaid recited act, shall forfeit and pay the
sum of One Hundred Dollars for each and every offence,
one half to the informer or person suing for the same,
and the other half to the use of the county, where such

forfeiture shall be incurred.

1842-3.—Ch. 29.
AN ACT to amend an Act of the Revised Statutes, chap
ter 59, entitled “ An Act, for establishing public land

ings and places of inspection and for the appointment
of Inspectors and regulation of Inspections.”
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Staie of Certain‘
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
J"
of the same, That so much of the 50th, 51st, 52d, 53d
and 54th sections of the above recited act, as relates to
tar, pitch and turpentine, so far as its operation extends
to the town of Newbern, in this State, be, and the same

is hereby repealed.

msrncnous.
AN Aer to amend the 65th section,of the 59th chapter of
the Revised Statutes, entitled “An Act for establishing
public landings.” &c.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State qf
North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the same, That in case the purchaser and seller can
not agree as to the amount to be allowed for extra
of en“ cooperage, and defective barrels, it shall be the duty of
°°°P"'°8°- Inspectors of naval stores and provisions in the town of
Wilmington, at the instance of either purchaser or seller,
without incurring any responsibility to either party, to
establish the amount to be allowed for extra cooperage
and defective barrels; and such estimate shall be con
clusive. And in case any Inspector refuses to make
such estimate when called on by either purchaser or
seller, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of twenty-five
dollars in every case, to be recovered before any Justice

of the Peace, for the county of New Hanover, by any
person suing for the same.

1.

It shall be the duty of the County Court of Cum‘

C°_ Gem, berland, at the ﬁrst Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions,

°fCvmb’r- after the ﬁrst day of February next, to appoint one or

point In_ more Inspectors of '1obacco, and e\ ery two years there
'P°°""'. after; and that it shall not be lawful for any person or
persons, to inspect Tobacco in the town of Fayetteville,
land to ap-

after the above cited Court of Pleas and Quarter Ses

sions, unless they are appointed by this act.

2. It shall be the duty of all Inspectors of Tobacco,’
Quali“es in the town of Fayetteville, to designate four qualities of
:ob:,od:sci;
f
b
Tobacco, to be known as follows: ﬁrst, second and third
.

na‘°d-

qualities, and refused or umnerchantable ; and it shall be

the duty of said inspectors, to mark such Tobacco, ac

cording to the quality, and give notes designating the
same. '
3.

It shall be the duty of said Inspectors to take

from each break, not less than four, nor more than six
hands or lugs of Tobacco, and deliver one half to the Tobacco“
owner or consignee, and retain the other half, marked be taken

according to the quality of the Tobacco from which it {;‘;':k_°a°h
was taken, and keep the same, for the inspection of any
person who may wish to examine the same, until the
Tobacco is shipped or sold for consumption.
1844-5.—Ch. 49.

1. In addition to the inspectors now authorized by
law, there shall be an inspector of Flour for the town of
Wilmington, in this State, who shall be appointed by the Inspec_t0r
County Court of the county of New Hanover, at the ﬁrst
Court that shall happen after the ﬁrst Monday of March, h°_W aP
one thousand eight hundred and forty.ﬁve, and shall hold pomtem
his ofﬁce for the term of ﬁve years from and after the
time of his appointment.
2.

The inspector, hereby authorized to be appointed,

shall enter into the usual bond, payable to the State of

North Carolina, and conditioned for the faithful discharge
of the duties of his ofﬁce, (which bond the County CourtH
is
of the county of New Hanover are hereby authorized
and required to take,) and the said inspector shall be

bond.

entitled to receive the same fees, and shall be subject to

the same rules, regulations and restrictions that are now
in force in regard to the duties and liabilities of the in

spector of Flour for the town of Fayetteville.
3. It shall and may be lawful for any person to ship Flour from
Flour from the town of Fayettewllc to the town of Wil- F_uyette

mington, without having the same inspected in the town Vllle,
of Fayetteville.
nzsrr.crons.
1. Every barrel of soft turpentine shall be of the
weight of two hundred and eighty pounds gross, free from
any fraudulent mixture, packed in good and sufficient
casks, made of good seasoned staves, three quarters of
Provisions an inch thick, and not exceeding ﬁve inches wide, and

as to

not less than thirty nor more than thirty-two inches long,

Weil{|1t*“'d.and heads not less than one, nor more than one inch and
f::;l:i:ti?,fe,a half thick ; each barrel of soft turpentine secured

gggrjlggbgfvvith twelve good hoops, and each barrel of hard turpen
tine secured with ten good hoops, with the joint of the

head placed perpendicularly to the bung; and if the tur
pentine shall be fraudulently mixed, the same shall be

condemned by the inspector and delivered to the owner
on demand; and every barrel of turpentine, after the
-same shall be inspected, weighed, found clean, and in

merchantable order, shall be branded, or marked by the

inspector, the soft with the letter S. and the hard with
the letter H.

And, for as much as it is deﬁcient, for the

makers of turpentine to so regulate the size of their
barrels, that every barrel shall weigh the number of
pounds required by this act, it is provided that the inspec
tor shall make out two fair bills of the same, the one for

the seller, and the other for the buyer, in which he shall
designate the quantity and quality of the same, making
a proportional allowance to the seller, when the barrel
shall weigh more than the standard number of pounds
established by this act, and the same allowance to the
buyer when the barrel shall weigh less.
2.

Every maker of turpentine shall brand or mark

every such barrel with the initial letters of his or her
Barfels to name; and in case of his or her failure, the inspector is

B:itl),r?,I,1i(_led hereby required to mark the same with the initial letters
::l§.°nfa';a°'. of the maker’s name, for which he shall receive one half

cent per barrel, which fee shall be paid by the person_
paying the fee of inspection, and by him maybe charged

to the maker; and every inspector shall keep a book, in
which shall be fairly entered the maker’s name, and the
number of barrels inspected of the same mark.
3.

If any inspector shall inspect any turpentine

contrary to the directions of this act, or shall give any §lee‘2‘;";lltyif:'
bill contrary to the same, he shall forfeit and pay the spec“0n
-sum of ﬁfty dollars for each offence, one half to the in
formant, and the other half to the party aggrieved.
1846-’/.—Ch. 198.
1.

The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions for the

county
appointofone
Craven
or more
is hereby
inspectors
authorised
of fire wood,
and empowered
for the town
to inspector of

of Newbern, whose duty it shall be to inspect all such ﬁ'°'w°°d
_

-

for Newb'n

ﬁre wood as may be carried to said town for sale.
I

2.

Each inspector who may be appointed under the Inspector

ﬁrst section of this act, shall reside in the town of New- iserziigfnin
bern, and shall, before entering upon the duties of his undtakei
ofﬁce, take the oath or oaths of ofﬁce, and give the bond °““"
or bonds required of inspectors by law.
3. The inspector or inspectors, the appointment of
whom is provided for by the ﬁrst section of this act, shall Fees.
receive the following fees for the duties required of them
and no other, to-wit: for inspecting each cord of wood,
four cents, to be paid as inspectors’ fees are now required

by law to be paid.

AN Aer declaratory of the meaning of the Act entitled
“An Act to aid the Internal Improvements of this State,"
Revised Statutes, chap. 61, sec. 6th.
- Whereas, in the above recited act, it is provided that
the Board of Internal Improvements, by virtue of sub- P‘°‘"“bl°-'

scription and payment on behalf of the State, shall appoint
two ﬁfths of the whole number of Directors of each of
the corporations aforesaid, and in all general meetings
of the stockholders, in any of said companies, the Com
missioners oflnternal Improvements, or any other repre

sentative of the State, whom the said Board may appoint,
shall be entitled to two ﬁfths ofthe whole number ofvotes,

which may be given at such meeting; and whereas
doubts have arisen as to the true intent and meaning of
the said provision in the said act :

wppoint.

Therefore,

Be it enacted, <§-c. That it was intended and is hereby
declared to be the true intent and meaning of the said
recited proviso of the said act, for the Board of Internal
Improvement to appoint two.ﬁfths of the whole number
of directors in each of the said corporations, but neither
by themselves, nor by any representative appointed by
them, to vote for the remaining three.ﬁfths of the direc

tors of the said corporations.
1846-7.—Ch. 8.
1. All the bonds due to the board of Internal
Bonds due Improvement, and secured in whole or in part by mort
i3l:,i,',,imp' gage to the amount of ﬁfteen thousand six hundred and

mnsfmed thirteen dollars, as appears from the report of said Board
of Internal Improvement, made to this General Assembly,
are hereby transferred to the Public Treasury.

2.

The Public Treasurer, upon the receipt of the
bonds as aforesaid, shall proceed to collect the same, as
‘° ¢°"°°s speedily as may be ; and when so collected, or any part
the hon 8‘ thereof, he shall deposit the same in the Public Treasury,

to be used as other public funds.
3.

The dividends of proﬁts arising on one hundred

£‘§f§§Q” and twelve shares of stock owned by the internal im

"a"@r°"bd provement fund, in the Bank of Cape Fear, be, and they
are hereby transferred to’the public fund, until other

wise ordered by the General Assembly.
4.

All monies received on account of Cherokee

bonds, whether principal or interest, for lands heretofore M°“*’Y8 °"
.
. on account of Cherokee lands Ch
r koe
sold ; and all momes
paid
boned:
hereafter to be sold, which shall be received at the“""“*’f‘"““1

Public Treasury until the ﬁrst day of January, 1849,
the same are hereby directed to be placed in the Public
Treasury, and used as other public funds;

and the

Public Treasurer is hereby directed to carry to the
credit of the internal improvement fund, on the books
of the Treasury, from time to time, all such sums as
may be received under this section; and he shall also
credit the same fund, for all such accounts as he may re
ceive under the ﬁrst and third sections of this act, so as

to shew at all times the true amount which the public
fund is indebted to the internal improvement fund.
1.

Justices of the Peace shall have jurisdiction over

all sums due by judgment rendered by a single magistrate, Extends in
when the principal money does not exceed one hundred
dollars, although the principal and interest together with $100
the costs may exceed that sum.
2. If any suit shall be brought in the County or
Superior Courts, or any judgment rendered as aforesaid, Cour, shall
for any sum of less value than one hundred dollars due dismiu Ell"
by such judgment, the same shall be dismissed by the forlesm
court.
3. All laws and clauses of laws inconsistent with
the purview of this act, are hereby repealed : Provided, pmvi”,
however, that the provisions of this act shall not affect
any suit now commenced or which may be commenc
ed within thirty days after the adjournment of the Leg
islature.
An Act to protect the interest of Lessors.
When any lessee of land, for the rent of the
Rentreser
wed in kind land that he shall cultivate, under lease, shall agree
P‘um to pay a certain share of his or her crop, or a speciﬁc
m11i°ﬂ-

quantity of grain, so much of the crop of the lessee raised
on his farm held under lease. as will be sufﬁcient to
satisfy the rent to his landlord for the year, shall be
exempt from execution, and from the lieu of all other
debts, until the end of each respective year.

1. The annual appropriation, heretofore made, by
Former‘ resolutions of this General Assembly, of ﬁve hundred
:i?,f,“;l::,;_ dollars for the increase of the Public Library of this State

ﬂclmi

is hereby re.enacted.
2. The Governor and the Judges of the Supreme
Court of the State are hereby requested and authorized

Governor to act as Trustees of the Public Library and of the funds,

:?g::r'i§ne: that have been or may hereafter be appropriated for that
Court in be purpose, and to make purchases for the Public Library,
mmm‘ appoint agents for that purpose, from time to time, as to
them may seem expedient, according to the State and

condition of the library fund.
3. The said trustees shall have the general supe1'-Trustees
intendence of the public library and shall have power II,x,],a,¥,a]:’i'_

to appoint a librarian to take charge of the books, with g:3:ra“:§1'¢
a salary not exceeding seventy-ﬁve dollars a year, to creasgd

make and adopt such rules and regulations from time to §;020'3 ‘°
time, as they may think proper.

4. The librarian so appointed shall keep a catalogue fllbiarian
of all books in the public library and shall make a report ,‘Z,,,lf,"g‘,’,,”‘
of the same to the General Assembly at every biennial siege
session.

5. Printed copies of all reports of committees, upon Copies of
important public subjects, to be determined by the Gov.
J§;‘:‘
ernor, and ﬁve copies of the Journals and of the Acts of to be plac
each Session of the General Assembly, shall be procured §:1ibI':ry_‘h°
by the said librarian from the printer to the General
Assembly, and bound up in proper order, to be preserved
as a part of said library.
6. The Governor shall designate such portions of At f
the documents, journals and Acts of Congress of the Cﬁnsgrgss,
United States, as he may deem proper, to be preserved in ﬁfjpii’ i:°'
the public library; and it shall be the duty of the librarian the Libra

to have the same bound in proper Order, at the expense W‘
of the State, and deposited in the public library.

'7.

The Judges of the Supreme Court, in the ab

sence of the Governor, or the Governor and any of the Who shall

Judges of the Supreme Court, in the absence of the others,
shall be a quorum of said trustees, with all the authority "“"°°B-..

hereby vested in the said trustees.
1842-3 ---Ch. 68.

The following are adopted as permanent rules and Rules I-or
regulations for the government of the Librarian, and the keeping
use and safe keeping of books belonging to the State been
Library, that is to say:
1'7
First. No person except the Governor of the Stater
Judges and Reporter of the Supreme Court, and Attorneys
practising in the same, and members of the General As

sembly of the State, shall be permitted to take any book
out of the State Library.
Second.

No person, authorised to take out a book,

shall keep the same more than six days, under a penalty
of twenty-ﬁve cents, for each and every day, more than
than six, for each and every volume so kept out, until

the penalty so accruing, shall amount to twice the value
of said book.

Third.

Any person who shall’ damage, deface or

mutilate, any book belonging to said Library, or who
shall return any book so damaged, defaced or mutilated,

while in his possession, shall forfeit and pay the full
amount of said damage; which amount is to be deter
mined by the Librarian, but in no case to exceed double
the value of the book.

Fourth.

All ﬁnes and’ forfeitures accruing under

this act, shall be sued for and recovered by the Librarian,

in the name of the State, before any Justice of the Peace;
and the Librarian shall be a competent witness to prove
any fact, material to the issue. And all ﬁnes and forfei
tures recovered under this act, shall go into the funds for

the increase of the Library.

2. The Governor and the Judges of the Supreme
and Judges Court, and their successors in office, are hereby appomted
:32: S“‘Trustees of the State Library; and all moneys appro
Governor

Court up.Pﬁatﬁd for the increase of the Library, shall be laid out

l.i?r':Stt°:es ofunder their direction and supervision; and the said Trus
Library

tees are empowered to make such additional rules and

Zvlmisnllall regulations, in regard to the Library, and the use of

Libmiam the books, not repugnant to the rules and regulations,
prescribed by this act, as they may deem best. And
the said Trustees shall appoint a suitable person as
Librarian, at a salary not exceeding three hundred dol
lars per annum, who shall give bond and security, in such
sum as they may determine, payable to the State of North
Carolina, conditioned for the safe keeping of the books,
and the faithful discharge of his duties as Librarian.
3. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized
and required to procure for the Library room one dozen s°°'°""Y
procure

chairs, and two small tables, with drawers, of goodchaimm

quality, and shall supply said room with stationery. 2::_°'y'
And he is hereby authorized and required to have all the
books belonging to the State Library, or which may be
hereafter added thereto, labeled with the words, “ State

Library,” in gilt letters, provided such labeling does not
exceed five cents per volume ; and to have bound such
pamphlets, Acts and Journals of the General Assembly,
works of periodical Literature, laws of other States, and
documents of the General Assembly, of this State, as now

are in or may hereafter be added to the Library, as the
property of the State, as in his judgment he may deem
advisable; and he is hereby authorized to draw upon the
Treasurer for such sums as may be necessary to defray
the expenses accruing under this act.
184-1-5.—Ch. 62.

It shall be the duty of the Librarian to keep the Li- Hum M
brary open for the accommodation of the public, on every 1"’ kept
open.
day in the year, between the hours of nine and twelve
o’clock, and between two and ﬁve o’clock, Sundays and

the fourth of July excepted.
1.

The President and Directors of the Literary Pmidant

Fund of North Carolina, in addition to the power and and Dim‘tors autho
rized to
employ
counsel.

authority vested in them, (heretofore) shall have power
and authority to employ counsel, learned in the law, to
aid and assist them in the investigation of the State’s
title to such of the Swamp Lands, as in their opinion
have not been duly entered and granted to individuals,
and to which any person or company may set up title,
adverse to that of the State. And the said President
and Directors are hereby fully authorized and empowered
to compromise, upon such terms as to them shall appear
reasonable and just, with any person or company, setting
up an adverse title as aforesaid, for such title, to secure

to the State an undefcasible title in said land.

2. Whenever, in the process of draining, it may be
necessary,
in order to prevent a sacriﬁce of the interests
Authorized
of the State in any of said Swamp Lands, owned by the
to pur
ch’se small
State, to purchase small tracts owned by individuals, the
tracts of
land,when said President and Directors are authorized to buy the
ll ° cessary.
same, or to exchange for some other portions of said
Swamp Lands, and the lands, acquired under this Act,
shall be held by them as other Swamp Lands.
Preamble.

Whereas, bonds heretofore endorsed by virtue of an'
Act of the General Assembly, passed in the year eighteen
hundred and forty and forty.one, by the Public Treasurer
of this State, for the Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road
Company. to the amount of ﬁfty thousand dollars, are

now under protest, and the State is looked to for payment:
1.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the

Amount to
State of North Carolina, and it is hereby enacted by the
be invested
by the Lil. authority of the same, That the President and Directors
erary
of the Literary Fund, be, and they are hereby authorized
Board.

and directed to invest ﬁfty thousand dollars of the Lite

rary Fund in the redemption of that amount of bonds,
issued by the Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Com
pany, endorsed by the Public Treasurer, under the act
passed in eighteen hundred and forty, entitled an act for
the relief of the Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Com
pany, and which bonds were made payable on the ﬁrst
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty

three: Provided, that the said Company shall pay the
interest on the said bonds, which shall have accrued up

to the day on which they are made redeemable.
2. The authority hereby granted to the President
and Directors of the Literary Fund, is given under the
express condition, that the President and Directors of the
said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company, shall Condition
give their consent to a free and full investigation, by such 9n which

agent as shall be appointed by the present General As-::',::;g:,°_“t
sembly, of the condition and affairs of the said Company,
its receipts and expenditures, its liabilities and income,
the value of all its property, independent of the Rail Road,
and its future prospects; and furthermore, to a full ex
amination ofsuch books and papers, as in his judgment
may be necessary to obtain the information contemplated
by this section.
l846-7.—Ch. 10.

1. It shall be the duty of the President and Directors of
the Literary Fund, and they are hereby directed to trans- What fund

fer to the Public Treasury, certain bonds, notes and judg-mmflmed
ments now held by them, consisting chieﬂy of the unex
pended balance appropriated to drain swamp lands, upon
the Public Treasurer’s executing to said board the State’s
obligation for the amount of such bonds, notes and judg
ments, conditioned for the faithful payment of the interest

annually, and the re-payment of the same to the Literary
Fund:

Provided. however, that nothing in this act shall

be construed to extend to any bonds or notes held by the
Literary Board against the Raleigh and Wilmington Rail
Road Company: and provided further, that the sum of
ten thousand dollars. loaned to the President and Trustees

of the Wake Forest College, be exempt from the provis
ions of this act.

2. It shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer,
whenever such bonds, notes and judgments shall be trans
Treasurer
to ,,,,||,,ct,terrcd to the Public lrcasury, to proceed to their imme

diate collection, and apply the proceeds arising therefrom
in the same manner that other public monies are now
applied.
1846-7.
Resolved, That the President and Directors of the

Literary Fund be directed to make sale, either privately

P'°5id"?“t or at public auction, of such portions of the reclaimed
and D|rec.

tors to
Swamp Lands, belongmg to sand Fund, and upon such
‘“°k° sale‘ terms, as they may deem compatible with the public
interest.

It shall not be lawful for any free negro or free per
Marriages son of color to marry a white person ; and any marriage,
?;,t:e::_ hereafter solemnized or contracted between any free ne.
8'8?' and gro or free person of color and a white person, shall be
:,vO1<l1_es
null and void.

The seventy seventh section of the Revised Statute,
Free ne- entitled “ An Act concerning slaves and free persons of
fo"“l'::::;°' color,” shall not be so construed as to extend to cases of
marry

intermarriage between slaves and free persons of color,

by and with the consent of the master or mistress of the
the ownmslaves, had before the passage of this act.
1.

The Act entitled “ An Act to amend an Act,

entitled an Act concerning the mode of choosing Senators
and Representatives in the Congress of the United States,"
Revised Statutes, chapter 72, is hereby repealed.

2. The third section of the Act, chapter 72, Revised
Statutes, is hereby so altered and amended, for the pur
pose of electing Representatives to the Congress of the
United States, as to divide the State into nine instead of
thirteen districts; and the said nine districts shall be com- Number

posed of the following counties, to-wit : The ﬁrst district and divis
shall be composed of the counties of Cherokee, Macon,Hay
wood, Buncombe, Henderson, Rutherf'ord,Burke, McDow
ell, Yancy,Cleaveland, and Caldwell. The second district
shall be composed of the counties of Ashe, Wilkes, Surry,
Davie, Rowan, Iredell, and Catawba. The third district

shall be composed of the counties of Lincoln, Gaston, Meck
lenburg, Union, Anson, Stanly, Cabarrus, Montgomery,
Richmond, and Moore. The fourth district shall be com
posed of the counties of Stokes, Rockingham, Guilfo1‘d,'

Randolph, and Davidson.

The ﬁfth district shall be com

posed of the counties of Granville, Caswell, Person, Or

ange, and Chatham.

The sixth district shall be composed

of the counties of Wake, Franklin, Warren, Halifax,
Edgecomb, Nash, and Johnston. The seventh district
shall be composed of the counties of Cumberland, Robe
son, Columbus, Bladen, Brunswick, New Hanover, Samp
son, Duplin and Onslow. The eighth district shall be
composed of the counties of Wayne, Greene, Lenoir,
Jones, Craven, Carteret, Beaufort, Pitt, Hyde, Washing

ton and Tyrrell.

The ninth district shall be composed of

the counties of Martin, Bertie, Hertford, Northampton,
Gates, Chowan, Perquimans, Pasquotank, Camden, and
Currituck.
3.

The eighth section of said act, chapter 72, Re

vised Statutes, is hereby amended, so as to make it the
duty of the Sheriff, or other returning Officer of the coun
ties of each of the said districts, to meet together on the
Duty of
Sheriffs.

Thursday next after each election, to compare the polls
at the places hereinafter named, but in other respects
under the same rules and regulations as are required by
said act; that is to say, in the ﬁrst district, at the court

house in Asheville, in the county of Buncombe; in the
second district, at Hamptonville, in the county of Surry;
in the third district, at the court house in Albemarle, in

the county of Stanly; in the fourth district, at the court
house in Greensborough, in the county of Guilford ; in
the ﬁfth district, at the court house in Hillsborough, in
the county of Orange ; in the sixth district, at the court

house in Nashville, in the county of Nash; in the seventh
district, at the court house in Elizabethtown, in the county
of Bladen ; in the eighth district, at the court house in
Washington, in the county of Beaufort; and in the ninth
district, at the court house in Gatesville, in the county
of Gates.
4. This act shall take effect from and after the
fourth of March next.
A compilation of the laws on the subject qf
the Militia having been recently made and published by the
Adjutant General, under the authority of the Legislature,
it is thought to be unnecessary to insert them here.

1846-7.—Ch. 69.

Fcos.

One dollar and no more, shall be allowed and charged
as full compensation for all services of a notary public in
this State, on a protest for non-acceptance and non.pay
ment of any order, note, bond, or bill, or any other ac
count whatover: Provided however, that nothing in this
act contained shall extend to notarial protests Concerning
vessels or their cargoes.

The following shall be the form of the Public Treasu
rers Bond for the discharge of the duties imposed by law
upon him, to-wit:
STATE or Nonrn CAROLINA.

Know all men by these presents, that we, A. B. prin
cipal, and the other obligors whose names are hereunto Form of
subscribed as his sureties, are held and ﬁrmly bound unto Bond.
the State of North Carolina, in the just and full sum of

two hundred and ﬁfty thousand dollars, for the payment
of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and
administrators. Witness our hands and seals, this the

day of

The condition of the above obligation is such, that

whereas the above bounden A. B. hath been appointed
Conditiollt
Treasurer of the State: now if he shall faithfully ac
count for all moneys and other things, which shall come
to his hands in virtue of his office, and perform all other

duties required, and to be required of him by law, then
the above obligation to be void ; otherwise to remain in

full force and virtue.
1842-3.—Ch. 61.

Whenever hereafter any instrument shall be taken Bond M
by or received under the sanction of a Court of record,“ be void
purporting to be a bond executed to the State, for the“ °°“'°7

glwnce qf performance of any duty or duties belonging to any oﬂice
:]'e,§,ui|:,r,:_ or appointment, such instrument, notwithstanding any

Lig:r{"ii‘:]: irregularity or invalidity, in the conferring said office,
oﬁice,
or in making said appointment, and notwithstanding
any variance, either in the penalty or condition of the
instrument, from the provisions prescribed by law, shall
be valid, and may be put in suit in the name of the State,

for the benefit of the person or persons injured by a
breach of the condition thereof, in- the same manner asif

the ollice had been duly conferred, or the appointment
duly made, and as if the penalty and condition of the
said instrument had conformed to the provisions of law:
Provided always, that the said instrument be in all other.

respects executed with the solemnities which are required.
in the execution of deeds: And provided also, that no
action shall be sustained‘ thereon, because of the breach
of the condition thereof, or of any part of the condition
thereof which is contrary to law..

1842--3.—Ch. ea
Hereafter; when any suit shall be brought upon any
(Mm my official bond or bonds, given by virtue of his oﬁice, by
refer.
any Sheriff or other public ofﬁcer, in any county in this
State, it shall be in the discretion of the court, on motion

of either party, at any time during the pendency of said
suit, to refer the same, for an account to be taken, in the

same manner, and under the same rules, regulations and
restrictions as are now provided for the reference of suits
on bonds given by Executors, Administrators and Guar
dians.

AN ACT to amend an Act, entitled “ an Act for the relief

of such persons as have been disabled by wounds, or

rendered incapable of‘ procuring for themselves and
families, subsistence in the Militia Service ofthis State,

and providing for the Widows and Orphans of such as
have died.”
Be it enacted, <}e., That so much of the above re'.C’“ﬁ°ate.
cited Act as requires the certiﬁcate of the County Court "If: sign‘
to be countersigned by the Speakers of the General As. Zemlr, ix:
embly, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed, so far:'S‘;::k°°§s

as to enable Pensioners to receive their Pensions every the yuan’

year, when there is no Session of the General Assembly, lt:‘fu::§i:;'
and during such years, the certificates shall be counter- not meen
signed by the Governor.

P‘1LOTS AND COMMISSIONERS OF NAVIGATION.
1840-l.—Ch. 47.

The Commissioners of Navigation and Pilotage of'(_3°mmiI;
Cape Fear River shall consist of six persons, ﬁve of whom 2;‘;§',§%;;',
shall be appointed by the Commissioners of the Town of h°w aPP’td

Changed

VV1lm1ngton, and one elected by the qualiﬁed voters ofin 1846.],
the Town of Smithvil-le.

2. On the third Monday in the month of January
one thousand eight hundred and forty.one, and every two
years thereafter, the Commissioners of the Town of Wil- (See poet.
mingt‘on, shall proceed to appoint ﬁve persons to serve 1846'”
as Commissioners of Navigation and Pilotage, under the
provisions of this Act: and on the same day and month,
and every two years thereafter, it shall be the duty of
the Sheriff of the County of Brunswick. either by himself
or his deputy, ten days notice having been previously
given, to cause the polls to be opened in the town of
Smithville, for the purpose of electing one other person,
and said Sheriff shall furnish the individual who obtains
the largest number of votes with a certiﬁcate thereof.

Any‘ citizen who shall have resided in the town of Smith_
ville twelve months immediately preceding the day of
holding said election, and who is a qualiﬁed voter in the
most numerous branch of the State Legislature, shall be
entitled to vote for a Commissioren of Navigation and
Pilotage in said Town. No person shall be eligible to
the ofﬁee of Commissioner of Navigation and Pilotage,
unless he be a citizen of the Town of Wilmington or
Smithville, and shall possess a free hold, or be the owner
of a Vessel of at least one hundred tons burthen.
3.
Baud to

The persons appointed and elected in manner

aforesaid, shall form a Board to be denominated and

5|| wm,,- called “the Board of Comissioners of Navigation and
ci"Pilotage for the Cape Fear River,” and said Commissioners
are authorized and empowered to fill every vacancy
which may occur in their body during their term of ser
vice, and to appoint a Clerk whose duty it shall be to
keep a book, and record therein all the orders, rules and

proceedings of the said Board of Commissioners.
4. The ﬁrst section of an Act, chapter eighty-eight
ﬁipgzitfgn of the Revised Statutes, entitled “ An Act to reduce into
of former one, the several Acts concerning Pilotage and Comrnis~

act‘

sioners of Navigation,” is hereby repealed.

Ch. 48.

No Vessel or Boat entering Cape Fear River, either
Certain by the old Bar, or the new Inlet, under forty tons burthen,
Zszflsfrzg and no Steam Boat belonging to the Wilmington and
pilomga Raleigh Rail Road Company, shall be compelled to take
a Pilot or pay Pilotage to any person whatever, except
when signals are made for a Pilot; and no vessels com

ing in at either of the Inlets with a view to the more con
venient prosecution of her voyage. or to make a harbor,
shall be subject to the payment of Pilotage.

1842-3.—Ch. 65.
1. The Justices of the Court of Pleas and Quarter
Sessions for the county of Beaufort, or a majority of those 
of Beaufort

present, (seven at least bemg present) shall annually, at shallann_u

the ﬁrst term of said court, held after the ﬁrst day ofEllyapplnt
ommls

January, in each and every year, elect and appoint ﬁve sioners &c
for port of
persons to serve as Commissioners of Navigation, for the washing_
port of Washington, for the ensuing year, or until their "ll
successors are legally appointed ; but no person shall be
eligible to the office of Commissioner of Navigation for
the port of Washington, who is not at the time of his
election, a citizen of the town of‘ Washington, and seized
of a freehold therein.

2. The persons elected and appointed in manner
aforesaid, shall be a body corporate, under the name ofTo be H
the Commissioners of Navigation for the port of Wash. body cor

ington, and shall have power by that name to make con- l‘;,"i':,‘]t‘:,am°
tracts, to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded,&c.
and to make bye-laws not inconsistent with the laws of
this State or of the United States, concerning the subjects

hereinafter placed under their control; and they shall
appoint a Clerk, whose duty it shall be to record, in a
book, all the bye-laws and proceedings of said Commis
sioners.
3. The said Commissioners, or a majority of them,
shall have authority in all matters that concern the
Navigation of Pamlico River from Willow Point, down
wards.
4.

No person shall cast or throw from any vessel, 5f;f;l‘:g

into Tar or Pamlico River, any earth, stones, shells, or any _earth,

ballast of any kind whatever, under the penalty of two $2; :)':f°
hundred dollars for each and every offence, and be further Pamlico
liable to indictment in the County or Superior Court of;;',:;_t° bo
Law of the County of Beaufort; and upon conviction,
may be ﬁned and imprisoned at the discretion of the court.

5. No master or other officer of any vessel shall
'$e‘:°eY:sn:{ permit any person on board of said vessel to cast or throw
to permit from said vessel into Tar or Pamlico River, any earth,
thing,“ stone, shells or ballast whatsoever, under a penalty of

ccrtum

Q lhfown two hundred dollars for each offence, and be further

0 mm liable to indictment in the County or Superior Court of
Law of the County of Beaufort; and upon conviction,
may be ﬁned and imprisoned at the discretion of the court.
6. All penalties imposed by this act, or which may
_ be imposed by any rule or regulation made by the said
Penelhes
.
to |_,, ,,,ed_Comminers of Navigation, under the authority there
M "1 ‘"““° of, may
sued for and recovered in the name of the
of 0 m .
..i.nZ..'";'Z. Commissioners of Navigation for the Port of Washington,
{’8;t‘:i§gt,n by action of debt, in the Court of Pleas and Quarter Ses

sions for the county of Beaufort, or in the Superior Court
of Law for said county 3 any law to the contrary not
withstanding.
Penalties

6.

All penalties recovered under this act (after pay

I:]°d';vre'f,‘|i=.ing the Clerk and Printer, and defraying all other neces
8°‘ how 10 sary expenses) shall be applied by the Commissioners to
be applied’ the purpose provided for in the following section.
8. The said Commissioners, or a majority of them,
shall have full power and authority to purchase and to
'C_°mmi8- hold, in fee simple, a piece of land, and to build such
owners

to
have Pow. house or houses thereon as they may think proper ; and

|F;“n'é are hereby authorized to sell and dispose of the same, and
and build to purchase again if necessary; which, when purchased

and improved, shall be for the reception of such persons
as shall come on board of any vessel which came from a
place which at the time of her departure was infected
with the yellow fever, small pox. or other infectious dis

Proviso.

ease, or having it on board of said vessel at the time of
her arrival in this port : Provided, that if the situation
of the crew of any vessel shall be such, that for the pre
servation of health, and preventing the spreading of any

supposed infectious disease, the said Commissioners should,
under the quarantine laws of this State, require said ves
sel to perform quarantine, then the crew of said vessel,
or any part thereof, may he landed at such place so
provided ; and when so landed shall be under the direc
tion of said Commissioners, in the same manner and under the same penalties, as though they had not been per
mitted to land from on board said vessel ; and they
may employ a Physician to attend those persons so landed
and to furnish them with such necessaries, as provisions,
clothing, or such articles as their situation may require
during their continuance there ; and all reasonable
charges for the same, shall be a lien on the said vessel,

master and owners.
9. The Commissioners of Navigation for the port

To have
of Washmgton, elected and appointed under this act, all power:
shall have all the powers and authorities heretofore “"1 ‘“"h"'
vested in the Commissioners of Navigation for the port
of Washington, by the ninety-sixth chapter of the Revised
Statutes.
1846-'1.—Ch. 39.

Hereafter the commissioners of‘navigation of the
Cape Fear shall be elected on the ﬁrst day of May,
in each and every year, by the citizens of the town ofg:,':::"}"
Wilmington, who are entitled to vote for members of the Wilming

House of Commons of the General Assembly ; and the i,:nel':c‘:,:f
said election shall be held by the high Sheritf of New
Hanover county, under the same rules and regulations

as the election for members of the Legislature.
Ch. 49‘.
AN Aor to amend an Act to reduce into one the several

Acts concerning Pilots and Commissioners of Naviga
tion, “ Revised Statutes,” chapter 88, section 40.

Be it enacted
That so much of the above recited'ReP,a"n:
Act as provides that branch pilots, legally authorized by '=|""

the Commissioners of Navigation for Edenton, Washing
ton, Newbern, or Ocracoke, shall be entitled to demand and

receive of the commander of such vessel as they may
have charge of‘, the following pilotage, viz: for every
vessel of sixty tons burthen, from the other side of the
bar, at any distance within the limits of the pilot ground,
to Beacon Island Road, or Wallace’s channel, six dollars;

and for all vessels drawing eight feet water and less than
twelve, one dollar per foot; and for all vessels drawing
twelve feet or upwards, one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents
per foot, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

2. All branch pilots, legally authorized by the com
missioners of navigation, for the ports of Edenton, Wash
Amount of _

pilotage,

mgton, .l.\B\Vb€l‘l1, or Ocracoke, shall be entitled to demand

and receive of the commander of such vessel as they
may have the charge of, the following pilotage, viz : of
sixty tons burthen and not over one hundred and forty
tons, the other side of the bar, at any distance within the
limits of the pilot ground to Beacon Island road or Wal-I
lace’s channel, ten cents for each and every ton burthen,

and the further sum of two and a half cents for each and
every ton over and above one hundred and forty: Pro
vided alwnys, that nothing herein contained, shall be so
construed as to compel the commander of any vessel to
take a pilot on board such vessel as is not compelled by
this act to pay pilotage.
3. It shall not be lawful for any branch pilot to
Limit 0|. demand and receive for pilotage, for any vessel over
Pilol°ge 0- either of the swashes, more than the sum of two dollars

:5 Mmh'as now allowed by law; and the pilotage of any vessel
over either of the swashes shall be held, deemed and
taken to be the pilotage of such vessel over said swashes,
either to or from Beacon Island road, or Wallace’s chan

nel, or over any shoal lyi.ng intermediate between either
of said swashes and Beacon Island road, or VVallace’s

channel.

The Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of Car-’

teret county shall appoint ﬁve commissioners of'naviga- Q°mmiI
tion for old Topsail Inlet and the waters thereof; and the

for

Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of Onslow county t“:feg‘;\Fi‘::
shall appoint ﬁve commissioners of navigation for Bogue appoitited.
Inlet and its waters; and, in case any vacancy shall occur
among the commissioners so appointed, by the death,
resignation, refusal, inability, or any other cause, of any
one or more of said commissioners to act during the re
cess of said courts, the remaining commissioners so ap

pointed for each county, shall ﬁll any such vacancy so
occurring in their respective counties, until the next ses
sion of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions of the

county in which said vacancy shall occur, when it shall
be the duty of said court to ﬁll such vacancy, either by
conﬁrming the appointment so made by the commis
sioners, or to elect some other person or persons to ﬁll
such vacancies.

2. The commissioners so appointed shall have the
same powers and authorities, with regard to the pilots
and pilotagc of old Topsail Inlet and its navigation, and P°‘"{' °f
Rogue Inlet and its navigation respectively, and as to
staking out their respective channels, and the placing of
buoys and beacons, as are given to the commissioners of

navigation for the ports of Newbern, VVashington and
..Edcnton.

3. If any ballast or any other substance calculated
to injure the navigation, shall be wilfully or knowingly
thrown or cast out of any vessel, or from any other place,
into or upon any part of the navigable waters of Carteret navigation.
or Onslow counties, by any sailor,,mariner, or any other
person, the person convicted thcreofin the Superior Court
of the county where the olfence may have been com
mitted, shall be ﬁned, or lined and imprisoned, at the dia

rn.ors, ac.
cretion of the court; and the master of the vessel whence
the ballast, &c. shall be cast or thrown, shall forfeit and

pay the sum of one hundred dollars, to be recovered be
fore any Justice of the Peace of the county in which said
offence shall occur, in the name of one or more of the
commissioners of navigation to be as aforesaid appointed
for said county, one half to the informer, and the other

half to be applied in improving the navigation of said
waters: Providetl always, that if either party shall be
dissatisfied with the judgment of the Justice of the Peace,
he or they may appeal as in other cases now provided by
law : and provided further, that no recovery shall be had
thereon, unless suit shall be brought within three years
after the time the said offence shall be committed.
4. If any branch pilot of the waters of Carteret and
Onslow counties. in charge of any vessel, shall knowing
Penalty on
a branch
pilot.

ly suffer any kind of ballast, trash. or any other substance
calculated to injure the navigation, whilst he is so in
charge of any vessel, to be thrown or cast out of said

vessel into _or upon any of the navigable waters of Car
teret or Onslow counties, or be cognizant thereof, and

shall not, within five days after the commission of said of
fence, give information thereof to one or more of the
commissioners of navigation of the county in which the
same shall occur, such pilot shall, upon conviction in the
Superior Court of said County, he ﬁned at the discretion
of the court, and be forever rendered incapable of acting
as pilot for the said waters or any part thereof.
5. The commissioners of navigation who may be
appointed, as herein before provided, for old Topsail Inlet,

shall have power to appoint a harbor master for the port
Harbor
rof Beaufort, and
master fo
Beaufort. bor master shall

to prescribe his duties ; which said har.
be entitled to receive from the master of

each vessel entering said port, which he may board un
der the direction of said commissioners, the sum of one
dollar.

Said commissioners of navigation shall have

power and authority to designate the place of deposite
for any ballast which any master of a vessel, or any other

person, may desire to discharge in said harbor ; and fDo:P,‘:ll::,,_
it shall be the duty of each and every pilot, who shall

pilot any vessel into the harbor of Beaufort, having
ballast on board, to inform the master of said vessel where
such place of deposite is, under a penalty of ﬁve dollars,
to be recovered before any Justice of the Peace of the
county in which said offence shall be committed, in the
name of the commissioners of navigation so as aforesaid
appointed for said county, to be applied in improving the
navigation of said waters.

7.

All laws and clauses of laws within the meaning

and purview of this act, are hereby repealed. .

S. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its ratification: Provided, however, that until
the next term of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions
to be held for the county of Carteret, such of the com
missioners of navigation for the bar and harbor of old
Topsail Inlet and the waters thereof, as shall have been

heretofore appointed. and shall still continue in office,
shall have full power and authority to act as commis
sioners of navigation for the said bar and harbor and the

waters thereof, in as full and ample a manner, as the
whole number originally appointed could have done.


Where any bill in Equity or petition shall be ﬁled Duty M
in any of the Courts of this State, in which said bill or clerk_ in
petition it is alleged, that some of the defendants are 2222:“
non~residents, it shall be the duty of the clerk, upon affi

davit ﬁled, if the plaintiff‘ require it, to advertise in some

Gazette of the State, for the space of six weeks, in the
same manner and under the same rules and regulations,
as are now required by the law prescribing such adver
tisements, when ordered by the Court to be made upon
the return of process. And such advertisement, so-made
by the clerk, shall be as effectual, as if ordered by the
Court, at the return of such process, and the cause shall
proceed, as causes now proceed, when advertisement has
been made as to non-residents: Provided, nevertheless,

that the provisions of this Act shall not interfere with
the course of proceedings in applications for divorce.
1 844-5.—Ch- 13.
Counsel
In all (jury) trials, the parties or their counsel have
‘my '"g“° a right, and shall be allowed, to argue to the jury their
the law to

the jury.

whole case, as well of law as of fact.
1S46-7.—Ch. 61.

It‘, at any time, there should be no proper o1lic"r in
any county in this State. to whom any process, original,
,
mesne, or ﬁnal of any Court of record, shall, or ought to
May mue
be directed, who can lawfully serve or execute the said

process, then the clerk of the Court from which such pro
cess shall or ought to issue, shall, upon the same being
made to appear upon the afﬁdavit of the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, issue such process to the sheriff of any

county adjoining the one to which the said process ought
to have issued, who shall execute the same, and shall

have the same powers, and be subject to the same rules
and receive the same fees, as are now allowed to Sheriffs

for executing process out of the county in which they
reside.
Ch. 67.
X.

It shall hereafter be lawful for the sheriffs, con¢

g’ya;:"a:; stables or other oﬂicers of Hyde and Carteret counties,
cI“°"“° to execute any process upon any person or persons on

board any vessels lying in the waters between Ocracockc 5"" P"
lsland, in Hyde county, and the Island of Portsmouth, in f,§§’,d°';,

Carteret county.
2.
vessels.

The sheriffs of said counties shall receive, for

every process they shall be thus required to execute,
three dollars, and constables, for like service, two dollars.
As Aer to amend an Act entitled “ An Act concerning
the seat of Government and the public buildings.”
1. Be it enacted, <}c., That the Board authorised
and constituted by the above recited Act to take charge
of and keep in repair the buildings belonging to the State, Board to
in the City of Raleigh, shall, in addition to their other‘aka
charge of

duties, appomt some prudent and discreet person, remova- buildings

ble at the will of a majority of them, whose duty it shal ::;;§’::::f
be to take charge of the ground and public buildings ofdam

the Capitol Square. He shall take care of the furniture,
sweep and cleanse the unoccupied parts of the building:
he shall keep the keys of the several doors not occupied
as offices, and conduct visitors through the Capitol,
whenever requested so to do : he shall, under the direc
tion of the Board, trim the trees on the Public Square,

and remove the leaves and other rubbish as often as the
same may be necessary, and shall perform any other duty

required by the said Act of which he is capable, when
ever specially ordered by the Board so to do--for all
which services a reasonable and just price shall be paid
to such agent, to be judged of‘, and determined by said
Board.

2. ‘And be it j‘Lll‘l]L6i)‘ enacted. (jut, That previously KEEP" to
to entermg upon the duties of his office, the keeper of the give bond

Capitol shall enter into a bond with good security, in the
sum of two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, payable to the State
of North Carolina, conditioned for the faithful discharge

of his duty according to law; which said bond shall be
deposited in the office of the Secretary of State, and shall
be renewed every two years under the care of the Board.
and shall be put in suit whenever, in the judgment of
said Board, the conditions of the same have been broken,

provided that the said bond shall not be adjudged to be
vacated or discharged by one or more judgments on the
same, until the whole penalty is recovered.

The Board of Public Buildings are hereby authorized
Bmrd to to procure fenders for the ﬁre places of the offices in the
5222'’ an Capitol, and also, such other articles as may be deemed
necessary for the convenient transaction of the public
business in said offices; and shall have authority to draw
on the Treasurer for such sums of money, as may be ne
cessary to defray the expenses thereof.
Ch. 47.
AN Aer to amend an Act, entitled “ An Act concerning
the Seat of Government, and the Public Buildings.

1. Be it enacted,
That it shall be the duty of
To procure the Board authorized and constituted by the above recited
;€:'°f'1I11i- act to take charge of, and keep in repair, the buildings
belonging to the State, in the City of Raleigh, to procure
and furnish the several Public oliiees kept in the State
House, with all necessary office furniture, and to have the

furniture of said ofﬁces repaired from time to time, as
occasion may require ; to be paid for as expenditures
made by said Board are now directed by law.
Keeper of

2.

The keeper of the Capital is hereby authorized

to suppress all rude or riotous noise, and disorderly con
suppress

disor'deL

duct in the State House, and to arrest all persons guilty

of making such noise, or creating such disorder, and if
necessary, to take them before some Justice of the Peace’
who shall have power to impose a ﬁne on the offender,
not exceeding ﬁve dollars, for the use of the State Library
or to cause such person or persons, to enter into a re

cognizance, with security, to appear at the next County
or Superior Court of ‘Wake county, to answer said charge.

Ch. 48.

1.

The Secretary of State shall hereafter, as the Secret",

same may be necessary, purchase suitable Stationery to pm-ch'.,,

and Candles, for the Executive Office, Departments of smi°“°\’!
State, and for future Legislatures, upon the best terms
upon which the same can be procured; the accounts for

which, containing the quantity bought, and the prices,
shall be adjudged of, and allowed by the Governor, Trea- Accounts

surer and Comptroller, and if they shall deem the same 371033;“
just and reasonable, paid by the Treasurer, and ﬁled in
the Comptro1ler’s office.

2. The Secretary is hereby authorized to contract
as heretofore, with the lowest bidder, under sealed pro- ,soe::,‘,:z,
posals, for the necessary fuel for the different Departments 7°’ M'
of State, for which the Public Treasurer is hereby au

thorized to pay on the order of the Secretary of State, for
which he shall be allowed in settlement of his accounts.

3.

The Secretary of State shall be allowed postage

on all Public Documents, transmtted to him by mail, on

which postage is charged, to be paid by the Public Trea
surer, on the Governors warrants, made on the accounts Pﬂ"*l"

presented by the Secretary, which accounts shall be ﬁled
with the warrants in the Comptroller’s ofﬁce.


AN Acr to amend an Act passed on the seventh day of
January. one thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven,

entitled “An Act concerning the Public Printing ofthc
State."

Lawn

Jo,,m,|,_

1. Be it enacted, <§~c., That the Secretary of State
in letting out the Public Printing of the State under the
above recited Act, shall not agree to give to any one with
whom he may contract, any higher sums than the follow
ing, viz: For printing, folding and stitching the Acts
and Resolutions of the General Assembly, four dollars per
printed octavo page, for all the pages contained in a sin
gle number or series of the work: for printing, folding

and stitching the Journals of the two Houses of Assem
bly, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents per printed oc
tavo page, for all the pages contained in a single number
of the work: for all printing ordered by either or both
Houses of the General Assembly. other than the Acts and
Resolutions and Journals, one dollar and ﬁfty cents per
printed octavo page for all the pages contained in a sin
gle number of the work : Provided, that the number of

copies does not exceed two hundred, and when the num
ber ordered does exceed two hundred, he shall receive‘

twelve and a half per cent. on the cost of the ﬁrst two
hundred, for every additional hundred.

Prhuing

2. \Vhenever the person employed to do the print
ing of the two Houses of the General Assembly, shall fail

“I $a"i°“- to do the same as required, it shall and may be lawful to

employ other persons to do the same, the cost of which
shall be deducted from the compensation which such per
son would be otherwise entitled to.
1842-3 -Ch. 4'2.

Hereafter in estimating the price of Public Printing ‘
ordered by either House ofthc General Assembly, other

than the Acts and Resolutions and Journals, every page
of rule and ﬁgure work, shall be estimated as two pages

in a single number of the work, and shall be paid for ac
cordingly at that rate, as provided for by the existing law
in relation to the Public Printing.
1.

At any time after the passage of‘ this Act, the Bondstobo

President and Directors of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail executed

Road Company may make their bonds payable to the '(’3§;;]hP°any
Public Treasurer of the State of North Carolina, for the to the a

sum of ﬁve hundred thousand dollars, and no more
which said bonds are to be signed by the President, and

under the seal of the Corporation, and made for any sum
or sums not under one thousand dollars each, and to carry
interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, which in
terest is to be paid semi.annually, to-wit, on the ﬁrst
Monday in July and on the ﬁrst Monday in January in
each

and every year thereafter; and the amount of

said bonds to be made payable on the ﬁrst of January,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty, at such place as

the President and Directors of said Company and the
parties may agree upon.
2.

Upon the President making the bonds as afore

said, and ﬁling the same with the Public Treasurer of

the State, it shall be his duty, and he is hereby directed
to endorse on the said bonds as follows :

“ Pay to

Endem

or order, and this endorsement pledges the State of North '“°'“'
Carolina as security for the payment of the sum in the
bond, according to the provisions of the Act of the Gem
eral Assembly of 1838 and 1839, entitled “An Act for the

‘ relief of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company :"
which endorsement is to be signed by the Public Trea
surer in his official capacity, and countersigned by the
Comptroller. The Public Treasurer, after endorsing the
bonds as before mentioned, shall duly number and regis
ter them at large, in a book prepared and kept for that

purpose.
8.

It shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer, on

the endorsement being made as before directed, and the
Bond! to bonds being numbered and registered, and the mortgage,
2; ,ﬂ°£§§1’j as hereinafter directed. being made and delivered to the
PM»

Governor, to deliver the same to the President and Direc

tors of said Company, and they are at liberty to ﬁll up the
blank in said endorsement with the name or names of the
person or persons, or company, or corporation, to whom
the same may be sold or transferred, and when so ﬁlled
up, shall he as binding on the State of North Carolina,

as if the same was done by the Public Treasurer at the
time of making the endorsement as aforesaid.
4. The President and Directors, from time to time,
as they shall sell or transfer the said bonds, and ﬁll up
Transfer to the blank with the name or names of the person, company

::_'°I"l°" or corporation to whom they are sold or transferred, shall
cause a statement to be ﬁled with the Public Treasurer,
setting forth the time of the transfer or sale, the person,

company or corporation to whom payable, to be by him
registered in the book to be kept for the registration of
the bonds aforesaid.
5. For the payment of the interest semi-annually,
at the rate of six per centum per annum, on the principal
glzméizo debt due on the bonds hereby authorised to be made, the

pledged.

credit and faith of the State is pledged to the holders of
said bonds; and on failure of the President and Directors

to pay the principal and interest as it accrues,’ the Pub
lic Treasurer is authorised to pay the same out of any

money in the Treasury at the time.
For the full and entire payment and redemption of said principal, the Gen
eral Assembly doth hereby guarantee the principal due
on the bonds authorised by this Act to be created.
6.

The said bonds shall be transferable by the

holders of the same, or by his, her or their attorney, in anondhhow

book to be kept by the Public Treasurer for that purpose ; ‘"""f°“'°d
and in every such transfer, the oustanding bond shall be
surrendered to, and cancelled by the Public Treasurer,
and a new bond shall be issued for the same amount, to

the person entitled to the same.
7. The debt hereby created, shall not be redeema
ble until after the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty, and after that day the same shall and ,'Zﬁ,I,'I‘;,‘:
may be redeemed, at such time or times, and in such propor
tions as may hereafter be declared and appointed by law.
8. Whenever the President and Directors of the
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company shall make, Mortgage.
execute and deliver to the Governor of this State, for and
in behalf of the State, a deed of motgage under the seal
of said Company, wherein and whereby shall be conveyed
to the said Governor and his successors in otﬁce, for the
use and beneﬁt of the State, all the estate, real and per

sonal, belonging to the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail
Road Company, or in any manner pertaining to the same,
conditioned for indemnifying and saving harmless the

State of North Carolina from the payment of the whole
or any part of the bonds hereby authorized to be made,
and issued by the President and Directors of the Raleigh
and Gaston Rail Road Company, and endorsed by the
Public Treasurer; also make, execute and deliver under
the seal of said Company, to the Governor, for the use

and beneﬁt of the State, a pledge of so much of the proﬁts
of said Company, as shall be sufﬁcient to pay semi
annually, the interest which may accrue on said bonds,
until the ﬁnal payment and redemption of the principal
of said bonds—which said deed of mortgage and pledge
shall be approved by the Attorney General of the State:
Then it shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer, and
he is hereby required to deliver to the President and Di
rectors of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,
the whole of said bonds which by this Act he is authorized
and required to endorse, taking therefor the receipt of
the President of the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road

Company.
9.

In case of failure by the President and Directors

of the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company, to

DMY of pay and discharge semi-annually the interest which may
the G°7Br. accrue on the bonds hereby authorized to be made and
executed, it shall be lawful for the Governor of this State
11°‘ Paid

for the time being to apply in behalf of the State to the

ugumly’ Superior Court of Equity for the county of Wake, for a.
sequestration of the receipts for transportation on said
Road, and for the appointment of a Receiver or Receivers
of the said receipts; which Court. on the proof of the

failure to pay such interest by the President and Direc
tors of said Rail Road Company, shall have power to
order such sequestration. and appoint a Receiver or Re
ceivers accordingly: and in case of such sequestration,

and the appointment of a Receiver or Receivers of the
proﬁts for transportation on said Road, it shall be the
duty of such Receiver or Receivers to apply so much
thereof as shall be sufﬁcient to pay the interest on said
bonds semi-annually, and to pay the excess to the Presi
dent and Directors of the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail

Road Company.
10. From and after the commencement of the year
one thousand eight hundred and sixty, it shall be the duty
Bonds pay- of the President and Directors of the Raleigh and Gaston

able me’ Rail Company, to pay and redeem the principal of the
1860, d

M failuig bonds hereby authorized to be issued by the President
and Directors of said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Com- ‘° d° "1
pany, and endorsed by the Public Treasurer, and de-

‘la-0

livered by him to the said.Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road r°'°°l°"d'
Company, at such times and in such amounts, annually,
as may be prescribed and directed by Act of the General
Assembly of this State, and in case of failure of the Pre
sident and Directors of the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail

Road Company, to pay off and redeem the principal of
the said bonds, at such times and in such amounts as
may be prescribed and directed by Act of the General
Assembly, then it shall be the duty of the Governor of
this State, for the time being, to cause the mortgage made

and executed by the President and Directors of the said
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company, to be foreclosed
in the Superior Court ofdiquity for Wake County, which
Court is hereby authorized and empowered to take ju
risdiction of the same, and on the decree of foreclosure
being made by said Court, it shall be the further duty of
the Governor of the State, to cause the whole estate, real
and personal, so conveyed by mortgage, to be sold at

such time and in such ways, as shall most effectually pro
tect and save harmless the State against any loss or
damage, by reason of its liability for the payment of said
bonds, or any part thereof, and out of the proceeds of such
sale or sales, to pay off and redeem the whole amount of
principal of said bonds, and to pay the excess to the Pre
sident and Directors of said Company.
11_

The State may, at any time within seven years

after the completion of said Raleigh and Gaston Rail
Road, take ﬁve thousand shares of the stock of said road,

or any less number of shares of the stock; and if the Th, Sm,
State shall elect to take ﬁve thousand shares of stock, ‘° "1". .
the said ﬁve thousand shares shall be a full equivalent :i1:cll'el,:ci:
for the liability of the State for the principal of said
bonds, and on electing to take the said ﬁve thousand
shares, the mortgage of the real and personal estate of

the said company to secure the payment of the principal

of said bonds, and the pledge of the proﬁts of the said road
for securing the payment of interest as herein provided
for, shall cease, determine and become of no force and
effect, and thereafter the State shall be liable for the

payment of the principal of said bonds, and the interest
accruing thereon. And if the State shall elect to take
any number of shares less than ﬁve thousand, such num

ber of shares shall be an equivalent for the liability of
the State for the principal of so much of the money due
on said bonds as is equal in value to the shares taken by
the State, estimating each share at one hundred dollars:
Provided, that on electing to take such number of shares,

the State shall refund to the President and Directors of
said company, the full amount of interest which they
may have paid on said shares so taken by the State; and
the mortgage of the real and personal estate of said
company, to secure the payment of the principal of said
bonds, and the pledge of the proﬁts of the said Rail Road
for securing the payment of interest as herein provided
for, shall stand as securities to the State for the payment
of the principal of so much of said bonds as shall be
left, after deducting the number of shares taken by the
State, each share being estimated at one hundred dollars,

and for the payment of interest accruing on said residue

of the principal.
Power to
increase
capital
stock.

12. The Stockholders in said Raleigh and Gaston
Rail Road Company shall have power, and they are hereby
authorised, if they deem it necessary, to increase the
capital stock of said company to one million ﬁve hundred
thousand dollars, by adding thereto such number of
shares as shall not in the whole exceed ﬁfteen thousand
shares, which additional shares shall be taken and held
to be a part of the capital stock of the said Raleigh and
Gaston Rail Road Company, as fully as if the same had
been originally subscribed therein.

Bonds to
be surron- .

derod, if

13.

If by reason of any loans of money obtained

m Europe or elsewhere, on the credit of said company-,

the amount of bonds hereby authorised to be issued, shall mm than
be found more than sufficient to complete the said Ral- :'e°:?:,l_'y
eigh and Gaston Rail Road, then and in that case, it shall, Plate "K

and is hereby made the duty of the said company, to sur- mad‘
render and deliver up to the Public Treasurer, such
amount of the said bonds as may be found to be unne
cessary as aforesaid. to the completion of the said road,
and that all monies borrowed by the said company shall
be faithfully applied to the said road, and to no other
purpose whatever.
14. In case the real and personal estate of the said
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company, so mortgaged

for the beneﬁt and indemnity of the State of North Car- ds:‘::k|l::;°
olina, and to be sold (if necessary) as by this Act directed, in their in
should prove insuﬁicient to pay off and satisfy the full
amount of the bond aforesaid, including the principal and for the
interest thereon; then each and every stockholder of said g;bct,°h:,:f
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company shall be held
liable to pay towards making up such deﬁciency, the full
amount of the shares respectively held and owned by him
or her therein, at the time when said deﬁciency shall be
ascertained, or such ratable pro‘portion thereof, as may
be requisite to pay such stockholder’s deﬁciency, and no
more:

Provided, that the General Assembly may, at

any time, appoint a Committee to examine into the situa
tion of the said company, and that whenever it shall ap

pear that the said company are insolvent, and unable to
pay the amount borrowed under the authority of this
Act, the General Assembly may direct the mortgage to
be foreclosed, according to the provisions heretofore pre
scribed.
1840-1.—Ch.

AN Aer for the relief of the Wilmington and Raleigh
Rail Road Company.
1.

Be it enacted, do, That at any time after the

passage of this act2 the President and Directors of the

Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company may make

Pan, may their bonds, payable to the Public Treasurer of the State
to of North Carolina, for the sum of three hundred thousand
the amoun dollars, and no more; which said bonds are to be signed

:go"£32_‘ by the President, and under the seal of the corporation,
llaleblto the and made for any sum or sums not under one thousand
T‘;ea':um_ dollars each, and to carry interest at the rate of six per
cent. per annum, which interest is to be paid semi
annually, to-wit : on the ﬁrst Monday in January and the
ﬁrst Monday in July, in each and every year thereafter ;
and the amount of said bonds, shall be made payable, as
follows, to-wit : Fifty thousand dollars on the ﬁrst day
of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-two,
ﬁfty thousand dollars on the ﬁrst day of January, one
thousand eight-hundred and forty-three, ﬁfty thousand
dollars on the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-four, ﬁfty thousand dollars on the ﬁrst
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty
ﬁve, ﬁfty thousand dollars on the ﬁrst day of January,
one thousand eight hundred and forty.six, and fifty thou
sand dollars on the ﬁrst day of January, one thousand

eight hundred and forty-seven.

Public

2. Upon the President making the bonds as afore
said and ﬁling the same with the Public Treasurer of the
State, it shall be his duty, and he is hereby directed to
endorse on said bonds as follows: “Pay to —, or
order. and this endorsement pledges the State of North
Carolina, as security for the payment of the sum in the
bond, according to the provisions of the Act of the Gen
eral Assembly of one thousand eight hundred and forty,
entitled “ An Act for the relief of the Wilmington and

Raleigh Rail Road Company ;” which endorsement is to
said bands. be signed by the Public Treasurer in his oﬂicial capacity,
and countersigned by the Comptroller. The Public Trea
surer, after endorsing the bonds as before mentioned, shall
duly number and register them at large in a book pre
pared and kept for that purpose.
It shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer, on

the endorsement being made as before directed, and the '£}l::nb::‘_l'
bonds being numbered and registered, and the lT10I‘lgage,dursed. to
as hereinafter directed, being made and delivered to the :3 gelzzzr‘

Governor, to deliver the same to the President and Di_ Rail Road
the
rectors
blank
of said
in said
Company,
endorsement
and they
witharethe
at name
libertyorto names
ﬁll up
ofthe person or persons, or Company or Corporation, to
whom the same may be sold or transferred, and when so

ﬁlled up, shall be as binding on the State of North Caro
lina, as if the same was done by the Public Treasurer at
the time of making the endorsement as aforesaid.
4. The President and Directors, from time to time,
as they shall sell or transfer the said bonds, and till up A state

the blank with the name or names of the person, Com memm be
l
pany or Corporation, to whom they are sold or transferred,' lgh:enPllcl:li¢'

shall cause a statement to be ﬁled with the Public Trea. ,r'ft,*I,s§’,,'Z.’,.
surer, setting forth the time of the transfer or sale, the

the

person, Company or Corporation, to whom payable, to be bonds are
by him registered in the book to be kept for the rcgistra- disP°s°d °"
tion of the bonds aforesaid.

5.

For the payment semi.annually, at the rate of

six centum per annum, on the principal debt due on the Credit of‘

bonds hereby authorised to be made, the credit and faith :)l|‘:dgSe‘;‘f‘;l_
of the State is pledged to the holders of said bonds, and the pay

on failure ofthe President and Directors to pay the prin ment ofthc
interest.
cipal and interest as it ace-rues, the Public Treasurer is
authorized to pay the same out of any money in the Trea
sury at the time. For the full and entire payment and:
redemption of said principal, the General Assembly doth
hereby guarantee the principal due on the bonds,au
thorized by this Act to be created.
6.

The said bonds shall be transferable by the Bonds are

holders of the same,or by his, her or their Attorney, in a "““sf°"bl°
book to be kept by the Public Treasurer for that purpose 3

and in every such transfer, the outstanding bond shall be

surrendered to and cancelled by the Public Treasurer,
and a new bond shall be issued for the same amount, to

the person entitled to the same.
Comp’n_vto

7.

It shall be the duty of the President and Direc

Bgglyﬁlsnoé: tors of said Company, from the income and proceeds of
ally from said Road, to apply the sum of ﬁfty thousand dollars an
tclgidsgi-',he nually as a sinking fund to pay the debt created under
rend mi a this Act, until the same be cxtingnishedsinking
fund.

8. VVhenever the President and Directors of the
\Vilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company shall make,
The Rail

execute and deliver to the Governor of this State, for and
in behalf of the State a deed of mortgage under the seal

§::;,i ct°om' of said Company, wherein and whereby shall be conveyed
zivefo "18 to the said Governor and his successors in oﬂice, for the

-*r",‘f,',[,°,m., use and beneﬁt of the State, all the estate real and per
a deed °f sonal belonging to the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail
:;°:i:§ar%:d Road Company, or in any manner pertaining to the same,

'"““"l‘y conditioned for indemnifying and saving harmless the
State of North Carolina, from the payment of the whole

or any part of the bonds hereby authorised to be made
and issued by the President and Directors of the Wil
mington and Raleigh Rail Road Company, and endorsed
by the Public Treasurer; also make, execute and deliver,
under the seal of said Company, to the Governor for the
use and beneﬁt of the State, a pledge of so much of the
profits of said. Company as shall be sufficient to pay,
semi.annually, the interest Which may accrue on said
bonds, until the ﬁnal payment and redemption of the
principal of said bonds, which said deed of mortgage and

pledge shall be approved of by the Governor and Attorney
General of the State; then it shall be the duty of the
Public Treasurer, and he is hereby required to deliver to
the President and Directors of the Wilmington and Ra

leigh Rail Road Company the whole of said bonds,which.

by this Act he is authorized and required to endorse,
taking for them the receipt of the President of the Wil
mington and Raleigh Rail Road Company.
9. In case of failure by the President and Directors
of the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company
to discharge, semi annually, the interest which may ac
crue on the bonds hereby authorized to be made and ex-g°:;s:;‘ke.
ecuted, ‘it shall be lawful for the Governor of this State, in_ cue_ Of

for the time being, to apply in behalf of the State to the
Superior Court of Equity for the county of Wake, for amad °°"*'
sequestration of the receipts of transportation on sa’d l):,T;'1,r,e§:;

road, and for the appointment of a Receiver or Receivers :lI“°lll‘l':°'°'t
of the said receipts, which Court, on the proof of the bonds.
failure to pay such interest by the President and Direc
tors of said Rail Road Company, shall have power to
order such sequestration, and appoint a Receiver or Re
ceivers accordingly, and in case of such sequestration,
and the appointment of a Receiver or Receivers of the
proﬁts for transportation on said road, it shall be the duty
of such Receiver or Receivers to apply so much thereof
as shall be suﬂicieut to pay the interest on said bonds
semi-annually, and to pay the excess to the President and
Directors of said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road
Company.
10. In case of failure of the President and Direc
tors of the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Com
pany to pay off and redeem the principal of the said
bonds, at such times and in such amounts, as may be Re°°‘"“
to be had

prescribed and directed by Act of the General ASS8[I1bly,against the

then it shall be the duty of the Governor of this State Ra“ R°’d
company

for the time being. to cause the mortgage made and exe- in case of
failure to
cuted by the President and Directors of the said VVil- Pay omhe
mington and Raleigh Rail Road Company, to be fore- P"i“°lP‘l

closed in the Superior Court of Equity for Wake county;
which Court is hereby authorized and empowered to take
jurisdiction of the same: and on the decree of foreclo

sure being made by said Court.it shall be the further
duty of the Governor of this State to cause the whole
estate, real and personal, so conveyed by mortgage, to
be sold, at such time and in such ways, as shall most ef

fectually protect and save harmless the State against any
loss or damages by reason of its liability for the payment
of said bonds, or any part thereof: and, out of the pro
ceeds of such sale or sales, to pay off and redeem the

whole amount of principal of said bonds, and to pay
the excess to the President and Directors of said com

pany.
Gene"
11.

The General Assembly may at any time ap

Awembly point a committee to examine into the situation of the
;,':,'il,¥tac|:,',,,_ said company, and may direct the mortgage to be fore
'““‘°° °f closed according to the provisions heretofore prescribed,
examin’t’n

whenever they thmn proper.
12. In case the President and Directors of said
company should fail to apply the proceeds and income of
Remedy in said road according to the above section of this Act, then

and in that case, it shall the duty of the Governor of the
fail P">P@|Y- State, for the time being, to compel their compliance ac
l¥J°|,‘l§l’ ycording to the manner prescribed in the ninth section of

fl‘::dsm‘;s_ this Act, to enforce the payment of the interest of debt
herein created.
13. This act shall be in force from and after the
ratiﬁcation thereof.

AN Aer to secure the State against any and every lia
bility incurred for the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road
Company, and for the relief of the same.
1.

Be it enacted, <§-c , That, at any time after the

Company passage of this Act, the President and Directors of the

may make Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company may make their
their bonds
to the a- Bonds, payable to the Pubhc Treasurer of the State of


North Carolina. for the sum of three hundred thousand
dollars, and no more, which said Bonds are to be signed paya|;|e (0

by the President, and under the seal of the Corporation,§I,h:eal;::’::f
and made for any sum or sums, not under one thousand
dollars, and to carry interest at the rate of six per cent_
per annum, which interest is to be paid semi-annually,
to-wit: on the ﬁrst Monday in January and the ﬁrst Mon
day in July, in each and every year thereafter ; the prin
cipal sums secured by said bonds payable as follows:
that is to say, as to one tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst
Monday in January, A. D., one thousand eight hundred Interest to

and forty-ﬁve, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the EZ:;_‘L‘L_
ﬁrst Monday in January, one thousand eight hundred and nuully.
forty-six, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst

Monday in January, one thousand eight hundred and
forty-seven, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the

first Monday in January, one thousand eight hundred and
forty-eight, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst Principal

Monday in January one thousand eight hundred and:J‘;idb‘;n':l;_
forty-nine, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst nual in

Monday in January, one thousand eight hundred andmlmelm
ﬁfty, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst
Monday in January, one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty
one, as to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst Monday

in January, one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty-two, as
to one other tenth part thereof, on the ﬁrst Monday in
January, one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty-three, and

as to the remaining tenth part thereof on the ﬁrst day of
January, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty-four.
2.

Upon the President making the bonds, as afore

said, and ﬁling the same with the Public Treasurer of

.
The Pubhc

the State, it shall be his duty, and he is hereby directed Treasurer

to endorse on said Bonds as follows : “ Pay to

,3; eb':::;:°

_ or order, and this endorsement pledges the State of North

Carolina, as security for the payment of the sum in the
bond according to the provisions of this Act," which en
dorsement is to be signed by the Public 'I‘reasure'r in his official capacity, and countersigned by the Comptroller.
The Public Treasurer, after endorsing the bonds as be

fore mentioned, shall duly number and register them at
large in a book prepared and kept for that purpose.
3. It shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer, on
The bonds the endorsement being made, as before directed, and the
then to be bonds being numbered and registered, and the mortgage

handed ‘° as hereinafter directed being made and delivered to the
the com

PIIIY for

Governor, to deliver the same to the President and Di

own rectors of said Company and they are at liberty to ﬁll up
the blank in said endorsement with the name or names
of the person or persons, or Company or Corporation, to
whom the same may be sold or transferred, and when so
ﬁlled up, shall be as binding on the State of North Caro
lina, as if the same was done‘ by the Public Treasurer
at the time of making the endorsement as aforesaid.

4.

The President and Directors, from time to time,

gefnrtﬁgya as they shall sell or transfer the said bonds, and ﬁll up
‘tatement the blank with the name or names of the person, Com

P

pany or Corporation, to whom they are sold or transferred,

the man- shall cause a statement to be ﬁled with the Public Trea~
mlricllnthe surer, setting forth the time of the transfer or sale, the
bonds are person, Company or Corporation, to whom payable, to be
dmpmd of’ by him registered in the book to be kept for the registra
tion of the bonds aforesaid.

5. For the payment semi annually of interest at the
Faith of rate of six per centum per annum, on the principal debt
“" Sim due on the bonds hereby authorized to be made, and of
ptedged.

the principal sums as the same shall become due and
payable. the credit and faith of the State is pledged to
the holders of said bonds, and on failure of the President

and Directors, to pay the principal and interest as it
accrues, the Public Treasurer is authorized to pay the
same, out of any money in the Treasury at the time.

The said bonds shall be transferable by the hol

ders of the same or by his, her or their attorney in a book to Me,

be kept by the Public Treasurer for that purpose, and in
every such transfer, the outstanding bond shall be surren

dered to and cancelled by the Public Treasurer, and anew
bond for the same amount shall be issued to the person Bhore the
entitled to the same: Provided, that before any of the bonds are

said bonds are delivered to the President and Directors
of said Company, the stockholders in the same holding at "Y, ﬂock
least three fourths of its stock, or on failure of any of the ,,:}l,::st:r
stockholders, a sufﬁcient number of other solvent persons, :23,’ is?‘

who may subscribe in such sums as they may think pro- $300,000
per, so as to amount in all’ to the sum of ﬁve hundred i;°°“'“7
thousand dollars. shall enter into a bond, payable to the State a. .

State ofN0rth Carolina, covenanting and binding each g'““'H°ss'
one of the obligors therein-_. seve-rally, to pay and satisfy
to the said State a part proportionate to the number of
shares of each one’s stock and to the sums so subscribed,

in any loss or damage that may come to the State in con
sequence of the endorsements by the State of the bonds
for ﬁve hundred thousand dollars, (under the Act of one

thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, and one thou
sand eight hundred and thirty-nine, entitled an Act for
the reliefofthe Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,)
and insufﬁciency of the real and personal estateand pro
perty of said Company to discharge the same ; which Bond to be

bonds shall be renewable every two years, and the ability
of such obligors at the time of such renewal shall be years.
judged of by the Governor, Treasurer and Comptroller of
this State ; and in case of failure on the part of any ob
ligor, to renew as herein directed, such refusal shall
operate as a breach of the bond heretofore given, as to
such stockholder, so refusing, and the same is hereby
directed to be put in suit, and‘ said refusal shall further

work a forfeiture of the stock of such obligor to the
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company; and provided
further, that before any of said bonds are delivered as
aforesaid, the Governor of the State shall make enquiry


into the ability of the obligors thereto, and certify to the
Public Treasurer that, in his opinion, they are able to

pay, and satisfy the bond aforesaid.
signers of

7.

Vhere any Stockholder, agreeing to accept the

the bond provisions of this Act, shall not be a resident of the State
::f%_‘;'i:nt of North Carolina, or shall not be the owner of sufficient
property in real estate within the limits of this State, to satisfy the

ma Stale’ amount of the bond hereby directed to be taken, he or
she shall be required to give good and sufﬁcient security
within the limits of this State.
8.

The said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Com

fomp;n)ft pany shall, within the space of four months from the

.?e';§'o: 1,: ﬁfteenth day of January. one thousand eight hundred and
this Act

forty.one, make their election, to accept the beneﬁt of this
Act, and upon the same being made, to‘ give notice there

wi‘hi“"°‘"of to the Governor; otherwise, the same is hereby de
months.

clared to be void and of none ctlect.
9. When the President and Directors of the Raleigh
and Gaston Rail Road Company shall make, execute and
deliver to theGovernor of this State, for and on behalf of
m shall

the State, a deed of mortgage underthe seal of said Com—

parry, wherein and whereby shall be conveyed to the said
Governor and his successors in office, for the use and
beneﬁt of the State, all the estate real and personal be
longing to the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Com
pany or in any manner pertaining to the same, con

ditioned for indemnitying and saving harmless the State
of North Carolina from the payment of the whole or any
part of the bonds hereby authorized to be made and is
sued by the President and Directors of the Raleigh and
Gaston Rail Road Company and endorsed by the Public
Treasurer; also make, execute and deliver, under the

seal of said Company, to the Governor, for the use and
beneﬁt of the State, a pledge of so much of the proﬁts of
the Road as shall be sufficient to pay semi-annually the
interest which may accrue on said bonds until the ﬁn al
redemption and payment of the principal of said bonds,
which said deed of mortgage and pledge shall be approved

by the Governor and Attorney General of the State ; and
when the bond, provided for by the sixth section of this Act,
shall have been ﬁled with the Public Treasurer, then and
not before, it shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer,

and he is hereby required, to deliver to the President and
Directors of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,
the whole of said bonds, which by this Act he is autho
rised and required to endorse, taking therefor the receipt
of the President of said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road

Company.
10. In case of failure by the President and Direc
tors of said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company to Recourse
pay and discharge semi.annually the interest which may to be had
accrue on the bonds hereby authorised to be made and by “‘° G°‘
vernor of

executed, it shall be lawful for the Governor of the State. the State

for the time being, to apply in behalf of the‘ State 'f:i|:::°i:f
to the Superior Court of Equity, for the county of}:18 Rail
Wake. for a sequestration of the receipts for transpor- P,,°:; :f,om_
tation on said road, and for the appointment of a PEY_ "I8

Receiver or Receivers of said receipts; which Court, al inter,“
upon proof of failure to pay such interest by the Presi
dent and Directors of said Rail Road company, shall have
power to order such sequestration and to appoint a Re
ceiver or Receivers accordingly, and in case of such se
questration and the appointment of a Receiver or Recei
vers of the profits for transportation on said road, it shall
be the duty of such Receiver or Receivers, to apply so
much thereof as shall he sufﬁcient to pay the interest on
said bonds semi-annually; and to pay the excess to the
President and Directors of said Raleigh and Gaston Rail

Road Company.
ll.

In case of failure of the President and Direc- And a‘soi_n

tors of the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,
to pay off and redeem the principal of said bonds, as the
same shall become due and payable, it shall be the duty

of the Governor of the State, for the time being, to cause

ZL"‘§"ﬂ. the mortgage made and executed by the President and
due‘ Directors of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,
to be foreclosed in the Superior Court of Equity for the
county of Wake, which Court is hereby authorised and
empowered to take jurisdiction of the same, and on the

decree of foreclosure being made by said Court, it shall
‘be the further duty of the Governor of the State to cause
the whole estate, real and personal, so conveyed by mort
gage, to be sold at such time and in such ways as shall
most effectually protect and save harmless the State
against any loss or damage, by reason of its liability for
the payment of said bond_s or any part thereof, and out
of the proceeds of such sale or sales, to pay oﬁ‘ and re
deem the whole amount of principal of said bonds and
pay the excess to the President and Directors of said
Company.
l2. The General Assembly may at any time ap
g:s':':l‘,‘|y point a Committee to examine into the situation of said
may ap- Company, and whenever it shall1 appear that said
Coinpany is insolvent and unable to pay the amount for
2-‘xamipa which. the State may be liable, under the authority of
H13,
this Act, the Genenak Assembly may direct the mortgage
to be foreclosed according to the provisions heretofore
prescribed

L3.

The Rail Road‘ extending from Raleigh to Gas~

Ra“ Roadton, and the Engines and other apparatus necessary to
P'°P°_"y its use, and all the lands and houses and other ﬁxtures,
W “able that are attached to the said Road or are convenient to
to seizure

by °*“°“' its use, shall not be liable to seizure or sale by execution
at the instance of any creditor who may hereafter see fit

2:3 °'°‘“' to contract with said Corporation ; but if future creditors
choose to enter into engagements with said Corporation,

they shall look to other resources for payment,_ it being
the intention of the Legislature to protect the public in
terest against any improvidence, and to secure to the

public the beneﬁt of the Road, and of continuing its
operation without the necessity of any future advances
by the State, but this section shall not prevent any future
-creditor of the said Corporation, from suing for his debt
and after he has got judgment at law, resorting to a
Court of Equity to have the shares of, or interest of in
dividual stockholders in the Road, subjected to sale, for
the payment of his debt ; or whatever proﬁts he may be
entitled to, sequestered for that purpose ; always provided.
that in no event shall the State’s security or interest in
the Road be diminished or interfered with: Provided
further, that all persons employed hereafter as agents and
ofﬁcers of the Compaity and in repairs of the Road, and
all debts hereafter contracted for repairs or materials for
repairs, shall and may be paid out of the proﬁts of the
same, and such creditors may ﬁle a petition, either at
Law or in Equity, to recover their debt and to have the
same paid out of the said proﬁts, under the orders and
decrees of the Court. Such suits, however, shall always

be brought in \Vake Superior Court against said Com
pany, and no where else, in order that the Attorney Gen
eral may interpose in cases where any collusion may be
suspected, and that the General Assembly may also more
certainly and promptly investigate the affairs of said
Corporation; but this is not to prevent the removal of
any suit to another County for trial, where a reasonable
ground for it is shown to the Court upon afﬁdavit, as in
other cases.
14. Said Corporation shall have no power to divide Proﬁts of
any dividend of the proﬁts of said Road, until all the debts road not to
for which the State is responsible on account of said Corporation shall be fully discharged, both principal and in- debts for

terest. but it shall be the duty of the President and Direc- g:fehisth°
tors of said Corporation to set aside annually all the surplus tespgqsibla

proﬁts of said Road as a sinking Fund, to discharge the
several responsibilities of the State as they may severally
become due, and said President and Directors shall at
every Session ofthe Legislature, make a report of the
receipts and expenses ofthe Roadand how the surplus
has been invested, which shall be subject to the approval
or disapproval of the Legislature.
15.

In case the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Com

Ifthe com- pany fails to assent to this Act, or to pay the interest that

:";‘2’,‘:"t:°t may accrue upon the debt which has been endorsed for
this Act,or them by the State, according to the act of one thousand

{’:l_’;:the,|::;eight hundred and thirty-eight, and one thousand eight
mayqicsrue hundred and thirty.nine, then, in order to protect the

§:d§;,Z,d°“honor and faith of the State, and to preserve the credit of
"'° ‘h North Carolina, the Public Treasurer is hereby directed to pay the interest, which may accrue before the next

'5) ':';;":;g meeting of the General Assembly, out of any money in
interest itthe Treasury, and if it be necessary, he is hereby au
l}]':"°h:s“:: thorised to borrow money fonthat purpose upon the best
m0ney-

terms he can, and to pay the interest so due and unpaid
b 3' the Com P an 3', and this P rovision shall be in force from
and after the ratiﬁcation of this Act.
1. If any person or persons shall wilfully and ma
liciously put or place any stone, earth, timber, wood, or

any other thing whatever, upon any Rail Road in this
foes deﬁn- State, or upon any Bridge or Viaduct belonging to, and
ed‘

forming part thereof; or, shall wilfully and maliciously
cut, break, remove, displace, or in any other manner, or

by any means whatever, destroy or injure any rail or sill
of any such Rail Road, or any such Bridge or Viaduct, or

any part thereof, or shall, by any ways or means what
ever, injure, destroy, or obstruct any such Rail Road,
Bridge or Viaduct, as aforesaid, the party so offending.
shall, on conviction thereof, be find in any sum not ex
Punish

ceeding one thousand dollars, be imprisoned for any time
men t.

not exceeding three years, and ﬁned securities for being
of good behaviour for not less than one, nor more than

seven years, from and after the expiration of the said im
prisonment, in such sum as the Court having cognizance
of the same shall direct. And if it shall happen that by
reason of the commission of the

offences aforesaid,

or any one of them, any Engine or Car shall be thrown
off the track of any such Rail Road, or shall be stopped

or obstructed so that any person or persons shall thereby
be instantly killed, or so wounded or hurt as to die there
from, within six calendar months thereafter, or shall

thereby be maimed or lose the use of any limb or mem
ber, then, and in every such case, the party so offending,
his aiders, abettors, helpers, counsellers and advisers,

shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall suffer death,
as in case of felony, without the beneﬁt of clergy.
2.

This act to go into efiect from and after the 1st

of March, 1839.

The Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road, the Raleigh and
\Vilmington Rail Road, and all other Rail Roads, within

this State, shall, and they are hereby compelled to keep,
at their expense, in proper repair all bridges by them
erected, and which it is the duty of said companies to Ra“ Road‘

keep up across any public road or roads; and should to keep
they fall
. so to do, each and every such Rail. Road com- brerpagiis
pany shall forfeit and pay a ﬁne of twenty.ﬁve dollars,
over and above such damages as may be sustained, to
any person who shall sue for the same ; and which said
penalty shall be recoverable by warrant, returnable be
fore any Justice of the county in which the bridge is
situate, Which is not kept in proper repair by such
company or companies: Provided, that said penalty
shall not be incurred until ten days have elapsed from
the time said bridges shall have been out of repair. And
all laws and clauses of laws, coming in conﬂict with this
act, are hereby repealed.

W]t6r6(l8, by an Act of the General Assembly, begun
and held on the 3d Monday of November, 1838, entitled
Preamble.

“ An Act for the relief of the Raleigh and Gaston Rail

Road Company,” it was provided, among other things,
that the Treasurer of the State should endorse the bonds
of the said company to the amount of ﬁve hundred thou
sand dollars, for the use and beneﬁt of said company, and
the said company should execute a mortgage on the road
and other property, real and personal, to secure the State
from any loss by reason of its endorsement of said bonds,
and also to pledge the proﬁts of the road for payment of
interest on the same ; and whereas. it was also provided

in said Act, that the General Assembly might at any time
appoint a committee to enquire into the insolvency of
said company; and whereas, at a session of the General
Assembly, begun and held on the 8d Monday of Novem
ber, 1840, an Act was passed, entitled “an Act to secure
the State against any and every liability incurred for the
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company, and for the re
lief of the same ,” which Act also provided, among other
things, for the endorsement by the State, of bonds to the
amount of three hundred thousand dollars, for the use

and beneﬁt of said company, and required the company,
on their part, to execute and deliver to the Treasurer,
individual bonds of the stockholders and other subscri
bers, to the amount of ﬁve hundred thousand dollars, to

secure that amount of liabilities incurred by the State
for said company under the Act of 1838 ; and also to
execute and deliver a mortgage of the road and other

property, real and personal, belonging to the company,
to secure the State against any loss by reason of its en.
dorsements of the bonds endorsed under that Act; and

Whereas, the said Act also provided that the General As
sembly might at any time appoint a committee to en
quire into the insolvency of said company, and its ina
bility to pay its debts; and whereas, at the present General Assembly, a committee has been appointed to en
quire into the insolvency of said company, who have
reported that the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Com
pany is unable to pay its debts and is insolvent, which
said report has been afﬁrmed by this General Assembly:
1.

Therefore, be it enacted,

That it shall be the

duty of the Governor of the State to cause the mortgages g°'n§;ll1{';'
made and executed by the President and Directors of the ymcIom.
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company to be foreclosed, °rg';:°"'
in the Superior Court for the county of Wake, at its next
Term in April, 1845. in case the defendant, having been
duly served with process, shall fail to answer within the
three ﬁrst days of the term, judgment pro confesso shall

be entered up, and the cause set for hearing, and shall';::gc'::f::_
be heard and decided during the term. if the defendant 5°: if M
shall appear and respond to the bill, by plea, answer, or answer’
demurrer, it shall be the duty of the court to hear and

decide the cause as to the prayer for foreclosure and sale, U. 'f“s‘Y°h"
d:/Italy‘,
during the term, unless good and sufficient cause for de
lay be made to appear to the court; in which case the
3”‘
court shall adjourn the case to the earliest day practica- the contra

ble for preparing for a ﬁnal hearing ; and the Judge hold- 2;u_r:h,:“b°
ing such court, or any other Judge whom the Governor adjourned‘

may designate, shall hear the cause at the appointed
time ; and in case the court shall adjourn the hearing to
another day, the court may make such rules and orders

for preparing and expediting the trial as may seem agree- How ad,
able to equity. If, on the hearing, the court shall decreei"rued
a sale of the mortgaged property, the court shall adjourn ;‘::¢r:.§l_mw

the cause to some future day, for the purpose of receiving
the report of the commissioner appointed to make sale ;
and if the same be conﬁrmed either then or afterwards,

the residue of the cause shall stand adjourned to the en~
suing Court of Equity for VVake county, and shall‘ be

therein and thereafter conducted as other causes in
equity. If the sale shall not be conﬁrmed, the court shall
take such order in. the cause, for eﬂ'ecting the sale,_ as may be agreeable to the rules of Courts of Equity; and
the court shall have full power and authority to adjourn
the cause from day to day and from time to time, until
the sale be made, or the bill be dismissed:

And from

any order or decree of the court, which may be made in
the premises, where appeals are now allowable, an ap

peal may be taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
upon such terms as are usual and prescribed by law.
2.

The Judge, for performing the extra services

Allowance

hereby required, shall be allowed the sum of ninety
to Judge.
dollars.

Commis
sioner to
sell road.

3. It shall be the duty of the court, at the time of
rendering such decree. to name and appoint the Treasurer
of the State commissioner to sell said road and other pro
perty, both real and personal, which may be decreed to
be sold; and it shall be the duty of said commissioner to
advertise the time and place of such sale, for at least 60
days, in one or more of the newspapers, published in each
of the cities of Boston, New York, Baltimore, Philadel
phia, Richmond, Va., Charleston, S. (1., Mobile, Ala., New

Orleans, and two of the papers published in Raleigh, set
ting forth the property proposed to be sold and the terms
of sale.
4. The Governor of the State is hereby authorized
and directed to bid on the said road and other property
directed to be sold, for and on behalf of the State, a sum
Governor
to bid.

_not exceeding three hundred thousand dollars and the in
terest unpaid by the company on the bonds executed and
endorsed in pursuance of the Act of the General Assem
bly, passed in 1840-’4l, entitled “ An Act to secure the
State against any and every liability incurred for the
Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company, and for the re
lief of the same."
5. Should the Governor of the State, under the pre
ceding section, become the purchaser, for the State, of soaps;

the road and other property, it shall be the duty of the "Slate be~
board of commissioners hereinafter named to appoint a:;),':,:,,l:u:,_r_
President and other otlicers necessary to manage and con- ﬁ°'"*? h°“'

duct the same on behalf of the State, until such time as appointed‘
the State can make some other disposition of the same,
which disposition is hereby directed to be made at the
earliest day consistent with a due and proper regard for
the safety and indemnity of the State ; and said Board
shall fix the rate of compensation to be allowed to said
President and other oliicers to be appointed by them.
6. The Governor of the State for the time being,
the Treasurer, and Comptroller, are hereby consti
tuted the Board mentioned in section 5th, and said
Board are hereby declared a Directory for the manage- Who "I9"
.
.
_
comm]
mcnt of said road and its concerns for and on behalf of ,i°,,m_
the State, and they shall be allowed- three dollarsa day,
when actually employed about the same,
7.

Should any vacancy happen in said Board, by vacancy,"

death, refusal to act, or otherwise, the same shall be supplied by a majority of the acting members-.

8. Should the State become the purchaser of said
road and other property sold by decree of court, the Gov- Governor
ernor, by and with the advice and consent of his C0l1l1cl.l,muy sell

shall have full power and authority to sell and convey an rad‘
the same to any individual, association of individuals,
company or companies, for the most that can be obtained
for the same, upon such credits as are hereinafter speciﬁed,
in case of sale by the commissioner, and shall take proper
and sufﬁcient securities from the purchaser, to be judged

of by the Board aforesaid.

And if the Governor shall,

have offers made for the purchase of the road and pro~
perty bought as aforesaid by the State, which in his opin
ion ought to be considered, he shall convene his Council,
who shall consider the proposals and decide upon them
9. The Governor, if he and his Council shall deem
it advisable, may open books for subscription of stock,
and when the sum of four hundred thousand dollars shall

,(n’:‘y'°':;::‘ be subscribed and paid into the Treasury, or be well se
books _of cured by personal security and a lien on the shares re
‘ubs<:np.
spectwely subscnbed, pay able tn equal mstalments, upon
a credit of one and two years, with interest, the sub

scribers shall be a body corporate: Provided, the per
sonal security herein alluded to shall be for the full
amount of the sum the road may sell for; and the lien
on the shares herein mentioned shall be an additional
security.
10.

The purchaser or purchasers who may buy at

Purchaser the sale which may be made, either under decree of

Eirythlemve Court, or by the Governor and Council, shall be in like
ganchim manner a body corporate : And any body corporate by
e.
_
this act created, shall be such under the name and style
of the present company, and shall hold, use and employ
said rail road, with all its appurtenances, for the residue
of the time yet unexpired for which the present charter
was granted by the State, with all the franchises, privi
leges, rights and immunities, granted and conferred at
any time heretofore by the State, subject, in all respects
and in every thing, to all the duties, regulations and pen
allies required, prescribed and imposed by any law or
laws now in force respecting the present company: Pro
vided, that the title to no part of said property shall pass
to the said purchaser, until the payment of the whole
mount of the purchase money; and said road shall be
deemed a common high.way.
11. Should any one purchase other than the State,
under the decree aforesaid. it shall be the duty of the
l"""=l1"° Governor, for the time being, to take from such purchaser
Lnuliiltzyyfol-T bond or bonds, with such surety for the payment of the

purchase money, as shall be deemed by him to he amply
good and suﬂicient.

12. Any person injuring said Rail Road, whether
owned by the State or any other purchaser or purchasers,
shall be subject to the same actions for penalties androad.
damages as are now allowed for injuries to the road;
and said actions shall be sued and prosecuted in the man
ner now prescribed ; and all such acts as are now offences
against the State, when done to any part of the road,

shall be offences, when done under the same circum
stances, to any part of the road after sale, and shall be

indictable and punished in like manner.
13. It shall be the duty of the commissioner to make
the sale which may be decreed, at the city of Raleigh,
and on the following terms, that is, $25,000 of the pur- Sale Mm.
chase money shall be paid on or before six months from of aim

the day of sale, and the residue of the purchase money
.shall be divided into four equal instalments, to be paid at

‘°b°

intervals of ten months; the ﬁrst of said instalments to
be paid in sixteen months after the sale, and the whole

purchase money to bear interest from the day of sale.
14. The proceeds arising from the foreclosure of
the mortgage herein directed to be made, shall be paid
into the Public Treasury and held as a fund, subject, ﬁrst, proceed,’

to discharge all the liabilities the State has incurred un- :e°:'°f‘:i‘P°'
der the act ratiﬁed January 12th, 1841, entitled “ An Act
to secure the State against any and every liability in
curred for the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road Company,
and for the relief of the same ;” and the surplus, if any,
shall be retained in the Public Treasury, to secure the
State against the liabilities incurred under the act, passed
1838-39, entitled “ An Act for the relief of the Raleigh
and Gaston Rail Road Company.”
15. Should the said Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road
not sell for a sum sufﬁcient to discharge all the liabilities
incurred by the State under the act of January, 1841, en- G°'°"'°"'
,

titled “ An Act to secure the State against any and every

discretion.

liability incurred for the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road
Company, and for the relief of the same.” or should the
Governor purchase the same on bchalfof the State, then
it shall be the duty of the Governor to take such mea
sures, under the acts of lS38-39, and January, ]S4l, as
may, in hisjudgment, best secure the other liabilities of

the State»
16.

When it shall appear that the proceeds of said

Measures road are insuﬂicicnt to lteep said road in repair and pay
in case of all the expenses ofrunning the same, then it shall be the
deﬁcigpc Y

duty of the Governor to stop all operations on the road.

I.

lt shall and may be lawful for the VVilmington

and Raleigh Rail Road Company to make their bonds,

payable to the Public Treasurer of the State of North
Bonds, to Carolina, for the sum of one hundred thousand dollars,
whom
made, and

which bonds shall be signed by the President of said Com
When pay- pany, under the seal of the same, and made payable for
able
any sum or sums not less than one thousand dollars each,
and to carry interest at the rate of six per cent per an
num, which interest is to be paid semi.annually, to wit :
on the first Monday in January and the first Monday in
July in each and every year, until the said bonds shall
be redeemed; ﬁfty thousand dollars of which bonds shall
be made payable on the ﬁrst day of January, one thou.
sand eight hundred and forty-eight; and the remaining
ﬁfty thousand dollars shall be made payable on the ﬁrst
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty
mne
2.

The Public Treasurer of the State is hereby

E d - authorized and directed to endorse on said bonds, as fol
m:nll:;the lows: “ Pay to
or order,” and this endorse
T'°“°“‘"‘"' ment shall pledge the State of North Carolina for the
payment of the sum in each bond, which endorsement
shall be signed by the Public Treasurer in ‘his oﬁicial

capacity, and countersigned by the Comptroller.

The

Public Treasurer, after endorsing the bonds as before

mentioned, shall duly number and register them at large,
in a book prepared for that purpose, and which book shall
be safely kept in his office.

3. The said bonds, so to be made and endorsed, Where do
shall be deposited with the Public Treasurer of the State, p°‘i‘°d'
and ﬁfty thousand dollars thereof shall be by him deliv
ered over to the President and Directors of said company,
whenever the said company shall pay to the Public Trea
surer of the State, the sum of ﬁfty thousand dollars for Wh@n_l0
that amount of bonds of the said Wilmington and Ral
,‘f,°",'J,"
eigh Rail Road Company, endorsed by the Public Treasu- c°IHI>*\n)'
rer and made payable on the 1st January, 1845, under
an Act, entitled “ an Act for the relief of the “filming
ton and Raleigh Rail Road Company ;” and shall further
more redeem, satisfy and pay the bonds amounting to Blank to
ﬁlty thousand dollars, issued in pursuance of the said act, gfflled
by the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company,

endorsed by the Public Treasurer, and made payable on
the ﬁrst day of January, 1845. And whenever the said
bonds for one hundred thousand dollars shall be satisﬁed
and paid as required by this section, it shall be lawful
for the said President and Directors of the said \Vilming
ton and Raleigh Rail Road Company, to fill up the blank
in each endorsement of the bonds authorised by this
Act, with the name or names of the person or persons_. or
company or corporation to whom the same may be sold

or transferred; and when so ﬁlled up, shall be as binding
on the State of North Carolina, as if the same was done

by the Public Treasurer at the time of making the en
dorsement as aforesaid. And it shall be the duty of the
said company to furnish the Public Treasurer with aSlmlelmmt
statement of the name or names of the person or per- of transfer
sons, company or corporation, to whom the said bonds '°‘l“i'°d'
have been transferred or sold, to whom payable, and the
time of sale or transfer of the same, to be by him reg
istered in the book to be kept for the registration of said
bonds.
4.

For the redemption of the bonds hereby autho

rised to be made, and the payment semi.annually of the

interest on the same, at the rate. of six per cent. per an
};li°lgg:r:’l§° num, the faith and credit of the State is pledged to the
Sum.

holders of said bonds; and on failure of the President

and Directors of said company to pay the said principal
and interest, or any part thereof, as it becomes due, the

Public Treasurer is authorised to pay the same out of
any money in the Treasury at the time.
5.

The said bonds shall be transferable by the

holders thereof‘, or by his, her, or their attorney, in a book
to be kept by the Public Treasurer, .for that purpose; and
ransfeta- .
ble.
1n every such transfer the outstandmg bond shall be sur
rendered to and called in by the Public Treasurer, and a
new bond issued for the same amount to the person en
titled to the same.

6. Whenever the President and Directors of the
Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company shall make,
execute and deliver to the Governor of this State, for and

Mortgage. in behalf the State, a deed of mortgage under the seal of
said Company, wherein and whereby shall be conveyed
to the said Governor and his successors in oﬁice, for the
use and beneﬁtofthe State, all the estate, real and person
al belonging to the said VVilmington and Raleigh Rail

Road Company, or in any manner pertaining to the same,
conditioned for indemnifying and saving harmless the

State of North Carolina from the payment of the whole
or any part of the bonds hereby authorized to be made

and issued by the President and Directors of the Wilming
ton and Raleigh Rail Road Company, and endorsed by
Public Treasurer ; also shall make, execute, and deliver,

to the Governor and his successors in ofﬁce, for the use

and beneﬁt of the State, a pledge of so much of the proﬁts of said company as shall be sufficient to pay semi
annually the interest which may accrue on said bonds,
until the ﬁnal payment and redemption of the principal
of said bonds; which said deed or deeds of mortgage and
pledge shall be approved by the Governor and Attorney
General of the State; then it shall be the duty of the
Public Treasurer and he is hereby required to deliver to
the President and Directors of the Wilmington and Ra
leigh Rail Road Company, the bonds, in the manner and
to such amount as is set forth in the foregoing sections of
this act and which by this act he is authorized and re
quired to endorse. taking therefor the receipt of the Pre
sident of the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road
Company.
7. In case of failure by the President and Directors
of the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company,
to pay and discharge, semi-annually, the interest which or failure
may accrue on the bonds hereby authorized to be made tgrelrly in
and executed and which may be delivered to the com
pany, it shall be lawful for the Governor for the time be

ing, to apply, in behalf of the State, to the Superior Court
of Equity for the county of Wake, for a sequestration of
the receipts for transportation on said read, and for the
appointment of a receiver or receivers of said recei-pts ;
which court, on the proof of the failure by the President
and Directors of said Company to pay said interest, shall
have power to order such sequestration and appoint a
receiver or receivers accordingly; and in case of such

sequestration and the appointment of receiver or receivers,
of the proﬁts for transportation on said Road, it shall be
the duty of such receiver or receivers to apply so much
thereof as shall be sufﬁcient to pay the interest on said
bonds semi-annually, and to pay the excess to the Presi
dent and Directors of said company.
8.

In case of the failure of the President and Direc

tors ofthe Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company
Of failure to pay the interest on the said bonds and redeem the
to pay in
terest and

principal.

principal thereof, as the said interest and principal or any
part thereof may become due, then it shall be the duly
of the Governor for the time being to cause all the mori

gages made and executed by the President and DirectoIs
of the said Wilmington and Raleigh Rail Road Company

to be foreclosed in the Superior Court of Equity for the
county of Wake ; which court is hereby authorized and

empowered to take jurisdiction of the same; and on the
decree of foreclosure being made by said court, the whole
estate, real and personal, shall be sold at such times and

in such ways as the court may direct; and out of the
proceeds of such sale or sales shall be paid the whole
amount of the principal and interest which may be due
on said bonds and all other liabilities whatsoever of the
State for and on account of said company: Provided,
however, that nothing in this act contained is intended or

shall be so construed as to destroy or impair any security
or securities which the State now has for any monies ad
vaneed to or for said company, or for indemnity against;

her suretyship for said company.
9. In case the President and Directors of said com
Or Mm, pany shall fail to apply the proceeds and income of said
to a p pl y
procoedm

road according to the provisions of this act, then and in
that case it shall be the duty of the Governor of the State
for the time being to compel their compliance according
to the manner prescribed in the foregoing sections of
this act.
10.

This act shall be in force from and after its

ratiﬁcation.

1. The Governor is hereby authorised and required
to expend and lay out, or cause to be laid out and ex

pended, for the repairs and improvement of the Raleigh
and Gaston Rail Road, the proﬁts arising from transpor-‘
tation and passengers on the said road, or so much thereof

as may be required to keep the said road in good repair,
and improve its present condition.
2.

This act shall be in force from and after its ratification,

1. It shall be the duty of the Public Treasurer, as
soon as may be practicable after the passage of this Act, Tram"I
to give notice by public advertisement, in two newspa- t9 give no

pers printed in the city of Raleigh, for the space of crne,.:1.‘d
month, that the real and personal estate of the Raleigh my

and Gaston Rail Road Company has proved insufficient
to discharge the debts of the said company, in which the
State of North Carolina was su-rety ;- by reason of which,
large sums have been paid, and remain to be paid, by the
State, on account of said suretyship ; and to require all
persons who are bound for the State’s indemnity in the‘
premises, either as stockholders under the 14th section of
the Act of 1839 for the relief of the company aforesaid,
or as stockholders, subscribers or substitutes, by the ac

ceptance of said company‘ of the provisions of the Act of
1841, entitled “ an Act to secure the State against any

and every liability for the Raleigh and Gaston Rail Road
Company, and for the relief of the same,” or by entering
into bonds under the last mentioned Act, to make pay

ment irito the Public Treasury, within one month from
the date of ’said advertisement, of the‘ sum or sums for

Which they are bound respectively, in consequence of their'
liabilities in any of the modes before speciﬁed.

. _ 2. In case of failure or refusal of any of the stock
holders, subscribers or substitutes aforesaid, to make pay-‘
Attorney

General to
bring suit
against de

liuquente.

ment as herein-before required, then it shall be the duty
of the Attorney General to bring suit against any and all
of such stockholders, subscribers or substitutes, severally
or jointly, in law or in equity, as he shall judge most

expedient, to enforce and compel the payment of the sum
or sums in which they are under obligation for the State’s
indemnity as above stated: Provided, that if a Court of
Equity shall be resorted to, it does and shall possess ju
risdiction of suits on the bonds aforesaid, as well as on

the liability created by the acceptance of the beneﬁts of
the respective Acts of the General Assembly aforesaid,
or either of them.

Suﬁcient
demand.

3. In the event of any such suit being instituted,
the proof of the advertisement, directed in the ﬁrst sec
tion of this Act, shall be held and deemed to be a sufﬁcient
demand, and notice to the defendants, to require him, her,

or them, to make good his liability to the State as far as .
he may be otherwise bound in law or equity, in any Court
in which the same may be pending.
4. The list of bonds in the oﬂice of the Public Trea
surer; to which is appended the certiﬁcate of the Gov
Indemnity ernor, that from the best information he has been able to
eecnred the

State.

obtain upon due enquiry, that in his opinion, the obligors
of said bonds were able to pay the amounts secured by
said bonds, bearing date the 30th day of April, A. D. 1841,
shall be deemed and taken to be evidence that the full
amount of ﬁve hundred thousand dollars was secured to
the State for her indemnity, according to the proviso of
the 6th section of the Act of the 12th day of January,
1841, before recited.

5.
Court, ju
ikdiction of County,

The Superior Court of Law or Equity for Wake
at the option of the Attorney General. shall have
and entertain jurisdiction of any and all suits instituted
upon the subject matter herein before stated.

6. Any and all sums paid or recovered as aforesaid. Sum! M0
shall be received into the Public Treasury and applied vmd'
to the indemnity of the State, and to save her harmless

as far as possible. against loss or damage on account of
her surety-ship aforesaid for the Raleigh and Gaston Rail
Road Company.
7. If the Attorney General shall deem it advisable
to proceed in a Court of Equity against the Stockholders Pm°,di,
in said Company or others, jointly, it shall not be the dutyin equity?

of the Clerk and Master to issue a separate capias and
subpdna to each defendant, but it shall be his duty to
issue a subpoena only to each defendant residing in this
State, and make publication for six successive weeks in
some newspaper published in the City of Raleigh, and in
one published in Petersburg, in the State of Virginia.
notifying all the defendants to be and appear before said
Court, and make their defence ; and this, when done, shall

be held to be sufﬁcient notice and service on all and each
of the defendants: Provided, however, that if any of such
defendants shall desire a copy of the bill, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk and Master of said Court to furnish
them at the cost of the applicant.
8.

If any of those liable to the State in any of the

forms, or on account of either or both of said acts of As- Set 05‘ ;.
sembly, or the pledges or bonds given in pursuance there- gtjiifs lib

of, shalfbe theowner or holder of any of the bonds made bility.
and endorsed under the provisions of either of such owners
or holders of the bonds so endorsed, shall be deemed and
held to be a set-oﬂ' against so much of the State’s lia
bility to such bond-holder, and no assignment or transfer
of such bond hereafter made, shall be allowed to de- _

feat the provisions of this section; nor shall it be law
ful for any such transfer to be made on the books of
the Treasurer.
all instances
of application
to i ‘ ' ‘ transfer
any bondBut
or inbonds
now owned
by any one
liable to the State aforesaid, it shall not be allowed’
unless it is made to appear to the Treasurer that such

owner has, and owns other bonds, not proposed to be
transferred, equal in amount to his liability to the State.
[By these acts the time for registering grants (ex
cept grants for Swamp Lands surveyed by direction of
the Literary Board) mesne conveyances (except mort
gages and conveyances in trust) powers of attorney, bills
of sale and deeds of gift, is extended for two years from
the 4th of December, 1838.]

1840-1.—Ch. 4.3.

[This act extends for two years longer the time for
registration of grants, &c. under the same provisos as by
the act of _1838-9.]

I840-1.—Ch. 35.

Co. Court

1,

The County Court of any County, a majority of

:::i{°P;;' the Justices‘of said County being present, may, at their
What day discretion, at the ﬁrst Court held in each year after the
ol‘ the week

the Regi5_ ﬁrst day of January, prescribe on what days of the week,

and at what hours of such days as may be prescribed,
his oﬂice, the Register of their county shall attend in person, or by
deputy, at his oﬂice.
The order

2.

Whenever the said Court shall prescribe the time of the Register’s attendance, as aforesaid, at his ofﬁce, the

the minute order therefor shall be entered on the minute.docket, and
docket.

a copy of the same, made out by the Clerk, shall be de

livered by the Sheriff to the Register.

3.

It shall be the duty of the Register of any Coun

ty, in which such an order shall have been made, to com

ply with it, and a failure to do so shall be deemed a AM“
breach of any ofﬁcial bond, executed by such Register 01' Wm?“
after the order of his county, and said Register shall, for :l:':°R:§i,_
every such failure, forfeit and pay the sum of ten dollarsigfnsggerga
to be recovered in an action of debt, by any person who , |,,,,,,,h

will warrant or sue for the same, in any Court of Law in
the State ; and for every such recovery against the Reg
ister, his securitics may be made liable by suit on his
official bonds.

4.

The County Court of every County, a majority of

the Justices being present, shall have power and authori

ty to ﬁx the place where the Register shall keep his
ofﬁce ; and if any Register shall keep the books and re- 3°‘ ﬁf"“;l':
cords of his olﬁce at any other place, he shall be guilty of place of

a misdemeanor, and be subject to indictment in the Coun- l:;:pi{§2i'_
ty or Superior Court, and, on conviction, shall be ﬁned at ler’8 0150'
the discretion of the Court, and, moreover, shall be re

moved from oﬂice by the conviction, without further trial,
and his office shall be deemed and held vacant.

5. The provisions of this act shall not be construed
to affect the duties of Registers, in those counties in
which no order for attendance shall be made.

1842-3.

[This Act gives a further time of two years for the
registration of Grants, &c. as provided in the Acts of

1838-9 and 1840-1, with the same exceptions]


[This Act gives a further time of two years for the
registration of Grants, 810. as provided in the Act of

1838-9, 1840-1 and 184213, with the same exceptions]
1846-7.—Ch. 44.

[This Act gives a further time of two years for the
registration of Grants, &c., as provided in the Acts of
1838-9, 1840-1, 1842-3 and 1844-5, with the same exceptions.]

An Act to amend the Revised Statutes, entitled “Reli

gious Societies.”
W7zercas, although the third section of the above re
cited statute, empowered the several religious congrega
tions in this State to elect trustees to hold property for

|'\'°'\m51°- each single congregation ; yet no power is conferred
by the said statute upon any religious denomination in
the aggregate to appoint trustees for the general purpo
ses of such religious denominations: Therefore,
Be it enacted,

That the Conference, Synod, Con

vention, or other ecclesiastical body, representing any
church or religious denomination within the State, may
Churches from time to time and at any time appoint, in such man

"*9 ‘P ner as such body may deem proper, a suitable number
£:::tto‘l::l"d of persons as trustees for such church or denomination,
P'°P°"y' who shall have power to receive donations, and to pur
chase, take, and hold property, real and personal, in trust
for such church and denomination, within this State, and,

as such trustees, may sue and be sued in all proper ac

tions for and on account of such donations and property, or
any matter relating thereto : And the body appointing
may remove such trustees, or any of them, and may ﬁll
vacancies occasioned by death or otherwise.

REPLEVIN.
1838-9.—Ch. 35.

If, upon the trial of any action of replevin, for any When the
slave or slaves, the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall recover, p|,i,,mrr,.

ﬁnal judgment shall be rendered against the defendant covew=on
ditioual
and IRS
security,
in
case he shall have given
a bond, as]-udgment
required by the fourth section of an Act concerning the :0 *1; M1
action of replevin, for such value, as shall be assessed by 222,, 1;}.

the jury upon such slave or slaves, with a condition, to feudal“
be discharged by the surrender of such slave or slaves,
demanded by the writ, and the payment of such damages
as may be adjudged by the Court, for the taking and de
tention of such slaves, which damages, for the taking and
detention aforesaid, the Court shall assess double the

amount assessed by the jury.
Norn.—This law has been amended in several rc

spects by a subsequent Act.

See post.

1. The several Courts of Record, held by the Jus
tices of the Peace within their respective counties in this Y:‘d°;";m'°
State, shall have power, and are hereby required, on ap- not been

plication in behalf of any person liable to taxes upon
lands in such county, and which shall not have been so
valued and returned as the law directs, to value the same

in like manner as the Boards of Valuation in such county

do

are required to value taxable lands, and such valuations,

it shall be the duty of the Clerk to record in like manner.
and under the same rules, regulations and restrictions, as

other taxable lands within such county.

Renders
valid all
poceed
ings had
subsequent
to the time
prcscribed
in this act.

2. \Vhere any of the County Courts in this State
shall have appointed their Boards of Valuation subsequent
to the time required by law, and in pursuance thereof, the
lands within such county shall have been valued, re
turned and recorded as the law directs, such valuation,

and all other proceedings had thereupon conformably to
law, are hereby declared to be good and available to all
intents and purposes, as though the same had been done
in due time, and shall be liable for taxes, and subject to
the same rules, regulations and restrictions, as other lands
liable for taxes are, within this State.

3.
Tues to

Said Courts, within their respective counties, or

any Justice, within his district, appointed to receive

b°P1'°P"|Yt8Xal)leS for such district, shall, either \of them, have
‘ppol'tiou’d

power, and are hereby required, on application of any
person liable to taxes on lands, within said county or
district, to apportion the valuation or assessment thereof‘,

in such manner that the several persons liable to taxes
thereon shall be subject to his, her or their share of taxes,
and no more, and such apportionment to be listed ac
cordingly: Provided, it shall be the duty of said Justice
to summon two disinterested freeholders, who, ﬁrst being
sworn, shall act with said Justice in such apportionment.
4;

The said Courts shall have power to receive re

turns of taxables in their several counties, at any term

TH "sl $0 before the ﬁrst day of April in each and every year-the
b
'
.
1,; ‘i;l,“{‘ person so applymg to such Court, and having his taxables
April.

listed. paying to the Clerk forty cents for receiving and.
recording the same,

Said Courts shall hear and determine upon‘ any

and all applications within their several counties, to be $22?‘
relieved from a double tax already incurred, or which
may hereafter be incurred, within their respective coun
ties, and to remit the same, and if paid, to order the Clerk

to issue a certiﬁcate of the public or State tax, to the
persons thus relieved, Which certiﬁcate shall be receiva
ble by the collector, in behalf of the holder thereof, as so
much of his, her or their next year’s tax, and not after;

and also a like certiﬁcate of the amount of county and
poor double tax so paid, which shall be receivable in like
manner as the above tax, or refunded out of the county
fund, as the said Court may in their discretion order and
direct, for which said Clerk shall receive ten cents on

each certificate, to be paid by such relieved party, which
certiﬁcates shall be allowed the Sberiﬂ‘, in settlement of

his public and county taxes.

6.

Such returns of taxables as- shall be made under

the provisions of this Act, to the Clerk of any of said
Courts, and which shall be made after such Clerk shall Returns
have recorded his lists of taxes. or set up his list in the ::';d°|i:,“°i:
Court House, such Clerks shall record said returns as su- "Wk °"*

pernumeraries, and deliver out duplicates, and make re
turns thereof as other taxables,

7. Where any of the County Courts have failed to
appoint a Board of Valuation, according to the provisions
of the Revenue Act of one thousand eight hundred and when M

thirty-six, but have appointed Justices in the several dis- f:“‘:p;;::
tricts of their county, to take the listof taxable pl’0pel‘lZy,,Board of

and all persons liable for taxes have given in their list v°l““l°“'
under the old assessments, the same is hereby declared
to be lawful and binding, as though a Board of Valuation

had been appointed, and the land given in under such
valuation,

8.

VVhero any Court may have failed to appoint a

'.l;;:,'m‘i’:z Board as aforesaid, the time for appointing such Board of
Boards of Valuation is hereby extended until the ﬁrst Court that
may happen after the ﬁrst day of May next, and the acts
of such Board, thus appointed, shall be as valid, as though
they had been appointed in one thousand eight hundred
and thirty.six, and the persons whose lands are thus

valued shall hereafter give in their list of lands according
to the valuation thus made.
Every Sherill} when he makes his return of taxes col
" lected. as required by the sixty-eighth section of the one
BX
.
,, collect- hundred and second chapter of the Revised Statutes, shall
l°i:u‘:i“ “£:includc in the same a list of taxes collected on unlisted

party, P

property, to be read and published as other lists of taxes
speciﬁed in said section.

1. In all cases where sheriffs are by law compelled
Complr0l. to settle their public accounts, before an allowance for

]|::,t;o::;,_ insolvent taxables has been made them by the county
Bolvenle

courts, it shall be the duty of the Comptroller to allow
them in the next year’s settlement, or to draw upon the
Treasurer for the same, upon application of the sheriff.

2. So much of the Acts of the General Assembly as
§,:pf:l_'m_ requires the Comptroller to have printed blank licenses,
quirinz _

to be signed by him, for merchants, pedlars, retailers of

25:58.1" spirituous liquors, stage players, sleight of hand per
formers, rope dancers, tumblers, wire dancers, circus
riders, equestrian performances, and exhibition of nat
ural and artiﬁcial curiosities, is hereby re-pealed;
and the receipt of the sheriff, stating the amount of
tax paid, and for what, shall be as good and valid, to

all intents and purposes, as a license signed by the Comptroller, and countersigned by the sheriff : Provided, that

nothing herein contained shall be construed to release
sheriffs from returning and accounting for all taxes as is
now required by law.
l846-7.—Ch. 72.

1.

Atax of‘ one per centum shall be levied andTax on

collected upon the value of all real estate descended or §::L:';:;°
devised to collateral kindred or others than lineal de-to ¢‘-9'11“-‘
scendantsmxotépt the widow of the descendant, tvheremkmdred
said estate is of the value of three hundred dollars and
up wards.
2. A tax of one per centum shall be levied and col
lected upon the value of‘ all personal property or goods, 3:33;:
bequeathed to strangers or collateral kindred, or which is

distributable to or amongst next of kin of any intestate
where such next of kin and collateral relation of such in
testate ; and where the said legacy or property distribu
table shall be of the value of two hundred dollars and
upwards.
3. All deeds of gift, transfers, alieuations, or con
veyances of any estate, real or personal, made with intent Fraudulent

to defeat the purpose of this act, so far as relates to the d°°d' '°'d‘
said tax of one per centum, shall be, and the same are

hereby declared to be void and of none effect.
4.

The executor or executors, administrator or ad

ministrators, of each and every person who shall have Penalty on
died, leaving no lineal descendants, on his ﬁnal settle- ex'rs. &C

ment, shall account for and pay to the clerk of the court {:'P:‘;“,';§_
of pleas and quarter sessions of his, her or their county,
the amount which the estate of his, her or their testator

or intestate, shall be liable to pay by way of tax to the
State, under the provisions of this act; and in case of

failure, shall be liable on his bond for the amount thereof.
in a suit to be brought thereon, in the name of the State

of North Carolina to the use of the Public Treasurer, for
the time being; and further liable to be sued at law or in

equity for the said taxes, in any other manner, as execu
tors or administrators are now liable to be sued by
creditors of their testators or intestates, distributees or
legatees, in the name of the State; which suit or suits

it shall be the duty of the county attorney, or the solici
' tor for the district, to institute and prosecute at the cost
of the State, where the same shall not be recovered from

the defendant or defendants.

‘ 5. It shall be the duty of the several clerks of the
county courts aforesaid, to keep a record of all monies
recovered by them under the provisions of this act, and
Clerk’ ' d5‘ transmit to the Comptroller of the State a true and correct

nu
list thereof, each year, at the time they return the'state
ments or list of other taxables or taxable property; and
on failure to make such returns or to pay the same over
to the Sheriff as herein provided, shall be liable, on their
pﬂicial bonds, for the several amounts received by them,
in a suit or suits, to be brought in the manner and form
prescribed in the preceding section of this act,

6.

It shall be the duty of the said clerks to pay over

to the sheriff's of their counties respectively, the several
Further

duty of

amounts which they shall receive, under the provisions
of this act, and it shall be the duty of the several sheriffs

plefk and to receive, collect, and account for the same to the Public
sheriff’.

Treasurer, in like manner, and under the same liabilities,
forfeitures, and penalties, in case of failure, as now pre

scribed by law for collecting and accounting for the other
public revenue.
,
7.

The tax -now imposed by law on attorneys’

licenses, shall be paid to the clerk of the supreme court
Mtornieay at the time such license is granted; and the judges of
liF°“se@-

the supreme court, on granting such licenses, shall deliver
them to one of the clerks of the supreme court, either at
Raleigh or Morganton, which clerk shall hand over th Q

said licenses to the respective applicants, upon the pay
ment of the tax aforesaid, and not otherwise ; which said

taxes shall be paid over by the clerks aforesaid to the
Public Treasurer, within two months from the time of
their receipt ; and on failure to do so, the said clerks shall
be liable to the State, on their ofﬁcial bonds, for the

amount they received.
1846-7.—Ch. 73.

1. The provisions of the tenth section of the Re- ‘O0, p.d_
vised Statutes, chapter 102, is hereby so amended as to im
extend to each and every person who may peddle in any
county in this State, and not on a navigable stream, any
of the articles in said section speciﬁed, (they not being
of the growth or manufacture of this State,) and who,
travelling on foot or horseback, may carry the same in a

package or sack.
2. Each and every person who shall peddle in the
manner above described, shall pay to the sheriff of each
and every county in which he shall so peddle said arti
dies, the sum of twenty dollars, for every package or sack Tu
by him so carried or caused to be carried; which tax
shall be accounted for by the sheriﬁ’ in like manner as
other public State taxes; and upon paying such tax and
obtaining a receipt therefor, such person shall be autho-.
rised and permitted to peddle such articles as in ‘said
section are specified.

1. Each and every person or persons who shall
offer for sale, or peddle in any county in this State, carria
ges, barouc

srbuggies. or other riding vehicles, which

shall not be I‘ the inanufactory of this State, shall pay $37,“?
to the sheriff of each and every county, in which he, she 6‘°- _
or they shall so sell or offer for sale any of the articles
aforesaid, the sum of thirty dollars ; and upon receiving
the receipt of the sheriff, he or they shall be permitted
to sell or peddle for one year only : Provided, that nothing
in this act shall be so construed as to prohibit any per
son or persons from selling or offering for sale any such
carriage, buggy or other vehicle purchased for his, her
or their own use.

2. Any person or persons who shall keep in this
State a depository. or establishment for selling carriages,
barouches, and other vehicles of the before mentioned
Tax on de

pository.

foreign manufactory, he or they shall pay to the sheriff‘
of the county in which such depository is located, one

hundred dollars, and obtain from the sheriff a certificate,
I which certiﬁcate shall authorise him or them to sell or

peddle in the county in which the depository is located
for one year.
3.

The respective sheriffs shall account for the tax

Sheriffs to received in the same manner as they are now required by
account for
tu

law to account for State taxes.

4.

Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to

License to authorise two or more persons, under the pretence of be
ono, good. ing partners in trade, to sell, offer for sale, or peddle as
aforesaid, under the same license.

5.

Any persons violating the provisions of this act,

shall forfeit the sum of one hundred dollars, to be re

covered before any court having competent jurisdiction,
Penalty.

one half to the use of the informer, and the other half to

the State, to be accounted forby the sheriff in his settle
ment with the Public Treasurer.

1846-7.-Ch. 67.»
Board of
valuation ,

1. It shall be the duty of the several county courts
in this State, at the respective terms when they appoint

justices of the peace to take in the list of taxable property h°f" aP
for the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, §:l,;“::'.i,

and at the same term every eight years thereafter, to ap- d““"
point two respectable freeholders,men of skill and probity,
to be associated with each justice, who, together with
such justice, shall be styled the Board of Valuation : It
shall be the duty of the Board of Valuation to ascertain,
either upon a view of the premises or otherwise, as ac
curately as may be practicable, the cash valuation of the
lands, with the improvements thereon, within the tax or

captain’s district to which they respectively belong, and
to return the same to their respective county courts in
the manner herein prescribed: Provided, that the Board
of Valuation. in which any ﬁshery is established, shall
take the same into consideration in valuing the improve
ments upon lands, in their several districts; and provided

said justice and frecholders may, if they deem it neces
sary, call upon any person to testify as to the value of
any tract of land which may be listed, and they are an

thorised, in such ease, to administer an oath to any per
son so called upon:

No person, giving in his lands for

taxation, shall hereafter be required to state the value
thereof upon oath ; and if any individual shall deem him

self injured, by too high a valuation being placed upon
his land by the board aforesaid, it shall be competent for
the ensuing county court to reduce the same, upon mo

tion and satisfactory proof of such allegation ; the indi
viduals comprising the said Board of Valuation, shall an

ncx to their respective returns the following afﬁdavit,
signed by them and certiﬁed by some justice of the peace:
“ We solemnly swear, that the foregoing valuations of
land, with the improvements thereon, made by us, are, in
our judgment and belief, the actual value thereof, in
cash ; and that in making the same, we have endeavored

to do equal justice to the public and to the individuals
concerned ; so help us God.” And the said justice of the
peace and frecholders shall each be entitled to receive
one dollar per day, for each day they may be necessarily engaged in making said valuation and returns, to be paid
out of the taxes levied for county purposes.
2. For the intervening seven years between the
Mode of respective periods of assessment, or valuation of lands,
as provided for in the foregoing section, the County
hing years. Courts shall appoint one Justice of tde Peace, in each
district, to take in the list of lands and town lots, as now

prouided by law, the valuation of which shall not be be
low that aﬂixed by the Board of Valuation; and where

tracts of land or town lots may have been subdivided,
after the valuation afﬁxed thereto by the said Board, the
' Justice of the Peace taking in the list, shall afﬁx the value
tion of each sub.division,so that the aggregate value shall
not fall below the valuation of the whole tract, made by said
board ; and the said Justice shall have the power, in as
full a manner to require the testimony of any person, as
to the value of such subdivision, as is granted to the Board

-of Valuation in the ﬁrst section of this act: Provided,
however, that it may be lawful for widows or aged and
inﬁrm persons, or persons absent from the county during
the period provided by law for enlisting taxables, who
may be unable from such cause to attend the place ap
pointed by such justice for taking in the list of taxables,

to render a list of their taxable property on oath before
any other justice of the peace for said county; which list
so rendered and certiﬁed by the justice administering the
-oath, shall be taken by the justice appointed to take in
-the list of taxables, in the same way as if said list had
been rendered to him.

3.

The owners of all lands in this State (if such

owners be residents thereof, and if not, then the agent or
om; as to attorney of such owners) shall furnish, on ‘oath, to the

f;":,'§_“°“” Board of Valuation, whenever called on for that purpose,
and it is hereby made the duty of said boad to require it

when any person owns more than one contiguous body or tract of land in the same district, a list setting forth
the separate contiguous bodies or tracts of land so owned
as aforesaid by any person, together with the number of
acres, and the name of the water course or nearest water

course or other remarkable place where said lands may
be situated, which list shall include all entries of land

entered in the name of any such person, or other person
for him, not patented or granted, as well as those which

are ; and on failure of any person to give in such list, he
shall forfeit and pay a double tax as now required by law.
4. The Justice of the Peace and freeholders re
Of
quired to be appointed by the ﬁrst section of this act, shall
in ascertaining the value of all lands and improvements
worked as gold or silver mines, or lands supposed to con

mines.

tain gold or silver, or other mineral, take into considera

tion the increased value of all such lands arising from
the circumstance of their containing such gold or silver
or other mineral as aforesaid; and they shall make due

return thereof to the county court, in the same manner,
as is prescribed for the return of lands and improvements
in the ﬁrst section of this act.
5. If any Justice of the Peace in this State, who
may be appointed by the county court to take in the list
of the taxable polls or other taxable property, shall take
the same without administering the oath or afﬁrmation

as required by the 40th section of an act, entitled “ An P°m‘“Y'
Act to provide for the collection and management of a
revenue for this State,” Revised Statutes, chapter 102, he
shall, in addition to the forfeiture therein incurred, be

deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and indictable therefor
as in other cases.
62 In all cases-the owneror owners of taxable slaves
of this State, and not the hirer, shall enlist them for taxa. Owners to

tion, whether they be in the possession of the owner on §;:;J_“
the ﬁrst day of April or not : Provided, that in all cases

where the owner or owners of any such slaves reside out
of the State, and the slaves are hired to persons within

the State, the hirer or other person having them in pos
session at the time the list is taken, shall give them in
and pay the tax ; and on failure thereof, the said hirer or
other person, having any such slave in possession, shall
forfeit and pay a double tax on all such slaves, to be col

lected and accounted for as other taxes.
7. In case, any county court shall fail or neglect,
from any cause, to appoint justices of the peace and free
Provisi'n in
event of holders to form the Board of Valuation as herein provided,
omission to
or ofjusticcs to take the list of taxables as now provided
appoint
board, &c. by law, it shall be lawful upon the said omission being
ascertained, for any threejustices of the peace, in any
such county, to meet at the office of the clerk of the coun
ty eourt, at any time before the ﬁrst day of July and make
the appointments of justices and frecholders as herein
provided, or ofjustices to take the list of taxables as now
provided by law; which appointments shall be recorded
by the clerk, who shall also issue to such justices and
frecholders so appointed, the necessary and usual notices,
which notices shall be served by the sheriff in the same
manner as now required by law ; which appointments, so
made, shall be as good and valid as if made by the
County Court.
8. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the County
Courts in this State, when issuing notices to justices of
the
peace of their appointments to take the list of tax.
Duty of
elerlu, &c. ables, to copy into the body of the said notice the ﬁfth
section of this act, at large ; and the said clerk shall also

advertise the same at the court house door of his county,
at and during the residue of the term of the court, when
such appointments are made ; and in failure to perform
the duties herein required, the said clerk shall forfeit and

pay the sum often dollars, for each and every offence, to
be recovered on motion to the county court, and satisfactory proof thereof, by the county attorney, ﬁrst giving the
said clerk ten days previous notice ; which forfeiture,

When recovered, shall be paid by the county attorney into
the Public Treasury, within thirty days from the receipt

of the same.
9. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the several
County Courts, at the time notices are issued to the §;‘,'i$°f,f

several Justices of the Peace, informing them of their ap- °l°'kI’&'°.
pointments to take in lists of taxables in their respective
districts, to accompany every such notice or order with a
fair copy of the returns made by the Board of Valuation,
in such particular districts, of the last preceding assess
ment of lands and town lots, within such districts, which
copy the Justice of the Peace, taking the list of taxables,
shall return with his return of taxables to the clerk's

olﬁce, and which copy may be again issued from year to
year, during the seven years between the respective
periods of valuation, as provided in the ﬁrst section of
this act; and for this service, the County Courts may

make such allowance to the clerks as they shall deem
just and proper.

10.

The County Courts of this State, shall have no

power to release or exempt any person from the payment
of a double tax incurred as now provided by law, for
failing to give in a list of his or her taxable property, ex- Of double

cept in cases where it may appear to the Court, upon tax‘
satisfactory proof, that such failure occurred by reason of
the sickness of the party at the time such list was taken,
or where it may appear that the omission of the name of
any person on the tax duplicate, was caused by an error
of the Justice taking in the list, in transcribing the
original, for the purpose of making his return to the Clerk

of the County Court, or other sufﬁcient cause, to be judged
of by the County Court.

AN A01‘ to give effect to the “ Revised Statutes,” as this
same have been published by the Commissioners ap
pointed for that purpose.
W7zereas, certain Acts passed at the last Session of

the General Assembly, and known as the “ Revised
Preamble.

Statutes,” were directed by the ninth section of the ﬁrst
chapter of the said Statutes, to be published under the

superintendence of commissioners to be appointed by
the Governor, and the same have been published accord
ingly: And whereas, the commissioners for superintend
ing the said publication have reported to this General
Assembly, that numerous errors were found to have been
made in the enrolment of the said Statutes and otherwise,

which errors they deemed it proper to correct, and did
correct in the said publication, so that the printed text of
the said Statutes, in many particulars, doth not agree
with the enrolment thereof in the office of the Sec
retary of State, whereby many questions may arise, and
much doubt and uncertainty result. For the prevention

-thereof,
1, Be it enacted, d.c,. That the printed text of the
The me said Statutes, as published by the said Commissioners,
tiles to be
iconstrued
according
to printed
text.

shall be held, deemed, and taken to be the true text of the

said Statutes, and the said Statutes, (except so far as the
same may be repealed, altered or modified by any Act or
Acts of this present General Assembly,) shall be in full
force, operation and effect, as the same are contained and '

printed in the said publication, any variance or varian
ces therein from the enrolment of the said Statutes not,
withstanding.
AN Aer to amend 103d chapter of the Revised Stat
utes, entitled “ An Act concerning the improvement of
rivers and creeks, and to prevent obstructions to their
navigation.”

Be it enacted, do That it shall be the duty of the
several Courts of Pleas and Quarter Sessions, where

rivers and creeks have been or may hereafter be improved, Court m
under the provisions of the above recited Act, to appoint, appoint
annually, overseers of the same, and assign such hands :}'°i':;::v_
as they may judge proper to work on the rivers and ed rivers

creeks aforesaid, and keep in repair any slopes erected and creek‘
or to be erected; and the overseers thus appointed and
and notiﬁed, and the hands assigned, for a failure of

duty, shall be liable to all the penalties imposed by law
upon overseers of roads, and the hands liable to work
thereon : Provided, that all slopes erected after any

river or creek shall have been improved, under the pro
visions of said act, shall be built and kept in repair by
the owner of the dam, through which the slope is made ;
and on a failure so to do, he shall, in addition to the

penalty imposed by the 9th section of said Act, be in
dictable for a nuisance, in any Court having jurisdiction

thereof

All owners of Steam.boats or other craft, who

may intend navigating any River or Greek within this N°“_°° ‘°
State, shall give three months notice thereof in one of§i,§Lvr§“°i°

the public journals of this State, published nearest the Bﬁdges'
River or Creek he may wish to navigate, and to the ow
noans AND nmnens.

ner or owgs of each separate Bridge, requiring said
owner or
ne_rs to construct a Draw of width sutﬁoient

to admit t
2.

passage of the Boat intended for use.

All owners of Bridges who shall fail to construct

a Draw, as required by the ﬁrst section of this Act, with

Penalty.

in three months from the date of the notice, shall forfeit
and pay the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered before
any jurisdiction having cognizance thereof, one half to
the use of the persons suing for the same, and the other

half to the use of the poor of the county; and shall be
further subject to the like penalty for every three months
that said owner or owners shall neglect to comply with
the requirements of this Act.

Free Brid
gee.

3. Where there is now any Bridge erected. or which
may hereafter be erected by order of any County Court,
or any two County Courts, which Bridge is a free Bridge,
over any River or Creek intended to be navigated by any
individual or company of individuals with a Steam-boat
or other craft, it shall and may be lawful for such indi

vidual or company of individuals to construct a Draw in
such Bridge, at his or their own expense, and to keep the
Draw in good repair.
4. Any individual or company of individuals who
pm" to shall construct a Draw in any public Bridge, agreeably
b=o:ePl in to the third section of this Act, shall, upon failure to keep
,‘FZ,. m

such Draw in good repair, be deemed and held guilty of
a misdemeanor, and shall be held further liable in dam

ages to any person who may sustain damage by such
Ileglect.
1842-3.—Ch. 65.

Fine, how
!PPll°d-

All ﬁnes recovered and collected by the overseers of
public roads of persons, who fail to work the same, shall

be applied by said overseers to keeping the roads in the
repair required by law.
1842-3.—Ch. 66.

From and after the passage of this act, if it shall

happen that any overseer of a road shall fail to be able Ommr
to see, in time, the person or persons, or the owner or when to ’
owners of slaves, who are required by law to work on i‘:l:':u;":"‘

said road, it shall be the duty of said overseer, at least mono for

three days before the time appointed for working on the Mud"
road, to leave at the house of said person or persons, or
owner or owners of slaves, a written summons, notifying

them of the day on which they are required to attend to
work on said road, and designating the particular part

of the road, and the kind of tools they shall carry with
them to perform said work ; and said written summons,
so left at the residence of said person or persons, or owner
or owners of slaves, shall be as binding upon them as a
verbal summons received from the said overseer himself
would be ; and the overseer of said road shall have the

right to prove the same in the manner now prescibed
by law.
184(i-7.—Clr. 95.

1. It shall be the duty of any person or persons, who, Bride“ to
for the purpose of draining his, her, or their lands, shall be “P 0
construct any ditch, drain, or canal, across the public V" dmhea
roads in this State, to erect a bridge over such ditch, drain

or canal, on the public highway, and keep the same in
repair, so long as he, she or they, shall keep open such
ditch, drain or canal.

2. Any person or persons failing or neglecting to
keep up a bridge across any ditch. drain or canal, by him,
or them constructed, as aforesaid, shall be subject to be Pena“!

indicted in the Superior Court of such county, and upon
conviction, shall be ﬁned at the discretion of the Court.
1846-7.—Ch. 51.

1. All rail road companies, which are now, or here- Ra“ Road
after may be, in existence in the State of North Carolina, C°- "1 him’
draws to

shall be compelled when erecting a bridge across any

their bridg
cs.

navigable water course, for the convenience of the said
company, to put up and attach thereto a good and con
venient draw by whieh all vessels navigating such water

course may be allowed to pass up and down the said
water course.

2. In case the owner or owners of any lawfully es
tablished public toll bridge or ferry shall consider his or
their property in the said bridge or ferry injured by the
proximity of the said rail road, he or they shall have the
gainst Rail
same legal redress against the said company as is given
Road Co’s.
to or possessed by other individuals suffering damage or
injury from the running of the said rail road.
Remedies
of owners
of bridges,
&c. a
I. So much of the 30th section of the CV. chapter
of the Revised Statutes, as requires the unanimous action
of the County Court to establish and regulate the fees of
Fees of

registers.

the register, within the limits in said act prescribed, be,

and the same is hereby repealed.

Court to
regulate.

2. It shall be in the power of any County Court, a
majority of the Justices being present, to establish and
regulate the fees of the register in such county, within
the limits in the said section prescribed ; and when the
said fees are once so established,they shall not be altered
by the Court in one year.