THE

CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

OF

NORTH CAROLINA.

 

WHEREAS, it is ordained by Section 1, Article IV of the
Constitution of North Carolina, that:

“The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
and the forms of all such actions and suits shall be abolished,
and there shall be in this State but one form of action for the

enforcement or protection of private rights or the redress of
I private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action;
and every action prosecuted by the people of the State as a
party against a person charged with a public offence shall be
termed a criminal action. Feigned issues shall also be abolished, and the fact, at issue tried by order of court before a
jury.” .

The General Assembly of the State of North Carolina, for
the purpose of carrying into effect the said section, and regulating the practice and procedure in civil actions, in the seve
ral‘courts of this State, do enact as follows:

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

$1 .—Ieledlcs.

Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into—
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.

r

$2.—Actlons.

An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice,
by which a party prosecutes another party, for the enforcement
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong,
or the punishment of a public oil'ence.

law-Special Proceedings.
Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§4.—-Dlvlslon of Actions.
Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.

§5.——Crlmlnal Action.

A criminal action is,
1. An action prosecuted by the State as a party against a

person charged with a public oil'ence, for the punishment
thereof.

2. An action prosecuted by the State, at the instance of an
individual, to prevent an apprehended crime against his person

or prOperty.
 Action.
Every other is a civil action.

§7.—Remedles not Merged.

Where the violation of a right admits both of a civil and
criminal remedy, the right to prosecute-the one, is not merged
in the other.

TITLE I.

GENERAL PROVISIONS IN REGMRD TO ACTIONS.

(\8.—To what actions these enactments are applicable.
The following enactments are applicable. to:

1. Civil actions, which at the approval, by the government
.of the United States, of the Constitution ad0pted by a Conventiou of this State, on the sixteenth day of March, 1868, were
pending in any County Court, Superior Court of law, or
Court of Equity, of this State, and which were not founded on
contract, as far as they may be, according to the stage of progress of the action, and having regard to its subject and not
to its form.

2. All civil actions which shall be commenced after the ratification of this Act, not founded on a contract made prior to
its ratification.

3. All civil actions commenced prior to the ratification of this
Act, or which shall be commenced hereafter, for causes of action
included within the provisions of an ordinance, entitled “An
Ordinance respecting the jurisdiction 9’ the courts of this State,”
ratified on the fourteenth day of March 1868, shall be governed
in respect to the practice and procedure therein, by the provisions
of that ordinance, and by the existing laws, as far as they may
be, except as to form—[See Appendix.]

4. All actions commenced prior to the ratification of this
Act, or which shall be hereafter commenced, founded on a con- '
tract made prior to the ratification of this Act, and not embraced in the ordinance above-mentioned shall be governed in
reSpect to the practice and procedure therein, up to, and including the judgment, by the laws existing prior to the ratification of this Act, as near as may be, and the practice in such

actions subsequent to judgment, shall be governed by the enactments of this Act.

99,—Delnltlon of Court—To lean Clerk, when.

In those of the following enactments, which confer jurisdiction or power, or impose duties, when the words Superior
Court, or “ Court,” in reference to a Superior Court are used,
they mean the Clerk of the Superior Court, unless otherwise
specially stated, or unless reference is made to a‘regular term

of the Court, in which cases the Judge of the Court alone, is
meant.

TITLE 11.

SUPERIOR COURTS.

ilo.—0rlglnl 0|le Jurisdiction of the Superior Courts.

' The Superior Courts shall have exclusive original jurisdico'
tion of all civil actions, whereof exclusive original jurisdiction
is not given to some other Court. (Const. Art. IV, Sect. 15.)

51 l.-—'l'orgs p! the. several Superior Courts.

The terms of the several Superior Courts, of this State, shall
begin in each year, at the times herein stated, and shall continue to be held for two weeks (Sundays and legal holidays
excepted) unless the business be sooner disposed of.

FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Bertie County, on the first Monday in March and October.

Hertford County, on the third Monday in March and October.

Gates County, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October. _

Chowan County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October.

Perquimans County, on the eighth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October. .

Pasquotank County, on the tenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.

Camden County, on the twelfth Monday after the first Monday in March and October. . .
Currituck County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.

SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Tyrell County, on the first Monday in September and Feb
ruary. ~
Washington County, on the third Monday in September and
' February.

Beaufort County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in September and February.

Pitt County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday

in September and February. _
Edgecombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third

Monday in September and February.

THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Wayne County, on the first Monday in September and

February. ‘
L Jones County, on the third Monday in September and
February. Onslow County, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February.
Craven County, on the third Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February. ,
Lenoir County, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February. __
Greene County, on the seventh Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.
Carteret County, on the ninth Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.
Wilson County, on the eleventh Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.

‘ FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Robeson County, on the fourth Monday in August and

February.
Bladen County, on the second Monday after the fourth '

Monday in August and February.
Columbus County, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February. '

Brunswick County, on the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.

New Hanover County, on the eighth Monday after the
fourth Monday in August and February. '

Sampson County, on the tenth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
' Duplin County, on the twelfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.

Martin County, on the second Monday after the third Mon
day in September and February.

Hyde County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon~
day in September and February.

FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Harnett County, on the second Monday in August and
February. .

Moore County, on the second Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Montgomery County, on the fourth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Stanly County, on the sixth Monday after the second Mon—
day in August and February. .

Union County, on the eighth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February. ,,

Anson County, on the tenth Monday after the second Mon-day in August and February. Richmond County, on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February. *

Cumberland County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.

SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Granville County, on the second Monday in August and
February.

Warren County on the second Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Franklin County, on the fourth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Johnston County, on the sixth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Wake County, on the eighth Monday after the second Mon—
day in August February.

Nash County, on the tenth Monday after the second Monday
in August and February.

Halifax County, on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

   

. Northampton County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.

SEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Guilford County, on the first Monday in March and September.

Rockingham County, on the second Monday after the first
Monday in March and September. '

Caswell County, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday in March and September.

Person County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September.

Orange County, on the eighth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September. ' .
Chatham County, on the tenth Monday after the first Monday

in March and September.
Randolph County, on the twelfth Monday after the first
,Monday in March and September. . .
Alamance County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and September.

EIGHTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Davie County, on the first Monday in April and September.

Rowan County, on the third Monday in April and September.

Davidson County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Forsyth County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Stokes County, on' the sixth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

Surry County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

Yadkin County, on. the tenth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

NINTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Polk County, on the first Monday in March and September.

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

Rutherford County, on the third Monday in March and
September. ‘

Cleaveland County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.

Lincoln County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Gaston County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday
in March and September.

Mecklenburg County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.

Cabarrus County, on the tenth Monday after the third Monday in March and September. '

TENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Catawba County, on the first Monday in March and September. A .

Alexander County, on the third Monday in March and September. ’ "

Iredell County, on the second Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Wilkes County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Caldwell County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Burke County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

McDowell County, on the tenth Monday after the third

Monday in March and September.

ELEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Alleghany County, on the first Monday in April and September. ' p '

Ashe County, on the third Monday in April and September.

Watauga County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Mitchell County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in April and September.

Yancey County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday in April and September.
. Madison County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday in Apri1_and September. ‘
Buncombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

TWELFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Clay County, on the iirst Monday in April and September.

Cherokee County, on the third Monday in .April and September.

Macon County, on the second Monday after the third Monday in April and September.

Jackson County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
‘ Haywood County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September. ‘

Transylvania County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Henderson County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

TITLE III.

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

§12.—Forms of Civil Actions-«Distinction between Actions at Law and Suits
in Equity abolished. ‘ '

The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity,
and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be, in this State, hereafter, but one form of action, for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress of private wrongs,

which shall be denominated a civil action. (Const. Art. IV.
Sec. 1.)

§13.—Partles designated—131mm! and Defendant.

In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. '

jib—Actions on J udgments—When they may he brought.

N o actionghall be brought upon a judgment rendered in a
any court of this State, which shall be rendered after the
ratification of this. act, except a court of a Justice of the
Peace, between the same, parties, without the leave of ‘ the

Judge of the court, either in or out of term, for good cause
shown, on notice to the adverse party.

§l5.—Feigued issues abolished.

Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof, in the
cases where the power now exists to order a feigned issue,
or when a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings,
is to be tried by a' jury, an order for the trial may be made,
by the. Judge, stating distinctly and plainly the question of
fact to be tried; and such order shall be 'the only authority

necessary for a trial.

TITLE IV.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

Chapter 1. Actions in General,
“ II. Actions for the recovery of Real Property.
“ Ill, Actions for the recovery of Property other than Real.
“ IV. General provisions as to the Commencement of Action,

CHAPTER ].

ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

§16.—Time of commencing Actions in General.

The provisions contained in chapter sixty-iive of the Revised Code, entitled “Limitations,” are repealed, and the provisions of this title are substituted. This title shall not

extend to actions already commenced, or to cases where the

right of action has already accrued, but the statutes in force
previous to the ratification of this act shall be applicable to
such cases; and in cases where the right of action has already
accrued, but the action has not been commenced, the said
statutes shall be applied according to the subject-matter of the _
action, and without regard to the form.

§17.—Period of Limitation—Objection must be taken by answer.

Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute. But the objection that the action was not
commenced within the time limited, can only be taken by answer.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY—TIME 0F COMMEN CING.

§18.—When the State will not sue; Thirty years possession; Twenty-one
one years possession under eolorable title,

The State will not sue any person for, or in respect of, any
real property, or the issues or prolits thereof, by reason of the,
right or title of the State to the same;

1. When the person in possession thereof, or those under
whom he claims, shall have been in the adverse possession
thereof for thirty years, such possession having been ascertained and identified under known and visible lines or boundaries;
and such possession, so held, shall give a title in fee to the possessor.

2. When the person in possession thereof, or those under '
whom he claims, shall have been in possession under ,colorable
title for twenty-one years, such possession having been ascertained and identified under known and visible lines or boundarles.

\

§19.-—Sneh possession valid against claimants under the State. '

All such possession as is described in the preceding section,
under such title as is therein described, is hereby ratified and

conhrmed, and declared to be a good and legal bar against
the entry or suit of any person under the right or claim of the
State.

§20.—When persons having Title inst sue.

When the person in possession of any real property, Or those
under whom he claims, shall have been possessed of the same,
under known and visible lines and boundaries, and under colorable title for seven years, no entry shall be made or action
sustained against such possessor, by any person having any
right or title to the same, except during the seven years next,
after his right or title shall have descended or accrued, who in
default of sueing within the time aforesaid, shall be excluded
‘ from any claim thereafter to be made; and such possession, so
held, shall be a perpetual bar against all persons; subject to
the qualihcations in sections twenty-eight and twenty-nine of
this title.

.§21.—Provise in case of Jadgment for Platntll reversed, kc.

If in any action for real property, the plaintiff be non-suited,
or judgment be given for him, and the same be reversed for
error, or a verdict pass for the plaintiff, and judgment thereon
be arrested, thenin any such case, the plaintiff may commence
a new action from time to time, within one year after non-suit,
judgment reversed or stayed as aforesaid, notwithstanding the
time limited in the foregoing section (twenty) for bringing ~
such action as may have expired, if the action first brought,
was commenced within the time above prescribed for bringing
such actions.

§22.—-Selzure within twenty years when necessary.

No action for the recovery of real property, or the possession
thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff,
or those under whom he claims, was seized or possessed of the
'premises in question within twenty years before the commencement of such actiOn; subject to the qualifications in sections
twenty-nine and thirty. '

teak—When adverse possession for twenty years.

No action for the recovery of real property, or the possession thereof, or the issues and profits. thereof, shall be maintained when the person in possession thereof, or the defeth
in such action, or those under whom he Claims. shall have possessed such real property under known and visible lines and
boundaries adversely to all other persons for twenty years; ’
and such possession, so held, shall give a title in fee to the possessor, in such property, against all persons not under disability.

No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient or valid,
as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon, within
one year after the making of such entry, and within the time
prescribed in this title.

§25.—Pessession presumed—ocenpatlen when deemed under legal Tltle.

In every action for the recovery of real preperty, or the
possession thereof, or damages for a trespass on such possession, the person establishing a legal title to the premises, shall
be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time
required by law; and the occupation of such premises by any
other person shall be deemed to have been under and in subordination. to the legal title, unless it appears that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title,‘
for the time prescribed by law before the commencement of

such action.

§26.—Relatlen of Landlord and Tenant.

Whenever the relatiOn of landlord and tenant shall have
existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant shall
be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration
of twenty years from the termination of the tenancy; or where
there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty
years from the time of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired another, title, 9r may
have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such .presumptions shall not be made afterthe periods herein limited.

§27.—Persons under disabilities.

If a person entitled to commence any action for the recovery
of real property, or to make an entry or defence founded on

the title to real property, or to rents and services out of the
:same, be, at the time such title shall descend or accrue, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or

r 2. Insane, or ‘

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offence, or '
4. A married woman;

Then such person may, notwithstanding the time of plimitao'
tion prescribed in this title be expired, commence his action,

or make his entry, within three years next after full age, coming of sound mind, enlargement out of prison, or discoverture,
and at no time thereafter.

§28.—Cumulativo Disabilities,

When two or more disabilities shall co-exist, or when one

disability shall supervene an existing one, the period prescribed
within which on action may be brought, shall not begin to run
until the termination of latest disability.

§29.—Rail Roads, $0., not barred.

N o Rail Road, Plank Road, Turnpike or Canal Company,
shall be barred of, or presumed to have conveyed, any real
estate, right of way, easement, leasehold or other interest in
the soil which may have been condemned, or otherwise obtained
for its use, as a right of way, depot, station-house or place of
landing, by any statute of limitation or by occupation of the
same by any person whatever. '

*CHAPTER III.

d

ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY—
TIME OF COMMENCING.

§30.-Poriods of Limitation prescribed.

'The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions,

pther than for the recovery of real property, shall be as folows:

ssh—Ton years.

Within ten years.

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court of the
United States, or of any State or territory thereof;

2. An action upon a sealed instrument not negotiable, '
against the principals thereto;

3. An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed in
trust for creditors with a power of sale, of real property, where
the mortgagoror grantor has been in possession of the prOperty, within ten years after the forfeiture of the mortgage, or
after the power of sale became absolute, or within ten years
after the last payment on the same;

4. An action for the redemption Of a mortgage, where the
mortgagee has been in possession, or for a residuary interest
under a deed in trust for creditors, where the trustee or those

holding under him, shall have been in possession; within ten
years after the right of action accrued.

i32.—Seven years.

Within seven years. '

1. On a judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace.

2. By any creditor of a deceased person against his personal
or real representative; within seven years next after the quali‘zlication of the executor or administrator and his making the
advertisement required by law, for creditors of the deceased to
present their claims, where no personal service of such notice
in writing is made upon the creditor; and a creditor thus barred of a recovery against the representative of any principal
debtor, shall also be barred of a recovery against any surety
to such debt.

33.—Six years.

'Within six years.

1. An action upon the ofiicial bond of any public officer.

2. An action. against any executor, administrator, or guardian on his official bond, within six years after the auditing of
his Iinal accounts by the preper officer, and the filing of such
audited account as required by law.

3. An action for injury to any incorporeal hereditament.

‘ gab—Three years.

Within three years.

1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability arising ‘
out of a contract, express or implied, except those mentioned
in the preceding sections;

2. An action upon a liability created by Statute, other than
a penalty or forfeiture, unless some other time be mentioned in
‘ the statute, creating it;

3. An action for trespass .upon real property;

4. An action for taking, detaining, converting, or injuring
any goods or chattels, including actions for theirspecificre—
covery; ' ' ‘

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the'person or rights of another, not arising on contract
and net hereinafter enunciated;

6. An action against the sureties of any executor, adminis' trator or guardian, on the official bond of their principal;
within three years after the breach thereof complained of;

7. An action against bail; within three years after judgment
against their principal, but bail may discharge themselves by a
surrender of their principal, at any time before final judgment
against them; ‘

8. Fees due to any clerk, sheriff or other officer, by the
' judgment of a Court; within three years from the time of the

judgment rendered, or of the issuing of the last execution
therefor; '

9. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases
which heretofore were solely cognizable by Courts of Equity,
the cause. of action in such case not to .be deemed to have
accrued: until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting fraud.

{us—Mam.

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, or other
public officer for a trespass under color of his office;

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the State alone, or in whole or

in part, to the party grieved, or to a common informer, ex—
cept where the statute imposing it prescribes a different

limitation;

3. An action for libel, assault, battery, or false imprisonment;

4. An' action against a sheriff or. other oliicer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process;5. An action by a creditor of any deceased person, on
whom personal notice in writing to present his claim to the
personal representative of the deceased has been served, and
who has failed so to do, within one year after the service of
such notice, and any such creditor, barred of a recovery
against the personal representative of- a principal debtor,
by reason of such default, shall also be barred of a recovery
against the sureties for such debt: . '

§36.—Six Months. ‘ A '

Within six months.
1. An action for slander.

§37.—Action for other Relief.

An action for relief not herein provided for, must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have
accrued. ‘ '

§38.—Actions by the State; Limitations to apply to. V

The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
civil actions brought in the name of the State, or for its '
benefit, in the'same manner as to actions by or for the benent of private parties.

§39.—Action upon an account Current, when cause accrues.

In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open and current account, where there have been
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action
shall be deemed to have accrued from the time'of the latest
item proved in the account on either side.

CHAPTER III.

GENERAL 'PnovrsmNs AS we ran mm or connsncmd ACTIONS.

§“e—-thll action deemed commenced.

An action is commenced as to each defendant .When the
summons is issued issued against him. .

§il.—Exception‘ 3 Defendant out oi the State.

If when the cause of action accrue against any person, he
shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced
Within the terms herein respectively limited, after the return
of such person into this State; and if after such cause of
action shall - have accrued, such person shall depart from
and reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent
therefrom for the space of one year or more, the time of his.
absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time
limited for the commencement of such action. ’

§42.—Exceptions; Persons under Disabilities.

If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last chapter, except for-a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other oiiicer for an esCape, be at the time the cause
of action accrued, either,.

1. Within the age'of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
the sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his
natural life; or

4. A married woman;

Then such person may bring their actions within the times
before limited, after their disabilities shall be removed.

§43.—Death of person entitled, before limitation expires.

If a person entitled to bring an action die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof,

and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives after the expiration of that

time, and within one year from his death. If a person
against whom an action may be brought die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof,
' and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced against his executors" or administrators after the
expiration of that time, and within one year after the issuing
of letters testamentary or of administration.

“Ar—Actions by Aliens ; time of war not counted.

When a person shall be an alien, subject or citizen of a
country, at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war shall not be part of the period limited
for the‘commencement of the action.

§§5.—Where judgment reversed arc; Plaintm‘ may commence new
action.

If an action shall. be commenced within the time prescribed therefor, and the plaintiff be non-suited, or a judg.
ment therein be reversed on appeal, or be arrested, the plaintiff, or it 'he die and the cause of action survive, his heirs or
representatives may commence a new action within one.
year after such non-suit, reversal, or arrest of judgment,

' 548.—Time of Stay by Injunction, &c., not counted.

When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by
injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the contin~
uance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of.
the time limited for the commencement of the action.

§47.—-Time during controversy about Probate of Will, &c., not,
counted.

In reckoning time when pleaded as a bar to suits, that.
period shall not be counted, which elapses during any con-.
troversy on the probate of a will or granting letters of ad»
‘ ministration, unless there be an administrator, appointed.
during the pendency of thesuit, and it be provided by law,,
that suit may be brought against- him. ' I ' ‘

§48.—Disability must exist when the right of action accrued.

No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.

Via—Where several Disabilities, all must be removed.

Where two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time
the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach
until they all be removed.

§50.—.Acknowledgment by partner, &c., after dissolution.

No act, admission or acknowledgment by any partner
after the dissolution of the co-partnership, or by any of the
makers of a promissory note or bond after the statute of
limitations shall have barred the same, shall be received as
evidence to repel the statute, except against the palrtner or
maker of the promissory note or bond, doing the act, or
making the admission or acknowledgment.

§51.—Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing.

No acknowledgment or promise shall be received as evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the
case out of the operation of this title, unless the same be
contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged
thereby; but this section shall not alter the 'efi'ect of any
payment of principal or interest.

§52.—Co-tenants; when somebarred, and others not.

In actions by tenants in common or joint tenants of personal property to recover the same, or damages for the
detention of or injury thereto, and any of them shall be
barred of their recovery by limitation of time, the rights of
the other shall not be affected thereby; but they may
recover according to their right and interest notwithstanding such bar.

$53.7Jl'hls title not applicable to bills, am, of corporations, or to bank
notes. '

This title shall not affect actions to enforce the payment
of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed
corporatidns, or issued orput in circulation as money.

get—Nor to actions against Directors, am, of iioneyod Corporations or
' Banking Associations, Limitation in such cases prescribed.

This title shall not affect actions against directors or
stockholders of any moneyed corporation, or‘banking association which shall hereafter be incorporated by or under
the laws of this State, to recover a. penalty or forfeiture
imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law; but such
actions must’be brought within three years after the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the
penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.

TITLE,V.

PARTIES T0 CIVIL ACTIONS.

.§55.—Action to be by party in interest. Action by grantee of land held
adversely.—Assignment of thing in action.

Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
fifty-seven; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignmentof a thing in action not arising out of contract. But an action may be maintained
by a grantee of - land in the name of a grantor, or
his or her heirs or legal representatives, when the grant or
grants are void by reason of the actual possession of a
person claiming under a title adverse to that of the grantor
at the time of the delivery of the. grant, and the plaintiff

shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case within
‘ this provision. - . " a '

In the case of an assignment. of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any
setoff or other defence existing at the time of, or before
notice of, the assignment; but this section shall not apply
‘ to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

tide—Action by, and, against, at Married Woman.

'When a married woman is party, her husband must 'be‘
joined with her except that, '. ' - ‘ '

I. When the action concerns her separate property she '
may sue alone; ' ' ' ' r-i 7. a

'2. When the action is between herself and hei- husband,
‘ she may sue or be sued alone; ‘

And in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guardian
or next friend. ‘ ' ' ‘

gin—Action by Executor, Trustee, ac. ‘

An executor or admininistrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. ‘ A trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a
person with whom or in whose name a contract is made for.
the benefit of another.

§58.——lntant to appear by Guardian.

When an infant is a party, he must appear, by guardian,
who may be a testamentary or general guardian, appointed
as is provided by law for the appointment of such guardians,
or a guardian for the prosecution or defence of the particular action, appointed by the court'in which the action is
prosecuted. ' '

§69.—Appolntneat of Guardian in Partlcalar action.

A guardian to prosecute or defend a particular action in
behalf of an infant shall be appointed as follows:

'1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if- under
that age, upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the
infant: if made by a relative or friend of an infant, notice
thereof must be first given to such guardian, if he has one;
if he has none, then to the person with whom such infant
resides. ‘ An infant plaintiff, or his guardian, must give
security for the costs of the defendant, as is required of
plaintiffs. ‘ ' ‘ i

2. When the infantis defendant, upon the application of.
the'infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within tWenty days after service of the summons. If he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to applygthen upon .
the application of any other party to the action, or ,of a ,
relative, or friend of the infant, after notice of such application being first given to the general or testamentary
guardian of such infant, it he has one within this State: if
he has none, then to the infant himself, if over fourteen

years of age, and within the State; or if under that age and
' within the State, to the person with whom such infant
resides. ' x ‘ 3. And in actions for the partition ofreal property, or for *
the foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an
infant defendant resides out of the State, or is tempOrarily
absent therefrom, the plaintiff may apply ' to the court in
which the action is pending, and .will be entitled to an order ,
designating some suitable person to be the guardian forthe ‘
"infant-defendant for . the purpose of the action, unless the
infant-defen dant or some one in his behalf, within a number
of days after the service of a copy of the order, which number of days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure to be appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the
court shall give special direction in the order for the manner of the service thereof, which may be upon the infant.

4. And in case an infant-defendant havingan interest in the
event of the action, shall reside in any State, with which
there shall not be a regular communication by mail, on such
facts satisfactorily appearing to the Court, the Court may.
appoint a guardian ad litem for such absent infant party, for
the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said;
action, and on such guardian ad litem, process, pleadings
and notices may be served in the like manner as. upon a
party residing in this State. '

 to be no  v w ,
--All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,

and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as

plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title. A

gels—no tobadetcndut, . ,

. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or. claim,
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or
who is a necessary. party to a complete determination or. set~
' tlement of the questions involved therein; and in an action
to recover the possession of real estate, the landlord and.
tenant thereon may be joined as defendants; and any person
claiming title or right of possession to real estate, may be
made parties plaintiff or defendant, as the case may require,
to any such action.

§62.-—Partlcs to be Joined, 8w.

0f the parties to the action, those who are united in. interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the
cOnsent of any one who should have been joined'as plaintiff
cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the questiOn is one of a common or general interest of many persons,
or where the parties may be very numerous, .and it may be.
impracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or
more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole. ‘

§63.—Partles to bills and notes, 8w.

Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may all Or any of them be'inoluded in the
same action at the option of the plaintiff.

$64.—Exlstlng suits. Action when not to um.

1. No action sh all abate by the death, marriage or other dis. _
ability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein,
if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death
marriage or other disability of a party, the Court on motion
at any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards on a.
supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be continued by, or against, his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action
shall be continued in the name of the original party, or the ‘
Court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made,
to be substituted in the action.

2. Afteraverdict shall be renderedin any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death. of any party, but
the cases shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in
cases where the cause of action now survives by law.

3. At any time after the death, marriage, or other disability

’of the party plaintiff, the Court in which an action is pending, upon notice to such persons as it may direct, and upon
application of any person aggrieved, may in its discretion,
order that the action be deemed abated, unless the same be
continued by the proper parties, within a time to be fixed
by the Court,- not less than six months, nor exceeding one
year from the granting of the order.

4. The provisions of this section shall apply as well to actions
existing at the ratification of this act, as to those commenced
subsequently thereto. ’

§65.—Conrt may determine controversy and lnterpleader.

The Court either between the terms, or at a regular term,
according to the nature of the controversy, under the regulations contained in this Act, may determine any controversy
before it, when it can. be done without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete
determination of the controversy cannot be had Without the
presence of other parties, the Court must cause them to be
brought in.

And when in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person not~a party to the action, but having an
interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the Court
to be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by
the proper amendment.

A defendant against whom an action is pending upon .a
contract, or for specific real or personal property, may at any

' time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person not a party
to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against
him a demand for the same- debt or property, upon due
notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the
Court for an order to substitute 'such person in his place,

and discharge him from .. liability to either party, oni his

depositing in Court the amount- of‘ the debt, or delivering :
the property or its value, to such person as the Court may a?
direct; and the Court may, in its discretion, make the order. 2‘

T I T L E V I ._
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTiONS.

§“.—Actlons to be tried whore sunset-latter situated.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to

change the place of trial, in the cases provided in this Code.
‘ 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property;

’2. For the partition of real property;

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;

4. For the recovery cf personal property distrained ‘ for
any cause.

§.7o—-‘C“0l to be tried when also 0! action arose.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the,
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject
to the like power-of the Court to change the place of trial,
in the cases. provided in this Code; a

1_. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by ‘
statute; except that, when it is imposed for an offence committed on a sound, bay, river or other body of water situated '
in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any.
county bordering on such sound, bay, river or other body of i

water, and opposite to the place where the offence was committed;

2. Against a public emcer or person especially appointed .
to. execute. his duties, for an act done by him by virtue of his ‘oilice; or against a person who by his command or in
his aid, shall do anything touching the duties ofcuch—oflicer.

«ta—Action, to be tried where Defendant resides.

In all other cases the action shall be tried in the County
in which the defendants, or any of them shall reside at the
commencement of the action; or if none of the defendants
ashall reside in the State, then in the County in which the
plaintiffs or any of them shall reside; and if none of the parties shall reside within the State, then the same may be tried
in any county which the plaintiff shall designate in his summons and complaint, subject however, to the power of the

Court to change the place of trial. in the cases provided by
statute.

«ISL—Change of place of trial.

If the County designated for that purpose in the summons
and complaint be not the proper County, the action, may,
notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant,
before the time of answering expires, demand in writing that
the trial be hadin the. proper County, and the place of trial
be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by order of
the Court, as is provided in this section.

The Court may change the place of trial in the following
cases: . . . a

1. When the County designated for that purpose is not
the proper County. ‘

2. When the convenience of witnesses and‘the ends of
‘ justice would be promoted by the change.

When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings
shall be, had in the County to which the place of trial is
changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the
parties in Writing duly filed, or order of Court; and the
papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly. TITLE VII.

0]? THE MANNB OF COMMENCING‘CIV 1L ACTIONS, AND THE SERVICE OF
i
THE SUMMONS.

§70.—Manner of commencing civil actions.

A Civil actions in the Superior Courts of this State shall be
commenced by the issuing of a summons.

gin—By whom issued, &c.

The summons shall be issued by a Clerk of any Superior
Court at the request of the plaintiff; butbefore issuing it,
the Clerk shall require of the plaintiff, either to give a bond
with suflicient sureties, in the sum of two hundred dollars,
with the condition that the same shall be void if the plaintiff
shall pay the defendant all such costs as the defendant shall
recover of him in the action; or to. deposit a like'sum with
him as a security to the defendant for such costs, and in case
of such deposit he shall give to the plaintiff and to the defen. dant a certificate to that effect; or to file with him a written
authority from some Judge of a Superior Court authorizing
the plaintiff to sue as a pauper.

§72.—Power to sue as a pauper; How obtained.

Any Judge of the Superior Court may authorize any
person to sue as a pauper when he shall exhibit 'to the Judge
a certificate from some licensed attorney:

1. That he has examined the case of the plaintiif, and
believes that he has a good and meritOrious cause of action
in fact and law; and,

2.7 That he will prosecute the action of the plaintiff as his
attorney and counsel without any fee or reward whatever;
and when it shall also appear to the J ud‘ge, by the 'aiiidavit
of the plaintiff or otherwise, that the plaintiff is unable'to
give the sureties or make the deposit required.

Whenever any person shall be allowed to sue as a pauper.
no oflicer shall require of him any fee, and he shall recover
no costs.

§73.-Form of the summons.

The summons shall run in the name of the State, be
signed by the Clerk of a Superior Court, under the seal of
his Court, and be directed to the sheriff of the county in
which the defendant resides 0r may be found, or in case
such sheriff be a party to, or interested in, the action,
it may be directed to the coroner. of that county, or
to the sheriff of any adjoining county. It shall command the ofiicer to summon the defendant to appear at the
oliice of the Clerk of the Superior Court for some certain
county, within a certain number of .days after the service,
exclusive of the day of service, to answer the complaint of
the plaintiff. It shall be dated on the day of its issue.

§74.—What summons to contain.

There shall also be inserted in the summons, a notice in
substance as follows: . _
7 1. In an actiOn arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum
specified therein, if the defendant shall fail to answer the
complaint within the time specified. '

2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to
answer the complaint within the time specified, the plaintiff
Will apply to the Court for the relief demanded in the com- ‘
plaint. The Clerk before whom the defendant shall be summoned to appear, shall be the Clerk of the Superior Court of

the county in which it is provided in 'Title VI, that the
action shall be tried.

3. The number of days within which the defendant is summoned to appear, shall’, in no case, 'be less than twenty,
exclusive of the day of service, to which' one day shall be
added for every twenty-live miles of distance between the
Court-house of the county in which the service is made, and
the Court-house of the county at which the defendant is
required to appear, by the usual route of travel.

§75.—Retnrn of summons,

The officer to whom the summons is addressed shall note
on it the day of its delivery to him, and execute it within

 ten 'days after its receipt by him. Before proceeding to

‘ execute it, he shall be entitled to require of the plaintiff his
fee for the service, and five cents per mile of the? distance
from the Courthouse of his county, to the usual residence
of the defendant or other place in Which he may be found
in the county; if required by the plaintiff he shall execute

‘ the writ immediately, and in that case he hhall be entitled
in like manner to require ten cents per mile, measured as .
aforesaid When executed he shall immediately return the
writ, with the date and manner of its execution, by mail or
otherwise, to the Clerk of the proper Court.

§7¢.—Sorvieo of the complaint.

A copy of the complaint may or may not be served with
the summons. In either case the plaintiif must file a copy
thereof, with the Clerk of the Court before which the defendant is summOned to appear within ten days from the issuing of the summons; and in case no copy shall have ‘been
issued with the summons, he shall also within the said time
file with the Clerk another copy thereof, addressed to, and
for the use of, the defendant, or if there be several defendants, a copy for each of- them, provided however, if several
defendants appear by one attorney, one copy only need be

filed for all who so appear.

§77.—Piaintil failing to me Complaint within ten days.

If the plaintiff shall fail to file his complaint within ten
days after the issuing of his summons, then the defendant
may at any time before the' filing of such complaint, and
within the time limited for his appearance, enter an appearance specifying where within the State, a copy of the complaint may be served .on him, and the plaintiff at his own
expense, shall cause such copy to be served within sixty
days; and the defendant shall not be required to answer
until the twentieth day after such service.

' §78.—Piaintil failing to me Complaint within the time for Defendants, appeara
cue, may be longslited.

If the plaintiff shall fail to file his complaint within the
time limited by the summons, for the appearance and answer

,of the defendant, or by the next preceding section, the de.. fendant'shall be entitled to demand“ judgment of non-suit
. against the plaintiif. I
g _ §70.—‘l‘lle of Illng pleadings may be enlarged.

The time for filing. the complaint or of any pleading whatever, may be enlarged by the Court for good cause shown
_ A by ailidavit, but it shall not be enlarged by more than twenty
additional days nor more than once, unless the default shall
have been occasioned by accident over which the party
applying had no control, or by the fraud of the Opposing
party; and in all cases in which the time shall be enlarged
unless upon the ground of such accident or fraud, the party
making the application .shall pay into Court for the use of
the opposing party five dollars, which shall not in any event
be reCovered back. Three days notice must be given of the
motion to enlarge. - ‘

§80t—-Plalntll shall me an attorney, in the county, town u.

C At the time of filing his complaint the plaintiff, and at the
time of filing his answer, the defendant, shall name some
' place and person in the county town in which the Court to
which the action is brought is held, where and upon whom,
service of pleadings and notices in the action maybe served;
and if either shall fail to do so, the filing of all such pleadings and notices in the oilice of the clerk of the Court shall
be deemed suliicient service on the day of such filing, unless
the party shall in writing on the copy of his complaint, or
answer,‘or by other written notice, served on the adverse
party, require personal service thereof, at a place named by
him within the county, and shall deposit with the clerk a
sum suflicient to pay the expense of such personal service;
in' which case, the personal service shall be made at his

expense.

§81.—Notlee of no personal claim.

In case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is
made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant with

the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff r his
attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a
brief description of the pr0perty affected by it, if it affects
real or personal property, and that no personal claim is made
against such defendant, in which case no copy of the com- ~
plaint need be served on such defendant, unless ‘within'the
time for answering, he shall in writing demand the same.
If a defendant on whom such notice is served, unreasonably
defend the action, he shall pay costs. to the plaintiff.

§82.—Manner of service at summons.

The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
as follows: . r  .

1.‘ If a suit be against a corporation, to the President, or
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer,
a director or managing agent thereof; but such service can
be made in respect to a foreign corporation, only when it has
property within the State, or the cause of action arose therein,or where the plaintiff resides in the State, or where such
service can be made within this State personally upon the
President, Treasurer or Secretary thereof;

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years to
such minor personally, and also his father, mother or guardian, or if there be none within the State, then to any person having the care and control of such minoi', or with whom
he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed;

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting. his own affairs in consequenCe of habitual drunkenness and for whom a committee
or guardian has been‘fappointed, to such committee and to the

defendant personally; i
' 4. In all other'cases, to the defendant personally.

$83.—Serviec by publication; form of Sam mons.

Where the person on whom the service of the summons is
to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be found within the
State, and that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction
of the Court, or a Judge thereof, and it in like manner

appears that acause of action exists against the defendant in
respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a pros per party to an action relating to real property in this State,
such Court or Judge may grant an order that the service be
made by the publication of a summons in either of the following cases:
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property within .the State, or the cause of action arose
therein;

2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State,
has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors,
Or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with a like intent;

'3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property therein, and the Court has jurisdiction of the subject
of the action. '

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property in this State, and the defendant has or claims alien or interest, actual or- contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly, in excluding the defendant fi'om any lien or interest therein.

5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed
by law.

§84.—Manner and en‘th of publication.

The order must direct the publication in any one or two .
newspapers to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as
may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for
six weeks.- In case of publication the Court or Judge must
also direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in' the post office, directed to the person to
be served, at his place of residence, unless it appears that
such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is ordered, personal ser.

vice of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of theState, is equivalent to publication and deposit in the postoflice. '

§85.—Defendant allowed to defend before and after judgment.

The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his.
representatives, on application and suflicient cause shown at
any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the
action; and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant
against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives,
may in like manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to
defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after
notice thereof, and within five years after its rendition, on
such terms as may be just; and if the defence be successful
‘ and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected,
or otherwiSe enfOrced, such restitution may thereupon be
compelled as the court may direct; but the title to prOperty
sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall i
not be thereby affected. And in all cases where publication
is made, the complaint must be first filed, and the summons
as published must state the time and place of such tiling.

(386.—Aetlons for foreclosure of mortgages.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate,
already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party
' having any interest in or lien upon such mprtgaged premises,

is unknown to the plaintiff, and the residence cf such party
cannot, with reasonable diligence, be' ascertained by him,
and such fact shall be made to appear by affidavit, to the
court, such court may grant an order that the summons be
served on such unknown party by publishing the same for
six weeks once in each week successively, in one newspaper
’ printed in Raleigh, and in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises lie, if there be any, which publication
shall be equivalent to a personal service on such unknown

party.
tam-Joint and several debtors; Partners,

Where the action is against two or more defendants, and

b

the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on
all them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:

1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served,

‘ unless .the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate pr0perty of the
defendants served, and if they are subject to arrest, against
the persons of the defendants served; or

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants. .

3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may
be taken against any or either of them severally, when the
plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants if the action had been against them .or
any of them alone.

4. If the name of one or more partners, shall, for any
cause have been omitted in any action in which judgment
shall have passed against the'defendants named in the summons, and such omission shall not have been pleaded in
such action, the plaintiff in case the judgment therein shall
remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of Such partner
separately, upon proving his joint liability, notwithstanding
he may not have been named in the original action; but the
plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only one judgment rendered for the same cause of action.

$88.—-When service complete.

In the cases in which service by publication is allowed,
the summons shall be deemed served at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order of publication.

$89.—Proof of service.

Proof of the service of the summons and of the complaint
or notice, if any accompanying the same, must be:

1. By the certificate of the sheriff or other proper officer.

2. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or:

his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an
aiiidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post
office as required by law, if the same shall have been
deposited; or

3. The written admission of the defendant.

In case of service otherwise than by publication, the

certificate or admission must state the time and place of
service.

$90.—Jnrisdlction—Appearancc—Notlce of lls pendens.

-From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court
is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have cOntrol
of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance
of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.

In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under chapter
tour, of title ten, of this Code, shall be issued, or at any
time afterwards, the plaintiff, or a defendant when he sets
'up an affirmative cause of action in his answer and demands
substantive relief, at the time of filing his answer, or at any.
time afterwards, if the same be intended to affect real estate,
may file with the clerk of each county in which the property
is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and
the description of the property in that county affected thereby; and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and
must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto,
and the time and place of recording the same. From the
time of filing only shall the pendency of the action be conStructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby; and every person whose conveyance
or incumbrance is subsequently executed or subsequently
recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken after

the filing of such notice, to the same extent as if he were
made a party to the action. For the purposes of this section, "
an action shall be deemed to be pending from the time of
filing such notice; provided, however, that such notice shall
be of no avail unless it shall be followed by the first publication of the summons on an order therefor, or by the personal
service thereof on a‘ defendant within sixty days after such
filing. And the court in which_ the said action was commenced may, in its discreticm, at any time after the action °
shall besettled, discontinued, or abated, as is provided in '
section number sixty-four, on application of any person
aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and on such notice as
shall be directed or approved by the court, order the notice
authorized by this section to be canceled of record by the
clerk ofany county in whose office the same may have been
iiled or recorded; and such cancellation shall be made by an
indorsement to that effect on the margin of the record, which
shall refer to the order, and for which the clerk shall be
entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.

_

TITLE VIII.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

' Chapter 1. Complaint.

“ ll. Demurrer,

“ Ill. Answer.

“ IV. Reply.

“ V, Duty and power of Clerk of the Superior Court in relation to
the pleadings, and in collateral matters.

“ Vi. General Rules of pleading.

“ VII, Mistakes in pleading and amendments.
“ VIII. 0! the qualliieation and general duties of Clerks of the Superior
Courts.

CHAPTER I.

THE COMPLAINT.

\591.—Forms of pleading.
All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are abolished;

and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts

of record, and the rules by which the sufiiciency of the

pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed by this
Code.

$92.—Complaint.

The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint.

()93.—Complaint what to contain.

The complaint shall contain;

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court
in which the action is brought, the name of the county in
which the trial is required to be had, and the names of the
parties to the action plaintiff and defendant.

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting
a cause of action, without unnecessary repetition; and each
material allegation shall be distinctly numbered.

3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes
himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded,
' the amount thereof must be stated.

CHAPTER II.

THE DEMURRER.

$94.—Defendant to demur or answer.

The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either
a demurrer or an answer. It must be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court before which the defendant is summoned to appear, together with a copy thereof for the
plaintiff, within ten days after the time limited for the
appearanceof the defendant: a copy thereof must be served
on the attorney of the plaintiff it he shall have named one
in the county town, in lieu of filing one for him in the
clerk’s office or on the plaintiff personally if he shall have
complied with the provisions of section eighty. If the

plaintiff shall have failed to iile his complaint within the
time limited for that purpose, the defendant may. move for
judgment of nonsuit.

{win—When defendant may demnr.

The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall
appear upon the face thereof, either;

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action; or

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or

3. That there is another action pending between the same

parties 'for the same cause; or ' .

4. That there is a. defect of parties plaintiff or defendant; or

5. That several causes of action 'have been improperly
:united; or i ' _

6. That the complaint does notstate facts squicient to
constitute a cause of action.

'§96.—Dcmnrrer must specify grounds of objection.

The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of
objection to the complaint. Unless it does so, it may be
disregarded; It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to
any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.

*$97.—How to proceed if complaint be amended.
If the complaint be amended a copy thereof must be

served on the defendant in the manner provided in section

eighty, for the service of pleadings and notices after appearance, within twenty’ days after the leave to amend.

$98.—0bjeetion 'not appearing on complaint.

When any of the matters enumerated in section ninetyfour, do not appear upon the face _of the complaint, the
objection may be taken by answer.

\

{wit—objection when deemed waived.

If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the

same, eXcepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the objection that the complaint! does not state
facts sufiicient to constitute a cause of action.

. CHAPTER III.TBE ANSWER.

$1 (ML—Answer, what to contains ‘ °

The answer of the defendant must contain:

1. A general or specifiE denial of each material allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any
knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence
or counter-claim,'in ordinary and cencise language, without
repetition. .

slot-Counter-claim.

The counter-claim mentioned in the last section, must be
one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the
action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action: .

1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the action ;

2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of
action' arising also on centract, and existing at the commencement of the action. . '

Mom—Several Defences.

The defendant may set forth-by answer as many defences
and counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such as
have been heretofore denominated legal, or equitable or both.
They must each be separately stated and numbered, and
refer to the cause of action which they are intended to
answer, in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.

Mom—Demlrrer and answer,

The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes
of action stated in the complaint, and answer to the residue.

0

\3104.-—Sham and Irrelevant defences."

Sham and irrelevant answers and defences may be stricken
out on motion, and upon such terms as theaCourt may in its
discretion impose. ' ' '

CHAPTER IV.

THE REPLY.

$105 .-—Reply,-'4Demarrer to answer.

When the answer contains new matter constituting a
counter-claim, the plaintiff may within twenty days, reply to
such new matter, denying generally or specifically each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof suflicient to form a belief; and he may allege,
in, ordinary and concise language, without repitition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defence to such new. matter in the answer; and the
plaintiif may in all cases demur to an answer containing new
matter, where upon its face it does’ not constitute a counterclaim or defence; and the plaintiff may demur to one or i
more of such defences or counter-claims and 'reply to the 7
residue of the counter-claims, And in other cases, when an
answer contains new matter constituting a defence by way
of avoidance, the Court may, in its discretion, on the defendant’s motion, require a reply to such new matter; and in‘
that case, the reply shall be subject to the same rules as a
reply to a counter-claim.

(Mm—Motion for judgment on answer.

If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur
thereto within twenty days after the filing or service of such

answer, the defendant may move for such judgment as he is
entitled to upon such statement; and if the case require it,
an order for an inquiry of damages by a jury may be made.

Mom—Demurrer to reply.

If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by. the
:answer of the defendant be insuliicient, the defendant ‘may
demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof. '

CHAPTER V. '

DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CLERK OF THE SUPERIOR COURT IN
RELATION TO THE PLEADINGS, AND IN COLLATERAL MATTERS.

§108.—Jnrlsdletlon of Clerk on pleadings, M.

The Clerk of the Superior Court shall have jurisdiction to
hear and decide on all questions of practice and procedure,
arising in actions brought to this Court, and on all other
matters whereof jurisdictlon is hereby given to the Superior
Court, unless the Judge of said Court, or the Court at a
regular term thereof be expressly referred to.

$109.—7Elther party may appeal.

' Any party may appeal from any decision of the Clerk to
the Judge of the Court, Without bond.

‘§110.——Duty of the Clerk on appeal prayed.

On such appeal being prayed, the Clerk, within three
days thereafter, shall prepare a statement of the facts of the
case, of his decision, and of the appeal, and shall sign the
same; he shall, within the time aforesaid, exhibit such statement to the parties or their attorneys on request; if such
statement is satisfactory, the parties or their attorneys shall
sign the same; if either. party object to the statement as
partial or erroneous, he may put his objections in writing,

and the Clerk .shall attach such writing to his statement,'and
within two days thereafter he shall send such statement,
together with the objections, and coPies of all necessary
papers, by mail or otherwise if necessary, to the Judge for his
decision.

Q1] l.—Issues of Law sent to Judge.

When any issue of law shall be joined on the pleadings
before the Clerk, he shall within .ten days thereafter, send
by mail, or otherwise, if necesary, to the Judge of the Court,
a copy of the record, for hearing and decision by him.

tux—Party to be heard before Judge.

The attorney of either party may endorse on the statement
of any appeal, or on the copy of the record of any issue sent
to the Judge, a request fto be heard before him on such
matter.

§113.—Duty of Judge on appeal.

It shall be the'duty of the Judge on receiving a statement of appeal from the clerk, or the copy of the record of
an issue of law, to decide the questions presented as early
as may be. But if he shall have been informed in writing,
by the attorney of either party, that he desires to be heard
on the questions, the Judge shall fixa time and place for
such hearing, and give the attorneys of both parties reasonable notice thereof. He shall transmit his decision in writ;
ing, endorsed on or attached to the record, to the clerk of
the Court, who shall immediately acknowledge the receipt
thereof, and within three days after such receipt, notify the
attorneys of the parties of the decision, and on request and s
the payment of his legal fees, give them a copy thereof;
and the parties receiving such notice, may proceed thereafter according to law.

§lu.—Judge to keep a docket.

The judge shall keep a docket, in which shall be entered
the title of every case brought in any manner before him out
of term, every motion made therein before him, and a copy

of every order and judgment rendered by him; and in case
the original of any order or judgment of such Judge, shall
be lost or destroyed, a copy from such docket, certified by
the Judge, shall be as. evidence of such order or judgment
in place of the original, and with the same effect for all
purposes.

$115.—Judgment on matter'of fact final; on matter of law, may be appealed
from. '

The said judgment‘on issues of fact, shall be final; any,
party Within ten days after notice of such judgment, may
pray an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State from such
judgment, upon any matter of law or legal inference therein,
under the regulations provided for appeals in other cases.
But execution shall not be suspended until the undertakings
required by the provisions of TITLE XIII of this Code,
entitled “OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS” shall have been given
as required.

Q

CHAPTER VI.

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.

$116.—Pleadlngs to be subscribed and vol-med

Every pleading in a court of record, must be subscribed
by the party or his attorney; and when any pleading is verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must be
verified also.

$117.—Pleadlngs how verilicd.

The verification must be to the effect that the same is true
to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on information and belief, and as to those
matters he believes it to be true; and must be by affidavit of
the paity, or if there be several parties united in interest,

and pleading together, by one at least of such parties
acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the county where the attorney resides, andcapable of making the
aliidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or
attorney, if the action or defence be founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all
the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is verified by any other person than the party, he shall
set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of
his belief on the subject, and the reasons why it is not made
by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof; and when the
State, or any ofIicer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the
facts. The verification may be omitted when an admission
‘of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to
prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a
criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact
admitted or alleged in such pleading.

(HEP—Items of account—particulars, to be furnished when.

It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account, which if the pleading is verified, must be verided by his own oath, or that of
his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of
such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be
true,L or be preCluded from giving evidence thereof. The
court or the Judge thereof, may order a further account
when the one delivered is defective; and the court may in

all cases, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either
party to be furnished.

g] l9.—Pleadlngs how construed.
In the construction of a-pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view of substantial justice between theparties.

, §120.—Irrelevant or redundant—Indenan or uncertain.

If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleadin g, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person‘ aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so
indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge
or defence is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment. '

$121.—Judgments how to he pleaded.

In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or
determination .may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts eonferring jurisdiction. .

$122.—Conditions precedent how to he pleaded—Instrument for payment of
money only. ' '

In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the
party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. In an action or defence founded upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient
for the party to give a copy of the instrument, and to state
that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum which he claims. , p ' i .

'§l23.——Prlnte statutes, how to he pleaded. ‘

In pleading a private statute or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute, by its title and
the day of its ratification, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.

Hun—Libel and Slander, how stated in complaint. .

In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintiff, of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose: but it
shall be sufiicient to state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so published or spoken.

$125.—Answer in such cases;

In the actions mentioned in the last- section, the defendant
may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to
reduce' the amount of damages; and whether he prove the
justihcation or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances.

$126.—What causes of action may he joined in the same complaint.

The plaintifi may unite in the same complaint several
causes of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal, or equitable, or both, where they all
arise out of,

1. The same transaction; or transactions connected with
the same subject of action; .

2. Contract express or implied; or

3. Injuries with or without force, to. person and property
or either; or

4. Injuries to character; or

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; and the rents and profits '
of the same; or ° _

6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without
damages for the Withholdin g thereof; or

. 7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
3 operatidn of law. '

But thetauses of action so united must all belong to one
of these classes, and except in actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages, must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, and must be separately
stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the court shall
have power to adjudge and direct the payment by the mort'gagor of any residue of the mortgage debt that may remain
unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in cases
in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the
debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage debt
‘ be secured by the convenant or obligation of any person
other than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such person a party to the action, and the court may adjudge payment of the residue of such debt remaining unsatisfied after
a sale of the mortgaged premises, against such other person,
and may enforce such' judgment as in other cases.

$127.—Allegatlon not denied; when to be deemed true.

Every material allegation of the complaint not controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section ninety-seven, and
every material allegation of new matter in the answer, constituting a counter claim, not controverted by the reply, as
prescribed in section one hundred and one, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allegation of
new matter in the answer, not relating‘to a counter-claim,
or of new matter in reply, is to be deemed controverted by

the adverse party as, upon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require.

CHAPTER VII.

MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS AND AMENDMENTS.

§128.—llaterlal variance.

N o variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof- shall be deemed material, unless it have actually

misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining
his action upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged
that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been
misled; and thereupon the Judge may order the pleading to
be amended upon such terms as shall be just.

(\129.—Inmaterlal variance.

. 'Where thO variance is not material as provided in the last

section, the Judge may direct the fact to be found according
to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment
without costs.

glam—A {allure of proof, when.

Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defence to which the proof is directed is unprOved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance
within the last sections, but a failure of proof.

tub—Amendments of course after allowance of demurrer.

Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any' time before the period for answering it expires: or it can be so amended at any time within
twenty days after the service of the answer or demurrer to
such pleading, unless it be made to appear to the court that
it was done for the purpose of delay, and the plaintiff or
defendant will thereby lose the beneEt of a term for which
the cause is or may be docketed for trial; and if it appear '
to the ,court or Judge that such amendment was made for
such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms
imposed as to the court or Judge may seem just. In such
case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the
adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, the Judge
may, in his discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over upon
such terms as may be just. It the demurrer be allowed for

the reason that several causes of action have been improperly
united, the Judge may, in his discretion, and upon such terms
as may be just, order the action to be divided into as many
actions as may be necessary to the proper determination of
the causes of action therein mentioned.

‘

§182.—Amendments by order.

The court may, before, and the Judge may, after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may
be pr0per, amend any pleading process or proceeding, by
adding or striking out the name of any party; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect; or by inserting other allegations material
to the case; or when the amendment does not change substaintially the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading
or proceeding‘to the facts. proved.

(3133.—Reltef In case of a mistake.

The Judge may likewise in his discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be 'made,
or other act to be done, after the time limited by this act, or
by an order enlarge such time; and may also in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time within

one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judg- ment order or other proceeding taken against him through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and
may supply an omission in any proceeding; and .whenever
any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any
respect to the provisions of this Code, the Judge, may in
like manner and upon like terms, permit an amendment of
such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

lint—When platntll’ Ignorant of name of defendant. H

When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any plead‘ ing (1' proceeding by name; and when his true name shall
be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly.

$135.—Errors or defects not substantial to be disregarded.

The Court and the Judge thereof, shall in every stage of
action, disregard any error of defect in the pleadings or
proceedings, which shall not affect the substantial rights of

the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect. '

$186.—Supplemental pleadings.

The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be allowed
on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer or
reply, alleging facts material to the. case, occurring after the
former complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party
was ignorant when his former pleading was made, and either
party may, by leave of the Court in any pending or future
action, set up. by a supplemental pleading, the judgment or
decree of any Court of competent jurisdiction, rendered since
the commencement of such action, determining the matter
in controversy in said action or any part thereof, and if said
judgment be set up by the plaintiff, the same shall be Without prejudice to any provisional remedy theretofore issued or
other proceedings had, in said action, on his behalf.

——

CHAPTER VIII.

OF THE QUALIFICATION AND GENERAL DUTIES, OF CLERKS OF THE
SUPERIOR COURTS.

gum—Bond or'uerk. '

At the iirst meeting of the County Commissioners ‘of each
county, after the election or appointment of any clerk of &
Superior Court, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver
to such Commissioners, a bond with suilicient sureties, to be
approved by them, in a penalty of ten thousand dollars,
payable to the State of North Carolina, and with a condition
to be void, if he shall account for, andpay over, according to
law, all monies and effects which have come or may come

into his hands, by virtue or color of his oflice, and shall diligently preserve and take care of all books, records, papers
and property which have come or may come into his possession“, by virtue or color of his oflice, and shall in all things
faithfully perform the duties of his office as they are, or thereafter shall be prescribed by law. Each surety shall take and
subscribe an oath, before the Register of Deeds, that he is worth
a certain sum (which shall not be less than one thousand
dollars) over and above all his debts and liabilities and his
homestead exemption, and the sums thus sworn to, shall not
be less in the aggregate than the penalty of the bond

§138.—Bond how approved, 8%.

The approval of said bond, .by the Commissioners or a
majority of them, shall be recorded by their clerk. Any
Commissioner approving a bond which he knows or believes
to be insufficient, shall be personally liable as if he were a
surety thereto. The said bond shall be acknowledged by
the paities thereto, or proved by a subscribing witness,
before theClerk of said Commissioners, or their presiding
officer, registered in the Register’s ofIice in a separate book
to be kept by him for the registration of ofiicial bonds; and
the original, with the approval thereof endorsed, deposited
with the Register for safe keeping. The like remedies‘ shall
be had upon said bond, as are, or' may be given by law on
official bonds.

gum—Qualification of Clerks.

The clerks of the Superior Court before entering on the
duties of their oHice, shall take and subscribe before some
officer authorized by law to administer an oath, the oaths
prescribed by law, and file such oath with the Register of
Deeds for the county.

<3140.—Failure to as bond, etc.
In case any clerk shall fail' to give bond and qualify as

above directed, the presiding ofiicer of the County Commis' :sioners of his county, shall immediately inform the Judge of

the Judicial District thereof, who shall thereupon declare the
oche vacant and iill the same, and the appointee shall give
bond and qualify as above directed.

§l4l.——0mee, where to be kept—When to be open.

He shall have an office, in the Court house or other place
provided by the County Commissioners, in the county town
of his county. . He shall give due attendance, in person or
by deputy at his ofiice daily (Sundays and holidays,
excepted) from nine o’clock A. M., to three o’clock P. M,
and longer when necessary for the despatch of business.

(ma—To receive omelal papers, 8;.

Immediately after he shall have given bond and qualified
as aforesaid, he shall receive from the late Clerks of the
’County and Superior Courts and Clerk and Master of the
Court of Equity, all the records, books, papers, monies and
property of their respective offices, and give receipts for the
same, and if any clerk, or clerk and master, shall refuse, or
fail within a reasonable time after demand to deliver such
records, books, papers and property, they shall be respectively liable on their ochial bonds for the value thereof, and
be held guilty of a misdemeanor. ‘

$143.41» keep records, &c.

~He shall be furnished with the requisite stationery and
furniture, for official use by the County Commissioners,
except as hereinafter provided. He shall keep in bound
volumes a complete and faithful record of all his official acts,
and give copies thereof to all persons desiring them, on payment of the legal fees.

$144.—Books to be kept by Clerks.

Each clerk shall keep the following books:
' 1. A docket of all writs, summons or other original processes issued by him, or returned to his oflice; this docket shall
contain a brief note of every proceeding whatever in each
action, up to the final udgment inclusive.

2. A Judgment docket in which the substance of the ‘
judgment shall be recorded, and every proceeding subsequent
thereto, noted. . ,

3. A docket of all issues of fact joined upon the pleadings,
and of all other matters for hearing before the Judge at a
regular‘ term of the court, a copy of which shall be furnished
to the Judge at the commencement of each term.

4. An alphabetical index according to the names of the
plaintiffs, of all final judgments in civil actions rendered in
the court, with the dates and numbers thereof, and also of
all final judgments rendered in other courts, and authorized
by law, to be entered on his Judgment Docket.

5. A docket of all criminal actions, containing a note of
every proceeding in each. ‘

§l45,——Books to  furnished by Secretary of State.

The books specified in the above section, shall be supplied
to the clerks of the several counties by the Secretary of
State, at the expense of the State, and the Secretary shall,
as soon as possible, transmit an account thereof to the presiding offlcer of the County Commissioners, in order that
the price ,may be levied in the county taxes; and also to
the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall add the same to
the taxes of the respective counties and receive and account
for it, as for other taxes. The commissioners of any count;
failing to cause such sum to be levied, with the other county
taxes, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:

§143.—Papers in each action to be kept separate, and filed together.

They shall keep the papers in each action, in a separate
roll or bundle, and at its termination, attach them together,
properly label, and file them in the order of the date of the final judgment. ' '

§l47.—Solieitor to examine records.

At every regular term of the Superior Court, the Solicitor
for the judicial district shall inspect the oiIice of the clerk,
and report to the court in writing. If any clerk, after being

furnished with the necessary books, shall fail to keep them
up, as required by law, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and the solicito‘r' shall cause him to be prosecuted for the
same. V If any solicitor shall fail or neglect to perform the
duty hereby imposed on him, he shall be liable to a penalty
of five hundred dollars to any person who shall sue for the'
same.

/ TITLE. IX.

01" THE PROVISIONAL REHEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Arrest and Ball.
“ [1. Claim and delivery of personal property.
“ III. Injunction. '
“ . IV. Attachment.
“ V. Provisional remedies.

\

' CHAPTER L

ARREST AND BAIL.

§148.—No person to be arrested except as prescribed.

N 0 person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not apply to .
proceedings for contempt.

§l49.—In what cases.

The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases:

’1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of
action not arising out of contract, Where the defendant is
not a resident of the State, or is about to remove therefrom,
or where the action is for an injury to person or character, or
for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining or converting property.

2. In an action for a line on penalty, or on a promise to
marry, or for money received, or for property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public oilicer, or by an attorney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a
corporation or banking association, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker or other
person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or
neglect in oilice, or in a professional employment.

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, where the prOperty, or any. part
thereof, has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff, and with the
intent thatit should not be so found or taken, or with the
intent to deprive the plaintiff of the benelit thereof.

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which, the
action is brought, or when the action is brought to recover
damages for fraud or deceit. . i

5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a
wilful injury to person, character or property.

\

§l50.—0rder for arrest, by whom made.

An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from the Court in which the action is brought, or from a
Judge thereof.

§15I.—Amdavit to obtain order. To what actions this chapter applies.

' The order may be made where it shall appear to the Court,
or Judge thereof, by the aiiidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other
person, that a suiiicient cause of action exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section one hundred and
forty-nine.

' The provisions bf this chapter shall apply to all actions
included within the provisions of section one hundred and

forty-nine, which shall be commenced after the ratification
‘of this Act.

§152.— Security by plain“! before order of arrest.

Before making the order, the Judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sureties,
to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars.

§l53.—0rder, when made, and Its form—Time to answer or to move to vacate.

The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
issue at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may
be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a
specified sum, and to return the order, at a place and time
therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and notice of such return shall be served
on the plaintiff or his. attorney as prescribed in section
eighty. ' .

But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served
upon the defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any judgment in the action; and the defendant shall
have twenty days, after the service of the order of arrest, in
which to answer the complaint in the action, and to move

to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of
bail.

o
§l54.——Amdavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to defendant.

The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to
him a copy thereof.

§l55.—Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law;
and may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the arrest, as in case of process. .

§l56.—Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be

discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter.

§l57.—Ball, how ‘given.

The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more suiiicient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that”
the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to ‘
the process of the court, during the pendency-of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third
subdivision » of section one hundred and forty-nine, an
undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section \
one hundred and eighty-one.

§158.—Surrender of defendant.

At any time before iinal. judgment against them, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may
surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall
be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant
in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and
shall, by a certiiicate in writing, acknowledge the surrender; '

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sheriff‘s certificate, the Court, or a Judge thereof, may, upon
a notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the
certiiicate, 01 der that the bail be exonerated; and on filing

the order and the papers used on said application, they shall
be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply
to an arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision three of sec' tion one hundred and forty-nine, so as to discharge the bail

from an undertaking given to the effect provided by section
one hundred and eightyoone.

gum—Surrender of defendant.

For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, ind6rsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any
person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

§160.—Bail, how proceeded against.

In case ot'failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail may be proceeded against, by action only.

§lol.—Ball how e xonerated;

The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the
ccunty where he was arrested, in execution thereof, at any
time before final judgment against the' bail. .

glezo—Dellver‘y of undertaking to plaintllf, and Its acceptance or rejection by .
him. '

Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall
deliver the order of arrest to the clerk of the court in which
the suit is brought, with his return indorsed, and a certified
copy of the undertaking of the bail, and notify the plaintiff
or his attorney thereof. The plaintiff, within ten days there' after, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not
accept the bail, or he shall; be deemed to have accepted it,
and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

§163.—Notice of justlneatlon—Ncw ball.

On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant
may, within ten days thgeafter, give to the plaintiff, or his
attorney, notice of the justification of the same or other bail .
(specifying the places of residence and occupation of the
latter) before the court, or the Judge thereof, at a specified
time and place; the time to be not less than five nor more
than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there
shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in section
one hundred and fifty-seven.

glM.—oualineatlon of bail.

The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or
freeholder within the State. » o

2. They must each be Worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge, on justiiication, may allow more than
two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that
expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

§165.—~Justmcatlon of hall.

For the purpose of justification, 'each of the bail shall
attend before the court or the Judge, or a Justice of the
Peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and
may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff,
touching his sufficiency, in such a manner as the Court, or
Judge in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff.

§166.—Allowance of bail.

If the Court or Judge find the bail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his
allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the
clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from

liability.

§l67.—Deposit with the sherin‘.

The defendant may, at the time of his arresg instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned
in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certiiicate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be
discharged out of custody.

§168.—Payment of deposit into court. .

The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay
the same into court, and shall take from the officer receiving
the same, two Certificates of such payment, the one of which
he shall deliver to the plaintiff, and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same
proceedings may be had on the oiiicial bond of the sheriff, to
collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

yea—Substituting ball for deposit.

If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section one hundred“ and sixty, any time before
judgment; and thereupon the Judge shall direct, in the
order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded,
by the sheriff, to the defendant, and it shall be refunded

accordingly.

gum—Deposit, how disposed 6?.

When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction
of the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and
after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if
any,lto the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the
defendant, the clerk shall refund to him- the whole sum
deposited and remaining unapplied.

gun—sums, when liable as ball.

If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or .be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not

made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability, by
the giving ‘and justification of bail, as provided in sections
one hundred and sixty-three, one hundred and sixty-four one
hundred and sixty-live, and one hundred and sixty-six, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant, to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§l72.—Proceedings on judgment against sherln‘.

If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole 0? in part, the same proceedings may be
had on the oliicial bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency,

as in other cases of delinquency.

§l73.—Ball liable to shim:

The bail taken 'upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify,
or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by
action, for damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission. ‘

§l74.—Vacatlng order of arrest, or reducing ball.

A defendant arrested may at any time before judgment,
apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of. bail.

§l75.—,Amdavlts on motion.

If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiif may oppose the
same by afiidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on.which the order of arrest was made. '

CHAPTER II.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§l76.—Dellvery of personal property.
The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal prOperty, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such property, as provided in this chapter.

§l77.—Amdavits and its requisites.

\Vhere a delivery is; claimed an adidavit must be made,
before the clerk of the court in which the action is required
to be tried, by sections sixty-six, sixty-seven and sixty-eight,
by the plaintiff, or'some one in his behalf, showing:

1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
the facts in respect to 'which shall be set forth;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant; ' ‘ i

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information, and belief;

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
or attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so
seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and

5. The actual value of the property.

§l78.——Reqllsltlon to sherif to take and deliver the property. ‘

The clerk of the court shall, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the aliidavit, require the sherilf of the
county where the pr0perty claimed may be, to take the same
from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff; provided,
the plaintiff shall give the undertaking prescribed in the ,
next section.

gum—Security by plaintln‘.

Upon the receipt of the order from the clerk with a written undertaking executed by one or more sufiicient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit
for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for. any cause,
be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall forthwith
take the prOperty described in the afiidavit, if it be in the
possession of the defendant or his agent, and. retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the afiidavit, notice, and undertaking, “by ’
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found,
or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken;
or,~ if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual

place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.

§180.—Exceptlon to sureties.

The defendant may, within three days after the service of
a copy of the aiiidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
sheriff personally, or by leaving a copy at his oHice, in thecounty town of the county, or if he have no such office, at
the office of the clerk of the court that he excepts to the
sufiiciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to' them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties‘ shall justify‘on notice, in like
manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be
responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the
objection to them is either waived as above provided, or
until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted
and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.

§l_8!;—Defcndant when entitled to reldeuvery.

At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the

sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon
giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two
or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound
’ in double the value of the party, as stated in the aflidavit of
.the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required, within
three days after the taking and service of notice to the
defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as pros
vided in section one hundred and eighty-six.

§182.—Justmcation of defendant’s sureties.

The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff of
not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify before
a Judge or Justice of the Peace, in the same manner as
upon bail on arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant’s sureties, until they justify, or
until justification is completed or expressly waived, and may
retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in
their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.

§183.—Qualmcations and justification of snretles.

The qualifications of sureties, and their justification, shall
be as are prescribed by sections one hundred and sixty four
and one hundred and and sixty-five, in respect to bail upon
an order of arrest.

§184.——Property, how taken when concealedln building or inclosure.

It the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building
or inclosure to be broken open, and take the property into
his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.

§185.-Property, how kept.

‘When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and .
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his.
lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

gum—Claim of property by third person,

If the prOperty taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make ailidavit of his title thereto, and right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same
upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on
demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff
against such claim, by an undertaking executed by two
suchient sureties, accompanied by their afHdavits, that they
are each worth double the value of the property, as specified
in the adeavit of the plaintiff, and freeholders and householders of the county. And no claim to such prOperty, by
any other person than the defendant'or his agent, shall be
valid against the sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

(yum—Notice and affidavit, when and where to be tiled.

The sheriff shall file the notice and afiidavit, with his
proceedings thereon, with the clerk. of the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the
property mentioned therein. ‘

CHAPTER III.

INJUNCTION.

x3188.—Injunctlon by order.
The writ of injunction, as a provisional- remedy, is
abolished, and an injunction by order, is substituted therefor. The order may be made by any Judge of 3 Superior
Court, in the cases provided in the next section, and, may
be enforced as the order of the court. Upon such order it
shall be issued by the clerk of the court, in which the action ‘
is required to be tried.

§189—Injnnctlons, in what cases.

[1.] When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission,
or continuance, of some act, the commission or continuance
of which, during the litigation. would produce injuryto the
plaintiff; or  when, during the litigation, it shall appear
that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or procuring or suffering some act to be done in violation of
the plaintiff’s rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunction may be granted to restrain such act. [3] And
Where, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by
affidavit that the'defendant threatens, or is about to remove
or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
removal or disposition.

§l90.——At what time it may be granted. Copy of anidavlt to be served.

The injunction may be granted at the time of commen~
cing the action, or at anytime afterwards, before udgment,
upon its appearing satisfactorily to the Judge, by the affidavit of the' plaintiff, or of any other person, that suflicient
grounds exist therefor. A copy of the afiidavit must be
served with the injunction.

§l9l.—Inj_unetion after answer.

An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order
to show cause; but in ‘such case the defendant may be
restrained until the decision of the Judge granting or refusing the injunction.

§192.—Sceurity upon injunction. Damages.

Upon granting an order for an injunction, the Judge shall
require as a. condition precedent to the issuing thereof, that
the clerk shall take from the plaintiff a written undertaking,
with sufficient sureties to be justified before, and approved
by the said clerk or by the Judge, in an amount f0 be fixed
by the Judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the
party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount to
be lspecihed, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction,
if the Court shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not
entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a
reference, or'otherwise, as the Judge shall direct.

alga—cram to show cause. Restraint in meantime.

If the Judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any'of
several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted; and the defendant may, in the

meantime, be restrained.

§l94-—Security upon injunction to'suspeud business of corporation.

, An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi- ‘
ness of a corporation shall not be granted without due notice
of the application therefor, to the proper officers of the corporation, except where the State is a party to the proceeding, unless the plaintiff shall give a written undertaking
executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all damages,
not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, _
which such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall finally decide that the plaintiff was
not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by
"a reference, or otherwise, ‘as the Court shall direct.

(3195.——Motion to vacate or modify injunction.

If the injunction be granted by a Judge of . the Court,
without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,

may apply, upon notice, to a Judge of the Court in which
the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may. be made upon the complaint and the attidavits on which the injunction was granted, or upon the
ai‘ndavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the
answer.

(3196—Amdavits on motion.

If the application be made upon affidavits On the part 'of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those
on which the injunction was granted.

CHAPTER IV.

ATTACHMENT.

§l97.—Property of foreign corporations, and of non-resldent, or abseondjng,
V or concealed defendants, may be attached.

In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of personal property, against a corporation created by, or under,
the laws of any other State, government or country, or
against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or
against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself, or whenever any person or corporation is about to
‘ remove any of his, or its property, from this State, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign,
dispose of, or secrete, any of his, or its, property, with intent
to defraud creditors, as hereinafter, mentioned, the plaintiff
at the time of issuin g the summons, or [at] any time afterwards,
may have the property of such defendant or corporation
attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security
for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintiff may
recover; and for the purposes of this section, an action shall

be deemed commenced, when the summons is issued; Provided however, that personal service of such summons shall
be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty
days after obtaining a warrant of attachment.

\3]98.—Publlcatlon to be made.

The plaintiff obtaining a warrant of attachment shall
within the time above prescribed, cause publication to be
made, at least once a week for four" successive weeks, in
some newspaper published in the county in which the
warrant is returnable; or if there be none such published,
then in one published within the. judicial district, in which
such county is, or if there be none such published, then in
any newspaper published in this State. Said publication
shall state the names of the parties, the amount, and in a
brief way, the nature of the demand, the time and place to
which the warrant is returnable, and shall require the
defendant to appear then and. there and answer the complaint. If the place of residence of the defendant be known,
the plaintiff shall send to him by mail, 'a copy of such publication; and the court in which the suit is pending may,
at any time, order notice to be sent by mail to any place, in.
which the defendant may be supposed to reside or be.

$199r—Warrant, by whom granted.

If the action be not founded on a contract, or if the sum
demanded exceeds two hundred dollars, a warrant of attachment must be obtained from the Judge of the judicial district, within some county of' which, the cause of action
arose; or, in case the defendant is a foreign corporation,
within some county of' which, it usually did business, or
within some county of which, the defendant'resided or did
business within six months next precedingthe issuing of
the summons; or from the Clerk of the Superior Court of
any county within said district. It shall be made returnable to the: Superior Court of a county, in which the} cause

of action arose, or in which the defendant resided or did

business, within six months next preceding' the issuing of.
the summons, _or in which the property of the defendant
sought to be attached, or some part of it, is at the issuing
of the summons, or in case the defendant is a foreign corporation, in which it usually did business.

(With—When warrant granted by Justice of the Peace.

If the action be founded on contract, and the sum
demanded does not exceed two hundred dollars, the warrant
of attachment must be obtained from, and made returnable
before some Justice cf the Peace of a county, to the Superior
Court of which it might have been returnable under the
preceeding section, had the sum demanded, exceeded two
hundred dollars, or had the action not have been founded

on contract.
\ J

(pot—1n what use: Warrants may be Issued—Amish“ toje med.

The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by
affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds
thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this State, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps‘himself concealed therein with
like intent, or that such corporation or person has removed,
or is about to remove, any of his or its property from this
State, with intent to defraud his or its creditors, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his or its preperty with the like
intent, whether such defendant be a resident of this State
or not It shall be the duty of the plaintiff procuring such
warrant, within ten days from the issuing thereof, to file the
affidavits on which the same'was granted in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court to which, or With the Justice of
the Peace, before whom, the process is made returnable.

\3202.—Secnrlty on obtaining warrant.

Before issuing the warrant, the officer issuing the same
shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufiicient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant“
recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside’by the
order of the court, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may. sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
two hundred and fifty dollars. ‘ '

Vim—Warrant, to whom directed, and what to require.

The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which the property of such defendant may be, or in case
it be issued by a Justice of the Peace to such sheriff, or to
any constable of such county, provided, such county be that
of the Justice issuing the warrant, and shall require such
sheriff or constable to attach and safely keep, all the property
of such defendant within his county, or so much thereof as
may be suiiicient to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, the amount
of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
' together with costs and expenses; it must also state when
and where it shall be returned. Several Warrants maybe
' issued .at. the same time to the 'sheriffs of different counties.

tam—Mode of proceeding ln-exeentlng warrant.

The oflicer to whom such warrant of attachment is directed
and delivered, shall seize and take into his possession the
' tangible personal property of the defendant, Or so much
thereof, as may be necessary, and he shall be liable for the
care and custody 'of such pr0perty, as if the same had been
seized under execution: he shall levy on the real estate of
the defendant as prescribed for executions, he shall make
and return with the warrant, an inventory of the property
seized or levied on: subject to the direction of the court, he
shall collect and receive into his possession all debts owing
to the defendant, and take such legal proceedings, either in
his own name, or in that of the defendant as may be neces
asary for that purpose.

$205.—Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessel.

If any property, so seized, shall be perishable, or of such
character that the expense of keeping it until the determination of the suit, would be likely to exceed one-fifth of its
value, or if any part of it consists of a vessel, or of any share
or interest therein, the sheriff or other oflicer having possession thereof, shall immediately apply to the court for author.
ity to sell the same, stating the circumstances, and the same
shall be sold, under the order and direction of the court.

{Wisp—Interest in corporations or associations liable to attachment. '

The rights or shares which such defendant may have, in‘
the stock of any association or corporation, together with
the interests and profits thereon, and all other property in
. this State of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached
and levied on, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execu~
tion. '

Wot—Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual delivery. 73:,

The execution of the attachment upon any such rights, 
shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual ‘
delivery to the sheriif, shall be made, by leaving a. certified
copy of the warrant of the attachment, with, the President
or other head of the association or corporation, ‘or the scores
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof, or. with the debtor.
or individual holding such property, with a notice showing
it the property levied on. $208.—Certiiieate of defendant’s interest to be furnished.

Whenever the sheriff. or other lanul officer with a war.
rant of attachment or execution, shall apply to any officer
mentioned in the next preceeding section, or to any debtor
or individual, for the purpose of attaching or levying on, the
property of the defendant in such warrant, such oflicer,
debtor or individual shall furnish him with .a certificate
under his hand, designating the numberigiiirights‘or shares
of the defendant in such association or  any

. . :;-.:-;t73165::2'.t’é*v}2': a:  "

  

\

dividend or any incumbrance thereon, or the amount-and
description of the property held by such association, corporation, or individual, for the benefit of, or debt owing to the
defendant. If such oilicer, debtor or individual refuse to do
so, he may be required by the Court or Judge to attend.
before him, and be examined on oath concerning the same,
and obedience to such order may be enforced by attachment.

awe—Judgment, how mum.

_- In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out-of the property
attached by him, if it shall be suflicient for that purpose.

1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all
property sold by him, and of all debts or credits collected
by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such _
judgment.

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell
under such execution, so much of the attached property,
real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of
this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a
corporation or association, the sheriff shall execute to the
.purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by such defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff
without having been sold or converted into money, such
sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that
purpose, shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment: and any person who shall
wilfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff,
shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party
injured. '

4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other

evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized
or attached, under the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such
proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the paymentof the judgment.

At the eXpiration of six months, from the docketing of
the judgment, the court shall have power upon the petition
of the plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth
fully all the proceedings which have been had by the sheriff,
since the service of the attachment, the property attached,
and the dispOsition thereof, and also the afiidavit of the sheriff
that he has used due diligence, and endeavored to collect
the evidences of debt in his hands so attached, and that
there remains uncollected of the same, any part or portion
thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon such
terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice
of such‘application shall be given to the defendant or his
attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in the action.
In case the summons has not been personally served on the
defendant, the court shall make such rule or order, as to the
service of notice and the time of service, as shall be deemed
just. .

\Vhen the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall
have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand .shall
deliver over to the defendant, the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof.

§210.—When action to recover notes, no, of defendant, may be prosecuted by
plaintm In the action in which the attachment issuedT he actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff"
may be prosecuted by the plaintiff; or under his direction,
upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking
executed by two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the
plaintiff will indemnify the sheriff, from all damages, costs
and expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two hunldred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such sureties shall
in all cases when required by the sheriff, justify by making
an atlidavit that each is a householder, or free holder and

worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond over
and above all demands and liabilities, and exemptions.

§2ll.—Bond to sheriff on attachment, how dlsposed of, on judgment for defendant. ‘

If the foreign corporation, or absent, or absconding, or
concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintiff
in such action, any bond taken upon the issuing-of the warrant of attachment, and any bond taken by the sheriff, except
such as are mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of
 and monies collected by him, and all the property
reattaphed remaining in his hands, shall be deliveredby him
ig‘ngt-he defendant or his agent on request, and the warrant
 shall be discharged and the property released.

i 7 “law—Discharge of attachment, and return of property or its proceeds, to the
A . , defendant, on his appearance in action.

Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such
action, he may apply to the Court in which the action is
pending, or to the Judge thereof, for an order to discharge
the same; and if the same be granted, all the proceeds of
sale, and moneys collected in such action,_e,wfall the pro.
perty attached remaining in the hands-  of the
Court, under any process or ordeirginrs :shall be
delivered or paid to the defendant orihis'agen‘t,and released
from the attachment. ‘

And where there is more than one defendant, and several
pr0perty of either of the defendants has been seized by iv,in
tue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several

property has been seized, may. apply in like manner for A
relief.

 

     

gnaw-undertaking in! Part of the defendant. Discharge of at   ‘ ‘

Upon such application the defendant shall deliv‘éflistto the
Court an undertaking, executed‘by at least two sureties, wwho
are‘resident and free-h olders or house-holders in this State,
approved by such Court, to the effect that such sureties,
will on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judgment

  

that may be recovered against the defendant in the action,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintih’
in his complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit, that the
property attached be less than the amount claimed by the
plaintiff, the Court or Judge may order the same to be
'appraised and the amount of the undertaking shall then be
double the amount so appraised. And in all cases, the
«defendant may move to discharge the attachment, as in the
case of other provisional remedies.

And where there is more than one defendant, and several
prOperty of either of the defendants, has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several
property has b'een seized, may deliver to the Court an undertaking, in accordance with the provision of this section, to
the effect that he will on demand, pay to the plaintiff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against such
defendant. And all the provisions of this section applicable
to such an undertaking shall be applied thereto.

~§214.—When the Shel-m“ m Mum warrant, with his proceedings thereon.

The sheriff shall return the warrant of attachment with a.
statement of his proceedings thereon, at the time and place
at which it is on its face returnable, and upon, or at any I
time after such return, he may obtain from the Court to
which the same was returnable, a certified copy thereof,
which shall be held and deemed for the purpose of giving *
him authority, the same as the original, and when the warrant- shall have been fully executed or discharged, the
sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings, to the
said Court.

CHAPTER V.

PROVISIONAL annulus.

I ‘

«Silk—Powers of Court as to receivers; deposit of money, &e., in Court, and
other provisional remedies. Judgment for sum admitted due.

A receiver may; be appointed,— .

1. Before judgment, on the application of either party,
when he establishes an apparent right to property which
is the subject of the action, and which is in the possession
’ of an adverse party, and the property, or its rents and proiits, are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or
impaired; except in cases where judgment’upon failure to
answer may be had on application to the Court; a

2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;

3. _A_fter judgment, to dispose of the property according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment-debtor refuses to apply his property
in satisfaction of the judgment;

4. In the cases provided in this Code and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights; and in like cases, of the property
within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the
property within this State of foreign or other corporations
shall be allowed such commissions as may be fixed by the
Judge appointing them, not exceeding five per cent. on the
amount received and disbursed by them. ,

5. -In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may
be in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided in this act.

When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession,or under his control, any
money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the

Judge may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or Without security, subject to
the further direction of the Judge. ’
Whenever, in the exercise“ of his authority a Judge shall ‘ have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money
or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the 'Judge,
besides punishing the disobedience as for contempt, may
make an order requiring the sherilf to take the money or
property, and deposit, deliver, or convey it, in conformity
with the directionof the Judge.
. ’ When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not
denying, admits part of the. plaintiff’s claim to be just, the
Judge, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that
part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a

judgment or prgvisional remedy.

TITLE X.

OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT 1N CIVIL. 'ACTIONS.

Chapter 1. Judgment upon failure to answer, in.
“ ll. Issues and the mode of trial.
“ “1. Trial by jury.
“ IV. Trial by the court.
“ V, Trial by referees.
“ VI. The manner of entering judgment.

CHAPTER 1.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER," ac.

§2IB.-Judgment delinedd

A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in the action. ' 7

eat—Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess over counterclaim.

Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows: i

1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of
personal service of the summons and complaint on one or
more of the defendants, or of the summons according to the
provisions of section Seventy-six, and that no answer has
been filed. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for
the amount mentioned in the summons, against the defendant or defendants, or against one or more of several defen-‘
dants, in the cases provided for in section eighty-seven. But
if the complaint be not sworn to, and such action is on an
instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its
productionto him, shall assess the amount (he to the plaintiff
thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which
the plaintiff is entitled to recover in such action, from his
examination, under oath, or other proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so assessedor ascertained. In case the
defendant give notice of appearance in the action, he shall
be -entitled to five days’ notice of the time and place of such
assessment. ‘

Where the defendant, by his answer in such action, shall
not deny the plaintiff’s claim, but shall set up a counterclaim, amounting to less than the plaintiff’s claim, judgment
may be had by the plaintiff for the excess of said claim over
the said counter-claim, in like manner in any such action,
upon the plaintiff’s filing with the clerk of the Court a statement admitting such counter claim, which statement shall
be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.

2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the Court, after the expiration of the time for
answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that

purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages
for the Withholdin g thereof, the court may order the damages
to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long
account be involved, by a reference as above provided. If
the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before
the expiration of the time for answering, he shall be entitled
to eight days’ notice of the time and place of application to
the Court for the relief demanded by the complaint.

3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication,“ the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for
judgment, and the court must thereupon require proof to be
made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the
defendant be not a resident (f the State must require the
plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any
payments that have been made to the plaintiii“, or to any one
for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Before rendering judgment the court may, in its discretion,
require. the plaintiff to cause to be tiled satisfactory security,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of
any estate or effects which may be directed by such judgment
to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money
that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and
be admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such
defence.

§218.—Jndgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.

. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days may
apply to the court or to the Judge thereof, either in or out of
the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may be given
accordingly.

CHAPTER II.

ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

§2l9.—The dllrerent kinds of issues.

Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds;

1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.

$22oo—Issne of law.

An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or
to some part thereof.

§22l.—Issue of fact.

An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; or,

2. Upon new matter in; the answer controverted by the
reply; or, i

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law
is joined thereon. '

seem—0n Issues of both law and fact, the issue‘of law to be tried lirst.

Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon difi‘erent
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases
the issues .of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct:

§223.—Trial defined.

A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

(3224.—Issues, how tried.

An issue of law must be tried by the Judge of the court,
unless it be referred, as provided in sections two hundred and
forty-four and two hundred and forty-live. An issue of

specific real or personal property, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried
by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in sec-’
tion two hundred and forty, or a reference be ordered, as

provided in sections two hundred and forty-four and two
hundred and forty-tive.

§225.-—0ther issues to be tried by the court or Judge.

' Every other issue is triable by the court, or the Judge
thereof, who, however, may order the'whole issue, or any
specific question of 'fact involved therein, to be tried by a.
jury, or may refer it, as provided in sections two hundred
and forty-four and two hundred and fortyfive.

:§226.—Issues of fact, when to be tried.

Every issue of fact joined on the pleadings, and inquiry
I of damages required to be tried by a jury, shall be tried at
the term of the court next ensuing such joinderof iSSue or
order for inquiry; provided such issue shall have been
joined or order for inquiry made, more than thirty days
before such term, but if not, they shall be tried at the second
term after such joinder or order.

§227.-—Trlal may be postponed by clerk, when.

Any party to any action may apply to the court in which
it is pending, or to the Judge thereof, after three days
notice in writing to the adverse party, to have the trial
deferred to a term subsequent to that in which it is regularly
triable; 'such‘ application must be made thirty days before:
the trial term, and must be on aflidavit. The court or
Judge may defer the trial as asked for, on such terms as
shall be just, if satisfied:

1. That the applicant has used due diligence to have his
case ready for trial; and,

2. That by reason of circumstances beyond his control,
which he shall set forth, he cannot have a fair trial at the
regular trial term; if the application is made by reason of

the expected absence of a witness, it shall state the name
and residence of the witness, the facts expected to be proved
by him, and the grounds for the expectation of his nonattendance, and that the applicant expects to procure his
evidence at or before some namedsubsequent term.

The applicant shall in all cases pay the costs of the applis
cation. ()228.—Trial postponed by Judge in term, when.

The Judge at any time during the term at which an
action is triable, may postpone the trial on the application
of either party and on such terms as shall be just, if satisfied: ' 1. That the applicant has used due diligence to be ready
for trial. '

2. That he cannot have a fair trial at that term, by reason
of circumstances stated, and if the ground of application
be, the non-attendance of a witness, the affidavit shall
contain the particulars required by subdivision two of
section two hundred and twenty-seven. Unless the applicant
shall also set forth in his afiidavit, that the facts upon which
his application is grounded occurred, or came to his knowledge
too late to allow him to apply as prescribed in the last
section, and that his application is made as soon as it
reasonably could be after the knowledge of such facts, the
postponement shall not be granted, except on the terms of
the payment of the costs in the action for the term.

§229.—Criminal calendar nrst disposed of. Order of disposing of issues in
civil actions.

The criminal calender shall be first disposed of, unless by
consent of counsel, or for reasons satisfactory to the Judge,
particular criminal actions may be deferred. The issues
on the civil calendar shall be disposed of in the following
order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch
of business, the court shall otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court;
3. Issues of law.

CHAPTER III.

TRIAL BY JURY.

§230.—Separate trials.

A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the several
defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its
opinion, justice will thereby be promoted.

§231.-—Jndge to be furnished with copy pleadings, Sue.

The clerk shall furnish the Judge with a coPy of the

' summons and pleadings, and with the offer of the defendant
if any shall have been made.

$232.——General and special verdicts deiined.

A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
the plaintiff or defendant. .A special verdict is that by

which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to
the court. l ‘

§233.—When jury may render- either general or special verdict, and when '
Judge may direct special iinding.

In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or
the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury
shall assess the value of the property, it their verdict be in
favor of the plaintiff; or if they {ind in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof; and may
at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property.

In every action for the recovery of money only, or speciiic
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a
general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all
or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct them if
they render a general verdict, to hnd upon particular questions of facts, to be stated in writing, and may direct a
written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding
shall be filed with the clerk, and entered upon the minutes.

'
§234.-— 0n special lludlng with general verdict, former to control.

, Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with
the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and
the court shall give judgment accordingly.

’5'235.——Jnry to assess defendantls damages in certain cases.

When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-oft
for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount
of the plaintiff’s claim as established, the jury must also
assess the amount of the recoVery; they may also, under
the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery
when the court give judgment for the plaintiff on the
answer. If a set-off, established at the trial, exceed the V

plaintiff‘s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the

defendant is entitled to any other ailirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

§236.—Entry of the verdict. Motion for new trial on Judge’s minutes(1.) Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make anentry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and
either the judgment rendered thereon, or‘ an order that the
cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If
a different direction be not given by the court, the clerk
must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict. 

If an exception be taken, it may be reduced to writing at
the time, or entered in the Judge’s minutes, and afterwards
settled as provided by the rules of the court, and then stated
in writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but
a bill of exceptions need not be made. (3.) If the exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case, and it be
necessary to separate them, the separation may be made
under the direction of the Judge. (4.) The Judge who
tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to
be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant a
new trial upon exceptions, or for insquicient evidence, or for
. excessive damages; but such motion can only be heard at
the same term at which the trial is had. When such motion
' is heard and decided upon the minutes of the Judge, and an
appeal is taken from the decision, a case or exceptions must
be settled in the usual form, upon which the argument of
the appeal must be had.

§287.—Judge to explain law, but to express no opinions on facts.

No Judge, in giving a charge to the petty jury, shall give
an opinion whether a fact is fully or sufliciently proven,
such matter being the true oHice and province of the jury;
but he shall state in a plain and correct manner, the evidence given [in the case, and declare and explain the law
arising thereon. '

‘§288.—Jn‘dge to put his instructions in writingEvery Judge, at the request of any party to an action on
trial, made at or before the close of the evidence, before
instructing the jury on the law, shall put his instructions in
writing, and read them to the jury; he shall then sign and
file them with the Clerk as a part of the record of the action.

,§239-——Connsel to put their prayers for instruction in writing.

Counsel praying of the Judge instructions to the jury,
shall put their request in writing entitled of the cause, and
sign them; otherwise the Judge may disregard them; they
shall be filed with the clerk as a part of the record.

CHAPTER IV.

TRIAL BY THE COURT;

§240.—Trlal by jury, how waived.

Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in the manner following:

‘1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with

the clerk. A
3. By oral consent, entered in the minutes.

(gut—on trial by the court, judgment, how to be given.

Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement
of the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately;
and upon a trial of an issue at law, the decision shall be
made in the same manner, stating the conclusions of law.
Such decision shall be filedwith the clerk during the court
at which the trial takes place. Judgment upon the decision
shall be entered accordingly.

§242.—Exceptlons, how and when taken.

LL] ' For the purposes of an appeal, either party may
except to a decision on a matter of law arising upon ‘such
trial within ten days after the judgment, in the same manner
and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury. Provided,
' however, that where the decision does not authorize a final
judgment, but directs further proceedings before a referee
or otherwise, either party may except thereto, and make a .
case or exception as above provided in case of an appeal.

[2.] And either party desiring a review, upon the evidence appearing on the trial, of the questions of law may,
at any time within ten days after the judgment, or within
such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the court,

~ jury, except that the Judge, in settling the case, must briefly
specify the facts found by him, and his conclusions of law.

Q243.—Proeeedlngs upon judgment on. issue of law.

' On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law, the
plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the hrst
two subdivisions of section two hundred and seventeen, upon
' the failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons
was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant,
upon an issue of law, and if taking of an account or the
proof of any fact be necessary to. enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference or assessment by jury may
be ordered, as in that section provided.

CHAPTER V.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.

§241.—All issues referable by consent.

All, or any, of the issues in the action, whether of fact or
of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent
of the parties. ‘

$245.—When reference may be compulsorily ordered.

Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, of its own motion, except where
the investigation will require the decision of dichult questions of law, direct a reference in the following cases:

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side; in which
case the referee may be directed to hear and decide the
whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of fact
involved therein; or,

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment order into effect; or, O

3. When case involves a complicated question ofboundary,
or one which requires a personal view of the premises.

4. Where a question of fact, other'than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the

action.

.§246.—-Mode of trial—Erect of;eport—-—Review.'

The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner, as a trial by the court. They shall have the same
power to grant adjournments and to allow amendments to
any pleadingsiand to the summons, as the court upon such
trial, upon the same terms and with like effect. They shall
have the same power to preserve order and punish all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance
of witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them
as for a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn
or testify, as is possessed by the court. They must state the
facts found and the conclusions of law separately; and their
7 decision must be given, and may be excepted to and
reviewed in like manner, and with like effect in all respects
as in cases of appeal under section two hundred and fortytwo; and they may in like manner settle a case or exceptions. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
shall stand as the decision of the court, and judgment may
be entered thereon upon application to the ndge, and his
order. A When the reference is to report the facts, the report
shall have the effect of a special verdict.

§247.—Referees, how chosen—Who may be referee—Report.

In all cases of reference the parties as to whom issues are
formed in the action (except when the defendant is an infant
or an absentee) may agree in writing upon a person or
persons, not exceedingihree, and a reference shall be ordered
to him or them, and to no other person, or persons. And

if such parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or
more referees, not more than three, who shall be free from
exception. And no person shall be appointed referee to
whom all parties in the action shall object, except in actions
for divorce. And no Judge or J usti'ce of any court shall sit
as referee in any action pending in the court of which he is
Judge or Justice, and not already referred, unless the
parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or referees shall
make and deliver a report within sixty days from the time
the action shall be finally submitted; and in default thereof,
and before the report is delivered, either party may serve
notice upon the Opposite party that he elects to end the
reference; and thereupon the action shall proceed as though
no reference had been Ordered, and the. referees shall not in

such case be entitled to any fees.

The report of the referee shall be made to the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending: either party after ten
days notice to the adverse party, may move the Judge to
review such report, and set aside, modify, or confirm the
same in whole or in part, and no judgment shall be entered
on any reference except by order of the Judge.

CHAPTER Vl.

MANNER 0F ENTERING JUDGMENT.

§248.-'—Judgment may be for or against any of the parties; may grant defendant amrmative relief—Complaint may be dismissed for neglect to prosecute
action—Judgment against married woman.

(1.) Judgment may be given for or agamst one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side, as between themselves.

(2.) And it may grant to the defendant any afiirmative
relief to which he may be entitled. '

may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, '
whenever a several judgment may be proper.

(4.) The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costsin favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable
neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on
other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the
defendant or defendants served.

In 'an action brought by or against a married woman,
judgment may be given against her as well for costs as for
damages, or both for such costs and for such damages, in
the same manneras against other persons, to be levied and
collected of her separate estate and not otherwise.

§249.—Tlie relief to be awarded to the plaintiff.

The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer,
cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his.
Complaint; but in any other case the court may grant him
any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint.
and embraced within the issue. '

grab—Rates of damages where damages are recoverable.

Whenever damages are reco'verable, the plaintiff may
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered
for the same cause of action.

§251.—Judgment ln action for recovery of personal property.

In an action to recover the possession of personal property,

judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or for
l the recovery of possession, or for the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and the damages for the detention.
If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the
defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof
in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and
withholding the same.

t§252.—Clerk to enter judgments on judgment book, also judgments rendered
In other courts, and index them,

'The Clerk of the Superior Court shall enter every judgment of the court, on his judgment book; it shall specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action; he shall also enter on said book all judgments rendered in any other court, and authorized by law to be so
entered, and shall keep an alphabetical index of the whole,
with ‘thedates and numbers thereof.

,§253.——Jndgment roll.

Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgmentroll, the. clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,
shall attach together, and file the following papers, which
shall constitute the judgment-roll:

I. In case the complaint be not answered by any detendant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof
of service, and that no answer has been received, the report if any, and a copy of the judgment. . ‘

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies.
thereof, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or
report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all
orders and papers in any way involving the merits and
necessarily agecting the judgment.

§254.—Exlsting snlts. Judgments, when and how to be doeketed. Secured on
appeal. I

Upon filing a judgment-roll upon a judgment directing in

whole or in part the payment of money, it may be docketed

'with the clerk of the county where the judgment-roll was
filed, and in any other county upon the filing with the clerk

thereof a transcript of the original “ docket, ” and, shall be
a lien on the real property in the, county, Where the same is
docketed, of every person against whom any such judgment
shall be rendered, and which he may have at the time of
the docketing thereof in the county in which such real pro-j
perty is situated, or which he shall acquire at any time there-.after, for ten years from the time of dockcting the same in time during which the party recovering or owning such
judgment shall be, or shall have been, restrained from proceeding thereon by an order of injunction,‘or other order,
or by the operation of any appeal, shall not constitute any
part of the ten years aforesaid, as against the defendant in
such judgment, or the party obtaining sticli orders or making
such appeal, or any other person who is not a purchaser,
creditor or mortgagee in good faith. But whenever an
appeal from any judgment shall be pending, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall
have been given, and the appeal perfected as provided in
the Code, the court in which such judgment was recovered
may, on special motion, after notice to the person owning
the judgment, on such terms as they shall see fit, direct an
entry to be made by the clerk on the docket of such judgment, that the same is “ secured on appeal, ” and thereupon
it shall cease, during the pendency of said appeal, to be a.
lien on the real property of the judgment-debtor, as against
purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.

All executions issuing upon judgments docketed in a
' county other than that in which the original judgment was

rendered, shall be returned to the court from which they
issued; the return noted on the Execution Docket; and the

executions transmitted to the clerk of the court in which the
original judgment was taken. The provisions of this section
shall apply to existing judgments as well as to all hereafter

rendered.

TITLE XI.

OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Chapter I. The execution. .
“ 11. Proceedings supplementary to execution.

CHAPTER I.

THE EXECUTION.

g255.—Exeention within three years of course.

\Vrits of execution for the enforcement of judgments as
now used are modified in conformity to this title, and the

party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be given, and in case of his death his personal
representatives duly appointed, may at any time within
three years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce
the same, as prescribed by this title.

The provisions of this title shall apply to existing judgments except in the cases provided for, by the ordinance of
the Convention of this State entitled “An Ordinance
respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of this State,”.
ratified 14th of .March 1868, which shall be governed by the '

exstin g law.

§256.-—After three years, to he issued only by leave of court. have how
obtained.

After the lapse of three years from the entry of judgment,
an execution can be issued only by leave of the court, upon
motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he
be absent or non-resident, or cannot be found to make such
service, in which case such service may be made by publication, or in such other manner as the court shall direct.
Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by the
oath ,of the party, or other‘satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

But the leave shall not be necessary when execution has
been issued on the judgment within the three-years next
preceeding the suing for execution, and returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part. ‘ '

§257.—Judgments, how enforced.

Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may .be
enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in this
Title. Where it requires the performance of any other act, ‘
a certiiied copy of the judgment may be served upon the
party against whom it is given, or the person or ofiicer who
is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for contempt. ‘

$258.——The dm‘erent kinds of execution.

There shall be three kinds of execution; one against the
property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; and the third for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
Withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process
of the court, and shall be subscribed by the clerk, and where
to run out of his county, sealed with the seal of his court.

§259.—To what counties execution niay be issued. Execution against 8 married woman.

‘ When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county
where the judgment is docketed. When it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to
the sheriff of the county where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties. ‘ I

Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the
county where it lies, by the sheriff oi the county, or by a
referee appointed by the court for that purpose; and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to
the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass
the rights and interests of the parties adjudged to be sold.

An execution may issue against a married woman, and it
shall direct the levy and collection of the amount of the
judgment against her from her separate property, and not
otherwise.

tum—Execution against the person, In what eases.

If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in section one hundred and fortynine and section one hundred and forty-one, an execution
against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to
any county within the State, after the return of an execution
against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. But no
execution shall issue against the person of a judgm ent debtor,
unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this act provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts
showing one or more of the causes of arrest required by sec.tion one hundred and forty-nine.

With—Form of the execution.

The excution must be directed to the sheriff; or coroner
when the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the
clerk of the court, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the county where the judgment-roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due
thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which
the execution is issued, and shall require the officer substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the ofi‘icer to satisfy the judgment out of the
personal property of such debtor; and if suHicient personal
property cannot be found, out of the real property belonging
to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in the
county, or at any time thereafter.

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants
of real property or trustees, it shall require the ofiicer to
satisfy the judgment out of such property.

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the ofiicer to arrest such debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged according to law.

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the oiiicer to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the
oilicer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recovered,
to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had,
and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter,
and shall in that respect be deemed an execution against

property.

§262.—To be returnable in sixty days.

The execution shall be returnable Within sixty days, after
its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom the record

of judgment is filed.

§263.—-Existing laws relating to execution continued, until otherwise provided.

Until otherwise provided by the Legislature, the existing
provisions of law, not in conflict with this chapter, relating
to executions and their incidents, the property liable to sale
on execution, the sale and redemption thereof, the powers
and rights of ofiicers, their duties thereon, and the proceedings to enforce those duties, and the liability of their sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.

But the sheriff may sell on due advertisement on the first
three days in any month, and if one of them be Sunday it
shall not be counted.

CHAPTER II.

I PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

§264.—Exlstlng suits—Order for discovery of property, examination of Judgment debtor, to. ‘

(1.) When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgment
issued to the sheriff of the. county where he resides or has
a place of business, or if he do not reside in the State, to
the sheriff of the county where a judgment-roll or a transcript ' of a Justice’s ‘judgment for twenty-five dollars, or
upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied,
in Whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after
such return made, is entitled to an order from the court to
which the execution is returned, or from the Judge thereof,
requiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property, before such court or Judge, at a time and place
specified in the order, within the county to\ which the
execution was issued. (2.) After the issuing of an execution against pr0perty, and upon proof by ailidavit, of a
party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a
Judge thereof, that any judgment debtor, residing in the
judicial district where such Judge or oiiicer resides, has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or Judge may, by
an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application
of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon the return of
an execution. ( 3.) On an examination under this section,

either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the
judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as
a witness. (4.) Instead of the. order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon proof” by aiiidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is
danger of the debtor’s leaving the State, or concealing him-self, and that there is reason to believe he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue
.a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such
debtor may be, to arrest him' and bring him before such
Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may be
examined on oath, and, if it then appears that there is
danger of the debtor leaving the State, and that he has
property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such
judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one
or more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend
before the Judge as he shall direct, and that he will not,
during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any
i , property not exempt from execution. In default of enter» ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison
i i by warrant of the J udgehas for a contempt.  No person
, , shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused
, , from answering any question on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
1 fraud; but his answer shall not be used asevidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall
he be excused from answering any question, on the ground
that he has, before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

‘5

()265.——Existing suits—Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.

After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall
be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the sheriff’s
receipt, shall be a sufficient discharge, for the amount so
paid.

';§266.-—Existing suits. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of
those having property belonging to him. Joint debtor.

After the issuing or return of an execution against pro;perty of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon aiiidavit that any person
or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the
,Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation,
or any oilicer or member thereof, to appear at a specified
time andiplace, and answer concerning the same. The
Judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of such

proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.

The proceedings mentioned in this section and in section
two hundred and sixty-four may be taken upon the return
of an execution unsatisfied, issued upon a judgment recovered in an action against joint debtors, in which some of the
defendants have not been served with the summons by
which said action was commenced, so far as relates to the
joint property of such debtors; and all actions by creditors
to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the property of
joint debtors are maintainable in the like manner and to the
like effect. These provisions shall apply to all proceedings
and actions now pending. and not actually terminated by
any final judgment or decree, and not embraced in the
‘Ordinance of ‘ the Convention of this State, entitled “ An
Ordinance respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of this
.State, ” ratilied fourteenth day of March 1868.

‘§267.—Existing suits. Witnesses required to testify.

Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon
.the trial of an issue.

:§268.—Existtng suit. Compelling party or witnesses to attend.

_ The party or witness may be required to attend before the
Judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or Judge;
a’f before a referee, the examination shall be taken by the

referee, and certified to the Judge.‘ All examinations and
answers before a J udgcor referee, under this chapter, shall
be on oath, except that when ’a corporation answers, the
answer shall be on the oath of an afi'icer thereof. '

vim—Existing suits. What property may he ordered to, be applied to the

execution.

' The Judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, net exempt from execution, in the hands either of ‘
himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor,
to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment;
except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty days next preceeding the
order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear, by the
debtor’s afiidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

$270,—Exlsting suits. Judge may appoint receiver and prohibit transfer,
8w, of property. Order, «he.

' The Judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and
with the like authority, as if the appointment was made by
the court, according to section two hundred and fifteen. But
before the appointment of such receiver, the Judge shall
ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings are
pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedings are so pending, the plaintiff therein shall have notice
to appear before him, and shall likewise have notice of all
subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership. No
more than one receiver of the property of a judgement
debtor shall be appointed. The Judge may also, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any inter»
ference therewith.

Q

Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appointment 'of a receiver of the property of the judgment debter,
the same shall be tiled in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county where the judgment-roll in the
action or transcript from justice’s judgment, upon which the
proceedings are taken, is filed; and the clerk shall record
the order in a book to be kept for that purpose in his oiiice,
to be called “ Book of orders appointing receivers ,ot judgment debtors, ” and shall note the time of the filing of said
order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named therein, and he shall be vested
with the property and effects of the judgment debtor from
the time of the tiling and recording of the order as aforesaid.
The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be subject to the
direction and control of the court in which the judgment
was obtained upon which the preceedings are founded.

But before he shall be vested with any real property of
such judgment debtor, a certiiied copy of said order shall
also be filed and recorded on the execution docket, in the
office of the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which any real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be
effected by such order is situated, and also in the ofEce of
the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which such
judgment debtor resides.

-. (ink—Existing suits—Proceedings upon claim of another party to 1&1‘01‘02t3’, or
on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.

If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an
action against such person or corporation by the receiver;
but the Judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the action, and
prosecute the same to judgment and execution; but such
order may be modified or dissolved by the Judge granting
the same, at any time, on‘ such security as he shall direct.

$272.—Existing suits—Reference by Judge.

The Judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a'
referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion,
appoint such referee in the first order, or at any time. ‘

“Hr—Existing suits—Cost of proceeding.

The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any
party so examined, whether a party to the action or not,

witnesses’ fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.

{Rib—Existing suits—Disobedlenee of order, how punished.

7 If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the
Judge or referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness,
may be punished by the Judge as for a contempt. And
in all cases of commitment under this chapter, the person
committed may, in case of inability to perform the act
required, or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged 7
from imprisonment by the court or Judge committing him,
or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such
terms as may be just.

‘ The sections of this chapter, from section two hundred
and sixty-four, to section two hundred and seventy-fucr both
inclusive, shall be applicable to all judgments which shall
be recovered after the ratilication of this Act, except judg-'
ments upon causes of action embraced in the provisions of
an Ordinance passed by the Convention of this State, entitled
“An Ordinance respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of
this State,” ratified on the fourteenth of March, 1868, which

shall be governed by the existing laws.

TITLE XII.

or THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. '

§275.——Foe bill of attorneys abolished.

All statutes establishing or regulating the costs or fees of
attorneys, solicitors, and counsel in civil actions, and all
. existing rules and provisions of law restricing or controlling
the right of a party to agree with an attorney, solicitor, or
counsel, for his compensation are repealed; and hereafter
the measure of such compensation shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties. But there may be '
allowed to the prevailing party, upon the judgment, certain
sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the action,
which allowances are in this act termed costs.

§276.—When allowed of course to the platinum—Several actions on one Instrument.

COsts shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a
recovery, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when
a claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or
is certified by the court to have come in question at the
trial;

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
Property; ,

3. In the actions of which a court of Justice of the Peace
has no jurisdiction;

4.. In an action for the recovery of money, where the
plaintiff shall recover ,fifty dollars; but in an action for
assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover
no more cost than damages. And in an action to recover
the possesion of personal property, if the plaintilf recover '
less ‘than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more
costs than damages, unless he recovers also property, the

value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars,

or the possession of property be adjudged to him, the value
of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars; such

value must be determined by the jury, court, or referee by
whom the action is tried. When several actions shall be’
brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of
exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any other
case, for the same causeof action, against several parties
who 'might have been joined as defendants in the same
action, no costs other than disbursements shall be allowed
to the plaintiff in more than one of such actions; which

shall be at his election, provided that the party or parties
proceeded against in such other action or actions shall at the

time of the commencement of the previous action or actions
have been within the State, and not secre'teda ' '

§277.—When allowed to defendant.

Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the

actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintiff be
entitled to costs therein. '

5

$278.—-When allowed to either party, In the discretlon of the court.

In other actions, eosts may be allowed or not, in the dish
cretion of the court. '

In all actions where there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defences by separate
answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover udgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as
have judgment in their favor, or any of them. i

In the following cases the costsof an appeal to any couit~
shall be in the discretion of the court:

1. When a new trial shall be ordered;

 When a judgment shall be affirmed in part, and
reversed in part.

swim—Amount of costs allowed.

When allowed costs shall be as follows:

1. To either party for whom judgment shall be given, his
actual disbursements for fees to the officers entitled to receive
fees; and in addition thereto,

2. To the plaintiif when, in any action or proceeding,
judgment shall be rendered for him by confession; or for
want of an answer, or for other plea of the defendant, ten
dollars.

3. To the defendant when judgmen't shall be rendered
for him against the plaintilf by confession, or for want of a '
complaint or pleading of any sort, ten dollars.

4. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be rendered by the Judge, on an appeal from any order or decision
of the Clerk of the Superior' Court, five dollars.

I 5. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be given
by a Judge, on an issue of law joined on the pleadings, if
argued by counsel before the Judge, ten dollars; if not so
argued, five dollars. I

7. To either party recovering judgment upon a trial by
Jury, fifteen dollars; and if the trial shall necessarily occupy
more than one day, five dollars for every additional day.

8. On every order for the postponement- of the trial 'to
another term made before a term at-whioh it is triable, three
dollars, to be paid or not, by the party making the applica-»
tion, in the discretion of the court. - g

9. On every order for the postponement of the trial to
another term, made during a term at which the case is
triable, five dollars, besides the actual disbursements of the
adverse party in procuring the attendance and payment of
his witnesses, to be paid by the party making the application, unless the J udge. in his discretion shall order
otherwise. '

10. In addition to the above, to either party where a new
trial shall be had, for all proceedings after the granting of ‘
' such new trial, including the trial, lifteen dollars; for attending upon and taking the deposition of a witness condition.
ally, or attending to perpetuate his testimony, five dollars;
for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commission for the
taking of testimony, three dollars; for attending the examination of a party before trial, three dollars; for making and
serving a case, or case containing exceptions, five dollars,
except that Where the case shall necessarily contain more

than fifty folios, there shall be allowed live dollars in addition thereto; and for making and serving amendments
thereto, nve dollars; Provided that the costs for making
and serving a case, or case with exceptions, shall only be
' allOwed where the case was not excepted to by the adverse
party, or, when being excepted to, it was approved by the
Judge; and costs for amendments. proposed thereto by the
adverse party, shall only be allowed when the amendments
shall be material and accepted by the adverse party, or' not
being accepted, shall be approved by the Judge. If the case
and amendments proposed be each partly allowed and partly
disallowed by the'Judge, no costs shall be allowed to either
party. To the plaintiii' for procuring the appointment of
a guardian of an infant defendant, two dollars; and no
more shall be allowed for the appointment of guardians in
any one action. I To the plaintiff for procuring an order of
injunction, ten dollars. *

11. To either party on appeal to the Supreme Court,
thirty dollars; and'when a judgment is aiiirmed, the court
may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay,
not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the judgment.

The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintiif in proceedings under chapter two, title XIV, sections three hundred

and eighteen to three hundred and twenty-four, both inclusive, as upon the commencement of an action.

$280.—Additional allowance.

In addition to these allowances, there shall be allowed to
the plaintiff, upon the recovery of judgment by him, in
any action for the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in any action in which a warrant
of attachment has been issued, or for an adjudication upon
a will or other instrument in, writing, and in proceedings
to compel the determination of claims to real pr0perty, the
sum of five per cent. on the recovery, as in the next section
prescribed, for any amount not exceeding two hundred
dollars; and additional sum of three per cent. for any additional amount not exceeding four hundred dollars; and an
additional sum of two per cent. for any additional amount
not exceeding one thousand dollars.

And in the actions above named, if the same shall be
settled before judgment therein, like allowances upon the

amount paid or secured upon such settlement, at one-half
the rates above specified ’

$281.—Allowanee, how computed—Billed“ and extraordinary! cases.

These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the
property claimed or attached, or affected by the adjudica
tion upon the will or other instrument, or sought to be
partitioned, or the amount found due or unpaid upon the
mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And whenever it
shall be necessary to apply to the court for an order enforcing the payment of an installment falling due, after judgment, in an action for foreclosure, the plaintiff shall be
entitled to the rate ofallowance in the last section prescribed

but to no more in the aggregate than if the whole amount
of the mortgage had been due when judgment was entered.
Such amount of value must be determined by the court or
by the commissioners, in case of actual partitions. LIn
difficult and extraordinary cases, where a defence has been
interposed, or in such cases Where a trial has been had, and ,
in actions or proceedings for the partition of real estate, the
court may also, in its discretion, make a further allowance
to any party, not exceeding five per cent. upon the amount
of the recovery or claim, or subject—matter involved.

awn-Report, when allowed.

When .the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest,
from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be

finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added
to the costs of the party entitled thereto.

«Raw-Costs. how to be inserted .in judgment. Adjustment of lnterlocntory
costs. '

The Clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the

application of the prevailing party, upon five days notice to
be other, the sum of the allowances for costs, as provided

by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including the
fees of officers allowed’ by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking depositions,
the fees of referees, and the expense of printing the papers
for any hearing when required by a rule of the court. The
disbursements shall be stated in detail and verified by amdavit. A copy of the items of the costs-and disbursements
shall be served, with a notice of adjustment.

Whenever it shall be necessary to' adjust costs in any
interlocutory proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the same shall be adjusted by the Judge before
.whom the same may be heard, or the court before which the
same may be decided or pending, or in such other manner
as the Judge or court may direct.

$284.—Fees of clerks, sherm's, to.

T he fees of the clerk, sheriff and other officers of the court,
shall be as prescribed by law.

$285.—Referees’ fee.

The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensatoin.

tulip—Costs against lntant plaintitrt .

\Vhen costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff. the
guardian by whom he appeared in the ,actiOn shall be

responsible therefor, and payment thereof may be forced by
attachment.

$287.—Costs In action by or against an executor or administrator, trustees of
an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute to sue.

(1.) In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as
in an action by and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; but such costs shall be chargeable only

upon or collected of the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the cOurt shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad
faith in such action or defence. But this section shall not be
construed to allow costs against executors or administrators where they are now exempted therefrom by law. (2.)
And whenever any claim against a deceased person shall be referred, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the
fees of referees and witnesses, and other necessary disbursements, to be taxed according to law.

$288.——€osts in (MI actions by the State.

In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the State, by
an oiiicer duly authorized for that purpose, the State shall be
liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent as
private parties. If a private person be joined with the State
as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the
defendant’s costs, which shall not be recovered of the State
till after execution issued therefor against such private party
and returned unsatisfied.

5289.—Costs in action by the State for a private person.

In an action prosecuted in the name of' the State for the
recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or
claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corporation or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall

be a charge against the party for whose benefit the action
was prosecuted, and not against the State.

amt—Costs against assignce after action brought, of cause of action.

In actions in which the cause of action shall by assignment after thecommencement of the action, or in any other
manner, become the property of a person not «a party to the
action, such person shall be liable for the costs, in the same

manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be
enforced by attachment.

sub—Costs on a settlement.

Upon the settlement, before judgment of any action mentioned in section two hundred and seventy-six, no greater
sum shall be demanded from the defendant as costs than at

the rates prescribed by that section.

tut—Costs on appeals. '

On an appeal from a Justice of the Peace, to a Superior
Court, or from 3. Superior Court or a Judge thereof, {to the
Supreme Court, if the appellant shall recover judgment in
the appellate court, he shall recover the costs of the appellate court, and those he ought to have recovered below, had
the judgment of that court been correct, and also restitution
of any costs of the court appealed from, which he shall have
paid under the erroneous judgment of such court.

If in any court of appeal there shall be judgment for a
new trial, or for a new jury, or if the judgment appealed
from, be not wholly reversed, but partly aHirmed and partly
disaflirmed, the costs shall be in the discretion of the appellate court.

§293.—Costs in existing actions.

Costs in actions brought before the ratification of this
Act, shall be according to existing laws.

(gab—Costs in special proceedings.

The costs in special proceedings shall be as herein allowed
in civil actions, unless where otherwise specially provided.

secs—on appeals from Justices of the Peace.

After an appeal from the judgment of a Justice of the
Peace shall be filed with a Clerk of a Superior Court, the
costs in all subsequent stages shall be, as herein provided
for actions originally brought to the Superior Court.

TITLE XIII.

CHAPTER I.

§296.—Writs of error abolished, and appeals snhstltnted.

Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore
existed, are abolished; and the only mode of reviewing a
judgment, or order, in a civil action, shall be that prescribed
by this title.

The provisions of this title shall apply to all actions tried
after the Fall Terms of the Superior Courts, held next after
the ratification of this Act. The existing laws shall govern
trials and appeals in said Courts at said Fall Terms.

(mm—Orders made out of Court, how vacated or modilled.

An order, made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the

Judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice,

in the manner in which other motions are made.

gum—Existing salts—who may appeal.

Any party aggrievedmay appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title; this section shall apply to existing suits.

$299o—Appeal—in what cases it may be taken.

An appeal may be taken from every judicial order or
determination of a Judge of a Superior Court, upon or
involving a matter of- law or legal inference, whether made
in or out of term, which affects a substantial- right claimed in
any action or proceeding; or Whig}; in effect determines the
action, and prevents a judgment from which an appeal
might be taken; or discontinues the action, or grants or
refuses a new trial,

/

§800.-—Wlien taken—execution not suspended, when.

The appeal must be taken from a judgment rendered out
of term, within ten days after notice thereof, and from a
judgment rendered in term, within ten days after its rendition, but execution shall not be suspended until the giving
by the appellant of the undertakings hereinafter required by
sections ‘three hundred and three, to three hundred and
twelve, both inclusive of this Code.

VOL—Appeal to be entered byrelerk on Judgment docket.‘ (fuse how stated and
settled;

Within the time prescribed in the preceding section, the
appellant shall cause his appeal to be entered by the clerk on
the judgment docket, and notice thereof to be given to the
adverse party. He shall cause to be prepared a concise
statement of the case, embodying the instructions of the
Judge as signed by him, if there be any exception thereto,
and the requests of the counsel of the parties for instructions
if there be any exception on account of the granting or withholding thereof, and stating separately in articles numbered,
the errors alleged. A copy of this statement shall be
served on the respondent as provided in section eighty,
within five days from the entry of the appeal taken; within
three days after such service, the respondent shall return
the copy with his approval or specific amendments endorsed.
or attached; if the case be approved by the respondent, it
shall be filed with the clerk as a part of the record; if not
returned with objections within the time prescribed, it shall
be deemed approved; if returned with objections as prescribed, the appellant shall immediately request the Judge
to iix a time and plaCe for settling the case before him; and
the Judge shall forthwith notify the attorneys of the parties
to appear before him for that purpose at a certain time and
place, within the. judicial district, which time shall not be
more than twenty days from the receipt of such request;
and at the time and place stated, the Judge shall settle and
sign the case, and deliver a copy to the attorney of each
party, or if they be not present, file a copy in the oiiice of

the‘clerk of the court. In settling the case, the written
instructions signed by the Judge, and the written requests
. for instructions signed by the counsel, and iiled as prescribed
in sections two hundred and thirty-eight and two hundred
and thirty-nine, shall be taken as conclusive as to what
such instructions and requests were. If a copy of the case
settled, was delivered to the appellant, he shall within live
days thereafter, file the same with the clerk, and in case he
fail to do so, the respondent may file his copy.

Mom—Clerk to make copy of judgment roll and send to Elerk of Supreme

‘Court.

The clerk on receiving a copy of the case settled, as
required in the preceding section, shall make a copy of the
judgment roll and of the case, and within twenty days,
tranSmit the same, duly certified, to the clerk of the Supreme
Court.

$303.—0n appeal, security must be given or deposit made, unless waived.

. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written
undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will
pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him on the ap'peal,not exceeding five hundred dollars, or
that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.

(330L—Exlsting suits-—-0n judgment for money, security to stay execution—
New undertaking, on suretles in iirst becoming insolvent.

If the appeal~ be from a judgment directing the payment
of money, it shall not- stay the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the
judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or
the appeal be dissmissed, the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such

amount as to which the judgment shall be aiiirmed, if it be
atlirmed only in part, and all damages which shall be
awarded against. the appellant upon the appeal. Whenever
it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the court'that since
the execution of the undertaking the sureties have become
insolvent, the court may, by rule or order, require the appellant to execute, file and serve a new undertaking as above;
and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking within
twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or order
requiring such new undertaking, the appeal may, on motion
to the court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it shall be
necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a
bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may, in
lieu thereof, deposit with the officer or into court, as the
case may require, money to the amount for which such bond.
or undertaking is to be given. The court in which such
action or proceeding is pending may direct What disposition
shall be made'of such money, pending the action or proceeding. In any case where, by this section, the money is
to be deposited with an oflicer, a judge of the court, at
special term, or at chambers, upon the application of either
party, may. before such deposit is made, order it to be
deposited in court instead of with such ofiicer; and a deposit
made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the same eifect as
if made with such oHicer.

I

§305.—Existing suits—If judgment be to deliver document or personal prosperty, it must be deposited, or security be given.

It the jpdgment appealed from direct the assignment or
delivery of documents or personal prOperty, the execution
of the judgment shall not he stayed by appeal, unless the
things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
corirt, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as
the court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered
into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court, or a Judge thereof,
shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the
order of the appellate court upon the appeal. 7

Moon—Existing suits—If to execute conveyance, it must be executed and
deposited.

If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not he stayed by the appeal until the instrument
shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court.

won—Existing suits—Security where judgment is to deliver real fproperty
or for a sale of mortgaged premises. '

If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery
of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall
not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part- of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that,
during the possession of such property by the appellant, he
will not commit, or suffer to be comitted, any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value
of the use and occupation of the prOperty, from the time of
the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant
to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed bya Judge
of the court by which judgmet was rendered, and which
shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
i provide for the payment of such deficiency.

$308.—Existing suits—Stay of proceedings upon security being given.

Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections
three hundred and four, three hundred and five, three hundred
and six, and three hundred and seven, it stays all further
proceedings in the court below upon the judgment appealed
from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but the court
. below may proceed upon any other matter included in the
action and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And
- the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit
the security required by sections three hundred and four
three hundred and five, and three hundred and seven, when the

appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other

person acting in another’s right; and may also limit such
security to an amount not more than fifty thousand dollars, in

the cases mentioned in sectiOns three hundred and five,

three hundred and six, three hundred and seven, where it would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed that

sum.

$309.—Existing suits—fndertakings may be in one instrument or severalThe undertakings prescribed by sections three hundred
and four. three hundred and five, three hundred and six, and
three hundred and seven, may be in one instrument or several,
at the option of the appellant; and a copy, including, the
names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the
adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is .
made as provided in section three hundred and four, and
notice thereof given.

(3310.—Existing suits—Security to be approved and to justify.

An'undertaking Upon an appeal shall be of ' no eii'ect,
unless it be accompanied by the aflidavit of the sureties
that they are each worth double the amount speciiied
therein. The respondent may, hmvever, except to the sutiiciency of the sureties, within ten days after the notice of .
the appeal; and unless they or other sureties justify before .
the Judge or court below, or as prescribed by sections one
hundred and sixty-five and one hundred and sixty-six, within
ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no
undertaking had been given. The justification shall be upon
a notice of not less than five days.

()3 ll.—Existing suits—Perishable property maybe sold notwithstanding appealIn the cases not provided for in sections three hundred, and
five, three hundred and six, three hundred and seven, and .
three hundred and eight, the perfecting of an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section three hundred
and four, shall stay proceedings in the court below upon
the judgment appealed from, except that whereit directs ‘

‘the sale ot perishable property, the court below may order
the ' prOperty to be sold, and the proceeds thereof, to be
deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the, appellate
'court. . "

~.§3l2.—Existjng salts—Undertaking must be tiled.

The undertaking must be filed with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The
provisions of this chapter as to the security to be given
upon appeals, and as to the stay of proceedings, shall apply
to all appeals taken to the Supreme Court.

“(3313.—Existlng salts—Intermediate orders meeting the Judgment may be
reviewed on the appeal.

Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review
any intermediate order. involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the judgment.

{yam—Existing suits—Judgment on appeal—Restitution.

Upon an appeal, from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, afiirm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in ‘the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and. as to any or all of the parties, and may, if
necesssary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroxneous judgment. . ' ,

The foregoing sections, from section three hundred and
four, to section three hundred and fourten, both inclusive
:shall apply to existing suits.

TITLE XIV,

OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS.

CHAPTER I.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION. I

§215.—Controversy, how snbmltted without action.

Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by amdavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. The Judge shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action

were depending.

$316o—Judgment. . '

Judgment shall be entered in the Judgment Docket, as in
other cases, but without costs for any proceeding .prior to
trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judg- .
ment shall constitute the judgment-roll. The costs of the

trial shall be five dollars.

$317.—Judgment, how enforced or appealed from,

The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if
it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to

appeal in like manner.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS, HEIRS, DEVISEES, LEGATEEB,
AND TENANTS HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.

()818.—Portles not summoned in aetlon on joint contract, may be summoned
after judgment.

\Vhen a judgment shall be recovered against one or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by pro. ceeding as provided in section eighty-seven, those who were
not originally summoned to answer the complaint may be
summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.

§819.~—If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be summoned.

In case of the death of the judgment debtor after judgment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor,
or the tenants of realproperty owned by him and affected
by the judgment, may, after the expiration of three years,
from the time of granting letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate of the testator or intestate, be
summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be

enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands respectively; and the personal representatives of a
deceased judgment debtor may be so summoned at any time
within one year after their appointment. The personal
representative of a deceased judgment debtor, if there be
any, shall always be parties to any summons against his
heirs, devisees, legatees or tenants, to enforce the judgment.

§320.—Form of summons.

The summons provided in the last section shall be signed
by the clerk of any court in which the judgment was dock—
eted before the death of the debtor, and in which he had
property affected thereby, but shall be made returnable to
the court in which the judgment was recovered; it shall

describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to
show cause within twenty days after the service of the summons; and shall be served in like manner as the original ’
summons. ‘

gab—To be accompanied by amdavlt of amount due.

The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
person causing it to issue, that the judgment has not been
satisfied, to his knowledge or information and belief, and
shall specify the amount due thereon.

§322.—Party summoned may answer and defend.

Upon such summons any party summoned may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment; or
setting up any defence thereto which may have arisen subsequently to such judgment; and in addition thereto, if the
party be proceeded against according to section three hundred and eighteen, he may make any defence which he might .
have made to the action if the summons had been served on him at the time when the same was originally commenced
and such defence had been then interposed to such action.

‘5

§323.—~Snbseqnent pleadlngs and proceedings same as in action.

‘ The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to
the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the
reply; and the issues may be tried and judgment may be
given in the same manner asin an action, and enforced by
execution, or the applicationof the property charged to the
payment of the judgment may be compelled by attachment,
if necessary.

§324.——Answer and reply to be verined as In an action.

The answer and reply shall .be verified in the like cases
and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer
and reply in an action.

CHAPTER III.

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

§325.——Jndgmcnt may he confessed for debt due or contingent liablllty.

A judgment by confession may be entered, without action,
either in or out of term, either for money due or to become
due, or to’secure any person against contingent liability on
behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.

()326.—-Statement In writing and form thereof.

. A statement in writing must be made, signed by the

defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:

1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be
entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor. .

2. It it be for money due, or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show
that the sum confessed therefor, is justly due, or to become
due.

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it 'must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and must show that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same.

§327.—Jndgmcnt and execution.

The statement may be filed with the clerk of the Superior
Court of the county in which the defendant resides, or if
he does not reside in the State, of some county in which he
has property. The clerk shall endorse upon it, and enter
on his judgment docket, a judgment of the court, for the
amount confessed, with three dollars costs, togetherwith
disbursements. The statement and affidavit, with the judgment endorsed, shall thencefOrth become the judgment-roll.
Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in the same
manner as upon judgments in other cases in such courts.
When the debt for which the judgment is recovered, is not

all due, or is payable in installments, and the installments:
are not all due, the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such installments as have become v
due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have endorsed
thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a direction to the sheriff to collect the amount due on such judg~
ment, with interest and costs, which amount shall be stated,
with interest thereon, and the costs of said judgment. Not—
withstanding the issue and collection of such execution,
the judgment shall remain as security for the installments
thereafter to become due; and whenever any further installments become due execution may, in like manner, he issued
for the collection and enforcement of the same.

CHAPTER IV.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART OF

THE ACTION.

§328o—0n'er of compromise.

The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict,
serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to
the effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff
accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within
ten days, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer,
with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must
thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of
acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintiff
fail to obtain a more favorable udgment he cannot recover \
costs, but must pay the defendant’s costs from the time of
the offer; and in case the defendant shall set up a counterclaim in his answer to an amount greater than the plaintiff’s
claim, or sufficient to reduce the plaintiff’s recovery below
fifty dollars, then the plaintiff may serve upon the defendant.

an olfer in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him_
'for the amount specified, or to allow said counter-claim to
the amount specified with costs. If the defendant accept
the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten days,
he may enter judgment as above for the amount specified, if
:the offer entitle him to judgment, or the amount specified
in said offer shall be allowed him in the trial of the action.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and
if the defendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment,
or to establish his counter-claim for a greater amount than
is specified in said offer, he cannot recover costs, but must

pay the plaintiff’s costs from the time of the offer.

5329.—Defendant may alter to liquidate damages conditionally.

In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with
his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, that
it he fail in his defence, the damages be assessed at a speci~
iied sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof
in writing, twenty days before the trial, and on the trial have
a verdict, the damages shall be assessed accordingly.

' gaze—mm of acceptance or refusal of other.

It the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove his
damages, as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed
.in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer,
the defendant shall recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defence in respect
to the question of damages. Such expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

CHAPTER V.

ADKISSION OR INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.

§331.—Exlstlng suits. Inspection and copy of books, papers, and documents,
how obtained.

Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney
at any time before the trial, any paper material to the action,
and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If
the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission,
within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper he afterwards put to expense in order to prove
its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted
on the trial, such expense to be ascertained at the trial,
shall be paid by the party refusing the admission, unless it
appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal. The court before which an action
is pending, or a Judge thereof, may, in their discretion, and
upon due notice, order either party to give to the other,
within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a coPy, of any books, papers, and documents,
in his possession or under his control, containing evidence
relating to the merits of the action or the defence therein.
If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion,
may exclude the paper from being given in evidence, or
punish the party refusing, or both. This section shall apply
to existing suits.

CHAPTER VI. .

EXAMINATION OF PARTIES.

§332°~Aetlon for discovery abolished.

N 0 action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defence 'of another action, shall be allowed,

nor shall any exomination of a party be had, on behalf of
the adverse party, except in the manner prescribed by this

chapter.

§883.—Exlstihg suits—A party may examine his adversary as a witness.

A party to an action may be examined as a Witness, at the
instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse
parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any
other Witness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally,
or upon commission.

§384.-—Exlstlng suits—Such examination also allowed before trial—Premedilgs therefor.

The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as
provided in the last section, may be had at any time before
the trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before a
Judge or clerk of the Court, on a previous notice to the
party to be examined, and any other adverse party, of at
' least five days, unless, for good cause shown, the Judge order
otherwise. But the party to be examined shall not be compelled to attend in another county than that of his residence,
or Where he may be served with a summons for his
attendance.

§835.—Existing salts—Party, how compelled to attend.

The party to be examined, as in the last section provided,
may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a witness
who is to be examined conditionally; and the examination
shall be taken and filed by the Judge or clerk in like manner,
and may be read by either party on the trial.

§336.—Exlsting salts—Testimony of party may be rebutted. .

The examination of the party thus taken, may be rebutted
by adverse testimony.

$337-—Existing suits—Eteet of refusal to testify.

If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four
sections provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and
his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out.

§338.—Existing suits—Testimony by a party not responsive to the inquiries,
may be rebuttod by the oath of the party calling him.

A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to the
same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he
testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries
put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers
would charge himself, such adverse party may Offer himself
as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new matter,
subject to the same rules of examination as other witnesses,
and shall be so received.

é339.—Existing suits—Persons for whom action is brought or defended may
be examined.

A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a

party.

{palm—Existing suits—Examination of eo-plaintiii' or (so-defendant.

A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintiff or
of a co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly
interested 0r liable with such co-plaintiif or ccdefendant,
and as to which a separate and not joint verdict or judgment ‘
can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend in
the same manner as at the instance of an adverse party;
but the examination thus taken shall not be used in the
behalf of the party examined. And whenever, in the case
mentioned in sections three hundred and ninety and three
hundred and ninety-one, one of several plaintiffs or defendants who are joint contractors; or are united in interest, is

examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintiffs
or defendants may offer himself asa Witness to the same
cause of action or defence, and shall be so received.

yup—Husband and wife, witnesses.

In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding in
any court, or before any person having, by law or consent
of parties, authority to examine Witnesses or hear evidence,
“the husband or wife of any party thereto, or of any person
in Whose behalf any such suit, action or' proceeding is
brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended, shall, except as
hereinafter stated, be competent and compellable to give
evidence, the same as any other witness, on behalf of any
party to such suit, action or proceeding. Nothing herein
contained shall render any husband or Wife competent or
compellable to give evidence for or against the other, in any
criminal action or proceeding (except to prove the fact of
marriage in case of bigamy,) or in any action or proceeding '
in consequence of adultery, or in any action or proceeding
for divorce on account of adultery (except to prove the fact
of marriage,) or in any action or proceeding for or on account
of criminal conversation. N o husband or Wife shall be compellable to disclose any confidential communication made by
one to the other during their marriage. The several sections.
of this chapter shall apply to existing suits.

CHAPTER VII.

EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES.

(Biz—Existing suits—Interest not to eXelnde a witness.

No person“oifered as a Witness shall be excluded by reason
of his interest in the event of the action.

§343.—Existing suits—Parties to actions and special proceedings may be examined as witnesses on their own behalf, except in certain cases.

A party to an action or special proceeding in any and all
courts and before any and all ochers and persons acting

judicially, may be examined as a witness on his own behalf,
or in behalf of any other party, conditionally, on commission
and upon the trial or hearing in the case, in the same
manner and subject to the same rules of examination as any
other witness; provided, however, that no party to the action
or proceeding, nor any person who has a legal or equitable
interest which may be affected by the event of the action or
proceeding, nor any person who, previous to such examination, has had such an interest, howeverthe same may have
been transferred to or come to the party to the action or
, proceeding, nor any assignor of anything in controversy in
the action, shall be examined in regard to any transaction
or communication between such Witness and aperson at the
time of such examination deceased, insane or lunatic, as a
witness against a party then prosecuting or defending the
action as executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next-of-kin
assignee, legatee, devisee, or survivor of such deceased
person, or as assignee or committee of such insane person or

lunatic, when such examination or any judgment or determination in such action or proceeding, can in any manner
aEect the interest of such witness or the interest previously
owned or represented by him. But when such executor,
administrator, heir-at-law, next-of-kin, assignee, legatee,
devisee, survivor or committee, shall be examined on his own
behalf in regard to such transaction or communication or
the testimony of such deceased or insane person or lunatic
in regard to such transaction or communication (however
the same may have been perpetuated or made competent,)
shall be given in evidence on the trial or hearing on behalf
of such executor, administrator, heir-'at-law, next-ot-kin,
assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee, th‘en‘ all
other persons not otherwise rendered incomptent shall be
made competent witnesses in relation to such transaction or
communication on said trial or hearing. The sections of

this chapter shall apply to existing suits.

CHAPTER VIII.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

§344.—Dellnltlon of an order.

Every direction of a court. or Judge, made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an

Order.

g345.—Detinltion of a motion. Motions how and Where made. Stay of proceedings. Comped‘ng parties to testify. Declslon on motion.

1. An application for an order is a motion.
2. Motions may be made to the Clerk of a Superior Court,
or to a Judge out of court, except for a new trial on the

merits.
3. Motions must be made within the district in which the

action is triable. .

4. A. motion to“ vacate or modify a provisional remedy,
and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy
shall have preference over all other motions. ‘

'5. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than
twenty days shall be granted by a Judge out of court, except
upon previous notice to the adverse party.

6. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion
in any court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to
have the afiidavit of any person who shall have refused to
make the same, such court may, by order, appoint a referee
to take the afiidavit or deposition of such person. Such
person may .be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and
make an adeavit before such referee, the same as before a
referee to whom it is referred to try an issue. And the fees
of such referee for such service shall be three dollars per
day. '

7. Whenever a motion shall be made in any cause or proceeding in any of the courts of this State, to obtain an
injunction order, order of arrest, or warrant of attachment,
granted in any such case or proceeding, it, shall be the duty

of the Judge before whom such action motion is made,‘to
render and make known his decision on such motion within
ten days after the day upon which such motion shall or may
be submitted to him for decision. '

§346.—Notlee on motion.

When a notice of a motion- is necessary, it must be served
eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but

. the court or Judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe
a shorter time. ‘ '

CHAPTER IX.

ENTITLING AFFIDAVITS.

(3347.—Exlsting suits. Amdavits defectiver entitled, valid.

It shall not be necessary, to entitle an affidavit in the
action, but an aHidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose,
as if it were duly entitled,  it intelligibly refer to the action
or proceeding in which it is made.

-—

CHAPTER X.

‘ COMPUTATION OF TIME.

(Bur—Time, how computed.

The time within which an act- is to be done, as hereinprovided, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and A
including the last. It the last day be Sunday, it shall be
excluded. - ' ‘

CHAPTER XI.
NOTICES AND FILING AND SERVICE, or PAPERS.

§349.-—Exlsting suits—Notices, 343., how served-4Snbpoenas for witnesses. '

Notices shall be in writing; notices and other papers may
be served on the party or his attorney personally, or in the
:manner prescribed in section eighty, where not otherwise
provided in this act.

1. If upon an attorney, service may be made during his
absence from his oiiice, by leaving the paper with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or, when
~ there is no person in'the oii‘ice, byleaving it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the office; or, if it be not open so as to
admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s '
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper
at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning
and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.

3. Service of a subpoena for witnesses may be made by a
sheriff, coroner or constable, and proved by the return of

such ofhcer; or the service may be made by any person not
a party to the action, and proved by his oath.

A subpoena for witnesses need'not be signed by the clerk
of the court, it shall be squicient if subscribed by the party
or his attorney. ‘ '

§35Q.—Exfstlng suits—Service by mail.

Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside
in different places, between which there is regular com- '
munication by mail. But service by mail shall not be good
on any party living more than one mile from the post ofiice
to which it is addressed. '

§351.—Exlstilg salts-Service by mall.

In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in
the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.

war-Existing salts—Double time when served by mall.

Where the service is by mail, it shall be double the time

required fora letter to reach the party to whom it is addressed
by the ordinary usage of the mail.

§358.—Exlstlag salts—Whenthls chapter does not apply.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt. The several sections of this
chapter shall apply to existing suits.

CHAPTER XII.

DUTIES OF SHERIFF'S AND CORONERS.

§354.—Daty of sherlll' and coroner ln serving or excenting- process, and how
enforced—nay return process by mall. .

Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriii' may be required
to serve or execute any summons, order or judgment, or to
do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner
as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in
all respects for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff be a party,
the coroner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is
now bound to execute process where the sheriff is a party;
and all the provisions of this act relating to sheriffs shall
apply to coroners when the sheriii' is a party. Sheriffs and
coroners may return process by mail. Their liabilities in
respect to the execution of process shall be as now prescribed
by law.

CHAPTER XIII.

ACCOUNTABILITY OF GUARDIANS.

§355.—- Guardian not to receive property until security given.

No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted
- to receive prOperty of the infant, until he shall have given

sufiicient security, approved by a Judge, or the court to
account for and apply the same under the direction of the .
court.

CHAPTER XIV.

POWERS OF REFEREES.

§356.—Powers of referees.

Every referee appointed pursuant to this act shall have
power to administer oaths in any proceeding belore him,
and shall have "generally the powers now vested in a referee
by law.

CHAPTER XV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

§357.—Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.

If an original pleading or paper he lost or Withheld by
any person, the court may anthorize_a copy thereof to be
filed and. used instead of the original.

§358.—Where undertakings to be filed.

The various undertakings required to be given by this
Act must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless the

court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof,
except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after
the justi‘dcation of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff
to the parties respectively, for whose benefit they are taken.

§359.—Tllne for publication ofnotlees, how computed.

The time for publication of legal notices shall be compup-uted so as to exclude the first day of publication and include
the day on which the act or event, of Which notice is given,
is to happen, or which completes the full period required for
publication.

\

§860.—Laws of other States and governments, how proved.

Printed coPies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written law, enacted by any other State or territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published
by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts and 'iudicial tribunals of such State, Territory, or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and ofiicers of this State, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The
unwritten or common law of any State or Territory, or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol evidence;
and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts,
may;also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

TITLE XV.

ACTIONS IN' PARTICULAR CASES.

Chapter 1. Actions against foreign corporations.

_ “ [1. Actions in place of scire facias, quo wart-unto, and of inform zitions
in the nature of a quo warranto. ‘
“ Ill. Actions for the partition of real property".

“ “3 Actions to determine claims, for waste and nuisance.
“ Yo General provisions relating to actions concerning real property.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS FOR FOREIGN CORPORATIONS.

(with—Where and by whom brought.

An action against a corporation created by. or under the
laws of any other State, government, or country, may be
brought in the Superior Court of any county in which the
cause of action arose, or in which it usually did business, or
in'which it has property, in the following cases:

1. By a resident of this State, for any.cause of actiOn:

2. By a plaintiff, not a resident of this State, when the
cause of action shall have risen, or the subject of the action
shall be situated, within this State.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS IN PLACE OF SCIRE FACIAS, QUO WARRANTO, AND OF INFORMATIONS IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRANTO.

asst—Sela facias and quo warranto abolished, and this chapter substituted.

The writ of scire facials, the writ of quo warrahto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto,
are abolishedyand the remedies heretofore obtainable in

those ferms may be obtained by civil actions under the provisions of this chapter. [But any proceedings heretofore
commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall
not be affected by such abolition.

$363-—A¢tion maylbe brought by} Attorney-Gonna! to vacate a charter, by
direction of the Legislature.

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, whenever the Legislature shall so direct,
against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate
existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was procured upon som'e fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact, by the person incorporated, or by some of
them, or with their knowledge and consent. . ‘

$364.—-Actlon to annnl 'a corporation, when and how brought by AttorneyGencral, by leave of Sinpremc Court.

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, on leave granted by the Supreme Court
or a Judge thereof, for the purpose of ' vacating the charter
or annulling the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation shall—

1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,

2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation shall have forfeited its‘charter by abuse of its powers; or,

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or fran- '
chises by failure to exercise its powers; or, '

4. Wheneyer it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and
franchises; or,

5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not
conferred upon it by law.

v- v ‘u A ‘vv vuu v-vu' .VV

And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, whenever he shall have reason to believe that any of these acts
or omissions can be established by proof, to apply for leave,
and upon leave granted to bring the action, in every case
of public interest, and also in every other case in which satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the State
against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

$365.—Loavo how obtained.

Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the application of the Attorney-General; and the court or Judge
_ may at discretion, direct notice of such application to be
given to the corporation” or its officers, previous to granting
such leave, and may h’ear the corporation in opposition
thereto. .

§366;—A'ction upon lnfonnatlon or complaint, of course.

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General in the
name of the-pieople of this State, upon his own information,
or upon the complaint of any private party, against the
parties offending in the following cases: '

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise any public oche, civil or military, or
any franchise within this State, or any office in a corporation
created by the authority of this State, or, _

. 2. When any public oflicer, civil or military, shall have
done or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law,
shall make a forfeiture of his office; or

3. When any association or number of persons shall act
within this State as a corporation, without being duly incor-l
porated. '

\3367.—Action when and how brought to vacate letters patent. ,

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in
the name of the State, for the purpose of vacating or aunulling letters patent granted by the State, in the following
cases:

1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by the person
to whom the same were issued or made, or with his. consent

“ or knowledge; or ' ’ .

2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a
material fact; or

3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee,
or those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act,
in violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters

'patent were granted, or have by any other means forfeited
the interest acquired under the same. '

§368.—Relator, when to be joined as plaintlm

When an action shall be brought by the Attorney-General,
by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a
'person having an interest in the question, the name of such
person shall be joined with the State as plaintiff, and in
every such case the Attorney-General may require as a. condition for bringing such action, that satisfactory security
shall be given to indemnify the State against the costs and
expenses to. be incurred thereby; and in every case where
:such security is given, the measure of the compensation to
be paid by snob person or persons to the Attomevaeneral,

shall be left to the agreement of the parties express or
implied. '

$369.—Com_plnint, and arrest of defendant, in actlon for usurping an once.

7 Whenever such action shall be brought against a person
for usurping an oche, the Attorney-General, in addition to
the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in
the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to
the office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in such
case, upon proof by aflidavit that the defendant has received
fees or emoluments belonging to the oflice, and .by means of
his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a Judge
of the Supreme Court for the arrest of such defendant, and

holding him to bail; and thereupon he shall be arrested and
held to bail, in the manner, and with the same effect, and
subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil
actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

§370.—Judgment in such actions.

In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party .
so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defen—
dant, as justice shall require. '

§37l.-—Assumption of oiliee, Mu, by relator, when judgment is in his favor.

If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such
person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of oflice,
and executing such official bond, as may be required by law,
to take upon himself the execution of the oflice; and it shall
be his duty, immediately thereafter, .to demand of the defendant in the action all the books and papers in his custody,
or' Within his power, belonging to the oflice from which he
shall have been excluded.

9372.—Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to deliver books or papers.

If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over

such books o'r papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings

shall be had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery
of such books and papers, as are prescribed by law.

§373.—Damages, how recovered.

If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he'may
recover, by action, the damages which he'shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the
ofiice from which such defendant has been excluded.

9374.4» action against several persons claiming oilice or franchise.

Where several persons claim to . be entitled to the same
ofiice or franchise, one action may be brought against all
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.

$315.—Penaity for lnsnrping oiliee or franchise, how awarded.

When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against whom such action shall have been brought,
shall be judged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding or exercising any oflice, franchise, or
privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant
be excluded from such office, franchise, or privilege, and
also that the plaintiff recover costs against such defendant.
The court inay also, in its discretion, fine such defendant a '

sum,not exceeding two thousand dollars, which fine, when
collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.

$376.—-Jndglncnt of forfeiture against a corporation.

If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which
an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter,
has, by neglect. abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, j'udment shall be rendered that the corporation be excluded from such corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation '
be dissolved. '

§371.—:Costs against corporation, or persons claiming to be such, how collected.

If judgment be rendered in such action against a corporation, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the
court may cause the costs therein to be collected by execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by
attachment or process against the directors or other oiiicers
of such corporation.

$818.—Restraining corporation, and appointment of receiver.

When such judgment shall be rendered against a corporation, the court shall have the power to restrain the corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take
an account, and make a distribution thereof among its creditors; and it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General,
immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that purpose.

‘ §_379.—Copy ofjndgme'nt-roll against corporation, where to be filed.

Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of' letters patent, it

shall be the duty of the Attorney General to cause a c0py of .

the judgment-roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the
Secretary of State. ' (yam—Entry of judgment relating to letters patent.

Such secretary shall thereupon, if the'record relates to.

letters patent, make‘ an entry in the records of' the commissioners of the land office, of the substance and effect of such
judgment, and of the time when the record thereof was
docketed; and the real property granted by such letters
patent may thereafter be disposed of' by such commissioners
in the same manner 'as it such letters patent had never been

issued.

(,381.—-‘-Aetlons for forfeiture of property to theState.

Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real or
personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any officer for
their use, an action for the recovery of such property,
alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by
the proper oflicer, in any Superior Court of the State.

u—n—

CHAPTER III.

ACTIO'S FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY, «SIC.

§382.—Provtslmssor the Revised Corie applicable to actions of partition.

The provisions of the Revised Code relating to the partition of lands, tenements, land hereditaments, held or possessed, by joint tenants ortcnants in common, for the recovO

ery of widow’s year provisions, of dower, for the recovery of
the possession of real property, of habeas corpus and mandamus, shall apply to actions for such purposes brought under
this act, so far as the same can be so applied to the substance and subject-matter of ' the action, without regard to
its form.

CHAPTER IV.

ACTIONS FOR WASTE AND NUISANCE.

§383.—Aetio us of waste abolished, Waste how remediable.

The'action of waste is abolished; but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right
acquired, shall not be affected thereby. \Vrongs heretofore
remediable by action of waste, are subjects of action as other
wrongs, in which action there may be judgment for damages, for feiture of theestate, of the party offending, and evic. tion from the premises.

(yak—Provisions of Revised Code applicable to attion for waste under this act.

The provisions of the Revised Code relating to the action
of waste shall apply to an action for waste brought under
this act, without regard to the form of the action, so far as
the same can be so applied.

§385.—When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.

Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given
in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the
tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the value
of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have been
done in malice.

Quit—Writ of nuisance abolished.

The writ of nuisance is abolished; but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or any judgment rendered, or right
acquired, shall not be aifected thereby.

§387.—Remedy for injuries heretofore remediabie by. writ of nuisance.

Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance are subjects of action, as other injuries; and in such action there
may be judgment for damages, or for the removal of the

nuisance, or both.

TITLE XVI.

- GENERAL PROVISIONS.

e388.—-Deiinition of “ real property.”

The Words “ real pr0perty,” as used in this act, are co-ex.
tensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments.

$389.—Deiinition of “ personal property.”

The words “personal property,” as used in this act,
include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

$390.——Deiinition of “' property.”
The word “property,” as used in this act, includes property real and personal.

Mot—Ink of construction.

The rule of common law, that statutes in derogationof
that law are to be strictly construed, has no application to
this act.

$392.—Statntory provisions inconsistent with this act repealed.

All statutory provisions inconsistent with ‘ this act“ are
repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law
which may have been repealed or abolished by the provisions
hereby repealed. And all rights of action given or secured
by-existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner provided '
by this act. If a case shall rise in which an action for the
enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this act, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far as may be
necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

$393.—Ruies and practice inconsistent with this act abrogated.

The present rules and practice of the courts in civil actions,
inconsistent with this act, are abrogated: except where
otherwise expressly provided, but where consistent with
this act, they shall continue in ferce, subject to the power of
the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.

«339L—Judges of Supreme Court shall make rules of practice.

The Judges of the Supreme Courtgof the State, shall make
from time to time, rules for the practice of that Court, and
also rules for the practice and procedure cf the Superior.
Courts, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

§395.—Judges of the Superior Court to suggest rules.

Every Judge of a Superior Court, at least once in two
years, shall send to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
any suggestions which he may think fit, respecting the
practice and procedure of the Courts, and respecting any

other changes in the law which may seem likely to be
useful.

639l.—If Judge of 11 Superior Court not present, Court to be adjourned, when.

It the Judge of a Superior Court shall not be present to
hold any term of a court, at the time fixed therefor; it shall
be the duty of the sheriff, to _adjourn the court from day to

day, until the fourth day of the term inclusive, unless he
shall be sooner informed that the Judge, from any cause,
cannot hold the term; if by sunset on the fourth day the
Judge shall not appear to hold the 'term, or if the sheriff
shall be sooner advised that the Judge cannot hold the term,
it shall then be the duty of the sheriff to adjourn the court

until the next term.

§397.—Ii’ trial for felony in progress at expiration of a term, term to be prolonged.

In case the term of a court shall expire' while a trial for
felony, or for any offence punishable by imprisonment in a
penitentiary, or by any greater punishment, shall be in progress, and before judgment shall be given therein, the Judge
shall continue the term as~long as in his opinion it shall be
necessary for the purposes of the case.

$398.—Pleadlngs, &c.,—How written.

Every process, pleading, report, order, judgment and other
proceeding required to be in writing, and all copies of .
records, shall'be written on paper of the Width of foolscap or'
of legal cap; a margin of from three-fourths ofan inch to aninch Wide, shall be left on the left-hand side of each page;
if the sheet be written on both sides, it shall be so written,
that when several sheets are attached at their taps, they

may be read consecutively, without reversing the manuscript.

Wink—Judges of Superior Courts to issue writs of habeas corpus.

Judges of the Superior Courts shall have all the powers
and be subject to all the duties in respect to issuing, hearing,
and adjudicating on, writs of Izabeas corpus, as were given

or imposed by law, on the Judges of the late Superior
Courts of law of this State. '

TITLE XVII.

REGULATIONS RESPECTIN G EXISTING SUITS.

gum—Clerk of Superior Court to transfer existing suits, in which no final
judgment. ‘
The Clerks of the Superior Courts, at the request of a

party thereto, within six months from the ratification of this
act, and on the payment of a fee of one dollar, shall enter

on a separate docket, all suits which, at the ratification
aforesaid, shall have been commenced and in which final
judgment has not been rendered in the late County Courts,

Superior Courts of Law, and Courts of Equity of their respective counties.

{mm—Suits not transferred to abate.

And every suit not so transferred within the time aforesaid shall be abated, and the Clerk of the Superior Court
shall tax the costs against the parties liable, and collect the
same by the proper process.

§402.—If transferred, how proceeded with.

The said suits shall be proceeded in and tried, under the
existing laws and rules applicable thereto. After final judgment shall be rendered therein, the clerk shall enter such
judgment on the execution docket required to be kept by

him, and the subseqUent proceedings shall be as provided
for actions hereafter to be commenced.

$403.-—Existlng judgments not dormant may be transferred.

Existing judgments and decrees not dormant, may in like
manner be entered on the execution docket, and the subsequent proceedings shall be as is prescribed for actions here— ‘
after to be commenced, as far as shall be compatible With
the previous, proceedings; and no lien acquired before the
ratiiication aforesaid, shall be lost by any change of process,
occasioned by this act.

§404.———Dormant judgments, how revived.

Judgments or decrees which are dormant at the ratification aforesaid, may be revived or enforced in the manner
herein provided.

Mom—Actions to recover debts embraced In Stay-Law,

In all actions, hereafter commenced, founded on such contracts as are provided for in an Ordinance of the Convention
of this State, entitled, f‘ An Ordinance respecting the jurisdiction of the Courts of the State,” ratified on the fourteenth
day of March, 1868, the summons shall be made returnable
to the term of the Superior Court therein designated, and
the subsequent proceedings shall be in accordance with the
provisions of said act. A

$406.—Exeeutions levied on personal property.

The late sheriff of any country having in his hands any
scz're facias execution, which has been levied on personal
property of the defendants, which is unsold, shall proceed
to sell the same, as now required by law; he shall pay over
the proceeds, after deducting his fees, and shall also make
return of the writ, to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county, to any court of which the writ is returnable, the
proceeds to be .paid by the clerk to the parties entitled
thereto. l '

§407.—Exeeutions satisfied. ‘

The said sheriff shall in like manner return all executions
in their hands which are satisfied, whether by a sale of
property or otherwise, and shall pay over any proceeds

thereof.

§408.—Executlons not levied at all, or levied on real property.

As soon as the successors of the said late sheriff shall
have qualified and given bonds as required by law, the said
late sheriff shall deliver to said successors, all writs of
execution in their hands, which have not been satisfied, and
have not been levied on at all, or which have been levied on '
prOperty which has been sold and a residue remains unsatisfied, or have been levied on real property which in whole or
in part remains unsold, with a return stating any receipt of
money by them, and their action under the writ. The new
sheriffs shall proceed to act under such writ as if the same
had been addressed and issued to them, and shall make return
thereof to the next term of the Superior Court of the county
to any court of which the writ was returnable. Any new
sheriff failing to make due return of such writs delivered
to him shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars to any
person grieved thereby, to be recovered on motion to the
court before which the writ is required to be returned.

All proceeds of executions in part only satisfied while in
the hands of any late sheriff, shall be paid by him to the
Clerk of the Superior Court of the county to any court of
which the writ was returnable for the use of the parties
entitled thereto under the penalties now provided by law in

case of failure.

$409.—Exeeutton to be docketed.

The clerk of any Superior Court to which any execution
shall be returned as is above proscribed, shall at the request
of any person interested therein, and on the payment of one
dollar, enter such execution on his judgment docket, and
the like process may be thereafter had thereon, as is provided
in similar cases on judgments recovered after the ratification

of this act.

__ ' ___ v—— v_'_' -vgum—Penalty on Sherm‘ for falling to return.

Any late sheriff or other oiiicer having executions in his
hands and failing to make due return thereof, and to pay
the proceeds as herein prescribed, shall in each case forfeit
and pay to any. person grieved, one hundred dollars, to be
recovered on motion to the Court.

MIL—Judgments not dormant; when,

No judgment shall be held to have become dormant by
reason of any stay of execution thereon, in obedience toany
general or special order, issued by the General lately commanding the Military DistriCt of which the State of North
Carolina formed a part, and the time during which execution was so stayed, shall not be counted in determining any
question respecting a judgment being dormant.

$412.—0rdlnance of 14th March, 1868, not an‘ected.

Nothing in this Act contained shall aii'ect or impair any
right given by an ordinance of the Convention of this State
entitled “ An ordinance respecting the jurisdiction of the
Courts of ‘this State,” ratified on the fourteenth day of

March, 1868, in the casesto which it is applicable.

TITLE XVIII.

SUPREME COURT.

$413.—Jnrlsdlction of supreme Court.

The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction to review upon
appeal, any decision of the courts below, upon any matter of
law or legal inference; but no issue of fact shall be tried
before this court; and the court shall have power to issue'

any remedial writs necessary to give it a general supervision
and control of the inferior courts. [Constitution, Article IV, .
Section 10.]

glue-Cases how taken to the Supreme Court.

Cases shall be taken to the Supreme Court by appeal as
provided in Chapter I, of Title XIV of this Code of Civil.
Procedure.

§415.-Clalms against the State.

The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction to
hear claims against the State, but its decision shall be merely
reoommendatory; no process in the' nature of execution
‘ shall issue thereon: they shall be reported to the next
session of the General Assembly for its action. [Constitution,

Article IV, Section 11.]

tum—Manner of Prosecuting claims against State.

Any person having any claim against the State may file
his complaint in the office of the clerk of the Supreme
Court, setting forth the nature and grOunds of his claim; he _
shall cause a copy of his complaint to be served on the
Governor, and therein request him to appear on behalf of the
State and answer his claim; the copy shall be served at
least tWenty days before application for relief shall be made
to the court. In case of an appearance for the State by the
Governor, or any other authorized odicer, the pleadings and
trial shall be conducted in such manner as the court shall
direct. If an issue of fact shall be joined on the pleadings,
the court shall transfer it to the Superior Court of some
convenient county for trial by a jury, as other issues of fact
are directed to be tried; and the Judge of the court before
whom the trial is had, shall certify to the Supreme Court,
at its next term, the verdict, and the case, if any, made up
and settled, as prescribed in section three hundred and one
of the Code of Civil Procedure.

If the State shall not appear in the action by any authorized ofIicer, the court may make up issues and send them for
trial as aforesaid. A The Supreme Court shall in all cases:

report the facts found, and their recommendation thereon,
with the reasons thereof, to the General Assembly at its
next term.

TITLE XIX.

PROBATE COURTS.

Chapter I. Jurisdiction and powers.
“ II. Probate of deeds.
“ III. Jurisdiction over estates of deceased persons.
“ IV. Probate of wills.
“ V. Letters testamentary. _
“ VI. Letters of administration with the will annexed.
“ VII. Letters of administration.
“ VIII. Letters of collection.
“ IX. General provisions respecting executors, ac.
“ X. Guardian and ward.
“ -XI. Accountings by executors, administrators, collectors and guardians ; and auditings by the Judge of Probate.

“ XII. Masters and apprentices.
“ XIII. Transfer and appeal
“ XIV. What laws repealed and nnrepealed,

CHAPTER I.

JURISDICTION AND POWERS.

$417.—-—J udges of Probate.

The Clerks of the Superior Courts are declared Judges of
Probate in their respective counties.

$41 8.--J urisdiction.

They have jurisdiction:

1. To take proof of deeds, bills of sale, ofEcial bonds,
letters of attorney, or other instruments permitted or
required by law to be registered;

2. To take proof of wills and grant letters testamentary and
of administration;

3. To revoke letters testamentary and of administration;

4. To appoint and remove guardians of infants, idiots and
lunatics; ,

5. To bind out apprentices and to, cancel the indentures
in such cases; _

6. To auditthe accounts of executors, administrators. and
guardians; a _

7. To exercise jurisdiction conferred on them in every
other case prescribed by law.

$119.—Disqualmcatlon to act.

No Judge of Probate can act as such in relation to any
estate or proceeding:

1. If he has, or claims to have, an interest by distribution,
by will, or as creditor, or otherwise;

2. If he is so related to any person, having or claiming
such interest, that he would, by reason of such relationship,
be disqualified as a juror; but the disqualification on this
ground ceases, unless the objection is made at the first hearing of the matter before him. ‘

3. If he or his Wife is a party or a subscribing witness to
any deed of conveyance, testamentary paper or nuncupative
will; but this disqualification ceases when such deed, testamentary paper, or will has been finally admitted to or
refused probate in another probate court, or before the Judge
of the Superior Court.

4. If he or his wife is named as executor or trustee in
any testamentary or other paper; but this disqualification
ceases when the will or other paper is finally (admitted to,
or) refused probate in another probate cdurt, or before the
Judge of the Superior Court; '

§420.—Walver of disquallncatlon.

The parties may waive the disqualification specified in
subdivisions 1, 2 and 5 of the preceeding section, and upon
filing in the ofiice'such waiver in writing, the Judge of _
Probate shall act as in other cases.

(MEL—Removal ot Proteedings.

When any of the disqualifications specified in section
three exists, and there is no waiver thereof, or cannot be
such waiver, any party in interest may apply to the Judge
of the district for an order to remove the proceedings to

.the Probate Judge of an adjoining county in the same
district. '

-§422.—Enumeratlon of powers.

Every Judge of Probate has power:

1. To issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of any
witness residing, or being in the State, or the production of
any paper, material to any inquiry pending in his court; ‘

2. To administer oaths and take acknowledgements, when. ever necessary, in the exercise of the powers and duties of
his office; ‘

3. To issue commissions to take the testimony of any witness without this State;

4. To issue citations and orders to show cause to. parties
in all matters cognizable in his court, and to compel the
appearance of such parties;

5. To enforce all lawful orders and decrees by execution
or otherwise, against those who fail to comply therewith or
to execute lawful process. Process may be issued by the
Probate Judge, to be executed in any county of the State,
and to be returned before him;

6. To exemplify, under the seal of his court, all transcripts
of deeds, papers or proceedings therein, which shall be
received in evidence in all the courts of the State;

7. To preserve order in his court and to punish contempts;

8. To adjourn any proceeding pending before him from
_ time to time; . ' i

9. To open, vacate, modify, set aside, or enter as of a
former time, decrees or orders of his court, in the same manner as courts of general jurisdiction;

10. To award costs and disbursements as prescribed by law,

to be paid personally, or out of the estate or fund, in any
proceeding before him.

§423.—How party may appear.

A party may appear in proceedings in which he is concerned in the Probate Court, either in person or by attorney.

tut—Judge of Probate not to act as utter-nay.

A Judge of. Probate cannot act as attorney or counsel in
a civil action, for or against an executor, administrator or
guardian, over whom or whose accounts he might by law
have jurisdiction, whether such action relates to business of
the estate or not. He cannot act as attorney or counsel in
any cause originating in his court; nor shall any partner or
person connected in law business with him act as counsel or
attorney in any proceeding before such Judge of Probate,
or originating in his court.

g4!5.-SealsThe seal, to be used by the J utlges of Probate must be the
same as used by them in their capacity as clerks of the Superior Courts; but all orders, decrees, exempliiications or other
papers relating to the Probate Court, or proceedings therein,
must be signed by them as Judges of Probate, and not as
clerks of the Superior Court.

$126.——Files.

Every Judge of Probate must file. and preserve all papers
in proceedings before him, or belonging to the court; and
all such papers and the books kept by him belong to and
appertain to his office, and must x.be delivered to his successor.

(3427-—Records .

The following books must be kept by each Judge of Probate:

]. A Records of wills, in which must be recorded all wills,
with the certificates of probate thereof;

2. A Record of appointments of executors, administrators,
guardians, collectors, and masters of apprentices, with revocations of all such appointments.

3. A Record of all orders and decrees passed in his ofiice,
which he is required to make in writing, and not required
to be recorded in some other book;

4. A Record of accounts, in which must be recorded the
quarterly and annual accounts of executors, administrators, collectors and guardians, as audited by him from time
to time; _

5. A Record of settlements, in which must be entered
the iinal settlements of executors, administrators, collectors
and guardians. .

6. A Fee-book, in which must be entered'the items of all
fees for services of the Probate Judge in each particular
proceeding or estate, and when and by whom paid. And
he must annually, during the first week in September, at
own expense, report to the Secretary of State a verified statement of all his fees received or charged during the year
preceeding the first day of September.

$428,—Books to be furnished by Secretary of State, and to be indexed.

The books required to be kept by the last section must be
furnished to the Judge of Probate by the Secretary of‘State;
and to each of such books there must be attached an alphabetical index securely bound in the volume, referring to
the entries therein by the page of the book. These books
must, at all proper times, be open to the inspection of any
person.

CHAPTER II.

PROBATE 0F DEEDS.

§429.—uow made.

All deeds conveying lands in this State, or letters of
attorney, or other instruments concerning the same, except
leases not having more than three years to run, must be

offered tor probate, or a certified probate thereof must be
exhibited before the Judge of Probate of the county, in
which the real estate is situated, in the manner following;

1. Where the grantor or maker, or the subscribing witness,. reside in the State, the deed or other instrument must
_ be acknowledged by such grantor or maker, or proved on

the oath of such subscribing Witness;
2. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing wit- ‘

ness are dead, satisfactory proof of the handwriting, both of
the grantor or maker and of the subscribing witness, must
be made; unless it appear by affidavit or otherwise that,
after due diligence, such proof is impossible; when proof of '
the handwriting of the grantor or maker, or of the subscribing witness shall be sufficient.

3. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing witness, reside beyond the limits of the State, but within the
United States, the Probate Judge, having jurisdiction, shall
issue under the seal of his court, a commission to a commissioner at the place of residence of such grantor, maker or
witness, authorizing the commissioner to take the acknowledgment of the parties to the deed, or the examination on
oath of the witness thereto, touching the execution thereof.
The proceedings of the Commissioner, so authorized, being
returned to the Probate Judge who issued the same, he may
proceed to adjudge, that such deed or other instrument is
duly acknowled or proved. ,

4. \Vhere the acknowledgment or proof of any deed or
other instrument is taken or made, in the manner directed
by the laws of this ~State,‘before any commissioner of alfrdavits for the State of North Carolina, appointed by the
Governor thereof, in any of the States or territories of the
United States or in the District of Columbia; and where such
acknowledgment or proof is certified by such commissioner,
the Judge of Probate, having jurisdiction, upon the same
being exhibited to him, shall adjudge such deed or other
instrument to be duly acknowledged or proved in the same
manner as if made or taken before him.

5. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing witness, reside beyond the limits of the United States, the deed
or other instrument may be personally acknowledged by
such grantor 0r maker, or proved on the oath of such. sub- scribing witness, before the chief magistrate of any city in the
country where the grantor or Witness is resident; or before
any ambassador, minister, con’sul er commercial agent of
the United States; and where such proof or acknowledgment
is certified under the corporate seal of such chief magistrate,
or under the official seal of such ambassador, minister, consul or commercial agent; and where such certificate is affixed
to the deed or other instrument, and the same is exhibited
before the Probate Judge, having jurisdiction, he shall
adjudge that such deed, or other instrument, is duly proved,
or acknowledged. V

6. Every conveyance, power of attorney or other instru. ment _affecting the estate, right or title of any married
woman in‘ lands, tenements or hereditaments, must be jointly
executed,by, such married woman with her husband; and
due proof or acknowledgment thereof must be made as to
the husband, before the Judge of Probate having jurisdictlon, who shall take the acknowledgment of the wife, and A
privily examine her, apart from her husband, touching her
voluntary assent thereto. He shall also endorse thereon a
certificate of such assent.

When such proof or acknowledgment is made as to the
husband, and it appears, that the wife is a resident of some
other State, or being a resident of this State, is so aged or
infirm, that ‘she cannot travel to the Judge of Probate to
make such acknowledgment in person: in that case, the
Judge of Probate shall issue a commission to a commissioner, for receiving such acknowledgment and for taking
the private examination of the wife, apart from her husband, touching her assent; which commission, with a certificate of the acknowledgment and private examination,
being returned to the Probate Judge, he shall adjudge that
such conveyance, power of attorney or other instrument is

duly acknowledged, and that such examination is in due
form.

When the preof or acknowledgment of a conveyance,
power of attorney or other instrument concerning the
interest of a married woman in lands, is taken beforea commissioner of aiiidavits, as directed in sub-division four, or in
foreign parts, as directed in sub-division five, of this Article;
no Judge of Probate shall adjudge such conveyance or other

instrument to be duly proved or acknowledged, unless the
private examination of such married woman is taken according to the laws of this State, anda certificate thereof is
attached to the deed or other instrument.

(yum—When land lies in two or more counties.

Where real estate is situated in two or more counties, probate of the deed or other instrument, conveying or concerning the same, made in the probate court of any of said counties, is sufficient.

gust—0mm Bonds.

The oiiicial bonds of all county oHicers including constables, must be acknowledged by the obligors, or proven on
the. oath of the subscribing witness, thereto, before the
Judges of Probate of the resptmtive counties: Provided, that
the oHicial bonds of the Clerk of the Superior Court may be
present or acknowledged as herein directed before the Register of Deeds of the proper county.

$432.—When .dge of Probate disqualme'd to at.

Any Judge of the Superior Court, or the Probate'Judge of
an adjoining county, is authorized to act inmatters embraced
within this article, only when the Judge of Probate of
the county, where the real estate is situated, is disqualified
under sub-division three, section three, chapter I, of this

title.

CHAPTER III.

JURISDICTION OVER THE ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS.

Mat—When Probate Judge has jurisdiction of the estate.

The Judge of Probate of each county has jurisdiction,
within his county, to take proof of wills and to grant letters
testamentary, letters of administration with the will annexed
and in cases of intestacy, in the following cases:

1. Where the decedent at, or immediately previous to his
. death, was domiciled in the county of such Probate Judge,
in whatever place such death may have happened.

2. Where the decedent at his death, had iixed places of
domicil in more than one county, the Judge of Probate of
any such counties has jurisdiction. '

3. Where the decedent, not being domiciled in this State,
died out of the State, leaving assets in the county of such
Judge of Probate, or assets of such decedent thereafter come

into the county of such Probate Judge. I
l 4. Where the decedent, not being domiciled in this State,
died in the county of such Judge of Probate, leaving assets

in the State, or assets of such decedent thereafter come into
the State. ‘ ‘

$13 L—Probate Judge iirst acquiring jurisdiction to have exclusive jurisdiction.

The Judge of Probate, who first gains and exercises jurisdiction under sub-division two and three, of the preceeding

section, thereby acquires sole and exclusive jurisdiction over
the decedent’s estate.

CHAPTER 1V.

PROBATE 0F WILLS.

$435.—How wills admitted to probate.

Wills and‘testaments must be admitted to probate only in
the following manner:

1. In case a of written will, with witnesses, on the oath of, ‘
at least,'two of the subscribing witnesses, if living; but when
any one or more of the subscribing witnesses to such will,
are dead, or reside out of the State, or are insane or otherwise incompetent to testify, then such proof may be taken
of the handwriting, both of the testator and of' the witness
or witnesses so dead, absent, insane or incompetent, andlalso
of such other circumstances, as will satisfy the Judge of
Probate. of the genuineness and the due execution of such
will.

2. In case of a holograph will, on the oath of, at least,
three credible witnesses, who state, that they verily believe
such will and. every part thereof, is in the handwriting of
the person whose will it purports to be, and whose name
must be subscribed thereto, or inserted in some part thereof.
It must- further appear on the oath of some one of said wit' nesses, or of some other credible person, that such- will was
found among the valuable papers and effects of the decedent,
or was lodged in the hands of some person for safe keeping.

3. In case of a nuncupative will, where the estate exceeds
two hundred dollars; on the oath of, at least two credible
witnesses present at the making thereof, who state that they
were specially required to bear witness thereto by the testator himself. ' ,

It must also be proved that such nuncupative will was
made in the testator’s last sickness, in his own habitation,
or where he had been previously resident, for, at least, ten
days, unless he died on a journey or from home.

No nuncupative will shall be proved by the witnesses
after six months from the making thereof, unless it was put
in writing within ten days from such making; nor shall it
be proved till a citation has been first issued or publication
been made for six weeke in some newspaper printed in the
State, to call in the widow and next of kin to conteSt such
will if they think proper.

Mam—Executor not incompetent as a witness;

N 0 person, on account of being an executor of a will, is
incompetent as a witness to prove the execution thereof.

§437.—Proofs and examinations In writing.

Every Judge of Probate shall take in writing the proofs
and examinations of the witnesses touching the execution
of a will; and he shall embody the substance of such proofs
and exaninations, in case the will is admitted to probate, in

his certificate of the probate thereof, which certificate must ‘
be recorded with the will. The proofs and examinations as

taken must be filed in the otiice.

$438.—Probate how far eonelnslve.

Such record and probate is conclusive in evidence of the
validity of the will, until it is vacated on appeal or declared
void by a competent tribunal.

§439.——Who may apply for probate.

Any ex'ecutor named in a will may, at any time after the
death of the testator, apply to the Judge of Probate, having
jurisdiction, to have the same admitted to probate.

$440.—'-Who may apply when executor does not.

If no executor apply to have the will proved within sixty
days after the death of the testator, any devisee or legatee
named in. the will, or any other person interested in the~
estate, may make such application, upon ten days’ notice

thereof to the executor.

§441.—What to be shown on appneatlon.

0n application to the Judge of Probate, he must ascertain
by atiidavit of the applicant:

1. That such applicant is the executor, devisee or legatee
. named in the will, or‘is some other person interested in the
estate, and how so interested.

2. The value andnature of the testator’s property, as near
as can be ascertained.

3. The names and residence of all parties entitled to the
testator’s property, it known, or that the same on diligent
inquiry cannot be discovered; which of said parties in

interest are minors, and whether with or without guardians,
and the names and residence of such guardians, if known.

'Such. afiidavit shall be .recorded with the will and the
certificate of probate thereof, if the same is admitted to
probate. '

§442,——Prodnetlo'l of will compelled by processEvery Judge of Probate having jurisdiction, on application
by aflidavit setting forth the facts, shall, by summons, compel any person in the State, having in possession the last
will of any decendent, to exhibit the same in his court for
probate; and whoever being duly summoned, refuses in contempt of the court, to produce such will, or (the same having
been parted with by him) refuses to inform the cpurt on oath
where such will is, or in what manner he has disposed of it,
shall, by order of the Probate Judge, be committed to the
prison of the county; there to remain without bail till such
will be produced or. accounted for, and due submission made
for the contempt.

{gut—Will made without the State; how proved.

Whenever it is suggested to the probate court, by afii- '
davit or otherwise, that a will has been made without the
State, disposing of or charging land or other property within
, the State, the Judge of Probate of the county, where the
property is situated may issue a commission to such person
as he may select, authorizing the commissioner to take the
examination of such witnesses as may be produced, touch.
ing the execution thereof, and upon return of such commission, with the examination, he may adjudge the said will to
be duly proved or otherwise, as in cases on the oral examination of witnesses before him, and if duly proved, such will
shall be recorded.

§M'.—Wlll of citizen or subject of another country; how allowed and recorded in this State.

Whenever any will, made by a citizen or subject of any
other State or country, is duly proved and allowel in such

State or country, according to the laws thereof, a copy or
e'xemplification of such will, duly certified and authenticated,
when produced or exhibited before the Judge of Probate of
any county, wherein any property of the testator may be,
shall be allowed, filed and recorded in the same manner as
if the original, and not the copy, had been produced, proved
and allowed before such Probate Judge. But when any such
will contains any devise or disposition of real estate in this
State, such devise or disposition shall not have any validity

.or operation, unless the will is executed according to the

laws of this State; and that fact must appear aiiirmatively
in the certified probate or exemplification of the will; and if
it do not so appear, the Judge of Probate before whom the
copy is exhibited, shall have power to issue a commissiOn
for taking proofs, touching the execution of the will, as prescribed in the preceding section; and the same may be
adjudged, duly proved, and shall be recorded as therein provided.

$445-—Wlll of citizen of this state proved elsewhere; how proved and recorded
here.

When a will, made by a citizen of this State is proved and
allowed in some other State or country, and the original will
cannot be removed from its place of legal deposit'in such
other State or country, for probate in this State; the Probate
Judge of the county, where the testator had his last usual

- residence or has any property, upon a duly certified copy or

exemplification of such will being exhibited to him for pro- '
bate, shall take every order and proceeding for proving,
allowing and recording said copy as by law might be taken
upon the production of the original. ‘

§446.—Caveat.
At the time of application for the probate of any will, or

eat any time thereafter, as prescribed by law, any person
entitled under such will or interested in the estate, may
appear in person‘ or by attorney before the probate court,
and enter a caveat to the probate of such will.

§M7.—Trensferred to Superior Court; when. Upon any caveator giving bond, with suHicient surety to
be approved by the Probate Judge, in the sum of two
hundred dollam, payable to the propounder of the will, conditioned to pay all costs which may be adjudged against
such caveator in the Superior Court, by reason of his failure
to prosecute his suit with effect; the Probate Judge shall
transfer the cause to the Superior Court for trial; and he
shall also forthwith issue a citation to all devisees, legatees
or other parties in interest within the State, and cause publication to be made, for six weeks in some newspaper printed

in the State, for non-residents, to appear at the term of the
Superior Court, to which the proceeding is transferred, and

to make themselves proper parties to the said proceeding,
if they choose.

§448.-0rder to suspend proceedings.

Where a caveat is entered and bond. given, as directed in
the last two sections, the Judge of Probate shall forthwith
issue an order to any personal representative, having the
estate in charge, to suspend all further proceedings in relation to the estate, except the preservation of the property

and the collection of debts, until a decision of the issue is
had.

CHAPTER V.

LETTERS TESTAMENTARY.

gum—Who is disqualmed to serve as executor.

The Judge of Probate shall not issue letters testamentary
to any person who, at the time of applying to qualify, is

1. Under the age of twenty-one years;
2. A person convicted of an infamous crime;

3. Who, on proof, is' adjudged by the probate court, incompetent to execute the duties of such trust by reason of
drunkenness, improvidence, or want cf understanding;

4. Who fails to take the oath or to give bond in cases
where executors. are required by law to give bond;
5. Who has renounced his exec'utorship.

§450.—Exeentor may renounce.

. Any person appointed as executor may renounce the othce
by a writing signed by him, and on the same being acknowledged or proved to the satisfaction of the Probate Judge, it
shall be filed. I

§45l--—-When executor deemed to have renounced.

If any person appointed an executor does not qualify or
renounce Within sixty days after the will is admitted to pro- '
bate, the J udgeot Probate, on the application of any other
executor named: in the same will, or any party interested,
shall issue a. citation to such person to show cause Why he

should not be deemed to have renounced. If, upon service
of the citation, he does not qualify or renounce Within such
time, not exceeding thirty days, as is allowed in the citation,

an order must be entered by the Judge of Probate decrees

ing that such persons has renounced his appointment as
executor.

§452°—Exeeutor under disquallneatlon of age or absence.

.. Where any executor named in the Will is under the disqualification of non-age, specified in section four hundred
and forty-nine, or is temporarily absent from the State,
such executor is entitled to six months, after coming of age

or after his return to the State, in which to make application
to qualify and take letters testamentary.

CHAPTER VI.

LETTERS OF ADHINISTRATION WITH WILL ANNEXED.

§458.—To be granted; when and to whom. °

If there is no executor appointed in the will, or if, at any
time, by reason of death, incompetency, adjudged by the
Probate Court, renunciation, actual or decreed, or removal
by order of the court, or on any other account, there is no executor qualified to act, the Judge of Probate may issue letters
of administration, with the will annexed, to some suitable
person or persons, in the order prescribed in section four

hundred and fifty-six, Chapter VII. '

. $454.—Qua1mmions. ac.

Administrators (in cases prescribed in the preceeding
section) shall have the same qualifications and give the same

bond as other administrators.

§455.—Wlll of testator to be observed.

In all cases, where letters of administration with the will
annexed, are granted, .‘the will of the testator must be
observed and performed by the administrator with the will
annexed, both in respect to real and personal property, and
an administrator with the will annexed, has all the. rights
and powers, and is subject to the same duties as if he had

been named executor in the will.

CHAPTER VII.

LETTERS 01" ADMINISTRATION.

“ML—To whom granted,

Letters of administration, in case of intestacy, shall be
granted to the persons entitled thereto, and applying for
the same, in the following order:

1. To the husband or widow;

2. To the neirt of kin in the order of their degree, where
- they are of different degrees—if of equal degree, to one or
more of them, at the discretion of the probate court;

‘3. To the most competent creditor, who resides within the
State, and proves his debt on oath, before the probate court;
4. To any other person legally competent.

§457.—Dlsquglmcations.

The Probate Judge shall not issue letters of administration to any person, who, at the timeof appearing to qualify, is
1. Under the age of twenty-one years; '
2. An alien, who is a nomresident of this State;
A 3. A person who has been convicted of an infamous crime;
4. Who, on proof, is adjudged by the Probate Court '
incompetent to execute the duties of such trust, by reason
of drunkenness, improvidence or want of understanding;
5. \Vho fails to take the oath or give the bond required

by law.

§t58.-—-J oinlng persons not entitled.

With the consent of the person or persons who are entitled, letters of administration may be granted to one or more
competent persons who are not entitled, jointly with those
who are entitled. Such consent must be in writing, and
the Probate Jude shall iile the same.

§459.—Ronunoiation of persons having prior right.

When any person applies for administration, and any other
person has prior right thereto, a written renunciation of the
person or persons, having such prior right, must be produced and filed with the Probate Judge.

. Mom—Persons haying prior right disqualiiied or absent.

When any’ person having such prior right to administration, is under the disqualification of age specified in section
four hundred and fifty-six, or is temporarily absent from the
State, such person is entitled to six months, after the disa.
bility of age is removed or his return to the State, in which '
to renounce his right or apply for letter of administration.

§461.—What must be shown on application.

On application for letters of administration, the Judge of
'Probate must ascertain by afiidavit of the applicant or
otherwise; . - O

l. The death of the decedent and his intestacy.

2. That the applicant is the proper person entitled" to
administration, or that he applies after the renunciation of
7 the person'or persons so entitled.

3. The value and nature of the int-estator’s property, the
names and residence of all parties entitled as heirs or distributees of the estate, if known, or that the same cannot.’ on diligent enquiry be procured; which of said parties are
minors, and whether with or without guardians, and the
names and evidence of such guardians, if known.

Such affidavit or other proof must be recorded and filed
by the Probate Judge.

§462.—Contested administration.

Any person interested in the estate may, on complaint
filed and notice to the applicant, contest the right of such
applicant for letters of administration, and on any issue of
fact joined, or matter of law arising, on the pleadings, the  

cause maybe transferred to the Superior Court for trial, or

an appeal be taken, as in other cases provided in this Act,
Chapter XI II. '

CHAPTER VIII.

LETTERS OF COLLECTION.

§463..—When to issue and to whom.

Whenever for any reason, a delay is necessarily produced
in the admission of a will to probate, or in granting letters
testamentary, letters of administration or letters of administration with the will annexed, the Judge of Probate may
issue to some discreet person orpersons at his option, letters
of collection, authorizing the collection and preservation of
the property of the decedent.

§464.—Qualiliealions, 8w.

Every collector shall have the qualifications, and give the
’ bond prescribed by law for an administrator:

(5465.—Authorlty, M. <

Every collector has authority to collect the personal property, take possession and receive the rents and profits of
the real property, preserve and secure the estate, and collect
the debts and credits of the decedent. .And for these pur‘poses, he may commence and maintain or defend suits, and
n he may sell, under the direction and order of the Probate
Judge, any personal property for the preservation and benefit
of) the estate. He may besued for debts, dueby the decedent; and he may pay funeral expenses and other debts.

\3466-—Authorlty when to cease, Ste.

When letters testamentary, letters of administration, or
letters of administration with the will annexed, are granted,
the powers of such collector shall cease, but any suit brought

'by the collector may be continued by his successor, the '
executor or the administrator, in his own name. ' Such col-"
lector must, on demand, deliver to the executor or administrator all the property, rights and credits of the decedent
under his control, and render an account, on oath, to the
Probate Judge of all his proceedings. Such delivery and
account may be enforced by citation, order or attachment.

CHAPTER IX.

GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING EXECUTORS, &C.

elem—oaths, 831:.

Before letters testamentary, letters of administration with
the will annexed, letters of administration'or letters of collection, are issued to any person, he must take and subscribe
an oath or affirmation, befOre the Judge of Probate, that he
Will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of his trust,
which oath must be filed in the ofIice of the Probate Judge.

§4BS.—Bond, a.

Every executor from whom a bond is now required by law,
and every administrator and collector, before letters are

issued, must give a bond payable to the State, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Probate J udge,
and to be jointly.and severally bound. The penalty in such
‘ bond must be double, at least, the, value of all property, real
and personal, of the decedent; which value is to be ascertained, by the Probate Judge, by the examination on oath
‘of the applicant and of any other person. The bond must be
‘conditioned, that such executor, administrator or collector
shall faithfully execute the trust reposed in him as such, and
obey all lawful orders of the probate or other court, touching
the administration of the estate committed to him.

, Mom-Revocation of letters on proof of will, ac.

If letters of administration are issued, a will is subse. 'quently proved and letters testamentary are issued thereon ;
or, if atter letters testamentary are issued, a revocation of
the will, or a subsequent testamentary paper revoking the
appointment of executors, is proved and letters are issued
thereon, the Judge of Probate must thereupon revoke the
letters first issued, by an order in writing to be served on
the person to whom such first letters were issued; and, until

service thereof, the acts of such person, done in good faith
are valid. V

tum—Revocation on ground of disqualldeatlon or default.

If, after any letters have been issued, it appears to the Probate Judge, or if complaintis made to him on affidavit, that
any person to whom they were issued, is legally incompetent
to have such letters, or that such person has been guilty of
default or misconduct inpthe due execution of his office, or
that the issue of such letters was obtained by false representations made by such person, the Judge of Probate shall
issue an order requiring such person to show cause why the
letters should not be revoked. On the return of such order,
duly executed, if the objections are found valid, the letters

issued to such person must be revoked and superseded, and.
his authority shall thereupon cease.

tub—Letters, how issued and tested.

- All letters must be issued in the name of the State, and

tested in the name of the Judge of Probate, signed by him,
and sealed with his seal of oilice.

CHAPTER X.

GUARDIAN AN D WARD. '

§472.—Powc’r over orphans’ estates and to appolnt guardians. -"

Each Judge of Probate in his county has full power and
authority to take cognizance of all matters concerning

orphans and their estates, and to appoint guardians, where
it may be deemed necessary, in the manner heretofore exerciSed by the late County and Superier Courts.

§473.—Inqulsltlon of lunacy. .

Any person in behalf of one who is deemed an idiot, inebriate or lunatic, or incompetent from want of nude rstanding to manage his own affairs, by reason of the excessive
use-of intoxicating drinks or other cause, may file a petition
before the Judge of Probate of the county where such supposed idiot, inebriate or lunatic resides, setting forth the
facts, duly verified by the oath of the petitioner. Where. upon such Judge of Probate shall issue an order, upon
‘ notice to the supposed idiot, inebriate or lunatic, to the
sheriff of the county commanding him to summon a jury of
twelve men to inquire into the state of mind of such supposed idiot, inebriate or lunatic. The jury shall make return
of their proceedings under their hands to the Judge of Probate, who shall file and record the same; and he shall proceed to appoint a gaurdian of any person sopfound to be an
idiot, inebriate or lunatic,,by inquisition of a jury, as in cases
of orphans.

$474.—Proceedlugs on application forvgnardianshlp.

On application to any Judge of Probate for the custody
and guardianship of any infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic, it
is the duty of such Judge of Probate to inform himself of
the circumstances of the case on the oath of the applicant
or of any other person; and if none of the relatives of the
infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic are present at such application, the Probate Judge must assign, or, for any other good
cause, he may assign a day for the hearing; and he shall
thereupon direct notice thereof to be given to such of the
relatives and to siich other persons, if any, as he deem it

.proper to notify. On-the hearing, he shall ascertain, on
oath, the amount of the property, real and persona], of the
infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic, and the value of the rents

and profits of the real estate; and he may grant or refuse
the application, or commit the guardianship to some other
person, as he may think best for the interest of the infant,
idiot, inebriate or lunatic.

gum—Letters of appointment.

The Judge of Probate must issue to every guardian
appointed by him a letter of appointment, which shall be
signed by him and sealed with the seal with the of his ofiice.

§176.—Referenee to sections 456, 467, 469.

The provisions of sections’four‘hundred and fifty-six, tour
hundred andsixty-seven, and four hundred and seventy, of
this Act, in reference to qualification; in reference to the

execution of a bond; and in reference to a revocation of
appointment on the ground of misconduct or disqualification, shall apply to the case of guardians appointed by a
Judge of Probate.

CHAPTER X I.

ACCOUNTINGS BY EXECUTORS, ADMIN ISTRATORS, COLLECTORS AND
GUARDIANS; AND AUDITINGS BY THE JUDGE 'OF PROBATE.

cont—Make return on oath; when.Every executor, administrator, collector and guardian
shall, within three months after his qualification or appointment, make return on oath to the Judge of Probate, of all
:the estate in his hands or received by himgup to that time;
but such time may be extended bygthe Probate Judge, on _
good cause shown, not exceedingzsix months.

.§178.—Annu.al accounts. .

Every executor, administrator, collector and guardian,
shall, within twelve months frOm the date of his qualification or'appointment, and annually, so long as any of the

estate remains in his control, file, in the oilice of the Judge of Probate, an inventory and account, under oath, ot the
amount of property received by him, or invested by him
and the manner and nature of such investment, and his
receipts and disbursements for the past year in the form of
debit and credit. He must produce vouchers, which must
be filed with the J udge of Probate, for all payments. The
' Judge of Probate may examine on oath, such accounting
party, or any other person, concerning the receipts, disbursements or any other matter relating to the estate; and,
having carefully revised and audited such account, if he
approve the same, he must endorse his approval thereon,
which shall be deemed primafaciea evidence of correctness.
Each Judge of Probate must annex or attach a copy of this
section to all letters issued by him. ’

§W9.—Failure to account.

If any executor, administrator, collector 'or guardian omits
to account, as directed in the preceding section, or renders
an insufiicient and unsatisfactory account, the Probate Judge
shall forthwith order such executor, administrator, collector'
or guardian to render a full and satisfactory account, as
required by law, within twenty days after service of the
order. , Upon return of the order, duly served, if such
executor, administrator, collector, or guardian, fail to appear
or refuse to exhibit such account, the Judge of Probate may
issue an attachment against him for a contempt and commit

him till he exhibit 'such account, and may likewise remove
him from oflice. ‘

tum—Vouchers.

Vouchers are presumptive evidence of disbursement,
- without other proof. unless impeached. If lost, the accounting party must, if required. make oath to that tact, setting
forth the manner of loss, and state the contents and purport
of the voucher. A ‘ ‘

,M81,—Flnal accounts.

An executor, or administrator, may be required to file his
iinal account for settlement in the court of probate by a
citation directed to him, at any time after two years from
his Qualification, at the instance of any person interested in
the estate; and a guardian may be required to tile such
account at any time after six months from the ward’s coming
of full age, or the cessation of the guardianship: but such
account may be filed voluntarily at any time; and, whether

the accounting be voluntary or compulsory, it shall be
audited and recorded by the Judge of Probate.

CHAPTER XII.

MASTERS AND APrRENTICEs.

_ §482.—§indlng to be by lndenture.

The binding of apprentices shall be by indenture, made
in the name of the Judge of Probate of the county of the
one-part, and of the master or mistress of the other part;
which indenture shall be recorded and filed in the oHice of
the probate court.

§483.—Renedy thereon.

The apprentice may bring an action on such indenture in
the name of the Judge of [Probate and his successors, and
recover any damages sustained by reason of the breach of
the covenants contained in said indenture.

Maw—Who may be apprenticed.

The Judges of Probate in their respective counties shall
bind out as apprentices:
1. All orphans whose estates are of so small value, that

no person will educate and maintain them for the profits
thereof;

HA

2. All infants whose fathers have deserted their families
and been absent for one year, leaving them without sufiircient support;

3. All infants (not living with the father) whose mother
has secured to her such property as the infants may there.after acquire, provided the Probate Judge deems it improper
‘ to permit such infants to remain with the mother;

4. All infants who make application to the Board .of Commissioners of the ocunty for relief out of the funds for the
poor, and such fact is certified by the Board to the Judge of
Probate;

5. All infants, whose parents do not habitually employ
their time in some honest, industrious occupation.

3§485.—F0r what time bound.

Every apprentice shall be bound to some discret person
:approved by the Judge of Probate, till the age of twentyone. '

gum—Duties of masters.

The master shall provide for the apprentice:

‘1. Diet, clothes, lodgings and accommodation fit and
mecessary; '

2. Education in readmg, writing and arithmetic;

3. Six dollars in cash, a new suit 'of clothes and a new
Bible, at the end of the apprenticeship; '

4. Such other education, sum of money, or articles of
furniture or implements 'of trade, as may be agreed on
.between the court and the master, and inserted in the

findenture. r

.‘§487.—Duty of Probate Judge.

On application of any person to have an apprentice bound
“to him, it is the duty of the Judge of Probate to inform
Lhimself of the circumstances of the case; and, for this pur- I
gpose, he may cite before him the relatives, of the orphan or
:infant, for examination (an oath; and he may also examine
:such other persons as he deems proper. In the selection of

a master, he shall prefér, so far as may be consistent in other .
respects with the comfort and interest of the apprentice,
some tradesman of a useful art or mystery.

WWW—Apprentices, how compellehto serve.

If an apprentice refuses to serve as required by the indenture or by law, the Judge of Probate may, on application of
the master, compel him, by citation or otherwise, to appear
- for inquiry into the facts; and if the complaint is wellfounded, and the apprentice persists in such refusal, the
Judge of Probate may commit him by warrant to the House
of Correction or the common jail of the county, until he
consents,

tum—Misconduct of masters.

Upon complaint of any apprentice that the master is
guilty of cruelty, ill-usage, refusal of necessary provisions
or clothing, or any other violation of the indenture, or of.
the law towards such apprentice, the Judge of Probate may,
by- order, compel the appearance of the master before him,
'when he shall examine and determine the complaint; and
if the same is well-founded, he shall cancel the indenture .
and discharge such apprentice from his obligation of service, i

and may proceed to appoint another‘master.

CHAPTER X III.

rmsmn AND APPEAL

tum—Issues of fact and matters of law.

All issues of fact. joined before the Judge of Probate shall
be transferred to the Superior Court of the county for trial;
and appeals shall lie to the Judge of the Superior Court of

a the district, either in term-time or vacation, from the judgments of the probate court in all matters of law. ‘

tum—No bond required.

In case of transfer or appeal, as provided in the preceding
section, neither party is required to give a bondgfbr costs
except as in this Title otherwise expressly directed; and theJudge of Probate shall transmit, on such transfer or appeal,
to the Superior Court or the Judge thereof, the pleadings on
other papers, on which the issue of fact or of law arises.

. Mom—Appeals. when taken and by when.

An appeal must be {taken within twenty days after the
entry of the order or judgment of the probate court; but an
appeal can only be taken by a party aggrieved, who appeared
and moved for or opposed the order or judgment appealed .
from, or, who being entitledito be heard thereon, had no

notice or opportunity to be heard; which fact may be shown
by aliidavit or other proof.

CHAPTER XIV.

WHAT LAWS REPEALED AND UNREPEALED.

. tut—What laws repealed and “repealed, .

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions
of this Title, are repealed. But chapters five, thirty-seven,
forty-six, fifty-four, fifty-seven and one hundred and nineteen
of the Revised Code, concerning “ Apprentices,” concerning
“Deeds and Conveyances,” concerning “ Executors and
Administrators,” concerning “ Guardian and Ward,” concerning “ Idiots and Lunatics,” and iconcerning “ Wills and
Testaments,” so far as said chaptersgorZany part thereof, are

not inconsistent with the provisions 01 this Title, remain in

TITLE XX.

THE. COURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

(“Mr—Laws repealed. ' ' .

Sections 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10, 11, 12, 18, 15, 16, 17, 18 ,
.19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 36, Chapter 62,
of the Revised Code are repealed, and the provisions of this
Title are substituted in their stead; and all other laws in
conflict with the provisions of this Title are repealed; proA vided that nothing herein contained shall be held to abrogate
in any manner an ordinance of the Convention, ratified
March 14th, A. D. 1868, entitled “An Ordinance respecting
the jurisdiction of the Courts of this State.”

CHAPTER I.

MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS IN JUSTICES, COURTS.

$495.—-Summons§

Civil actions in these courts shall be commenced by the
issuing of a summons.

$496.—Snmmons by whom issued.

The summons shall be issued by the Justice and signed by
him. ‘ It shall run in the name of the-State, and be directed
to any Constable or other lawful officer, commanding him
to summon the defendant to appear and answer the complaint of the plaintiff at a place, within the county, to be

therein specified, and at a time, to be therein named, not
exceeding twenty days from the date of the summons. It
shall also contain the ainount of the sum demanded by the
plaintiff.

§497.—Servlce and return of summons.

The officer to whom the summons is delivered shall execute the same within five days after its receipt by him, or

immediately, if required to do so by the plaintiff. Before
proceeding to execute it, he is entitled to require of the
plaintiff his fee for the service, and live cents per mile
traveled by him out of his township on such service. When
executed he shall immediately return the summons, with
the date and manner of the service and the' distance traveled
by him out of his towuship, to the Justice, who issued the
same.

CHAPTER II.

JURISDICTION AND MANNER OF PROCEEDING.

498.—-Jnrisdlctlon.

Justices of the Peace shall have exclusive original juris-diction of all civil 'actions founded on contract, except:

1. Wherein the sum demanded exceeeds two hundred
dollars:

2. Wherein the title to real estate is in controversy.

tram—Where sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars.

Where it appears, in any action brought before a Justice,
that the sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars, the

J ustice‘shall dismiss the action and render judgment against
the plaintiff for the costs.

Moo—Answer to title.

In every action brought in a court of a Justice of the
Peace, where the title to real estate comes in controversy,
the defendant may, either with or without other matter of
defence, set forth, in his answer, any matter showing that

such title will come in question. Such answer shall be in
writing, signed by the defendant or his attorney, and delivr
ered to the Justice.

§501.—Action to be dismissed, when. .

If it appears on the trial, that the title to the real estate is
in controversy, the Justice shall dismiss the action and render judgment against the plaintiff for the cost.

§502-—Another action may be brought.

When a suit before a Justice, is dismissed upon answer,
and proof by the defendant, that the title to real estate, is
in controversy in the case, the plaintiff may prosecute an
action for the same cause in the Superior Court, and the
defendant shall not be admitted in that court, to deny the 7
jurisdiction by an answer contradicting this answer in the "
Justice’s court.

$503.—-D0eketing Justices’ judgment.

~ A Justice of the Peace, on' the demand of a party in whose
favor he has rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript,
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the oflice of the
Superior Court Clerk of the county, Where the judgment was.
“rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
clerk, shall be noted thereon and entered in the docket; and.

from that time, the judgment shall be a judgment of the
. Superior Court in all respects. The execution thereon shall
be issued by the Clerk of the} Superior Court to the sheriff of
the county, and shall “have the same effect, and be executed
in the same manner as other executions of the Superior
Court. A certified transcript of such judgment may be

'filed and docketed in the Superior Court Clerk’s office of any
other county, and with the like effect, in every respect, as in

.the county where the judgment was rendered, except that-it
shall be a lien only from the time of filing and docketing
such transcript. But no Justices’ judgment for a less sum
than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, shall be so filed

and docketed in the office of the Clerk of the Superior
Court.

Mme—Rules of proceeding In Justices’ court.

RULE I.

The pleadings in these Courts' are:
1. The complaint of the plaintiff.
2. The answer by the defendant.

RULE II.

The pleadings may be either oral or written; it oral, the
substance must be entered by the Justice on his docket; if
written, they must be filed by the Justice, and a reference
to them be made in his docket.

RULE III.

The complaint must state, in a plain and direct manner,
the facts constituting the cause of action.

RULE IV.

The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of
any part thereof, and also a notice, in a plain and direct
manner, of any facts constituting a defence or counter-claim.

RULE V.

Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form,
but must be such as to enable a person .of common understanding to know what is meant.

RULE VI.

[Where a defendant does not appear and answer, the plaintg'f
must stillprove his case before he can recover]

RULE VII.

In an action or defence, founded on an account or an
instrument for the payment of money only, it is suflicient
for a party to deliver the account or instrument to the Justice and state that there is due to him thereon from the
adverse party a specified sum, which he claims to recover

or set-01f.

RULE VIII.

A variance between the evidence on the trial and the
allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court is _satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his prejudice thereby.

RULE IX.

The pleadings may be amended, at any time, before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by such
amendment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the joining of the issue, and it.
appears to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an
adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in consequence ofsuch amendment, an adjournment shall be granted.
The court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition
of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party.

RULE X. ‘

The Justice may, at the joining of issue, require either
party, at the request of the other, at that or some other specified time, to exhibit his account or demand, or state the
nature thereof as far forth as may be in his power; and in
case of his default, the Justice shall preclude him from

giving evidence of such parts thereof as have not been so
exhibited or stated.

RULE XI.

Either party may de'mur to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any part thereof, when it is not sufficiently explicit to
enable him to understand it, or it contains no cause of action
or defence, although it be taken as true.

RULE XII.

If the Justice deem the objection well-founded, he shall

order the pleading to be amended on such terms as he may
think just; and if the party refuse to amend, the defective

pleading shall be disregarded.

RULE XIII.

The Justice shall enter all his proceedings in a cause tried
before him in his docket. No part of such proceedings must
be entered on the summons, on the pleadings or_on any
other paper in the cause. ‘

RULE XIV.

Execution may, be issued on a judgment, rendered in a.
Justices’ court, at any time within one year after the rendition thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days from the
date of the same. '

RULE XV.

The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, respecting
forms of actions, parties to actions, the times of commencing
actions, and the service of process upon corporations, shall
‘apply to Justices’ courts.

RULE XVI.

The defendant may, on the return of process and before
answering, make an offer in writing to allow judgment to
be taken against him for an amount, to be stated in such
offer, with costs. The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before
any other proceeding be had in the action, determine _
whether he will accept or reject such offer. If he accept
the offer, and give notice thereof in writing, the Justice shall
file the offer and the acceptance thereof, and render judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance be not given,
and if the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for a greater
amount, exclusive of costs, than has been specified in the
offer, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay to the defendant his costs accruing subsequent to the offer. ‘

RULE XVII.

Any Justice before whom an action is brought, may, on
sufficient excuse therefor shown on the afhdavit of either

party or any person for him, continue such action from time
to time for trial. But such continuance shall not exceed
thirty days.

A §505,—Executlon—-on what and from what time a lien.

Executions issued by a Justice, which must be directed
to any constable of the county, shall be a lien on the goods
and chattels of the defendant named therein, from the levy
thereof only; but shall not be levied on or enforced in any
manner against real estate, but when such shall be made a,
‘judgment of the Superior Court as is provided by section five
hundred and three, it shall be capable of being levied, and
collected out of any property of the defendant, in execution,
and it shall be a lien on the, real estate of said defendant, from
the time when it becomes a judgment of the Superior Court.

“(L—Stay of execution—Security. ,

The party praying for stay of execution shall within ten
days after the trial, give sufficient security, approved by the
Justice, for payment of the judgment, with interest thereon
till paid, and cost; and the acknowledgment of the surety,
entered by the Justice in his docket and signed by the
surety, shall be sufhcient to bind such surety. If the judgment be not discharged at 'the time to which execution has
been stayed, the Justice who awarded the judgment shall
issue execution against the principal, or surety, or both.

§507.—Former judgment.

On the trial of an action founded on a former judgment,
the judgment itself shall be evidence of the debt, subject to
such payments as have been made. ' ‘

$508.——Application for ro-hearing.

When a judgment has been rendered by a Justice, in the
absence of either party, and when such absence was caused
by the sickness, excusable mistake or neglect of the party,
such absent party, his agent or attorney may, within ten

‘ days after the date of such judgment, apply for relief, to the

Justice, who awarded the same, by aflidavit, setting forth
the facts, which afiidavit must be filed by the Justice; whereuponthe Justice, if he deem the affidavit sufficient, shall
open the case for reconsideration; and to this end, he shall
issue a summons, directed to a constable, to cause the adverse
party, together with the witnesses on both sides, to appear
before him at a place and at a time, not exceeding twenty
days, to be specified in the summons; when the complaint ,
shall be re-heard, and the same proceedings had as if the
case had never been acted on. If execution has been issued ‘
on the judgment, the Justice shall direct an order to the
officer, having such execution in his hands, commanding
him to forbear all further proceedings thereon, and to return
the same to the Justice forthwith.

“Ga—Justices judgment removed to another county, ho'w.

' Any person, who'may desire to have a Justice’s judgment
in his favor removed to another county to be enforced
against the goods and chattels of the defendant, must obtain
from the Justice who rendered the judgment a transcript
thereof, under his hand; and must further procure a certificate from the Clerk of the Superior Court .of the county
where the judgment was rendered, under the seal of his
court, that the Justice who gave the judgment was, at the
rendition thereof, a J ustice of said county. On such transcript of the judgment, thus certified, any Justice in any
other county, may award execution for the sum therein
expressed.

§510.—Wltnesses, penalties, are.

The Justice, on application of either party, shall, by a
subpoena or by an order in writing on the process, direct
the constable or other officer to summon witnesses to appear
and give testimony, at the time and place appointed for the
trial. Each witness, failing to appear, shall forfeit and pay
eight dollars to the party at whose instance he was sum.moned, and shall be, further, liable to such party for all
damage. sustained by non-attendance. The fine herein

imposed, may be recovered on motion before the Justice,
who tried the action, unless the witness, on a notice of five

days, by atlidavit or other proof, show suilicient excuse for
his failure to attend. ‘

CHAPTER III.

ARREST AN D BAIL.
C

dab—Provisions of Code of Clvll Procedure applicable.

The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, Title X,
Chapter I, are applicable, except as herein otherwise directed,
to proceedings in Justice’s Courts concerning “Arrest and
Bail,” substituting the words “Constable” for the word

“Sheriff and the words “Justice of the Peace” for the
words “Judge, Court or Clerk,” Whenever they occur in said
chapter. '

Mun—Arrest, in what cases.

The defendant may be arrested in the following cases:

1. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt or obligation for which the action is
brought. ~

2. .When the defendant is not a resident of the State, or ~
is about to remove therefrom. _

3. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his

property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

‘ §5l3.—0rder for arrest, ‘by whom made.

An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained

from the Justice of the Peace before whom the action is
brought.

$514.—Amdavlt to obtain order.

V The order may be made where it appears to the Justice
of the Peace, by aHidavit of the plaintiff or of any other

person, that a suchient cause of action exists, and that the

case is one of those mentioned in section five hundred and
twelve, Chapter III, of this Title.

«3515.-—To what actions this chapter applies. _

- The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all actions
included within the provisions of section five hundred and
twelve, Chapter III, which shall be commenced after the

_ ratification of this Title.

_ ' O
CHAPTER IV.

ATTACHMENT.

timer-Provisions of (lode of Civil Procedure applicable.

The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, Title X.
Chapter IV., are applicable to proceedings by Attachment
before Justices of the Peace, in. all cases founded on contract
wherein the sum demanded does not exceed two hundred V
dollar’s, and where the title to real estate is not in controversy.

.I

n
—

CHAPTER V.

JURY TBIAIB IN CDUR'PS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

sum—Jury uét furnished to an Justice.

The Clerk of the Board of Commissioners shall furnish,
on demand, to each Justice of the Peace in the county, a
list of the jurors for the township for which such Justice is
elected or appointed.

§518.—Justiee to keep jury hex;

Each Justice shall keep a jury box, having: two divisions
marked No. 1 and 2, and having two locks, the key of one

to be kept by the Justice and the other by the clerk of the
township Board of Trustees.

§5l9.‘—Names of jurors to be deposited in jury box. r '

Each Justice shall cause the names on his jury list to be
written on' small scrolls of paper of equal size, and to be
placed in the jury box, in division marked No. 1, until
drawn out for the trial of an issue as required by law.

“Slow—When trial by jury demanded or waived.

A trial by‘ jury must be demanded at the time of joining
the issue of fact; and if neither party demand at such time,
a jury, they shall be deemed to have waived a trial by jury.

§52l.—Jury drawn and trial postponed.

When a trial by jury is demanded, the Justice shall
immediately, in the presence of the parties, proceed to draw
the names of twelve jurors from division marked No. 1, of
the jury box; and the the trial of the cause shall thereupon
be postponedto a time and place to be fixed by the Justice.

§522.—-Summontng ot the jury.

A list of the jurors so drawn shall be immediately delivered by the Justice to any constable, With an order endorsed
thereon, directing him to summon the persons named in the
list, to appear as jurors, at the time and place fixed for the
trial; and it is the duty of the constable to proceed forthwith

to summons such jurors, or so‘many of them as can be found,
according to the order; and he shall make return thereof, at

the time and place appointed, stating in his return the
names of the jurors summoned by him.

Qua—Arne jury for the trial‘of the cause.

At the. time and place appointed, and on return of the
order, if the trial be not further adjourned, and if adjourned,
then‘ at the time and place to which the trial shall be
adjourned, the Justice shall proceed, in the presence of the

parties, to draw from the jurors summoned the names of six
persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue.

$524.—Challongo. _
Each party shall be entitled to challenge, peremptorily,
two of the persons drawn as jurors.

§525.——What names to be returned to the jury box or destroyed.

The scrolls containing the names of jurors‘not summoned,
if any, and ofthose summoned, but not drawn, and of those
drawn, but challenged and set aside, must be returned by
the Justice to his jury box, in division marked No. 1; provided that the scrolls containing the names of such as are not
legally liable, or legally qualified to serve as jurors, shall be ,
destroyed. '

§526.—Tales jurors may be summoned.

If a competent and indifferent jury is not obtained from.
the twelve jurors drawn as specified in section five hundred
and twenty-two, the Justice may direct others to be summoned, from the bystanders, suiiicient to complete the jury.

“Sm—Jury sworn and empennelled—verdlet, to.

The jury shall be sworn and empannelled by the Justice,
. who shall record their verdict in his docket and enter a
judgment in the case according to such verdict.

$528.—New trial-appeal.

A new trial is not allowed in a Justice’s Court in any case
whatever; but either party dissatisfied with the judgment
in such court may appeal therefrom to the Superior Court,
as prescribed in chapter VI. of this Act.

§529.—Less than six may be a jury—when.

Six jurors shall constitute. a jury in a Justices’ court, but,
by consent of both parties, a less number may constitute it.

§530.—-Not compelled to serve out of township.

No person is compelled to serve .as a juror, in a Justice’s
court, out of his own township, except as a talesman.

§531-—Jnrors serving on trial, tr.

The scrolls, containing the names of the jurors who serve
on the trial of an issue, must be placed in the jury box in
division marked No. 2, until all the scrolls in division marked

N o. 1, have been drawn out. As often as that may happen,
the whole number of scrolls shall be returned to division
marked No. 1, to be drawn out as in the first instance. '

§582.-—Deposlt of jury fees. 7

Before a party is entitled to a jury, he shall deposit with
the Justice the sum of three dollars for jury fees; and the
Justice shall pay to all persons who attend, pursuant to the
summons, as well to those who do not actually serve as to
those who do serve, twenty-five cents each, to be included
in the judgment as part of the costs, in case the party
demanding the jury recover judgment, but not otherwise.
The Justice shall refundto the party the fees of all jurors
who do not attend.

“no—Adjournment after return of the jury.

No adjournment shall be granted after the return of the
jury, unless the party asking the same shall, in addition to
the other conditions imposed on him by law or by the J ustice, deposit with the Justice, to be immediately paid to the

' jurors attending, the sum of twenty-five cents each, such
amount to be in no case included in the judgment, as part

‘ of the costs. On such adjournment, the jurors shall attend
at the time and place appointed, without further summons
or notice; and the fees for the jury, deposited with the Jus- ‘
tioe according to the preceding section, shall remain in his
hands, until the jury are empanneled on the trial, and shall

be then immediately paid to the jurors or to the party entitled thereto.

CH AFTER VI
APPEAL.

$584.——Appeal-—Exccutlon.

The party against whom judgment is rendered, in any
civil action in a Justice’s Court, may ‘appeal to the Superior

Court from the same; but no appeal shall prevent the
issuing of an execution on such judgment or work a stay
‘ thereof, except as herein afterwards provided.

“am—1mm, when to be taken.

The appellant shall, within ten days after judgment, serve
a notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which the appeal
is founded. If the judgment is rendered upon process not
personally served, or the defendant did not appear and
answer, he shall have fifteen days, after personal notice of
the rendition of the judgment, to serve the notice of appeal
herein provided for. '

“ML—Notice of appeal, on when served.

The notice of appeal must, within the time stated in the
last section, be served on the J ustice‘ who rendered the
judgment, if living and within the county, and on the respondent or his agent or attorney, who appeared for him on
the trial.

§587.4Ret|n to the appeal.

The Justice shall, thereupon, within ten days after the
service of the notice of appeal on him, make a return to the
appellate court and tile with the clerk thereof, the papers,
proceedings and judgment in the case, with the notice of
appeal served on him. He may be compelled to make such
return by attachment. But no Justice shall be bound to
make such return until the fees, prescribed by law for this \
service, be paid him. The fee, so paid, shall be included in
the costs, in case the judgment appealed from is reversed.

§538.—Defeetive return.

If the return be defective, the Judge or Clerk of the
appellate Court may direct a further or amended return, as
.often as may be necessary, and may compel a compliance
with the order by attachment.

"$i39i—01‘reti'm to‘th'e apieaf, what to ‘be’leiea
When the return remade, the Clerk of the‘a‘ppeliaié Court,
if th e‘ j udgment exc‘eethWentgydive dollars, exclusive cf cost,
shall docket the case on his trial docket, for, anew trial of
the whole matter at the ensuing term of” said court; If the
judgment be for twenty-five dollars or less, exclusive of costs,
he shall forthwith transmit the papers, proceedings and
judgment to the Judge of l the District. who shall bear and
determine only the matters of‘ law therein, and send his
decision thereon to the clerk of‘ the appellate court.

sum—rpm, on what'heard.
The appeal shall, in all cases, be heard on the original

papers, and no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of
the appellate court.

§5ll.—Exeeutien of the jug-eat, how stayed.

if the appellant desire a stay of execution of the judgment, he may apply, at any time, to 7 the clerk oi the appellate court for leave to give the undertaking, as provided in
the next section; who shall, upon the undertaking being
given, make an Order that all proceedings on the judgment
be stayed. ‘

$542.4ame, undertaking to be given.

The undertaking shall be in writing, executed by one or
more sumcient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the
appellate court making the order, to the effect that if judgment be rendered, against the appellant, and execution
thereon be returned unsatished, in whole or in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied, together with all costs
awarded against the appellant. '

§u3.—Same, delivery and service of .order, on when.

A delivery of a certified copy of the order mentioned in
section five hundred and forty-one to the Justice of the Peace,
shall stay the issiiing of the execution on the judgment; if

it have been issued, the service of a certified cepy of such
order on the ofiicer holding the execution, shall stay further
proceedings thereon. A certified copy of such order shall. '
also be served on the respondent, or his agent or attorney,
within ten days after the making thereof.

§Ml.—Restltntln.

If the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, bepaid or collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed,
the appellate court shall order the amount paid or collected

to be restored, with interest from the time of such payment
or collection. The jorder may be obtained on proof of the
facts made at or after the hearing of the appeal, on a previous notice of six days. If the order be obtained“ before the
judgment of reversal is entered, the amount may be included
in the judgment. ' '
“ti—Costs, how awarded. .

If the judgment be aiiirmed, costs shall be awarded. to the
respondent; if reversed, costs shall be awarded to the appeal-3
lant; if aiiirmed in_part, the costs may be awarded to either
party in' the discretion of the court.

Q

CHAPTER VII.

5'"

GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING JUSTICES OF [THE PEACE.
I! : '

gum—Within what time to qualify. '

Every person elected or appointed a Justice of the Peace,
shall, within ten days after such election or appointment,
take and subscribe the prescribed oath of oiiice before the
Clerk of the Superior Court; which oath shall be hled by
the Clerk of said Court. And any person presuming to execute the ofiice of a Justice of the Peace without qualifying
as herein directed, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. ' ‘

§547.—Removai out of township six months to forfeit omee.
When any Justice of the Peace removes out of his tOWnship and does not return therein for the space of six months, ' ‘

he shall forfeit. and lose his oilice; and any such Justice oi
the Peace presuming to act thereafter, contrary to the pro" jvisions of this section, unless re-elected or re-appointed, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.

(3548.—Resignation.
‘ Justices of the Peace wishing to resign, must deliver their

letters of resignation to the Clerk of the Superior Court, who
shall hle the same.

ohms—May issue process and try causes, where.

p A Justice of the Peace may issue a summmons or other
process anywhere in his county, but he shall not be compelled to try a cause out of the township for which he was
elected or appointed.

§550.—0inee under the United States.Any Justice of the Peace may accept a civil ofiice or
appointment of trust or profit, under the authority of the '
United States, the duties of which confine him to the county A

where he is resident.

§551.-—Punishment on conviction of infamous crimes, to.

Upon the conviction of any Justice of the Peace, of an
infamous crime, of corruption and malpractice in office, he
shall be removed from ofiice, and he shall be disqualified
from holding or enjoying any oiiice of honor, trust or proht
under this State.

§552.—Filing doekets with Clerks.

Each Justice of the Peace, as often as he has £11ed his

docket, shall file the same the'clerk of the Superior '
Court for his county. '

£558.—Deiivery of uniled doeketto successor.

When a vacancy exists, from any cause, in the oilice of a
Justice of the Peace, whose docket is not filled, or when such

Justice goes out sf 911196 by essimtiqn 9f his term, 

@1119? J statics. if living, and if dead. his 9931.78an repressm

tstive sth deliver such 690.11% end all oiiiczisl papers to his
assessssr; W119 is suthQIized to hear and determine any

unlinished canse‘ 9r canses on said docket, in the same manner as ,if ‘snch canse or'c‘ausesihad'been originally brought,
before such successor. ‘ ’ i "

two—Filing and dellvery—hew enforeed.

The slut:  on. the J ustice. or his paraded representative  the- laSt twp preceedipg sections may beenforced, on ten days’ notice in writing to such Justice 01"
his Representative, by attachment.

TITLE XXI.

FEES»

Chapter I. General Provisions.
“ II. Fees of Solicitors.
“ 111. Fees of Clerks of Superior Courts.
1. In Civil Actions.
. 2. In crl-lnal Actions.
“ IV. Fees of Registers of Deeds.
“ V. Fees of Shem.
“ Y1. Fees of campers.
“ VII.  of Justices of the Peaee. ,
“ VIII. Fees or Constables. ' '
“ IX. Fees of Jurors. .
“ X. Fees and salaries of Clerks of the Supreme court.

CHAPTER I.

GENERAL pnonsrons.

§555.—Fees of omeers by whom and how payable.

The several oiiicers hereinafter named, shall receive the-'
fees hereinafter prescribed for them respectively, from the

persons for whom, or at whose instance, the ‘ service shall be
performed, e'Xc'ethpersons suing as paupers; and no oiiicer .
shall be compelled to perform any service, unless his fees be
paid or tendered. The said oiiicers shall receive no extra
allowance or other;compensation whatever, unless the same
shall be expressly required by some statute. In case the
service shall be ordered by any proper Teflicer of the State,
or of a _county,"for _ the beneh’t of the State or county, the
fees need “not be paid in adVance; but if for the State, shall
be paid by the State, as Other claims against it are, if fora
county, by the County Commissioners, out of the county
funds. '

“56w” shoot do lined. ,
A copy sheet shall consist of one hundred words.

§557o—Fees on returns to Secretary of State.

All oiiicers required by law to make returns to the Secretary of State, shall receive for such returns five cents per
coPy sheet, to be audited on the certificate of the Secretary
of State, and paid as other claims against the State are
required to be. '

§558.—0meers to mks return of fees.

Every ofiicer authorized to receive fees, shall, during the
first week in September in every year, report to the Secretary of State, according to a form to be prepared and furnished by him, a sworn statement of all fees received, or

which might have been received by him, during the year

next preceeding the first day of September exclusive. For
this report no fee shall be allowed.

§§59.—01erks to furnish blank writs. '

Clerks of Courts shall furnish to parties printed cepies of
the formal parts of all writs required to be issued by them:
with convenient blank spaces 'for the insertion of written.
matter; and also the blank forms of such bonds as are
required to be taken by them.

§560.—th to pay costs in criminal actions.

If a defendant be acquitted, or judgment against him
arrested, the costs, including the fees of all witnesses summoned and actually examined for the accused, 'whom the
Judge before whom the trial took place, shall certify to have
been necessary or proper for his defence, shall be paid by
the prosecutor, if any be marked on the bill, unless the
Judge shall certify that there was reasonable ground for the
prosecution, and'that it was required by the public interest.
If there be no prosecutor, or if the Judge shall. certify as aforesaid, the costs shall be paid by the county in which the bill
was found.

wok—Half fees if convict insolvent.

The costs in criminal actions shall in all cases be paid by
the person convicted, if he be able; but if he be not able,
the county where the bill was found shall pay the costs of
the prosecution only; and in -that case the public ofiicers
shall receive only half the fees otherwise allowed. '.

(sea—now fees of omccrs received.

If any ofiicer to whom fees are payable by any person,
shall fail to receive them at the time the service is performed
he may have judgment therefor on motion to the court in
which the action is or was pending, 1 upon twenty days
notice to the person to be charged, at any time within one
year after the determination of the action in which the same
was performed, if the motion for judgment be in behalf of
the Clerk of the Superior Court, it shall be made to the

Judge of the Court in or out of terms.

CHAPTER II.

FEES OF SOLICITORS.

§M3.——thn to receive fees—salary.

The Solicitor shall receive no fees, except in case of judgment rendered against the accused; unless in cases, where,

upon conviction, the punishment might have been capital or
confinement in the penitentiary at hard labor for. six months
or upwards, and the Judge before whom the action was
tried, shall certify, immediately after the trial, that there was
probable ground for the prosecution, and] that the case has
been conducted fairly and with due diligence._ In such case

he shall receive one-half of his fees from 'the county in
which the bill was found, and he shall receive forty dollars

additional for every attendance on the session of his Court.

$5M.—Solicltor’s fees—for what.

The” Solicitors shall receive the following fees:

1. On every conviction for murder, twenty dollars.

2. On every conviction where, by law the punishment
may be hard labor in a Penitentiary for one year or over,
ten dollars. . '

3. On conviction on any other indictment, four dollars,

. 4. On final judgment against a defaulting witness or juror
where no issue is joined, two dollars.

5. On such a judgment when contested, four dollars.6. Judgment on undertaking of bail; or recognizance, if
uncontested, two dollars.

7. On the same if 0 tested, four dollars.

8. On application a: rene'w bond to keep the peace, if
granted, one dollar. I .

9. On an issue in bastardy—'—foun'd against the putative
father, four dollars.

.—

- CHAPTER III.

THE‘ FEES 0F CLERKS OF THE SUPERIOR COURTS.

war—What loos and for what.

The Clerks of the Superior Court shall be entitled to the following fees: ~ '

HR CIVIL CASES.

1. Furnishing blank writ of summons or other writ or
process required to be“ issued by 'him and'takinga bond from
the'plsintiii‘ as security for costs or receivinga deposit from '
plaintiE and giving a certificate to him and'the defendant,
iifty cents. ' '

2. Docketing summons, dve cents. ,

3. Recording 3 return of a sheriff or other ministerial 011i.cer, ten cents.

4. Receiving, filing, and 'notin g on the docket, any pleading or demurrer, and delivering capies filed, to the parties to
whom addressed, ten cents. ‘

5. Order enlarging, or refusing to enlarge, time for" pleading, or for any other act where authorized, fifty cents.

6. Making‘ order of publication where allowed, hfteen.
cents . '

7. Entering judgment against either party in default of a
plea, one dollar. . '

8. Judgment on any question authorized to be decided by
him, if there be no appeal to the Judge, or if the judgment
of the clerk be confirmed on the appeal, one dollar.

9. Preparing statement of case on a peel from his decision to the Judge if the decision s 11 be confirmed, one
dollar.

10. Transcript of record for Judge on issue of law joinedon the pleadings, per copy sheet, ten cents. ,

11. Acknowledging receipt of decision of J udge, and
notifying each attorney thereof, ten cents.

12. Taking an aftidavit except to a witness or juror’s ticket
of attendance, fifteen cents.

13. Taking affidavit to witness or juror’s ticket, ten cents.

14. Transcript of case and record for Supreme Court, per
copy sheet, ten cents. .

15. Mailing transcript, post paid, iifteen cents. 16. Docketing an y j udgment on Execution docket, twenty_ five cents. '

17. Aiiixing seal of court when necessary, twenty-five
cents.

18-. Enterng on‘ record any order or judgment of ‘theJudge, on .a matter. which he has jurisdiction to decide out
. (if-atom, if not more than one sheet-twenty-fzve'eents.

If monethan one cepysheet', bravery copy sheet 
East, ten cents. ‘ ‘

1:9.  on thedeckeitabrief of any complaint, plea,
demurrer or motion, five cents. ' '

20. Entering general verdict, five cents.

21. Entering special .verdict my  sheet, ten cents. .

22. Entering appeal taken, live cents.

23. Issuing subpoena for witnesses, each name, ten cents.

‘ 24. Swearing-a witness, five cents. a"

25. Copy of any record or Writing in his oHice, per copy
sheet, ten cents.

26. Probate or acknowledgment of a deed or writing of
any sort authorized to be proved, (except Where the private
examination of a married woman is taken, for each grantor
therein, fifty cents. ‘

27. Probate 0r acknowledgment of deed or other writing;
and taking, private examinan of married women, with
certiiicate thereof, one dollar.

28. Probate of a will in common form, with certificate and,
issuing, letters testamentary, one dollar. '

29. Recording will, return or report of executor, administrator, guardian or other trustee required to be recorded ;.
per copy sheet, ten cents. ‘

30. Grant of letters of administration of any sort, and

taking bond of administration, one dollar.
. 31. Every notice required tobe issued by Clerk, ten cents.

32. Grant of guardianship, including taking of bond; for each minor, fifty cents. ‘

33. Apprenticing infant, including indenture, fifty cents.

’34. Entering caveat on contested‘will, twenty cents.

35. Recording articles of agreement of proposed corpora:
tion, including all services, two dollars. 36. Issuing commission of any sort, iifty cents.

37. Entering return to commission and order for registration of deed, ten cents. ’

' 38. Auditing account of executor, administrator, guardian, or other trustee, required to return accounts, one 'per
cent. on the nett amount returned, if not over three hundred
dollars; three fourths of one per cent. if over three hundred
and not over one thousand dollars; one-half of one per
cent. if over one thousand and not over twenty thousand
dollars; due sixth of one per cent. it over twenty thousand

dollars. 39. J ustificationpf sureties, iifty c_ents.

40. Issuing marriage license and making the record required thereof, 'iifty cents.

41. Entry of birth or death when required to be made,
five cents. ~ . .

[lo—IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS. 42. Issuing capias—for each person to be arrested, iift
cents. ._ I.

43. Docketing action, and entering return, ten, cents. _,

44. Taking a recognizancgten cents. .

45. Issuing subpoena—for each witness, ten cents.

46. Entering judgment against a defaulting juror or Witness or on a hail bond or recognizance, fifty cents.

47. Entering verdict and judgment, one dollar.

48. Issuing execution, twenty-Iive cents. ‘ 49. J ustiiication of bail or sureties to an appeal, fifty
cents

50. Aflidavit except to witness or juror’s ticket twentycents. . .

51. Aflidavit to witness or juror’s ticket, ten cents.

52. Ailixing seal when necessary, twenty-five cents.

53. Transcript on appeal—as in civil cases.

54. Mailing transcript as in civil cases. i

CHAPTER 'IV.

FEES OF REGISTERS OF' DEEDS.

W.—Specm«tlon.

The Register of Deeds shall be entitled to the following
prescribed fees: . 1. Registering any deed or other writing authorized to
be registered or recorded by. him, with certificate of probate
or acknowledgment and private examination of a married
woman if any, if not more than one copy sheet, one dollar.

2. For every copy sheet more than one, three cents.

, 3. For a copy of any record or paper in his oiiice; per

copy sheet, three cents.
4. For issuing each notice or order required by the county

Commissioners, including subpoenas for witnesses; for each
name, fifteen cents. ' ‘
5. Recording each 'order of Commissioners if not over
one copy sheet, twenty cents.
6. If ever one c0py sheet, for every one oveahree cents.
7. Making out tax list, for each name on each copy
' required to be made, three cents.

0

CHAPTER V.

FEES OI" SHERIFFS.

§567.¥-Speclncation. ' _

The Sheriii's shall be entitled to the following fees for the

acts herein specified: .
1. Executing summons, or any other writ or notice, simply

by delivering a copy to the party or his attorney, sixty
cents.“ ' a

2. Per mile, travelling from Court House of his county to
place of service, it out of the-county town, and where immediate service is not required, five cents.

3. As above, where] immediate service is required, ten .
cents.

4. Arrest of a defendant in a civil action and taking bail,
including attendance to justify, and all services connected
therewith, two dollars.

5. Arrest of person indicted, including all service-eonnected-with the taking and: justification of ' bail, one dollar.

6. Impnisonmentloilany personinwcivilornriminal action,
iiftfy center; andreleaee “from prison, thirtyceuta ' .

7. Executing subpoena: on a witness“ without mileage,
twenty4£ve cents. 7 p

8. Conveyingzaoprisener to jail, if oneamile or less, fifty
cents. ‘ j

9. If over one mile, then per: mile» beyond. the 'rst, for .
prisoner, sheriff. and guard, if any necessary, ‘ and approved
by County Commissioners—per mile for each, ten cents.

10. Expense of guard and all other expenses of convey.
ing prisoner to jail, or from one jail to another for any pura
pose, or toQQy place of punishmentr—whateVer may be
allowed by the Commissioners of the county in which the
indictment was issued. ' ' _

11. Feeding prisoners in the county jail per day—to be
fixed by the Commissionersof the county. '

12. Providing prisoners in county jail with suitable beds,
bed clothing, other clothing and fuel, and keeping the prison
and grounds cleanly—whatever shall be allowed by the Commissioners of the county. . .

13. Collecting fine and costs from convict, two and a half
per cent. on the amount collected. '

14. Collecting executions for money in civil actions—two
and a half per cent. on the amount collected.

15. Advertising a sale of property under execution, at each
public place required, fifteen cents. ,

16. Seizing pecific property under order of a court, or
Judge, or executing any other order of a court or Judge not
speciallyprovi‘ded for; to be allowed by the Judge.

17. Taxing any oiiicial bond, including furnishing the
blank, fifty cents. ' . . - '

18. The actual expense of keeping all property seiZed
under process or order of court; to be allowed by the court.

19. A capital execution, including the burial of the body,
twenty-five dollars.

' 20. .Summoning a grand or petit jury for each man‘summoned, thirty cents.

21. Serving any writ or other process, with the aid of the
county, or arresting. any criminal, three dollars, and all
necessary expenses incurred thereby.

22. All just fees paid to any printer for any advertisement
required to be printed by the sheriff.

23. Bringing up a prisoner upon a .habeas corpus to testify .
or answer to any court or. before aJudge, one dollar, and all
necessary expenses.

CHAPTER VI.

FEES OF CORONERS.

§568.—-Speclncatlon. ‘ '

Coroners shall be entitled to fees as follows:

1; Coroners shall receive the same fees~as are or shallbe
allowed sheriffs in 'similar cases. V ‘

2. For holding an inquest over a dead body, including the
summoning the jury and returning the verdict—if finished
in one day, ten dollars. '

3. For every additional day occupied in the investigation
of the case, five dollars. . _

4‘. ,For summoning each witness on inquest, iifteen cents.

5. For burying a pauper over whom an inquest has been
held, to be paid by the county. I

6. The fees in cases numbered one, two, and three shall
be paid by the cOunty if the deceased be a pauper, otherwise
by his personal representatives. - .

. CHAPTER VI 1. ‘

FEES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

$569.4pccmcatlon.

Justices of the Peace shall be entitled to receive the following fees:

For attachment or transcript of a judgment, twenty-five

_ cents.

For summons, fifteen cents.

For adjournment or continuance, ten cents.

For subpoena, or order for witnesses including all the
names inserted therein, twenty-five cents. \

For filing every paperznecessary to be filed, five cents.

For trial of an gissue, fifty cents.

For entering judgment, twenty-'iive cents.
' For taking affidavit, bond3or undertaking, iive cents.

For drawing or taking aiiidavit, bond or undertaking, per‘
coPy sheet, ten cents.

For receiving and entering verdict of jury, twenty-live
cents.

For execution, twenty-five cents.

For renewal of execution, ten cents.

For making a return to an appeal, one dollar.

For order of an arrest in a civil action, twenty-live cents.

For warrant for apprehension of any person charged with
crime, or with being the father of a bastard, fifty cents.

For entering judgment for a contempt, fifty-cents.

For execution of such judgment, twenty-live cents.

For warrant of commitment for any cause, twenty-five
cents.

For order for a commission to take testimony, fifty cents.

For taking deposisions on an order or commission issued
by some court, per copy sheet, ten cents.

For making necessary return and certincate thereto, fifty
cents.

In civil actions where the sum recovered before the Justice
exceeds one hundred dollars, the above fees shall be increased
'fifty per cent.

CHAPTER VIII.

FEES OF CONSTABLES.

§570.—Like those of sherm‘.

The fees of constables shall be the same as those for
sherifi“, for the like services.

CHAPTER IX.

FEES OF JURORS.

§57l.-—Pay and mileage.

1. Jurors to the Superior Courts, per day, what shall be
. allowed by the County Commissioners of—the County, not
exceeding tWO dollars and fifty cents. I

2. Per mile of travel coming to, and returning from court,

live cents.
3. The same pay and mileage shall be allowed to special
jurors and the same pay, without mileage, to tales jurors.

CHAPTER X.
FEES AND SALARIES OF CLERKS or THE SUPREME COURT.

(Wit—To remain as heretofore.

The salary and fees of the Clerk of the Supreme Court,
shall be as provided by section twenty-five, chapter One
hundred and two,‘ ofgthc Revised Code of this State.

TITLE XXII.

OF THE PRINTING OF THE CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.

§573.—-Code as printed under supervision of Commissioners, evidence of the law.

The Commississioners appointed, ,“to prepare a Code of
Practice and Procedure in the different courts” of this
State,” shall cause to be printed under their supervision, four
thousand COpies of this, act, entitled “The Code of Civil
Procedure,” including the Act concerning the jurisdiction of
Justices of the Peace; the Act concerning the powers and
duties of Clerks of the Superior Courts as Judges of Probate, and and the Act fixing the fees of the clerk, sheriff
and other public officers, which are parts of said Code, and
the c0pies thus printed, shall be received as evidence of the
law before all tribunals, and in all places, in the same
manner, and with the same effect as the original in the oiiice '
of the Secretary of State.

§571.—Copies, how distributed.

The said copies shall be distributed by the Secretary of
State, as follows: . "
1. To the library of the Congress of the United States;
iive copies. ‘
2. To each of the several State and territories; three.
3. To the library of the University of North Carolina;
three. ' . l

4. To the Governor and the members of his council, for
the use of their respective oHices; each two copies.

5. To each member of the General Assembly, to each
J ustioe of the Supreme Court, to each Judge of the Superior
Court, to each Clerk of the Superior Court; One copy. "
i 6. To each Commissioner of the Code; five copies.

7. To each Justice of the Peace; one copy. ,

8. Three hundred shall be exposed for sale, at a price not

exceeding cost, to be fixed by the Secretary of State, for the‘
benefit of the State. ‘ - I -.

9. The residue, and the copies which shall remain unsold

at the end of two years, shall‘ be deposited in the library of
t he State. ‘

TITLE XXIII.

RATIFICATION OF STATUTES COMPOSING THIS CODE.

(I575.——Date of Ratmcation.

The various Statutes of which the Code of Civil Procedure
is composed, take effect from the date of ratincation, as
follows: ‘

I.—'The Iirst part of the Code of Civil Procedure embracing Titles I, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and the greater part of
Title VI“, of this Code, was ratified on the eighteenthday

of August, A. D., 1868.
II.—An Act entitled, “An Act concerning the powers and
duties of Clerks of the Superior Court,” constituting Title II,

and Chapter V, of Title VIII, of the Code of Civil Procedure,
was ratified on the fourteenth day of August, A. D.,'1868.

III.—The second part of the Code of Civil Procedure
embracing Titles IX to XVIII inclusive and Title XXII, was.
ratiiied on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.

IV.—An Act entitled, “An Act concerning the powers
and duties of Clerks of the Superior Courts, as Judges of
Probate,” constituting Title XIX, of the Code of Civil Pro. cedure, was ratified on the nineteenth day of August, A. D.,
1868.

V.——An Act in relation to the courts of Justices of the
Peace, being Title XX, of the Code of Civil Procedure, was
ratified on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.

VI.—An Act in relation to the fees of certain officers,
being Title XXI, of the Code of Civil Procedure, was ratified

on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.

