CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.
AN ACT to Establish a Code of Civil Procedure for Dakota Territory.
GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.
§ 1. Be it enacted by tlte Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Dakota : This act shall be known as the Code of Civil
Procedure of the Territory of Dakota, and is divided into three parts, as •
follows :
Part 1. Of Courts of Justice.
Part 2. Of Civil Actions.
Part 3. Of Special Proceedings of a Civil Nature.
§ 2. No part of it is retroactive unless expressly so
declared.
§ 3. The rule of the common law, that
statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no applica
tion to this code. The code establishes the law of this territory respect
ing the subjects to which it relates, and its provisions and all proceedings
under it are to be liberally construed with a view to effect its objects and
to promote justice.
§ 4. No action or proceeding commenced before this
code takes effect, and no right accrued, is affected by its provisions, but
the proceedings therein must conform to the requirements of this code as
far as applicable.
§ 5. When a limitation or period of time pre
scribed in any existing statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy,
or for any other purpose, has begun to run before this code goes into effect,
and the same or any limitation is prescribed in this code, the time which
has already rnn shall be deemed part of the time prescribed as such
limitation by this code.
§ 6. The time in which any act provided by law
is to be done is computed by excluding the first day, and including the
last, unless the last is a holiday, and then it is also excluded.
§ 7. Words and phrases are construed ac
cording to the context and the approved usage of the language; but tech
nical words and phrases, and such others as have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law, or are defined by statute, are to be construed
according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning or definition.
§ 8. The following words have in this code the signif
ication attached to them in this section, unless otherwise apparent from
the context :
1. The word "writ" signifies an order or precept in writing, issued in the
name of the territory or of a court or judicial officer; and the word "pro
cess" a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
2. The word "state," when applied to the different parts of the United
States, includes the District of Columbia and the territories; and the words
"United States" may include the district and territories.
§ 9. No statute, law or' rule is continued in
force because it is consistent with the provisions of this code on the same
subject; but in all cases provided for by this code, all statutes, laws and
rules heretofore in force in this territory, whether consistent or not with
the provisions of this code, unless expressly continued in force by it, are
repealed and abrogated. This repeal or abrogation does not revive any
former law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right already exist
ing or accrued, or any action or proceeding already taken, except as in
this code provided; nor does it affect any private statute not expressly
repealed.
§ 10. This act, whenever cited, enumerated, referred to,
or amended, may be designated simply as the code of civil procedure,
adding, when necessary, the number of the section.
§ 11. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided
into:
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.
§ 12. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court
of justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the pun
ishment of a public offense.
§ 13. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
§ 14. Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.
§ 15. A criminal action is one prosecuted by the
territory, as a party, against a person charged with a public offense, for
the punishment thereof.
§ 16. Every other is a civil action; and all process in
civil actions shall run in the name of the territory of Dakota.
§ 17. Where the violation of a right admits of both a
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one rs not merged in
the other.
Part 1.
COURTS OF JUSTICE AND THEIR JURISDICTION.
CHAPTER I.
OF THE COURTS IX GENERAL.
§ 18. The following are the courts of justice of this territory:
1. The supreme court.
2. The district courts.
3. The probate courts; and,
4. The courts of justices of the peace.
§ 19. These courts shall continue to exercise
the jurisdiction now vested in them respectively, except as otherwise pre
scribed by law.
CHAPTER II.
a
OF TIIE SUPREME COURT.
§ 20. The jurisdiction of the supreme court is
of two kinds:
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate.
§ 21. Its original jurisdiction extends to all writs which by
law may issue from this court, and to all writs necessary to the exercise of
its appellate jurisdiction.
§ 22. It has exclusive jurisdiction to
review upon appeal every actual determination hereafter made at any reg
ular or special terms of the district courts of this territory, in the following
•cases, and no other:
1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein, or brought there from
another court, and upon the appeal from such judgment, to review any
■.intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the
°sjudgment. "\ 2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such action, when
-each order in effect determines the action, and prevents a judgment from
""which an appeal might be taken, or discontinues the action, or strikes out
a pleading or any part of a pleading, or arises upon any interlocutory pro
ceeding or any question of practice in the action and does not involve any
question of discretion, or grants or refuses a new trial, or sustains or
overrules a demurrer, or grants, refuses, continues or modifies a provis
ional remedy, but no appeal to the supreme court from an order granting
a new trial shall be effectual for any purpose, unless the notice of appeal
contain an assent on the part of the appellant that, if the order be af
firmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered against the appellant. Upon
every appeal from an order granting a new trial, if the supreme cou^t shall
determine that no error was committed in granting the new trial, they
shall render judgment absolute upon the right of the appellant; and after
the proceedings are remitted to the court from which the appeal was
taken, an assessment of damages or other proceedings to render the judg
ment effectual, may be there had, in cases where such subsequent pro
ceedings are requisite.
3. In a final order affecting a substantial right made in a special pro
ceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment, and
upon such appeal to review any intermediate order involving the merits
and necessarily affecting the order appealed from.
4. Whenever the decision of any motion heretofore made, or any motion
hereafter to be made, in the district court of this territory at a special term
thereof, involves the constitutionality of any law of this territory or has
been or shall be placed, in the opinion or reason for such decision of the jnstice
making such decision, upon the unconstitutionality of such law, then an
appeal shall lie and may be made from such decision or from the order
entered, or to be entered upon such decision, to the general term of said
supreme court: Provided, 7ioioever, That the time for appealing from such
decision, or from such order, shall not be extended hereby.
§ 23. The supreme court may reverse, affirm, or
modify, the judgment or order appealed from in whole or in part, and as
to any or all of the parties; and its judgment shall be remitted to the
court below to be enforced according to law; and may direct; the proper
judgment or order to be entered, or direct a new trial or further proceed
ings to be had.
§ 24. The times and places for holding the terms of
the supreme court shall be and remain as is now or may hereafter be pro
vided by law. The court may provide what causes shall have a preference
on the calendar, and regulate the practice and proceedings therein by gen
eral rules not inconsistent with the organic act and the statutes of this ter
ritory. On a second and each subsequent appeal to the supreme court, or
when an appeal has once been dismissed for defect or irregularity, the
cause shall be placed upon the calendar as of the time of filing the first
appeal; and whenever in any action or proceeding ,in which the territory
of Dakota or any territorial officer, or any board of territorial officers,
is or are sole plaintiff or defendant, an appeal has been or shall be
brought from any judgment or order for or against him or them, in any
court, such appeal shall have a preference in the supreme court, and may
be moved by either party out of the order on the calendar.
§ 25. The concurrence of two judges is neces
sary to pronounce a judgment. If two do not concur the cause must be
reheard. But no more than two rehearings shall be had; and if on the
second hearing two judges do not concur, the judgment shall be affirmed.
§ 26. The supreme court may be held in
other buildings than those designated by law as places for holding courts,
and at a different place in the same city from that at which it is appointed V
to be held. Any one or more of the justices may adjourn the court with "the like effect as if all were present.
CHAPTER III.
OF THE DISTRICT court.
§ 27. The district courts possess chancery
as well as common law jurisdiction.
§ 28. They have exclusive original ju
risdiction in all actions or proceedings in chancery, and in all actions at
law where the debt or sum claimed exceeds one hundred dollars, and in
all cases in which the title to real property or the boundary thereof in any
wise comes in question, except in actions for forcible entry or forcible and
unlawful detainer; and in all actions for divorce and to obtain a decree
of nullity of marriage; and in all such other cases as now are or may
hereafter be provided by law.
§ 29. They have jurisdiction of appeals from all final
judgments of justices of the peace, and from all judgments, decrees or
orders of the probate court, or other inferior officers or tribunals, in the
cases prescribed by statute. They have also the power to issue writs of
habeas corpus, mandamus, injunction, quo warranto, certiorari, and all
other writs necessary to carry into effect their judgments, decrees and
orders, and to give them a general control over inferior courts, officers,
boards, tribunals and jurisdictions.
§ 30. They also possess all such criminal as well
as civil jurisdiction as is conferred by the organic laws, and the statutes
of this territory.
§ 31. For the purpose of hearing
and determining special proceedings of a civil nature, motions for new
trials in civil actions, motions for and to dissolve or modify injunctions,
motions to set aside or vacate orders of arrest and writs of attachment,
and for the entry of orders and judgments, these courts are always
open.
CHAPTER IV.
OF PROBATE COURTS AND COURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
§ 32. The probate courts and the courts of justices of the
peace possess only such jurisdiction as is conferred on them by the organic
laws and the statutes of this territory.

CHAPTER V.
FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 33. The distinction between actions at law
and suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore
existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this territory, hereafter, but
one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and
the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.
§ 34. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 35. No action shall be brought upon a
judgment rendered in any court of this territory, except a court of a justice
of the peace, between the same parties, without leave of the court for
good cause shown, on notice to the adverse party; and no action on a
judgment rendered by a justice of the peace shall be brought in the same
county, within five years after its rendition, except in case of his death,
resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the county, or that the pro
cess was not personally served on the defendant, or on all the defendants,
or in case of the death of some of the parties, or where the docket or
record of such judgment is or shall have been lost or destroyed.
§ 30. Feigned issues are abolished, and instead
thereof, in the cases wherejthe power now exists to order a feigned issued,
or when a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be
tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly and
plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall be the only
authority necessary for a trial.
CHAPTER VI.
TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.
IN GENERAL.
§ 37. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this code, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by
statute. But the objection that the action was not commenced within the
time limited, can only be taken by answer.
TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.
§ 38. The territory of Dakota will not sue any
person for or in respect to any real property, or the issues or profits
thereof, by reason of the right or title of the territory to the same, unless :
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years before any
action or other proceeding for the same shall be commenced; or, unless,
2. The territory, or those from whom it claims, shall have received the
rents and profits of such real property, or of some part thereof, within the
space of forty years.
§ 39. No action shall be brought for, or in
respect to, real property, by any person claiming by virtue of grants from
the territory, unless the same might have been commenced, as herein
specified, in case such grant had not been issued or made.
§ 40. When grants of real property shall have
been issued or made by the territory, and the same shall be declared void
by the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation
of a fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture, or mistake, or
ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title, in
such case an action for the recovery of the premises so conveyed may be
brought either by the territory, or by any subsequent grantee of the same
premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such determina
tion was made, but not after that period.
§ 41. No action for the recovery of real
property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained,
unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor
was seized or possessed of the premises in question within twenty years
before the commencement of such action.
§ 42. No cause of action, or defense to an action, founded upon
the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, shall be
effectual unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making
the defense, or under whose title the action is prosecuted, or the defense is
made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such person was seized
or possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the
committing of the act in respect to which such action is prosecuted, or de
fense made.
§ 43. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed
sufficient or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon
within one year after the making of such entry, and within twenty years
from the time when the right to make such entry descended or accrued.
§ 44. In every action for the recovery of real
property, or the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title
to the premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within
the time required by law; and the occupation of such premises by any
other person shall be deemed to have been under and in subordination to
the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been held and
possessed adversely to such legal title for twenty years before the com
mencement of such action.
§ 45. Whenever it shall appear
thafthe occupant, or those under whom he claims, entered into the posses
sion of premises under claim of title, exclusive of any other right, found
ing such claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the
premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a competent
court, and that there has been a continued occupation and possession of
the premises included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or of some
part of such premises, under such claim, for twenty years, the premises so
included shall be deemed tp have been held adversely; except that where
the premises so included consist of a tract divided into lots, the possession
of one lot shall not be deemed a possession of any other lot of the same
tract.
§ 46. For the purpose of constitut'ng an adverse
possession, by any person claiming a title founded upon a written instru
ment, or a judgment or a decree, land shall be deemed to have been pos
sessed and occupied in the following cases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
I2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure,
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of fuel
or of fencing timber for the purposes of husbandly, or the ordinary use
of the occupant.
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the
portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared or not
inclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining
country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of
time as the part improved and cultivated.
§ 47. Where it shall appear that there has
been an actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title
exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a written instrument
or a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no other,
shall be deemed to have been held adversely.
§ 48. For the purpose of constituting an
adverse possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon a writ
ten instrument, or judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been
possessed and occupied in the following cases only:
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure.
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
§ 49. Whenever the relation of landlord and ten
ant shall have existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
shall be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twen
ty years from the termination of the tenancy; or, where there has been no
written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time of the
last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired
another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. Bat
such presumptions shall not be made after the periods herein limited.
§ 50. The right of a person to the possession of
any real property shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast
in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such property.
§ 51. If a person entitled to commence any
action for the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense
founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the
same, be, at the time such title shall first descend or accrue, either:
1. Within (he age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of
a criminal offense for a term less than for life.
The time during which such disability shall continue shall not be
deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commence
ment of such action, or the making of such entry or defense; but such
action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, after the period of
twenty years, and within ten years after the disability shall cease, or af
ter the death of the person entitled who shall die under such disability;
but such action shall not be commenced or entry or defense made after
that period.
CHAPTER I
TIME 'OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL
PROPERTY.
§ 52. The periods prescribed in section 37 for the
commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real property
shall be as follows:
§ 53. Within twenty years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United
States, or of any state or territory within the United States.
2. An action npon a sealed instrument.
§ 54. Within six years:
1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express or im
plied, excepting those mentioned in section 53. .
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty
or forfeiture.
3. An action for trespass upon real property.
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or chattels, in
cluding actions for the specific recovery of personal property.
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the
person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter
enumerated.
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which hereto
fore were solely cognizable by the court of chancery, the cause of action
in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud.
§ 55. Within three years:
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a liability in
curred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his
office, or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment
of money collected upon an execution. But this section shall not apply
to an action for an escape.
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action
is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the people of this
territory, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limit
ation.
§ 56. Within two years :
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment.
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people of
this territory.
§ 57. Within one year: 
1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner
arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
§ 58. In an action brought to recover a bal
ance due upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there have been
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be
deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the
account on either side.
§ 59. An action upon a statute for a
penalty or forfeiture given in whole or in part to any person who will
prosecute for the same, must be commenced within one year after the com
mission of the offense; and if the action be not commenced within the
year by a private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter
in behalf of the territory, by the district attorney where the offense was
committed.
§ 60. An action for relief not hereinbefore
provided for must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action
shall have accrued.
§ 61. The limitations prescribed in this chapter, shall apply to actions brought in the name of the territory, or for
its benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.
general provisions as to the time of commencing actions.
§ 62. An action is commenced as to
each defendant when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant
who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in interest with him. An at
tempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the commencement
thereof, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be
actually served, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which the
defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided; or, if a corporation
be defendant, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which such
corporation was established by law, or where its general business was
transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of business. But
such an attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons,
or the service thereof, within sixty days.
§ 63. If, when the cause of auction shall accrue
against any person, he shall be out of the territory, such action may be
commenced within the terms herein respectively limited, after the return
of such person into this territory; and
if,
after such cause of action shall
have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this terri
tory, the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of
the time limited for the commencement of such action.
§ 64. If a person entitled to bring an action other
than for the recovery of real property, except for a penalty or forfeiture,
or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, be at the time the cause
of action accrued, either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or in execution under the sentence
of
a
criminal court, for a term less than his natural life.
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action: Provided, That the period within which
the action must be brought cannot be extended more than five years by
any such disability except infancy, nor can
it
be extended in any case
longer than one year after the disability ceases.
§ 65. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the ex
piration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause
of action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives,
after the expiration of that time, and within one year from his death. If
a
person against whom an action may be brought die before the expira
tion of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survive, an action may be commenced against his executors or ad
ministrators after the expiration of that time, and within one year after
the issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.
§ 66. When a person shall be an alien subject, or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the
war
is
part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.
§ 67. If an action be commenced within
the time prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein be reversed on ap
peal, the plaintiff, or, if he die and cause of action survive, his heirs or
representatives may commence a new action within one year after the
reversal .
§ 68. When the commencement of an action
is
stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continu
ance of the injunction or prohibition is not part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.
§ 69. No person can avail himself of a
disability, unless
it
existed when his right of action accrued.
§ 70. When two or more disabilities co-exist
at the time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach until
they are all removed.
§ 71. This chapter does not affect actions to enforce the
payment of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed,
corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.
§ 72. This chapter shall not affect actions
against directors or stockholders of a moneyed corporation, or banking
association, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a lia
bility created by law; but such actions must be brought within six years
after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the
penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.
§ 73. No acknowledgment or promise is suf
ficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case
out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same be contained in some
writing signed by the party to be charged thereby ; but this section shall
not alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
CHAPTER VII.
parties to civil actions.
§ 74. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 76;
but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a
thing in action not arising out of contract. But an action may be main
tained by a grantee of land in the name of a grantor, when the grant or
grants are void by reason of the actual possession of a person claiming
under a title adverse to that of the grantor at the time of the delivery of
the grant, and the plaintiff shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring
the case within this provision.
§ 75. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off
or other defense existing at the" time of, or before notice of, the assignment ;
but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration, before
due.
§ 70. An executor or administrator, a trustee
of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is pros
ecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section,
shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose name a
contract is made for the benefit of another.
§ 77. When a married woman is a party, her ap
pearance, the prosecution or defense of the action, and the .joinder with
her of any other person or party, must be governed by the same rules as if
she were single.
§ 78. When an infant is a party, he must ap
pear either by his general guardian, or by a guardian appointed by the
court in which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof. A guar
dian may be appointed in any case, when it is deemed by the court in
which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, expedient to repre
sent the infant in the action, notwithstanding he may have a general guar
dian, and may have appeared by him.
§ 79. The guardian shall be appointed:
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the appli
cation of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a
relative or friend of the infant. If made by a relative or friend of the in
fant, notice thereof must first be given to such guardian, if he has one; if
he has none, then to the person with whom such infant resides.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after
the service of summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglects
so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action,
or of a relative or friend of the infant, after notice of such application
being first given to the general or testamentary guardian of such infant,
if he has one within this territory; if he has none, then to the infant him
self, if over fourteen years of age, and within the territory; or, if under
that age, and within the territory, to the person with whom such infant
resides. And in actions for the partition of real property, or for the fore
closure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an infant defendant
resides out of this territory, the plaintiff may apply to the court, or a
judge thereof, in which the action is pending, and will be entitled to an
order designating some suitable person to be the guardian for the infant
defendant, for the purposes of the action, unless the infant defendant, or
some one in his behalf, within a number of days after the service of a copy
of the order, which number of days shall be in the said order specified,
shall procure to be appointed a guardian for the said infant; and the court
shall give special directions in the order for the manner of the service
thereof, which may be upon the infant himself, or by service upon any
relation or person with whom the infant resides, and either by mail or
personally upon the person so served. And in case an infant defendant,
having an interest in the event of the action, shall reside in any state with
which there shall not be a regular communication by mail, on such fact
satisfactorily appearing to the court, the court may appoint a guardian
ad litem for such absent infant party, for the purpose of protecting the
light of such infant in said action, and on such guardian ad litem process,
pleadiugs and notices in the action may be served, in the like manner as
upon a party residing in this territory.
§ 80. No guardian appointed for an infant under
the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to receive any money
or other property of the infant, except costs and expenses allowed to the
guardian by the court, or recovered by the infant in the action, until he
has given sufficient security, approved by the judge of the court, to ac
count for and apply the same under the direction of the court. And no
person appointed a guardian for the purpose of defending an action
brought against an infant shall be liable for costs of such action, unless
specially charged by the order of the court for some personal misdemeanor
therein.
§ 81. All persons having an interest in the sub
ject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as
plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
§ 82. Any person may be made a defendant who has or
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a
necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the questions
involved therein; and in an action to recover possession of real estate, the
landlord and tenant thereof may be joined as defendants, and any person
claiming title or right of possession to real estate may be made parties
plaintiff or defendant, as the case may require, to any such action.
§ 83. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the
consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous and it
may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may
Bue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
§ 84. Persons severally liable upon the same obliga
tion or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and prom,
issory notes, whether the action is brought upon the instrument, or by a
party thereto to recover against other parties liable over to him, and per
sons liable severally for the same debt or demand, although upon different
obligations or instruments, may all, or any of them, be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
§ 85. No action shall abate by the death, mar
riage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death, or
other disability of a party, the court, on motion, at any time within one
year thereafter, or afterwards on a supplemental complaint, may allow
the action to be continued by or against his representatives or successor in
interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be con
tinued in the name of the original party, or the court may allow the per
son to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action. After a
verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong, such action shall not
abate by the death of any party, but the case shall proceed thereafter in
the same manner as in cases where the cause of action now survives by
law. At any time after the death, or other disability of the party plain\
tiff, the court in which an action is pending, upon notice to such persons
as it may direct, and upon application of any person aggrieved, may, in
its discretion, order that the action be deemed abated, unless the same be
continued by the proper parties, within a time to be fixed by the court,
not less than six months nor exceeding one year from the granting of the
order.
§ 86. Where judgment has heretofore
or shall hereafter be recovered for the possession of real property, and the
party recovering such judgment shall have died subsequent to the recovery
thereof, his successor in interest in said real property, whether by grant,
devise, or inheritance, may revive said judgment and enforce the same by
execution, on motion, within one year after said death, or afterwards on
supplemental complaint.
§ 87. When an intestate not being an inhabitant
of the territory shall die out of the territory not leaving assets therein,
and there shall be pending in the supreme court an appeal brought by such
intestate from a judgment against him, the court in which such appeal is
pending, may order the judgment appealed from affirmed, with costs, un
less the attorney for the intestate on said appeal procure such action to be
revived within six months after notice to perfect such appeal by the sub
stitution of a representative in said action.
§ 88. Where one of two or more
plaintiffs, or one of two or more defendants, in an action, dies, and only
part of the cause of action, or of several distinct causes of action, survives
to or against the others, the action may proceed without bringing in the
person who has succeeded to the rights of the deceased party; and the
judgment shall not affect him, or his interest in the subject of the action-
But the court may order such successor of a deceased party, or any person
who claims to be such successor, to be brought in as a party, either plain
tiff or defendant, whenever it appears proper to do so, upon his own ap
plication or upon the application of any party to the action, and, if nec
essary, that supplemental pleadings be put in. The defendant, or survi
ving defendant, in the action, may proceed against such successor, in the
same manner as a plaintiff, to bring him in and have his rights settled by
judgment.
§ 89. The court may determine any
controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a
complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the
presence of other parties, the court must cause them to be brought in.
§ 90. Any person may, before the trial, intervene
in an action or proceeding, who has an interest in the matter in litigation
in the success of either party, or an interest against both. An interven
tion takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an
action or proceeding between other persons, either by joining the plain
tiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the
defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding any
thing adversely to both the plaintiff and the defendant, and is made by
complaint, setting forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests,
filed by leave of the court, and served upon the parties to the action or
proceeding who have not appeared, and upon the attorneys of the parties
who have appeared, who may answer or demur to it as if it were an origi
nal complaint.
§ 91. A defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract, or for specific, real, or personal property, may at any
time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action,
and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and the adverse
party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his place*
and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in
court the amount of the debt, or delivering the property or its value to
such person as the court may direct; and the court may in its discretion,
make the order.
CHAPTER VIII.
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 92. Actions for the following causes must
be tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial, in the cases provided by statute:
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for in
juries to real property.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.
§ 93. Actions for the following causes must be
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject
to the like power of the court to change the place of trial:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute, ex
cept that, when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake or river,
or other stream of water situated in two or more counties the action may
be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed.
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who,
by his command or his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such
officer.
§ 94. In all other cases the action shall be
tried in the county in which the parties or any of them, shall reside at the
commencement of the action, or, if none of the parties shall reside in the
territory, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff shall
designate in his complaint, subject, however, to the power of the court to
change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute.
§ 95. If the county
designated for that purpose in the complaint be not the proper county,
the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant,
before the time for answering expire, demand in writing that the trial be
had in the proper county, and the place of trial be thereupon changed by
consent of parties, or by order of the court, as provided in this section.
The court may change the place of trial in the following cases:
1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not
the proper county.
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein.
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would
be promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed all other proceedings shall be had
in the county to which the place of trial is changed, unless otherwise pro
vided by the consent of the parties, in writing, duly filed, or order of the
court; and the papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly.
CHAPTER IX.
MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 96. Civil actions in the courts of this territory shall
be commenced by the service of a summons.
§ 97. The summons shall be subscribed by the
plaintiff or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require
him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the per
son whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the ter
ritory, to be therein specified, in which there is a postoffice, within thirty
days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.
§ 98. The plaintiff shall also insert in the sum
mons a notice, in substance as follows:
1. In action arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, that
he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint in thirty days after the service of the summons.
2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the com
plaint within thirty days after the service of the summons, the plaintiff
will apply to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.
§ 99. A copy of the complaint need not be
served with the summons. In such case, the summons must state where
the complaint is or will be filed; and if the defendant, within thirty days
thereafter, cause notice of appearance to be given, and, in person or by
attorney, demand in writing a copy of the complaint, specifying a place
within the territory where it may be served, a copy thereof must, within
twenty days thereafter be served accordingly, and after such service, the
defendant has thirty days to answer, but only one copy need be served
on the same attorney.
§ 100. In the case of a defendant against
whom no personal claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to such de
fendant, with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his at
torney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief description
of the property affected by it, if it affects specific, real or personal prop
erty, and that no personal claim is made against such defendant, in which
case no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant, unless
within the time for answering he shall, in writing, demand the same. If
a defendant on whom such notice is served unreasonably defend the ac
tion, he shall pay costs to the plaintiff.
§ 101. In an action affecting the title to real
property, the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any other time
afterwards, or whenever a warrant of attachment of property shall be issued,
or at any time afterwards, the plaintiff, or a defendant when he sets up
an affirmative cause of action in his answer, and demands substantive
relief, at the time of filing his answer, or at any time afterwards, if the
same be intended to affect real property, may file with the register of deeds
of each county in which the real property is situated, a notice of the pen
dency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the
action, and the description of the real property in that county affected
thereby; but if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, no such
.notice need be filed. From the time of filing only shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the
property affected thereby: and every person whose conveyance or incum
brance is subsequently executed, or subsequently recorded, shallbe deemed
a subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer, and shall be bound by all pro
ceedings taken after the filing of such notice to the same extent as if he
were a party to the action. For the purpose of this section, an action
shall be deemed to be pending from the time of filing such notice: Pro
vided, hoioever, That such notice shall be of no avail unless it shall be
followed by the first publication of the summons on an order therefor, or
by the personal service thereof on a defendant within sixty days after
such filing. And the court in which the said action was commenced, may,
in its discretion, at any time after the action shall be settled, discontinued
or abated, as is provided in section number eighty-five, on application of
any person aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and on such notice as
shall be directed or approved by the court, order the notice authorized by
this section to be cancelled of record by the register of deeds of any county
in whose office the same may have been filed or recorded; and such can
cellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect on the margin of
the record, which shall refer to the order, and for which the register of
deeds shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents,
§ 102. 'The summons shall be served by deliver
ing a copy thereof as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, to the president or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director, or managing
agent thereof; but such service can be made in respect to a foreign corpora
tion only when it has property in this territory, or the cause of action
arose therein, or when such service shall be made within this territory
personally upon the president, treasurer, secretary, or duly authorized
agent thereof. %
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or if there be none
within the territory, then to any person having the care and control of
such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed.
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunk-
enness, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian/ and to the defendant personally.
.
——"' 4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally
;
and
if
the defendant
cannot conveniently be found, by leaving a copy thereof at his dwelling
house, in the presence of one or more of the members of his family over
the age of fourteen years; or, if the defendant reside in the family of an
other, with one of the members of the family in which he resides over the age of fourteen years.
Service made in any of the modes provided in this section shall be**
taken and held to be personal service.
§ 103. The summons may be served by the
sheriff of the county Where the defendant may be found, or by any other
person not a party to the action. The service shall be made, and the sum
mons returned with proof of the service to the person whose name is sub
scribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person subscribing
the summons may, at his option, by an indorsement on the summons, fix
a time for the service thereof, and the service shall then be made accord.
§ 104. Where the person on whom
the service of the summons is to be made cannot, after due diligence, be
found within the territory, and that fact appears by affidavit to the satis
faction of the court or a,judge thereof, and
it
in like manner appears that
a
cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the ser
vice is to be made, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to
real property in this territory, such court or judge may grant an order
that the service be made by the publication of a summons in either of the
following cases
:
.1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property within
the territorjr, or the cause of action arose therein.
2.
Where the defendant, being a resident of this territory, has departed
therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
snmmonsV or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.
3. Where he
is
not a resident of this territory, but has property therein,
and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
4. Where the subject of the action
is
real or personal property in this
territory, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or con
tingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in exclu
ding the defendant from any interest or lien therein.
5.
Where the action
is
for divorce or for a decree annulling a marriage,
the order must direct the publication to be made in some newspaper to be
designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for
such lengths of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a
week for six weeks. In case of publication, the court or judge must also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in
the post office, directed to the person to be served, at his place of resi
dence, unless it appear that such residence is neither known to the party
making the application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained
by him. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the
summons and complaint, out of the territory, is equivalent to publication
and deposit in the post office. The defendant against whom publication
is ordered, or his representatives, on application and sufficient cause
. shown at any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action;
■', and. except in an action for divorce, the defendant against whom publica- tion is ordered or his representatives, may, in like manner, upon good
cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within
x>ne year after notice thereof, and within seven years after its rendition, on
such terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful, and the judg
ment or any part thereof have been collected, or otherwise enforced, such
restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs; but the title
to property sold under such judgment? to a purchaser in good faith shall
not be thereby affected. And in all cases where publication is made, the
complaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published, must state
the time and place of such filing. In actions for the foreclosure of mort
gages on real estate, already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any
party or parties having any interest in or lien upon such mortgaged prem
ises are unknown to the plaintiff, and the residence of such party or par
ties cannot, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him, and such
fact shall be made to appear, by affidavit, to the court, or to a justice
thereof, such court or justice may grant an order that the summons be
served on such unknown party or parties by publishing the same for six
weeks, once in each week successively, in -a newspaper printed in the
county where the premises are situated, provided a paper be published in
such county, and if no paper be published in the county, then in a paper
published nearest the county seat of such county in the territory, which
publication shall be equivalent to a personal service on such unknown
party or parties.
§ 105. Where the action is against two or
more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not on all
of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court otherwise
direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defend
ants thus jointly indebted so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendants
served, and if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the de
fendants served; or,
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, lie may proceed
against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants.
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may betaken
against any or either of them severally, when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants, if the action had
been against them, or any of them alone.
4. If the name of one or more partners shall, for any cause, have been
omitted in any action in which judgment shall have passed against the
defendants named in the summons, and'such omission shall not have been
pleaded in such action, the plaintiff, in case the judgment therein shall re
main unsatisfied, may by action recover of such partner separately, upon
proving his joint liability, notwithstanding he may not have been named
in the original action; but the plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only one
judgment rendered for the same cause of action.
§ 106. In the cases mentioned in section 104
the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order for publication. . ,;
§ 107. Proof of the service of the sum
mons, and of the complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same,
must be as follows:
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy
of the summons in the postoffice, as required by law, if the same shall
have been deposited; or,
4. The written mimissions of the defendant.
In cases of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affida
vit, or admission, must state the time, place, and manner, of service.
§ 108. From the time of the service of the
summons in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the
court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all
the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is
equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
CHAPTER X.
OF PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
THE COMPLAINT.
§ 109. All forms of pleading heretofore existing are
abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts
of record, and the rules by which the efficiency of the pleadings is to be
determined, are those prescribed by this act.
§ 110. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the
complaint.
§ 111. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the
action is brought, the name of county in which the plaintiff desires the
trial to be had, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and
defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself entititled.
If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall
be Rtated.
THE DEMURRER.
§ 112. The only pleading on the
part of defendant is either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served
within thirty days after the service of the copy of the complaint.
§ 113. The defendant may demur to the complaint
when it shall appear upon the face thereof, either:
1. That thewourt has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or
the subject of the action; or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties, for
the same cause; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
§ 114. The demurrer shall >distinctly specify
the grounds of objection to the complaint. Unless it wo so, it may be
disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the
alleged causes of action stated therein.
§ 115. If the complaint be amended, a copy
thereof must be served on the defendant, who must answer it within thirty
days, or the plaintiff, upon filing with the clerk, on due proof of the ser
vice, and of the defendant's omission, may proceed to obtain judgment,
as provided by section 199, but where an application to the court for judg
ment is necessary, ten day's notice thereof must be given to the de
fendant.
§ 116. When any of the matters enumerated in sec
tion 113 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may
be taken by answer.
§ 117. If no such objection be taken either
by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have Avaived the
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action.
THE ANSWER.
§ 118. The answer of the defendant must con
tain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the com
plaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information'
thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.
§ 119. The counter-claim mentioned in
the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against
a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action,
and arising out of one of the following causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth
in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected
with the subject of the action.
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising
also on contract and existing at the commencement of the action. The
defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and counter
claims as he may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore de
nominated legal or equitable, or both. They must each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to an
swer, in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.
§ 120. The defendant may demur to one or
more of several causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer the
residue.
§ 121. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may
be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the courts may in their
discretion impose.
THE REPLY.
§ 122. When the answer contains
new matter constituting a counter-claim; the plaintiff may, within thirty
days, reply to such new matter, denying generally or specifically each al
legation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof
sufficient to form a belief; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise lan
guage, without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the com
plaint, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; and
the plaintiff may in all cases demur to an answer containing new matter,
where, upon its face, it does not constitute a counter-claim or defense, and
the plaintiff may demur to one or more of such defenses or counter-claims, •
and reply to the residue of the counter-claims. And in other cases, when
an answer contains new matter constituting a defense by way of avoid
ance, the court may, in its discretion, on the defendant's motion, require a
leply to such new matter; and in that case, the reply shall be subject to
the same rules as a reply to a counter-claim.
§ 123. If the answer contain a statement of new
matter constituting a counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or de
mur thereto within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move,
on a notice of not less than ten days, for such judgment as he is entitled to
upon such statement, and if the case require
it,
a writ of inquiry of dam
ages may be issued.
§ 124. If a reply of the plaintiff to any defense
set up by the answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may
demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.

§ 125. Every pleading in a court of record
must be subscribed by the party or his attorney; and when any pleading
is verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must be verified
also.
§ 126. The verification must be to the effect
that the same is true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as
to those matters stated on information and belie/, and, as to those matters,
he believes it to be true, and must be by the affidavit of the party, or if
there be several parties united in interest, and pleading together, by one
at least of such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be within
the county where the attorney resides, and capable ol making the affida
vit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the ac
tion or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of
money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or at
torney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the
personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is
verified by any other person than the party, he shall set forth in the affi
davit his knowledge, or the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the
reasons why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party,
the verification may be made by any officer thereof; and when the terri
tory, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may
be made by any person acquainted with the facts. The verification may
be omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegation might sub
ject the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in
a criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or
alleged in such pleading.
§ 127. It shall not be necessary for a party to
set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but he
shall deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after the demand thereof
in writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading is verified, must
be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within
the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that
he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.
The court, or a judge thereof, may order a "further account," when the"
one delivered is defective; and the court may in all cases order a bill of
particulars of the claim of either party to be furnished.
§ 128. In the construction of a pleading for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegation shall be liberally construed,
with a view of substantial justice between the parties.
§ 129. If irrelevant or redundant matter be
inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so in
definite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not
apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and cer
tain by amendment.
§ 130. In pleading a judgment, or other deter
mination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be neces
sary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or deter
mination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such alle
gation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on
the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
§ 131. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the party duly per
formed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegations be contro
verted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the. trial, the
facts showing such performance. In an action or defense founded upon
an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for a
party to give a copy of the instrument, and to state that there is due to
him thereon from the adverse party a specified sum which he claims.
§ 132. Inj)leading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute, by its title and the
day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.
§ 133. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not
be necessary to state in the complaint any intrinsic facts, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out
of which the cause of action arose, but it shall be sufficient to state gen
erally that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff, and
if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to estab
lish, on trial, that it was so published or spoken.
§ 134. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce
the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he
may give, in evidence, the mitigating circumstances.
§ 135. In an action to recover the possession of
property distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person
by whose command he acted was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and' that the property distrained was
at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title to such real property.
§ 136. The plaintiff may unite in the
same complaint several causes of action, whether they be such as have
heen heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all
rise out of:
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same sub
ject of action.
2. Contract, express or implied; or,
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or either; or,
4. Injuries to character; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same, or for waste
committed thereon; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law.
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of these
classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, must affect
all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the court
shall have power to adjudge and direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of
any residue of the mortgage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a sale
of the mortgaged premises, in cases in which the mortgagor shall be per
sonally liable for the debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage
debt be secured by the covenant or obligation of any person other than
the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such^ person a party to the action,
and the court may adjudge payment of the residue of such debt remaining
unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises against such other
person, and may enforce such judgment as in other cases.
§ 137. Every material alle
gation of the complaint, not controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section 118, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer,
constituting a counter-claim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed
in section 122, shall, for purposes of the action be taken as true. But the
allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counter-claim, or
of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse
party upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require.

§ 138. No variance between the allegation
in a pleading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it have ac
tually so misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his ac
tion of defense, upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a
party has been misled, the fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
court, and in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court
may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just.
§ 139. Where the variance is not material, as pro
vided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found accord
ing to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.
§ 140. Where, however, the allegation of
the cause of action or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved,
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and
meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
§ 141. Any pleading may be once
amended by the party of course, without costs, and without prejudice to
the proceedings already had, at any time within twenty days after it is
served, or at any time before the period for answering it expires; or it can
be so amended at any time within twenty days after the service of the an
swer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be made to appear to the
court that it was done for the purpose of delay, and the plaintiff or de
fendant will thereby lose the benefit of a term for which the cause is or
may be noticed; and if it appear to the court that such amendment was
made for such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms im
posed as to the court may seem just. In such case a copy of the amend
ed pleading must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of a
demurrer, either at a general or special term, the court may, in its* discre
tion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in g;ood faith, allow
the party to plead over upon such terms as may be just. If the demurrer
be allowed for the cause mentioned in the fifth subdivision of section 113
the court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, or
der the action to be divided into as many actions as may be necessary to
the proper determination of the causes of action therein mentioned. 

§ 142. The court may, before or after judg- ment, in furtherance of justice, and such terms as may be proper, amend^^^any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name
of any party; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a
mistake in any other respect; or by inserting other allegations material
to the case; or, when the amendment does not change substantially the"
claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved. 

§ 143. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time limited by this code, or, by an order, enlarge such time; and may also, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as may be just, at any time within one year after notice thereof,
relieve a party from a judgment, order or other proceeding, taken against
him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and
may supply an omission in any proceeding; and whenever any proceed
ing taken by a party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of
this code, the court may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an
amendment of such proceedings, so as to make it conformable thereto.
§ 144. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading
or proceeding, by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
§ 145. The court shall, in every stage of
action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,
which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no
judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
§ 146. The plaintiff and defendant, respect-
ively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint,
answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the
former complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party was ignorant
when his former pleading was made.
CHAPTER XI.
OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 147. The provisional remedies in civil actions are:
1. Arrest and bail.
2. Claim and delivery of personal property.
3. Injunction.
4. Attachment.
5. Receivers.
6. Deposit in court.
ARTICLE I.— Arrest and bail.
§ 148. No person shall be arrested in a
civil action, except as prescribed by this code; but this provision shall not
apply to proceedings for contempt.
§ 149. The defendant may be
arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not
arising out of contract, where the defendant is not a resident of the terri- tory, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an injury
to person or character, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining
or converting property.

2. In an action for a line or penalty, or on
a
promise to marry, or for
money received, or for property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by
a public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor or counselor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking association, in the course of his em
ployment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker or other person in a
fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a pro
fessional employment.
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly
detained, where the property or any part thereof has been concealed, re
moved or disposed of, so that
it
cannot be found or taken by the sheriff,
and with the intent that
it
should not be found or taken, or with the in
tent to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit thereof.
4.
When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in
concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or con
version of which the action
is
brought, or when the action
is
brought to
recover damages for fraud or deceit. 5.
When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is
about to do so, with the intent to defraud his creditors. But no female
shall be arrested in any action, except for
a
willful injury to person,
character or property.
§ 150. An order for the arrest of the defend
ant must be obtained from a judge of the court in whicli the action is
brought.
§ 151. The order may be made whenever it appears
to the judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some other person, that
a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those men
tioned in section 149. The affidavit must be either positive or upon infor
mation and belief; and when upon information and belief, it must state
the facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If an order
of arrest be made, the affidavit must be tiled in the office of the clerk of
the court.
§ 152. Before making the order, the judge
shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or
without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred
dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiff, without sure
ties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and house
holder or freeholder within the territory, and worth double the sum speci
fied in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities, and exclusive of
all property exempt from execution by the laws of this territory.
§ 153. The order may be made to ac
company the summons, or at any time afterwards before judgment. It
shall require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found,
forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and re
turn the order, at a place and time therein mentioned, to the plaintiff or
attorney, hy whom it shall be subscribed or indorsed. But said order of
arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be vacated or set aside on motion,
unless the same is served upon the defendant, as provided by law, before
the docketing of any judgment in the action; and the defendant shall
have twenty days, after the service of the Order of arrest, in whicli to an
swer the complaint in the action, and to move to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail.
§ 154. Papers to. defendant.] The affidavit and order of arrest shall
be delivered to the sheriff, who upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver
to him a copy thereof.
§ 155. The sheriff must execute the order by
arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by
law, and may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of
the arrest, as in case of process. The defendant may give bail whenever
arrested, at any hour of the day or night, and must have reasonable
opportunity to procure it, before being committed to prison.
§ 156. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall
be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon depositing
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this article.
§ 157. The defendant may give bail by causing a
written undertaking, in the sum specified in the order of arrest, to be exe
cuted by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and
occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall at all times render him
self answerable to the process of the court during the pendency of the
action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment thereon, or
if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of sec
tion 149, an undertaking to the same effect as that provided in section 181.
§ 158. At any time before a failure to comply with
the undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exonera
tion, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in the following manner:
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to
the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon
an order of arrest, and shall by a certificate in writing acknowledge the
surrender.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff's cer
tificate, a,judge of the court may, upon a notice to the plaintiff of eight
days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated; and
on filing the order and the papers used on said application, they shall be
exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply to an arrest for
cause mentioned in subdivision three of section 149, so as to discharge the
bail from an undertaking given to the effect provided by section 181.
§ 159. For the purpose of surrendering the defend
ant, the bail, at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and
discretion to do so.
§ 100. In case of failure to comply with the un
dertaking, the bail may be proceeded against by action only.
§ 161. The bail may be exonerated either by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state or territorial prison,
or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable
to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the com
mencement of the action against the bail, or within such further time as
may be granted by the court.
§ 162. AVitliin the time limited for that
purpose, the sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff, or
attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a certi
fied copy of the undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be
exonerated from liability.
§ 103. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or de
fendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff or attorney
by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification of the
same or other ba;l, specifying the place of residence and occupation of
the latter, before a judge of the court, at a specified time and place; the
time to be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case
other bail be given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form pre
scribed in section 157.
§ 164. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or freeholder within
the territory.
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest,
exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge, or a justice
of the peace, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify
severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.
§ 165. For the purpose of justification, each of
the bail shall attend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the
time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath on
the part of the plaintiff touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may think proper. The
examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail if re
quired by the plaintiff.
§ 106. If the judge or justice of the peace find the
bail sufficient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse
his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk; and the
sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.
§ 167. The defendant may, at the time of his ar
rest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned
in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certificate
of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.
§ 168. The sheriff shall, within four days after
the deposit, pay the same into court, and shall take from the officer re
ceiving the same two certificates of such payment, the one of which he
shall deliver to the plaintiff and the other to the defendant or his attor
ney. For any default in making such payment the same proceedings may
be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in
other cases of delinquency.
§ 169. If money be deposited, as provided
in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as
prescribed in section 163 any time before judgment: thereupon the judge
before whom the justification is had, shall direct in the order of allow
ance, that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to defendant,
and it shall be refunded accordingly.
§ 170. Where money shall have been so depos
ited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the
payment of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of
the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the
judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judg
ment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund, to him the whole
sum deposited and remaining unpaid.
§ 171. If, after being arrested, when there is a jail
to which the defendant may be committed, the defendant escape or be res
cued, or bail be not' given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead
thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail. But he may discharge
himself from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, as
provided in sections 163, 164, 165 and 166, at any time before process against
the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action-
§ 172. If a judgment be recovered against
the sheriff, upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be re
turned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had
on the official bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency, as in other
cases of delinquency.
§ 173. The bail taken upon the arrest shall,
unless they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sher
iff by action for damages which he may sustain by reason of such omis
sion.
§ 174. A defendant arrested may, at any
time before judgment, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or
to reduce the amount of bail.
§ 175. If the motion be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the
order of arrest was made.
ARTICLE II.— Claim and delivery ok personal property.
§ 176. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the pos
session of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such propert\r
as provided in this article.
§ 177. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit
must be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, stating:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, particularly
describing
it,
or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue
of
a
special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set
forth.
"2. That the property
is
wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pur
suant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintiff; or,
if
so seized, that
it
is, by statute, exempt
from such seizure; and
5. The actual value of the property. 
§ 178. The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an in
dorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county
where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant
and deliver
it
to the plaintiff.
§ 179. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and
notice, with a written undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sure
ties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of
the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return there
of be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall forthwith take
the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the
defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also, with
out delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and under
taking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or, if neither
can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 180. The defendant may, within three
days after the service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give
notice to the sheriff that he except* to the sufficiency of the sureties. If
he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like
manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to them is either waived
as above provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be sub
stituted and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot
reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.
§ 181. At any time before the delivery of the
property to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the
sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as
Stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to. the plain
tiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of
the property be not so required, within three days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, ex
cept as provided in section 186.
§ 182. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the
plaintiff of not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify before
a judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest ;
upon such justification the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defend
ant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties, until
they justify, or until justification is completed or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in their
place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the
property to the plaintiff.
§ 183. The qualifications of sureties, and their justification,
shall be as are prescribed by sections 164 and 165, in respect to bail upon
an order of arrest.
§ 184. If the property, or any part thereof, be
concealed in a building or rnclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclosnre
to be broken open, and take the property into his possession; and, if
necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
§ 185. When the sheriff shall have taken property,
as in this article provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver
it to the part}7 entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking,
and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same.
§ 186. If the property taken be claimed by
any other person than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall
make affidavit of his title thereto and right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same upon the
sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it
to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, shall
indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by
two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each
worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the
plaintiff, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and freeholders or
householders of the county. And no claim to such property, by any
other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid against the
sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding such claim, when
so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such
indemnity.
§ 187. The sheriff shall file the notice and
affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property men
tioned therein.
ARTICLE III.—Injunction.
§ 188. The writ of injunction, as a provisional
remedy, is abolished, and an injunction by order is substituted therefor.
The order may be made by the court in which the action is brought, or by
a judge thereof in the cases provided in the next section, and, when made
by a judge, may be enforced as the order of the court.
§ 189. An injunction may be granted in either of
the following cases:
1. It shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the
relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restrain
ing the commission or continuance of some act the commission or contin
uance of which, during the litigation, would produce injury to the plain
tiff; or,
2. When, during the litigation, it shall appear that the defendant is
doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to
be done in violation of the plaintiffs rights respecting the subject of the
actien, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary in
junction may be granted to restrain such act.
3. And when, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by affi
davit that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his
property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may
be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.
§ 190. The injunction may be granted at the
time of commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment,
upon its appearing satisfactory to the court or judge, by the affidavit of
the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefor.
A copy of the affidavit must be served with the injunction.
§ 191. An injunction shall not be allowed after the de
fendant shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decis
ion of the court or judge granting or refusing the injunction.
§ 192. Where no provision is made by statute as
to security upon an injunction, the court or judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties, to the
effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise^
as the court shall direct.
§ 193. If the court or judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any of the several defendants, should be heard before
granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be
granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.
§ 194. An injunction to suspend the general and
ordinary business of a corporation must not be granted without due notice
of the application therefor, to the proper officer of the corporation, except when the territory is a party to the proceeding.
§ 195. If the injunction be granted by a judge
of the court, without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,
may apply, upon notice, to a judge of the court in which the action is
brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the complaint, and the affidavits on which the injunction was grant
ed, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the
answer.
§ 196. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavit or other proofs, in addition to those on which the
injunction was granted.

§ 197. In an action
arising on contract for the recovery of money only; or, in an action for
the wrongful conversion of personal property, against a corporation cre
ated by orunder the laws of any other territory, state, government or
country; or, against a defendant who is not a resident of this territory;
or, against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself; or,
whenever any person or corporation is about to remove any of his or its
property from this territory; or, has assigned, disposed of, secreted, oris
about to assign, dispose of or secrete any of his or its property with in
tent to defraud creditors, as hereinafter mentioned. The plaintiff, at the
time of issuing the summons, or any time afterwards, may have the prop
erty of snch defendant or corporation attached, in the manner hereinafter
presciibed, as a security for the satisfaction of snch judgment as the
plaintiff may recover; and for the purposes of this section an action shall
be deemed commenced when the summons is issued: Provided. 7ioicever,
That personal service of such summons shall be made, or publication
thereof commenced within thirty days.
§ 198. A warrant of attachment must
be obtained from the clerk of the court in which the action is brought;
and such warrant of attachment must be attested in the name of the pre
siding judge and must be sealed with the seal of the court.
§ 199. The warrrant may issue upon affidavit,
stating:
1. That a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the
amount of the claim and the grounds thereof; and,
2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident
of this territory, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein with the like intent; or,
3. That such corporation or person has removed, or is about to remove,
any of his or its property from the territory with intent to defraud his or
its creditors; or,
4. Has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose
of, or secrete, any of his or its property with the like intent, whether such
defendant be a resident of this territory or not.
§ 200. Before issuing the warrant, the clerk
must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff with suffi
cient surety, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or the
attachment be set aside by the order of the court, the plaintiff will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum named in
the undertaking, which must be at least the amount of the claim specified
in the affidavit, and in no case less than two hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 201. The warrant must be directed to the
sheriff of any county in which property of such defendant may be, and
must require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such
defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or so much there
of as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount of
which must be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the defend
ant give him security by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sure
ties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in
an amount equal to the value of the property which has been, or is about
to be, attached; in which case, to take such undertaking. Several writs
may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.
§ 202. The sheriff to whom such warrant of
attachment is directed and delivered, must immediately attach all the real
property of such debtor and all his personal estate, or so much thereof as
may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, costs and expenses, and
including debts, credits, money and bank notes, except property exempt
from execution; and must take into his custody all books of accounts,
vouchers, evidences of indebtedness, and all papers relating to the prop
erty, debts, credits, and effects of such debtor, together with all evidences
of his title to real property.
§ 203. Immediately upon making such
seizure he shall make a just and true inventory of all the property so
seized, and of the books, vouchers, and papers, taken into his custody,
stating therein the estimated value of the several articles and kinds of
personal property, enumerating such of them as are perishable, and giving
a description of the real property so attached, which inventory must be
signed by the sheriff, attached to and made a part of the return on the
warrant of attachment. And any subsequent execution of Hie warrant of
attachment upon other property of the debtor, must be made and an in
ventory thereof made and returned in like manner.
§ 204. The sheriff must keep the
property seized by him, or the proceeds of such as shall have been sold,
to answer any judgment which may be obtained in such action, and must,
subject to the direction of the court or judge, collect and receive into his
possession all debts, credits and effects of the debtor. The sheriff may
also take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of
such debtor, as may be_ necessary for that purpose, and discontinue the
same at such times and on such terms as the court or judge may direct.
§ 205. If any ot the property so seized
shall be perishable, the sheriff must sell the same at public auction, under
an order of the court, or a judge thereof, and must retain in his hands the
proceeds of such sale after deducting his expenses, which proceeds must
be paid into court and there abide its further order.
§ 206. If any property so seized be
claimed by or on behalf of any person other than such defendant, the
sheriff may summon a jury and try the validity of such claim in the same
manner and with like effect as in case of seizure under execution.
§ 207. The rights or shares which such
defendant may have in the stock of any association or corporation, to
gether with the interest and profits thereon, and all other property in this
territory of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached and levied upon,
and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.
§ 208. The execution of the attach
ment upon any such rights, shares, or any debts, or other property, inca
—35
pable of manual delivery to the sheriff', mast be made by leaving a certified
copy of the warrant of attachment with the president or other head of the
association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding or occupying such prop
erty, with a notice showing the property levied on, or, if the property
attached be unoccupied real property, by putting a certified copy of such
warrant upon the outer door of the court house, or other building in which
the district court shall be held within the county or judicial subdivision
in which such unoccupied real property shall be situated.
§ 209. Whenever the sheriff shall,
with a warrant of attachment, or execution against the defendant, apply
to such officer, debtor, or individual, for the purpose of attaching or levy
ing upon such pi operty, such officer, debtor, or individual shall furnish
him with a certificate under his hand, designating the number of rights or
shares of the defendant in the stock of such association or corporation,
with any dividend or any incumbrance thereon, or the amount and de
scription of the property held by such association, corporation, or indi
vidual, for the benefit of or debt owing to the defendant. If such officer,
debtor or individual refuse to do so, or if it be made to appear by affidavit
or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, that there is
reason to suspect that any certificate given by him is untrue, or that it
fails to fully set forth the facts required to be shown thereby, he may be
required by the court or judge to attend before him, and be examined on
oath concerning the same, and obedience to such order may be enforced
by attachment. ,
§ 210. In case judgment be entered for the
plaintiff' in such action, the sheriff* shall satisfy the same out of the prop
erty attached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that purpose:
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perish
able property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in any vessel- sold
by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall
be necessary to satisfy such judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, under such execution, so much
of the attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdi
vision four of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in case of the sale
of any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation or association, the
sheriff shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the
purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by such defendant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant, shall
have passed out of the hands of the sheriff' without having been sold or
converted into money, such sheriff shall repossess himself of the same,
and for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment; and any person who shall willfully con
ceal or withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double
damages, at the suit of the party injured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the sheriff
may proceed to collect the notes and other evidences of debts that -may
have been seized or attached under the warrant of attachment, and to
prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such proceedings
and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment. At the
expiration of six months from the docketing of the judgment, the court
shall have power upon the petition of the plaintiff, accompanied by an
affidavit setting forth fully all the proceedings which have been had by the
sheriff since the service of the attachment, the property attached, and the
disposition thereof, and also the affidavit of the sheriff that he has used
diligence and endeavored to collect the evidences of debt in his hands so
attached, and that there remains uncollected of the same any part or por
tion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon such terms and in
such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice of such application shall
be given to the defendant or his attorney, if the defendant shall have ap
peared in the action. In case, the summons has not been personally
served on the defendant, the court shall make such rule or order, as to the
service of notice and the time of service, as shall be deemed just. When
the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have been paid, the
sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the
residue of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof.
§ 211. The actions here
in authorized to be brought by the sheriff may be prosecuted by the plain
tiff, or under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an
undertaking executed by two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plain
tiff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs and expenses on
account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one
action. Such sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the sheriff,
justify by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and worth double
the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and above all demands
and liabilities, and exclusive of property exempt from execution.
§ 212. If the foreign corporation, or absent
or absconding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plain
tiff in such action, any bond taken by the sheriff, except such as are men
tioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected
by him, and all the property attached remaining' in his hands, shall be
delivered by him to the defendant, or his agent, on request, aud the war
rant shall be discharged, and the property released therefrom.
§ 213. Whenever the defendant
shall have appeared in such action, he may apply to the clerk who issued
the attachment, or to the court, for the discharge of the same; and, upon
the discharge, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by him, and
all property attached remaining in his hands, must be delivered or paid
by him to the defendant, or his agent, and released from the attachment.
And when there is more than one defendant, and several property of either
of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the warrant of attachment,
the defendant whose several property has been seized, may apply to the
clerk who issued the warrant, or the court, for discharge of the at
tachment.
§ 214. Upon such
application the defendant must deliver to the court or clerk, an under
taking executed by at least two sureties, wTho are residents and freehold
ers or householders in this territory, approved by such court or clerk, to
the effect that such sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against the defendant in the
action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be
at least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint. If
it appear by affidavit that the property attached is worth less than the
amount claimed by the plaintiff, the court, or the clerk issuing the attach
ment, may order the same to be appraised, and the amount of the under
taking shall then be double the amount so appraised. .And the plaintiff
may, within three days after receiving written notice of the filing of such
undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of
the sureties. If he fail so to do, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the plaintiff excepts, the sureties must justify
on notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall
be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, and may retain posses
sion of the property attached, and the proceeds thereof in his hands, un
til the objection to them be either waived, as above provided, or until they
justify or new sureties are substituted and justify.
§ 215. In all cases the defendant or any
person who has acquired a lien upon or interest in the defendant's prop
erty after it was attached, may move to discharge the attachment as in the
case of other provisional remedies, and when there is more than one de
fendant, and several property of either of the defendants has been seized
by virtue of the warrant of attachment, such defendant may deliver to the
court or clerk an undertaking, in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding section, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the plain
tiff the amount of judgment that may be recovered against such defend
ant; and all the provisions of the preceding section relating to such un
dertaking apply thereto.
§ 216. If a warrant of attach
ment be levied upon the interest of one or more partners, in personal
property of a partnership, the other partners, or any of them, may, at
any time before judgment, apply to the court from which the warrant of
attachment issued, or a judge thereof, upon affidavit stating such fact, for
an order to discharge the attachment as to the partnership property. The
applicant must give an undertaking, with at least two sufficient sureties to
the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the action in favor of the
plaintiff, they will pay to the sheriff on demand the amount of defend
ant's interest in such partnership property, the amount of such interest to
be determined by reference or otherwise, as the court may direct. The
amount of such undertaking must be fixed by the court or judge thereof,
and must not be less than the value of the interest of the defendant in the
goods, chattels, credits and effects of the partnership; and for the purpose
of fixing the amount of the undertaking, the court or judge may hear
affidavits or oral testimony, respecting the value of the defendant's inter
est in the attached property. If the plaintiff except to the sufficiency of
the sureties they must justify, on notice, in like manner as provided by section 214.
§ 217. When the warrant shall be fully executed
or discharged, the sheriff must return the same with his proceedings
thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.
§ 218. When a debtor has sold, conveyed,
or otherwise disposed of his property with the fraudulent intent to cheat or
defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their
debts; or,
2. Is about to make sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property,
with snch fraudulent intent; or,
3. Is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, with the
intent, or to the effect, of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hin
dering and delaying them in the collection of their debts.
A creditor may bring an action on a claim before it is due, and have
attachment against the property of the debtor; and the proceedings on
such attachment shall be conducted in all respects as if the claim were
due, but judgment must not be rendered in the action under the debtor
claim upon which such attachment is made and shall become due aud
payable.
ARTICLE V.— Of receivers.
§ 219. A receiver may be appointed by the
court in which an action is pending, or by the judge thereof:
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property,
or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between
partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund,
on the application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or in
terest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured.
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage and
sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mortgaged
property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or
that the conditions of the mortgage have not been performed, and that the
property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
4. After judgment to dispose of the property according to the judgment
or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in proceedings in
aid of execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, or when
the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the
judgment.
5. In the cases where a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights.
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed by
the usages of courts of equity.
§ 220. Upon the dissolution of any
corporation, the district court of the county in which the corporation car
ries on its business, or has its principal place of business, on application
of any creditor of the corporation, or of any stockholder or member
thereof, may appoint one or more persons to be receivers or trustees of
the corporation, to take charge of the estate and effects thereof, and to
collect the debts and property due and belonging to the corporation, and
to pay the outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the moneys and other
property that shall remain over among the stockholders or members.
§ 221. No party or
person interested in an action can be appointed receiver therein, without
the written consent of the party, filed with the olerk. If a receiver
be appointed upon an ex parte application, the court, before making the
order, may require from the applicant an undertaking, with sufficient sure
ties, in an amount to be fixed by the court, to the effect that the applicant
will pay to the defendant all damages he may sustain by reason of the
appointment of such receiver, and the entry by him upon his duties, in
case the applicant shall have procured such appointment wrongfully, ma
liciously, or without sufficient cause; and the court may, in its discretion,
at any time after said appointment, require an additional undertaking.
§ 222. Before entering upon his duties the
receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or more
sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such
person and in such sum as the court or judge, may direct, to the effect that
he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey
the orders of the court therein.
§ 223. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power
to bring and defend actions in his own name as receiver, to take and keep
possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound
for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such
acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.
§ 224. Funds in the hands of a re
ceiver may be invested upon interest, by order of the court; but no such
order can be made except upon the consent of all the parties to the action.
ARTICLE VI.—Of deposit.
§ 225. When it is admitted by the
pleadings or the examination of a party that he has in his possession or
under his control any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may order
the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, with or with
out security, subject to the further direction of the court.
§ 226. Whenever in the exercise of its au
thority, a court sliall liave ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of
money or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides
punishing the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring
the sheriff to take the money or property, and deposit, deliver or convey
it in conformity with the.direction of the court.
§ 227. When the answer of the defendant, ex
pressly, or by not denying, admits part of the plaintiff's claim to be just,
the court, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the
claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a judgment or a provis
ional remedy.
CHAPTER XII.
OK TDK TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
ARTICLE I.— Judgment upon failure to answer, a-c.
§ 228. Judgment defined.] A judgment is the final determination of
the rights of the parties in the action.
§ 229. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint as follows:
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only,
the plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the sum
mons and complaint, on one or more of the defendants, or of the sum
mons according to the provisions of section 99, and that no answer has
been received. The court shall thereupon enter judgment- for the amount
mentioned in the summons, against the defendant or defendants, or
against one or more of the several defendants in the cases provided for in section 105. But if the complaint be not sworn to, and such action be on
an instrument for the payment of money only, the court, on its produc
tion shall assess the amount due to the plaintiff thereon, and in other
cases shall ascertain the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recover
in such action from his examination, under oath, or other proof, and en
ter the judgment for the amount so assessed or ascertained. In case the
defendant give notice of appearance in the action, he shall be entitled
to five days' notice of the time and place of such assessment. Where the
defendant, by his answer in any such action, shall not deny the plaintiff's
claim, but shall set up a counter-claim, amounting to less than the plain
tiffs claim, judgment may be had by the plaintiff for the excess of said
claim over the said counter-claim, in like manner in any such action, upon
the plaintiffs filing with the clerk of the court a statement admitting such
counter-claim, which statement shall be annexed to and be a part of the
judgment roll.
2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof, apply to the
court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief demand
ed in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or of the proof of any
fact, be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the
judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof, or.
may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the
action is for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal
property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order
the damages to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long
account be involved, by a reference as above provided. If the defendant
give notice of appearance in the action before the expiration of the time
for answering, he shall be entitled to eight day's notice of the time and
place of application to the court for the relief demanded by the complaint.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the
plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, and the court must
thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the com
plaint; and if the defendant be not a resident of the territory, must re
quire the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any
payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use.
on account of such demand, and may render judgment lor the amount
which he is entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment the court may,
in its discretion, require the plaintiff to cause to be hied satisfactory secu
rity, to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any estate
or effects which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or
delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected under or
by virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives
shall apply and be admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in
such defense.
§ 230. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivo
lous, the party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days,
may apply to a judge of the court either in or out of the court, for judg
ment thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.
ARTICLE II.— Issues and mode of trial.
§ 231. Issues arise upon the pleadings
when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and con
troverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
§ 232. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.
§ 233. An issue of fact arises:
• 1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the an
swer; or, 2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is joined
thereon.
§ 234. Issues both of law and of fact may arise
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases
the issues of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 235. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues
between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
§ 236. An issue of law must be tried by the court,
unless it be referred as provided in sections 271 and 272. An issue of fact
in an action for the recovery of money only, or of specific, real or personal
property, or for a divorce from the marriage contract, must be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial be waived as provided in section 265, or a refer
ence be ordered, as provided in section 272. Every other issue is triable
by the court, which, however, may order the whole issue, or any specific
question of fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer
it,
as
provided in section 272.
§ 237. All issues of fact, triable by
a jury or by the court, must be tried before
a
single judge. Issues of fact
must be tried at a regular term of the district court, when the trial
is
by
jury, otherwise at a regular or special term, as the court may, by its rules,
prescribe. Issues of law must be tried at
a
regular or special term of the
district court.
§ 238. At any time after
issue, and at least ten days before the court, either party may give notice
of trial. The party giving the notice shall furnish the clerk, at least eight
days before the court, with a note of the issue, containing the title of the
action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading
was served; and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the calen
dar, according to the date of the issue. There need be but one notice of
trial, and one note of issue from either party, and the action must then
remain on the calendar until disposed of, and when called may be brought
to trial by the party giving the notice. The issues on the calendar shall
be disposed of in the'following order, unless, for the convenience of parties
or the dispatch of business, the court shall otherwise direct:
1.
Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law.
§ 239. Either party, when the
case is reached upon the calendar, and in the absence of the adverse party,
unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or
a
verdict, or judgment, as
the case may require. A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the
several defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its opinion,
justice will be promoted.
§ 240. When the issue shall be brought to
trial by the plaintiff, he shall furnish the court with a copy of the sum
mons and pleadings, with the offer of the defendant,
if
any shall have
been made. When the issue shall be brought to tiial by the defendant,
and the plaintiff shall neglect or refuse to furnish the court with a copy of
the summons and pleadings and the offer of the defendant, the same may
be furnished by the defendant.
ARTICLE III.—Formation of the trial jury.
§ 241. At the opening of the court the clerk must pre
pare separate ballots containing the names of the persons returned as
jurors, which must be folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the
names cannot be seen, and must deposit them in the trial jury box.
§ 242. When the action is called for trial by
jury, the clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the court the ballots
containing the names of the jurors summoned until the jury is completed
or the ballots are exhausted.
§ 243. Either party may challenge the
jurors, but where there are several parties on either side, they must join in
a challenge before it can be made. The challenges are to individual
jurors, and are either peremptory or for cause. Each party is entitled to
three peremptory challenges. If no peremptory challenges are taken un
til the panel is full, they must be taken by the parties alternately, com
mencing with the plaintiff.
§ 244. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more
of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by the political code
to render a person competent as a juror.
2. Consanguinity or affinity, within the fourth degree, to either party.
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either partj', or being a
member of the family of either party, or being a partner in business with
either party, or surety on any bond or obligation for either party. -
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial be
tween the same parties for the same cause of action.
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action except his interest as a member or
citizen of a municipal corporation.
6. Having an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action,
founded upon knowledge of its material facts, or some of them.
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against,
or bias to or against, either party.
8. That he does not understand the English language as used in the
courts.
§ 245. Challenges for cause must be tried by the court.
The juror challenged and any other person may be examined as a witness
on the trial of the challenge.
§ 246. As soon as the jury is completed, the follow
ing oath must be administered to the jurors:
"You, and each of you, do solemnly swear, that you will well and truly try the matters in is
sue between the plaintiff, and defendant, and a true verdict render
according to the evidence. So help you, God."
If any person be conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, he
shall be allowed to make affirmation, substituting for the words " So help
you God,"' at the end of the oath, the following: " This you do affirm un
der the pains and penalties of perjury."
ARTICLE IV. — Of tub conduct of the trial.
§ 247. When the jury has been sworn, the trial must
proceed in the following order, unless the judge for special reasons, other
wise directs:
1. The plaintiff, after stating the issue and his case, must produce the
evidence on his part.
2. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer his evidence in
support thereof.
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence only, un
less the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to
offer evidence upon their original case.
4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to the
jury on either side or on both sides without argument, the plaintiff must
commence and may conclude the argument.
5. If several defendants, haying separate defenses, appear by different
counsel, the court must determine their relative order in the evidence and
argument.
6. The court may then charge the jury.
§ 248. The court, in
charging the jury, shall only instruct as to the law of the case; and no
judge shall instruct the petit jury in any case, civil or criminal, unless such
instructions are reduced to writing", and when instructions are asked
which the judge cannot give, he shall write on the margin thereof the
word, " refused," and such as he approves, he shall write on the margin
thereof the word, "given;" and he shall, in no case, after instructions are
given, qualify, modify, or in any manner explain the same to the jury,
otherwise than in writing; and all instructions asked for by counsel shall
be given or refused by the judge, without modification or change, unless
such modification or change be consented to by the counsel asking the
same.
§ 249. All instructions given by thejudge shall be read to the jury in
the following order:
1. Defendant's instructions by defendant's counsel.
2. Plaintiff's instructions by plaintiff's counsel.
3. Instructions given by the judge, of his own motion, if any, by the
judge giving the same; and all instructions so given and read shall be
taken by the jury in their retirement, and returned into court with their
verdict. Exceptions to the giving or refusing any instruction, or to its
modification or change, may be taken at any time before the entry of final
judgment in the case.
§ 250. When, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject of liti
gation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
them to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the
place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the
•court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other
than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject con
nected with the trial.
§ 251. If the jury are permitted to separate,
either during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, they shall
be admonished by the court that, it is their duty not to converse with, or
.suffer themselves to be addressed by any other person, on any subject of
the trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon
until the case is finally submitted to them.
§ 252. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
may take with them all papers which have been received as evidence in
the cause, except depositions, or copies of such papers as ought not, in
the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in pos
session; and they may also take with them notes of the testimony or other
proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves, or any of them, but none
taken by any other person.
§ 253. When the case is finally sub
mitted to the jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If
they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place, under
■charge of an officer, until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by
the court. Unless by order of the court, the officer having them under his
charge must not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon a verdict; and
he must not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
§ 254. After the jury have retired for de
liberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the
testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in
the case, they may require the officer to conduct them into court. Upon
their being brought into court, the information required must be given in
the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel.
§ 255. If, after the empaneling of a jury, and
before a verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his
duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that case, the trial
may proceed with the other jurors, or another juror may be sworn, and
the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then
or afterwards impaneled.
§ 256. In all cases where the jury are
discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or
other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted
to them, the action maybe again tried immediately, or at a future time, as
the court may direct.
§ 257. While the jury are absent, the
court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business; but it
is nevertheless open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted
to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The court
may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the
court, in case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the
day. A final adjournment of the court for the term discharges the jury.
§ 258. When the jury have agreed upon their ver
dict, the}' must be conducted into. court, their names called by the clerkr
and the verdict rendered by their foreman. The verdict must be in writing,
signed by the foreman, and must be read by the clerk to the jury, and the,
inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, they
must be sent out again; but if no disagreement be expressed, and neither
party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury
discharged from the case. Either party may require the jury to be polled,
which is done by the court or clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answer in the negative, the jury must again be sent out.
§ 259. When the verdict is announced, if it be in
formal or insufficient, in not covering the issue submitted, it may be cor
rected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again
sent out.
ARTICLE V.— Of the verdict.
§ 200. The verdict of a jury is
either general or special :
1. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all
or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant; and,
2. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving
the judgment to the court.
The special verdict must present the conclusions of fact as established
by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and these conclusions
of fact must be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the court but
to draw from them conclusions of law.
§ 261. In an action for the re
covery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discre
tion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court
may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of
the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general
verdict,- to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing,
and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding
must be filed with the clerk, and entered upon the minutes. Where a spe
cial finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
controls the latter, and the court must give judgment accordingly.
§ 262. When a verdict is found for
the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant,
when a counter claim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding
the amount of the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury must also find
the amount of the recovery; and, they may also, under the direction of
the court, assess the amount of the recovery, when the court gives judg
ment for the plaintiff on the answer.
§ 203. In an action for the recovery of
specific personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the
plaintiff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the,jury,
if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or, if being in favor of the de
fendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, must find the
value of the property, and, if so instructed, the value of specific portions
thereof, and may at the same time asses's the damages, if any are claimed
in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the taking or detention of such property.
§ 264. Upon receiving a verdict an entry must be
made by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the time of trial,
the names of the jurors and witnesses, and setting out the verdict at
length; and where a special verdict is found, either the judgment ren
dered thereon, or, if the case be reserved for argument or further consid
eration, the order thus reserving it.
ARTICLE YI.— Of the tiual by the court.
§ 265. Trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract, or for the recov-~
ery of specific real or personal property, with or without damages, and
with the assent of the court in other actions, in manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
8. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
§ 200. Upon the trial of a question of fact b}-
the court, its decision must be given in writing and filed with the clerk
within thirty days after the cause is submitted for decision.
§ 207. In giving the decision the facts found and
the conclusions must be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision
must be entered accordingly.
§ 268. Findings of fact may be waived by the sev
eral parties to an issue of fact:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk.
',). By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
§ 209. At the time the cause is
submitted the judge may direct either or both parties to prepare findings
of facts, unless they have been waived, and when so directed the party
must within two days prepare and serve upon his adversary, and submit
to the judge sucti findings, and may, within two days thereafter, briefly
suggest in writing to the judge why he desires findings upon the points
included within the findings prepared by himself, or why he objects to
findings upon the points included within the findings prepared by his ad
versary. The judge may adopt, modify or reject the findings so submit
ted. If, at the time of the submission of the cause, the judge does not
direct the preparation of findings, or those prepared are rejected, then he
must himself prepare the findings.
§ 270. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an
issue of law he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of section 229, upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law, and the taking of
an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to enable the court to
complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered as in that section
provided.

§ 271. A reference may be ordered upon the
agreement of the parties, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes:
1. To hear and determine any or all of the issues of fact in an action
or proceeding, and to report a finding upon which judgment may be en
tered by the court.
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to determine an ac
tion or proceeding.
§ 272. Where the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a refer
ence in all cases formerly cognizable in chancery in which reference might
be made.
§ 273. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties
do not agree, the court or judge must appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who reside in the county or subdivision in which the ac
tion or proceeding is triable, and against whom there is no legal ob
jection.
§ 274. Either party may object to the appoint
ment of any person as referee for the same cause for which challenges for
cause may be taken to a petit juror in the trial of a civil action.
§ 275. The objections taken to the appointment
of any person as referee must be heard and disposed of by the court or
judge thereof. Affidavits may be read and witnesses examined as to such
objections.
§ 276. The referees must report their findings in
writing to the court within twenty days after the testimony is closed; but
the time may be extended by consent of the parties, or by order of the
court or judge.
§ 277. The reference in all cases
shall be to find the facts, and the finding reported has the effect of a special
verdict, and may be excepted to and set aside in like manner.
§ 278. The referees, before proceeding to hear any
testimony must be sworn, to well and truly hear and determine the facts
referred, to them, and true findings render according to the evidence, and
they have power .to administer oaths to all witnesses rproduced before
them.
ARTICLE VIII.—Exceptions.
§ 279. No particular form of exception is required. The
objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter, as
is necessary to explain
it,
and no more. But when the exception
is
to the
verdict or decision, upon the grounds of the insufficiency of the evidence
to sustain it. the objection must specify the particulars in which such evi
dence
is
alleged to be insufficient.
§ 280. A bill containing the exceptions to
any ruling may be presented to the judge at the time the ruling
is
made,
or the exception may be entered on the judge's minutes, and afterwards
settled. The bill must be conformable to the truth, or be at the time cor
rected until
it
be so, and signed by the judge and filed with the clerk.
§ 281. If
a
bill is not pre- sented at the time of the ruling,
a
bill containing the exceptions, or any
of them, relating to any ruling had up to the time of the entry of judgu
ment, may upon three days' notice to the adverse party, at any time after
such ruliug is made, and within ten days after the entry of judgment, or
such other time as may be fixed by the court, be presented to the judge
and settled.
§ 282. Exceptions to any decision made
after judgment may be presented to the judge at the time of such decis
ion, and may be settled or noted as provided in section 2S0, and a bill
thereof may be presented and settled afterwards, as provided in section
281, and within like periods after entry of the order, upon appeal from
which such decision
is
reviewable.
§ 283. If the judge in any case refuse to
allow an exception in accordance with the facts, the party desiring the bill
settled may apply by petition to the supreme court to prove the same.
The application may be made in the mode and manner, and under such
regulations as that court may prescribe, and the bill, when proven, must
be certified by a justice thereof as correct, and filed with the clerk of the
court in which the action was tried, and when so filed
it
has the same force
and effect as
if
settled by the judge who tried the cause.
§ 284. If the judge who presided at the trial ceases
to hold office before the bill is tendered or settled, he may nevertheless
settle such bill, or the party may, as provided in the preceding section,
apply to the supreme court to prove the same.
ARTICLE IX.— Of new trials.
§ 285. A new trial
is
a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury or court, or by
referees.
§ 286. The former verdict or other decision
may be vacated and
a
new trial granted, on the application of the paity
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the sub
stantial rights of such party:
.—__ j
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of thecourt, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a find- ing on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the de
termination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of
any one of the jurors.
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.
4. Newly discovered evidence, material to the party making the appli
cation, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial.
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence
of passion or prejudice.
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or
that it is against law. 7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application. _ 

§ 287. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the preceding section, it must be made upon affidavits; for any other cause it may be made, at the option of the moving party, either upon the min
utes of the court, or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case, fee*.
§ 288. The party intending to move for a new trial must serve upon the adverse party a notice of his intention,
designating therein generally the grounds upon which the motion will be made. Such motion must be made and determined during the term at which the cause was tried, unless for good cause further time be given by
thecourt; and, except in cases of newly discovered evidence, the applica
tion must be made within three days after the verdict or decision is
rendered. Motions for new trial on the ground of newly discovered evi
dence may be made at the term at which the cause is tried or at the next
succeeding term.
§ 289. The verdict of a jury may also be
vacated, and a new trial granted by the court in which the action is pend
ing, on its own motion, without the application of either of the parties,
when there has been such plain disregard by the jury of the instructions
of the court, or the evidence in the case, as to satisfy the court that the
verdict was rendered under a misapprehension of such instructions, or
under the influence of passion or prejudice. 

§ 290. When the action is tried by a district judge in his district, out of the county of his residence, the motion for a new trial may, upon the consent of parties, be brought to a hearing before such judge at chambers, or in open court, in the county of his residence, or in any other county.
ARTICLE X.—Manner of giving, entering, and satisfying judgments.
§ 291. Judgment upon an issue of law, or
fact, or upon confession, or upon failure to answer, may be entered by the
clerk upon the order of the court or the judge thereof.
§ 292. 1. Judgment may be given for or
against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more
of several defendants; and the court may determine the ultimate rights
of the parties on each side as between themselves.
2. If a counter claim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiff's de
mand, so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the
excess; and the court may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled.
3. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discre
tion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment may be proper.
4. The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in favor of one
or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the
plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the
cause against the defendant or defendants served. In an action brought
by or against a married woman, judgment may be given against her as
well for costs as for damages, or both for such costs and for such damages,
inlhe same manner as against other persons, to be levied and collected of
her separate estate and not otherwise.
§ 293. The relief granted to the plaintiff,
if there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded
in his complaint; but in any other case the court may grant him relief
consistent with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the
issue.
§ 294. If a party die after a verdict or decis
ion upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may neverthe
less render judgment thereon. Such judgment is not a lien on the real
property of the deceased party, but is payable in the course of adminis
tration on his estate.
§ 295. In an action to recover the possession
of personal property, the judgment for the plaintiff may be for the pos
session, or for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof in case a
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the prop
erty have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property,
or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, and damages for
taking and withholding the same.
§ 296. Every judgment that contains a direction
for the sale of any specific real property may also direct the delivery of
the possession of such property to the purchaser; and the officer receiving
the execution or order of sale, may enforce such judgment by putting the
purchaser in possession of the premises, in like manner and with like au
thority, as if special execution had been directed to him for that purpose.
§ 297. The clerk shall keep, among the records of the
court, a book, for the entry of the judgments, to be called the "judgment
book."
§ 298. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action.
§ 299. Unless the party or his attorney shall
furnish a judgment-roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,
shall attach together, and file the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment-roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons
and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service, and that no answer has
been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and a
copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defend
ant, exceptions, case/and all orders or papers in> any way involving the
merits and necessarily affecting the judgment"?) $a&- S£-C, [/(itf-
§ 300. On
filing a judgment-roll, upon a judgment directing in whole or in part the
payment of money, it may be docketed with the clerk of the court in which
it was rendered, in a book to be known as the judgment docket, and in any
other county or subdivision, upon filing with the clerk of the district court
for said county or subdivision, a transcript of the original docket; and it
shall be a lien on all the real property, except the homestead, in the county
or subdivision where the same is so docketed, of every person against whom
any such judgment shall be rendered, and which he may have at the time of
the docketing thereof in the county or subdivision in which such real prop
erty is situated, or which he shall acquire at any time thereafter, for ten years
from the time of docketing the same in the county or subdivision where it
■was rendered. But whenever an appeal from any judgment shall be pend
ing, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution on such judgment
shall have been given, and the appeal perfected as provided in this code,
the court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion,
after notice to the person owning the judgment, direct the clerk to make
an entry on the judgment docket that the same is "secured on appeal,"
and thereupon it shall cease, during the pendancy of the appeal, to be a
lien on the real property of the judgment debtor as against purchasers
and mortgagees in good faith.
§ 301. The clerk shall docket the judgment
by entering alphabetically in the judgment docket the names of the judg
ment debtor or debtors, the names of the party or parties in whose favor
the judgment was rendered, the sum recovered or directed to be paid, in
figures, the date of the judgment, the year, day, hour and minute when
the judgment roll or transcript was filed, the year, day, hour, and minute
when the judgment was docketed in his office, and the page in the judgment
book where the same is entered; the name of the court in which the judg
ment was rendered; the name of the attorney or attorneys for the party
recovering the judgment, and, if there are two or more judgment debtors,
such entries must be repeated under the initial letter of the surname of
each.
§ 302. Every clerk of
the district court, upon the presentation to him of an assignment of any
judgment rendered or docketed therein, signed by the party in whose favor
the judgment is rendered, his executor or administrator, and acknowledged
in the manner prescribed bylaw for the acknowledgment of deeds, must
immediately enter the same in the judgment book, and must note the fact
of such assignment, the date thereof, and the name of the assignee, in the
margin of the entry of such judgment, in such judgment book, and also
upon the docket of such judgment. And the clerk of the district court of
any other county or subdivision where such judgment is docketed, must
note the fact of such assignment, the date thereof, and the name of the
assignee, upon the presentation to and filing with him, a certified copy
of the original judgment docket with the said facts of such assignment
noted thereon.
§ 303. Any judgment rendered or dock
eted in the district courts of the territory, may be cancelled and discharged
by the clerk thereof:
1. Upon the filing with him of an acknowledgment of the satisfaction
thereof, signed by the party in whose favor the judgment was obtained, his
attorney of record, his executor, administrator or assignee, and duly ac
knowledged in the manner required to admit a deed of real property to
record.
2. Upon the return of any execution, issued upon such judgment,
wholly satisfied, or the presentation of a satisfaction piece duly executed
and acknowledged as hereinbefore provided, to the clerk of any district
court, he must immediately note upon the judgment docket and in the
margin of the judgment book where such judgment is entered, the date
of such cancellation and the manner thereof, by satisfaction piece filed,
execution returned satisfied, or otherwise.
3. And any partial satisfaction of the judgment may be made and
noted upon the records in like manner; and thereupon all judgments and
liens thereby created, must be taken and deemed to be canceled and dis
charged, to the extent of the entries so made upon the judgment docket,
and no more.
4. And the clerk of any other district court, or the district court of anyother
county or subdivision, wherein a transcript of any such judgment
docket shall have been filed and judgment docketed accordingly, must
cancel the same in like manner upon his judgment docket, upon the filing
in his office of a certified copy of the original judgment docket entry duly
canceled as hereinbefore provided.
§ 304. A justice of the
peace, on the demand of a party in whose favor he shall have rendered a
judgment, must give a certified transcript thereof which may be filed in
the office of the clerk of the district court of the county or subdivision, in
which the judgment was rendered, and such clerk must thereupon enter
such judgment in the judgment book, and upon the judgment dock
et; and, from the time of the docketing thereof, it becomes a judgment
of such district court and a lien upon real property, and a certified tran
script of the docket of such judgment may be filed, and the judgment
docketed accordingly, in any other county or subdivision, with the like
effect in every respect as if the judgment had been rendered in the dis
trict court where such judgment is filed.
§ 305. Mutual final judgments may be setoff,
pro tanto, the one against the other, by the court upon proper applica
tion and notice.
CHAPTER XIII.
OF TIIK EXECUTION OF THE .JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
THE EXECUTION AND LEVY.
§ 306. The party in whose favor judgment has
heretofore been, or bhall hereafter be given, and, in case of his death, his
personal representatives, duly appointed, may, at any time within five years
after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce the same by writ of execu
tion as provided in this chapter.
§ 307. After the lapse of five years from
the entry of judgment, an execution can be issued only by leave of the
court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he
be absent or non-resident, or cannot be found to make such service, in
which case such service may be made by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given unless It
be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that
thejudgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due. Butthe
leave shall not be necessary when execution has been issued on the judg
ment within the five years, and returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
§ 308. Where a judgment requires the pay
ment of money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may
be enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in this chapter.
When the judgment requires the sale of property, the same may be en
forced by a writ reciting such judgment, or the material points thereof,
and directing the proper officer to execute the judgment, by making the
sale and applying the funds in conformity therewith. Where it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may
be served upon the party against whom it is given, or the person or officer
who is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the com t as for
contempt.
§ 309. There shall be three kinds of execution;
one against the property of the judgment debtor; another against his
person; and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or per
sonal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same.
§ 310. When the execution is
against the property of the jndgment debtor, it may be issued to the sher
iff of any county where the judgment is docketed. When it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of
the county where the property or some part thereof is situated. Execu
tions may be issued at the same time to different counties. Real property
adjudged to be sold must be sold in the county where it lies, by the sher
iff of such county, or by a referee appointed by the court for that pur
pose, and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a certificate of sale
to the purchaser as hereinafter provided. An execution may issue against
a married woman, and it must direct the levy and collection of the amount
of the judgment against her from her separate property, and not other
wise.
§ 311. If the action be one in which the de
fendant might have been arrested, as provided in section 149 and section
151, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued
to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of an
execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. But no
execution shall issue against the person of a judgment debtor, unless an
order of arrest has been served, as in this code provided, or unless the
complaint contains a statement of facts showing one or more of the causes
of arrest required by section 149.
§ 312. The writ of execution must
be issued in the name of the territory of Dakota, attested in the name of
the judge, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk,
and directed to the sheriff, or to the coroner when the sheriff is a party or
interested; and it must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the
court, the county where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the names
of the parties, the amount of judgment, if it be for money, and the amount
actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which the
execution is issued, and shall require the officer substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, to satisfy the
judgment with interest and accruing costs out of the personal property of
such debtor; and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, out of
the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was
docketed in the county or at any time thereafter.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, or tenants of real property, or
trustees, to satisfy the judgment out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, to arrest such
debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the
judgment, or be discharged according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop
erty, to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing
it,
to
the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the officer to
satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits recovered by the same judg
ment, out of the personal property of the party against whom
it
wasren
dered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was recov
ered, to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if
sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of the real property
belonging to him on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at any
time thereafter, and shall in that respect be deemed an execution against
property.
§ 313. The execution shall be returnable within sixty
days, after its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom the record of
judgment is filed.
§ 314. All goods, chattels, moneys and other
property, both real and personal, or any interest therein of the judgment
debtor, not exempt by law, and all property and rights of property,
seized and held under attachment in the action, are liable to execution.
Shares and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits, and all other property, both real and personal, or any interest in
real or personal property, and all other property not capable of manual
delivery, shall be liable to be taken on execution and sold as hereinafter
provided.
§ 315. When an execution is delivered to any
officer, he must indorse thereon the day and hour when he received it,
and must proceed to execute the same with diligence: and, if executed, an
exact description of the property at length, with the date of the levy, sale,
or other act done by virtue thereof, must be indorsed upon or appended
to the execution; and if the writ was not executed, or executed in part
only, the reason in such case must be stated in the return. If no personal
property be found, an indorsement to that effect must be made on the writ,
before levy is made on real property.
§ 316. The officer must execute the writ by levying on
the property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in action by
suit in his own name, if necessary, or by selling the same, selling the
other property, and paying to the plaintiff the proceeds, or so much there
of as will satisfy the execution.
§ 317. The officer must in all cases
select such property, and in such quantities, as will be likely to bring the
exact amount required to be raised, as nearly as practicable, and hav
ing made one levy, may, at any time thereafter, make other levies if he
deem it necessary. But no writ of execution shall be a lien on personal
property before the actual levy thereof.
§ 318. Judgments, bank bills, and other things in
action, may be sold, or appropriated, as provided in the next following section, and assignment thereof by the officer shall have the same effect as
if made by the defendant.
§ 319. Money levied may be appropriated
without being advertised or sold. The same may be done with bank bills,
drafts, promissory notes, or other papers of the like character, if the
plaintiff will receive them at their par value as cash, or if the officer can
exchange'them for cash at that value.
§ 320. After the rendition of the judgment, any
person indebted to the defendant in execution may pay to the sheriff the
amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as is necessary to satis
fy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge
therefor.
§ 321. If the property levied on
be claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff may summon
from his county six persons qualified as jurors, between the parties, to
try the validity of the claim. He innst also give notice of the claim and
of the time of trial to the plaintiff who may appear and contest the
£laim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses must be sworn by the
sheriff; and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant the sheriff may re
linquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient in
demnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the sheriff, and the
witnesses must be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against him;
otherwise by the plaintiff. Each party must deposit with the sheriff, be
fore the trial, the amount of his fees, and the fees of the jury, and the
sheriff must return to the prevailing party the amount so deposited by
him.
EXEMPTIONS.
§ 322. Except as hereinafter provided, the
property mentioned under this heading, is exempt from attachment or
mesne process, and from levy and sale on execution, and from any other
final process issued from any court.
§ 323. The property mentioned in this section
is absolutely exempt from all such process, levy or sale:
1. All family pictures.
2. A pew or other sitting in any house of worship.
3. A lot or lots in any burial ground.
4. The family bible, and all school books used by the family, and all
other books used as a part of the family library not exceeding in value
one hundred dollars.
5. All wealing apparel and clothing of the debtor, and his family.
6. The provisions for the debtor, and his family, necessary for one year's
supply, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for one
year.
7. The homestead, as created, defined and limited by law.
§ 324. In addition to the property mentioned
in the preceding section, the debtor may, by himself or his agent, select
from all other of his personal property, not absolutely exempt, goods,
chattels, merchandise, money or other personal property, not to exceed
in the aggregate fifteen hundred dollars in value, which is also exempt,
and must be chosen and appraised as hereinafter provided.
§ 325. Instead of the exemption
granted in the preceding section the debtor may select and choose the fol
lowing property, which shall then be exempt, namely:
1. All miscellaneous books and musicial instruments for the use of the
family, not exceeding five hundred dollars in value.
2. All household and kitchen furniture, including beds, bedsteads and
bedding, used by the debtor, and his family, not exceeding five hnndred
dollars in value; and in case the debtor shall own more than five hundred
dollars worth of such property, he must select therefrom such articles to
the value of five hundred dollars, leaving the remainder subject to legal
process.
3. Three cows, ten swine, one yoke of cattle and two horses or mules or
two yoke of cattle, or two span of horses or mules, one hundred sheep and
their lambs under six months old, and all wool of the same, and all cloth
or yarn manufactured therefrom, the necessary food for the animals here
inbefore mentioned for one year, either provided or growing, or both, as
the debtor may choose; also one wagon, one sleigh, two plows, one
harrow, and farming utensils, including tackle for teams, not exceeding
three hundred dollars in value.
4. The tools and implements of any mechanic, whether a minor or of
age, used and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade or business,
and, in addition thereto, stock in trade not exceeding two hundred dollars
in value. The library and instruments of any professional person, not
exceeding six hundred dollars in value.
§ 326. All the articles
enumerated in the preceding section which are exempt by limitation of
number, must be chosen by the debtor, his agent or attorney; so, also, all
property exempt by limitation of value must be determined by an ap
praisement made under the direction of the sheriff or other officer.
§ 327. To make the appraisement, the debtor, his
agent or attorney must select one person, and the creditor, his agent or
attorney, another person, and these two, so selected, a third person, who
must all be disinterested citizens of the county not related to either party
nearer than the fourth degree. If the two fail to agree upon the third
person, the sheriff or other officer must select the third person; and, in
like manner, if either the debtor or creditor fail or refuse, upon notice, to
select a person to act as one of the appraisers, the sheriff or other officer
must select one for them.
§ 328. The three appraisers so selected,
must take and subscribe an oath before the sheriff or other officer, to be
attached to the inventory of appraisement, that they will truly, honestly,
and impartially appraise the property of the debtor. The property must
be appraised at the usual price of such articles at sheriffs sales, as near
as can be determined, and must be set down in an inventory by articles
or by lots when definitely descriptive, with the value opposite. From
the appraisement so made, if over the limitation in value, the debtor, his
agent or attorney, may select the amount in value of fifteen hnndred dol
lars, or the alternative amounts in value, of each class, leaving the remain
der, if any, in either case, subject to legal process.
§ 329. If, in any case, the debtor
neglect, or refuse, or for any cause, fail to claim the whole or any of the
aforesaid exemptions, his wife is entitled to make such claim or demandr
and to select and choose the property, to select and designate one of the
appraisers, and to do all other acts necessary in the premises, the same
and with like effect as the debtor himself might do; and if she neglect, re
fuse, or for any cause fail so to do, in whole or in part, then one of their
children, of sixteen years of age and upwards, being a member of the
family, may do so in like manner and with like effect.
§ 330. The sheriff or other officer having
any process of levy or sale, must make return with his writ or warrant, of
any inventory and appraisement of any such exempted or other personal
property.
§ 331. In all cases of a levy
upon personal property by a sheriff, constable, or other officer, he must
give notice thereof to the debtor, his attorney, agent, or wife, or failing
conveniently to find either, to such child as is described in section 329;
and the debtor, or such other person for him, must claim or demand the
benefit of these exemptions within three day3 after such notice from the
officer; and said notice of levy may be by copy or by reading.
§ 332. Nothing in this chapter shall
be so construed as to exempt any personal property from execution for
laborers' or mechanics' wages, except that absolutely exempt.
§ 333. Except those made
absolute, the exemptions herein provided for must not be construed to
apply to the following persons, namely:
1. To a corporation for profit.
2. To a non-resident.
3. To a debtor who is in the act of removing with his family from the
territory; or,
4. Who has absconded, taking with him his family.
5. A partnership firm can claim but one exemption of fifteen hundred
dollars in value, or the alternative property, when so applicable, instead
thereof, out of the partnership property, and not a several exemption for
each partner.
§ 334. No
property, either real or personal, except the homestead and other exemp
tions made absolute, shall be exempt from levy, seizure and sale, by virtue
of any final writ or process issued on a judgment for fines, penalties, or
costs of criminal prosecutions; and no property, except the homestead and
other exemptions made absolute, and personal property of any kind in
addition thereto to the value of five hundred dollars, shall be exempt from
levy, seizure or sale, by virtue of any final writ or process issued on a
judgment for forfeitures of undertakings and bonds, or of recognizance
taken and entered in criminal cases.
sales.
§ 335. The officer who levies
upon personal property by virtue of an execution, must, before- he pro
ceeds to sell the same, cause public notice to be given of the time and
place of such sale, for at least ten days before the day of sale. The no
tice must be given by advertisement, published in some newspaper printed
in the county or subdivision, or, in case no newspaper be printed therein,
by posting up advertisements in five public places in the county. Perish
able property may be sold by order of the court or a judge thereof, pre
scribing such notice, time, and manner of sale as may be reasonable, con
sidering the character and condition of the property.
§ 336. Before any real property or interest therein,
taken in execution, shall be sold, the officer making such sale must cause
public notice of the time and place thereof to be given by advertisement
published in 6ome newspaper printed in the county or subdivision where
the real property to be sold is situated, once a week for at least thirty
days, and in case there be no newspaper printed therein, then the officer
making such sale must cause such advertisement to be made in some
newspaper having a general circulation in such county or subdivision, and
in addition thereto must post a copy of such advertisement on the outer
door of the court house or building wherein the district court of the coun
ty or subdivision was last held, and in five other public places in the coun
ty. All sales made without notice as herein provided must be set aside
by the court to which the execution is returnable, upon motion to confirm
the sale. •
§ 337. All sales of real property, or any interest
therein, under execution, must be held at the court house, if there be one in
the county or subdivision in which such real property is situated, and if there
be no court house, then at the door of the house in which the district court
was last held, and if there be no court hous^, and no district court have
been held in the county or subdivision, then at such place, within the
county or subdivision, as the sheriff shall designate in his notice of sale.
§ 338. All sales of property under execu
tion must be made at public auction, to the highest bidder, between the
hours of nine in the morning and four in the afternoon. After sufficient
property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more can be sold. No
sheriff or other officer, nor his deputy, holding the execution or making
the sale of property, either personal or real, can become a purchaser, or
be interested, directly or indirectly, in any purchase, at 6uch sale, and
every purchase so made shall be considered fraudulent and void. When
the sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as
are likely to bring the highest price: and when the sale is of real proper
ty, consisting of several known lots or parcels, they must be sold separ
ately. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold, when such prop
erty consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be
sold to advantage separately, and the sheriff or other officer must follow
such directions.
§ 389. When there are no bidders, or when the amount
offered is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the sale is prevent
ed from taking place on the day fixed, the sheriff may postpone the sale
for not less than three days, without being iequired to give any further
notice thereof; but he shall not make more than two such postponements,
and such postponement must be publicly announced when and where the
sale should have taken place.
§ 340. When the property sells for more than the amount
required to be collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant, unless
the officer have another execution in his hands on which said overplus
may be rightfully applied.
§ 341. When property is un
sold lor want of bidders, the levy still holds good; and if there be suffi
cient time it may again be advertised or the execution returned and one
issued commanding the officer to sell the property, describing it, previ
ously levied on, to which a clause may be added, that if such property do
not produce a sum sufficient to satisfy such execution, the officer must
proceed to make an additional levy, on which he shall proceed as on
other executions, or the plaintiff may, in writing filed with the clerk,
abandon such levy upon paying the costs thereof; in which case execution
may issue with the same effect as if none had ever been issued.
§ 342. Upon a sale of real
property the purchaser is substituted to, and acquires all the right, title,
interest and claim of the judgment debtor thereto; and when the estate
is less than a leasehold of two years' unexpired term, the sale is abso
lute. In all other cases the real property is subject to redemption as pro
vided in this chapter. The officer must give to the purchaser a certificate
of sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the real property sold.
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole price paid.
4. When subject to redemption it must be so stated.
Such certificate must be executed by the officer and acknowledged or
proved, as is or may be required by law for deeds of real property, and
may be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county where
in the real property is situated; and the same, or a certified copy thereof,
certified by such register, shall be taken and deemed evidence of the facts
therein recited and contained.

§ 343. If the court, upon the return of
any writ of execution, for the satisfaction of which any real property or
interest therein has been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the
proceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the sale has, in all respects,
been made in conformity to the provisions of this chapter, the court must
make an order confirming the sale and directing the clerk to make an en
try on the journal, that the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale,
and an oroVr that the officer make to the purchaser a deed of such real
property, or interest therein, at the expiration of one year from the day
of sale unless the same be redeemed as herein provided. And the officer,
after making such sale, may retain the purchase money in his hands, un
til the court shall have examined his proceedings, as aforesaid, when he
must pay the same to the person entitled thereto by order of the court.

§ 344. Property sold subject to re
demption, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner
hereinafter provided, by the following persons, or their successors in in
terest :
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest.
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the property
sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the
property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of
this section are, in this chapter, termed redemptioners.
§ 345. The judgment debtor or redemptioner
may redeem the property from the purchaser within one year after
the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase with twelve
per cent, interest thereon, together with the amount of any assessment of
taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and
interest at the same rate on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a
creditor, having a prior lien to that of tire redemptioner, other than the
judgment under which such purchase was made, the amount of such lien,
with interest.
§ 346. If property be so redeemed
by a redemptioner, another redemptioner may, within sixty days after the
last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying
the sum paid on such last redemption, with the like interest thereon in
addition as provided by the preceding section, and the amount of any
assessment or taxes which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon
after the redemption by him, with like interest on such amount, and, in
addition, the amount of any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to
his own, with interest; but the judgment on which the property was sold
need not be so paid as a lien. The property may be again, and as often
as a redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemp
tioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, on paying the sum
paid on the last previous redemption, with interest at the same rate as
provided for the first redemption in section 345, in addition, and the
amount of any assessment or taxes which the last previous redemptioner
paid after the redemption by him, with like interest thereon, and the
amount of any liens other than the judgment under which the property
was sold, held by the last redemptioner previous to his own, with interest.
§ 347. Written notice of redemption must be
given to the sheriff, and a duplicate filed with the register of deeds of the
county; and if any taxes or assessments are paid by the redemptioner, or
if he has or acquires any lien other than that upon which the redemption
was made, notice thereof must in like manner be given to the sheriff, and
filed with the register of deeds; and if such notice be not tiled, the property
may be redeemed without paying such tax, assessment or lien.
§ 348. If no redemption be made
within one year after the sale, the purchaser or his assignee is entitled to
a conveyance; or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed, and
no other redemption has been made, and notice thereof given, and the
time for redemption has expired, the lastredemptioner, or his assignee, is
entitled to a sheriff's deed; but in all cases the judgment debtor shall have
the entire period of one year from the date of the sale to redeem the
property.
§ 349. If the debtor redeem, he must make the
same payments as are required to effect a redemption by a redemptioner.
If the debtor redeem, the effect of the sale is terminated, and he is restored
to his estate. Upon a redemption by the debtor, the person to whom the
payment is made must execute and deliver to him a certificate of redemp
tion, acknowledged or proved before an officer authorized to take acknowl
edgments of conveyances of real property. Such certificate must be filed
and recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county in which
the property is situated, and the register of deeds must note the record
thereof in the margin of the record of the certificate of sale.
§ 350. The payments mentioned in the last five sections may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, or for him, to the
officer who made the sale.
§ 351. A redemptioner must produce to the officer or
person from whom he seeks to redeem and serve with his notice to the
sheriff:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right
to redeem, certified by the clerk of the district court of the county where
the judgment is docketed, or, if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien,
a note of the record thereof certified by the register of deeds.
2. A copy of the assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified
by the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto.
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the amount then actu
ally due on the lien.
§ 352. Until the expiration of the time for
redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the prop
erty, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the
purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not waste for the person in
possession of the property at the time of the sale, or entitled to posses
sion afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to
use it in the same manner in which it was previously used; or to use it in
the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of
buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property therefor; or
for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the
property.
§ 353. The purchaser, from the time of the sale
until a redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption
until another redemption, is entitled to receive from the tenant in posses
sion, the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation
thereof. But when any rents or profits have been received by the judgment
■creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from the property thus sold,
preceding such redemption, the amounts of such rents and profits shall be
a credit upon the redemption money to be paid; and if the redemptioner
or judgment debtor, before the expiration of the time allowed for such re
demption, demands in writing of such purchaser or creditor, or his assigns,
a written and verified statement of the amounts of such rents and profits
thus received, the period for redemption is extended five days after such
sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his assigns, to such redemp
tioner or debtor. If the purchaser or his assigns shall, for a period of
one month from and after such demand, fail or refuse to give such state
ment, such redemptioner or debtor may bring an action in the district
court of the county where the real property is situated to compel an
accounting and disclosure of such rents and profits, and until fifteen days
from and after the final determination of such action, the right of redemp
tion is extended to such redemptioner or debtor.

§ 354. Upon the expiration of the period for
redemption, the proper officer must make the purchaser, or the party entitled thereto, a deed of the real property sold. The deed shall be sufficient
■evidence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings therein until the
contrary is proved, and shall vest in the purchaser, or other party as afore
said, as good and as perfect title in the premises therein mentioned and
described, as was vested in the debtor at or after the time when such real
property became liable to the satisfaction of the judgment. And such deed
or conveyance, to be made by the sheriff or other officer, must recite the
execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the
parties, the amount, and date of rendition of such judgment, by virtue
whereof the said real property was sold as aforesaid, and must be executed,
acknowledged, or proved, and recorded, as is or may be provided by law,
to perfect the conveyance of real property in other cases.
§ 355. If the term of service of the sheriff, or
other officer, who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any real prop
erty, shall expire; or, if the sheriff or other officer shall be absent, or be
rendered unable, by death, or otherwise, to make a deed or conveyance of
the same, any succeeding sheriff or other officer may execute to the pur
chaser or person entitled thereto, or his legal representatives, a deed of con
veyance of said real property so sold; and such deed shall be as good and
valid in law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other officer, who
made the sale, had executed the same.

§ 356. The officer who levies upon personal
property or real property, or who is charged with the duty of selling the
same by virtue of any writ of execution, may refuse to publish a notice of
the sale thereof by advertisement in a newspaper, until the party for whose
benefit such execution is issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance to
such officer so much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of the
printer for publishing such notice. Before any officer shall be excused
from publishing the notice, as aforesaid, he must demand of the party for
whose benefit the execution was issued, his agent or attorney, provided
either of them reside in the county, the amount of money for such fees.
§ 357. If any judgment, in satisfaction of which
any real property be sold, shall at any time thereafter be reversed, such
reversal shall not defeat or affect the title of the purchaser: but in such
case, restitution must be made by the judgment creditor, of the money for
which such real property was sold, with lawful interest thereon from the
day of sale.
§ 358. In all cases where judgment is rendered
upon any instrument in writing, in which two or more persons are sever
ally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the court, by parol or other tes
timony, that one or more of said persons so bound, signed the same as sure
ty or bail for his co-defendant, the court must, in entering judgment there
on, state which<)f the defendants is principal debtor,[and which are sureties
or bail. And execution issued on such judgment mustcommand thesheriff
or other officer to cause the money to be made of the personal property,
and real property of the principal debtor, but, for want of sufficient prop
erty of the principal debtor to make the same, to cause the same to be
made of the personal and real property of the surety or bail. In all cases
the property, both personal and real, of the principal debtor, within the
jurisdiction of the court, must be exhausted before auy of the.property of
the surety or bail shall be taken in execution.
§ 359. If any sheriff or other officer shall re
fuse or neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed, which has
come to his hands; or, to sell any personal or real property; or, to return
any writ of execution to the proper court, on or before the return day; or,
on demand, to pay over to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record,
all moneys by him collected or received, for the use of said party, at any
time after collecting or receiving the same except as otherwise provided;
or, on demand made by the defendant, his agent or attorney of record,
to pay all overplus received from any sale; such sheriff or other officer
shall, on motion in court and two days' notice thereof in writing, be
amerced in the amount of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per cen
tum thereon to and *for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as the case
may be.
§ 360. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse,
on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or attorney of
record, to pay over all money by him received, in his official capacity, for
the use of such person, every such clerk may be amerced; and the pro.
ceedings against him and his sureties shall be the same as provided for in
the foregoing section against sheriffs and their sureties.
§ 361. When the cause of amercement is for refus
ing to pay over money collected as aforesoid. the said sheriff or other of.
ticer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount bo withheld,
with ten per centum thereon.
§ 362. When execution shall be issued in any
county, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of another county, it shall
be lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the execution, after having
discharged all the duties required of him by law, to inclose such execu
tion by mail, to the clerk who issued the same. On proof being made by
such sheriff or coroner, that the execution was mailed soon enough to have
reached the said clerk within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff or
coroner shall not be liable for any amercement or penalty, if it do not
reach the office in due time.
§ 363. No sheriff shall forward, by mail
any money made on any such execution, unless he shall be specially in
structed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record. In all
cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or other officer of any county other
than the one from which the execution issued, notice in writing shall be
given to such officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or
at his office, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term at which
such motion shall be made, or by transmitting the notice by mail at least
sixty days prior to by the first day of the term at which such motion shall
be made. All amercements so procured shall be entered on the record of
the court, and shall have the same force and effect as a judgment.
§ 364. Each and every surety of any sheriff or
other officer may be made a party to the judgment rendered as aforesaid,
against the sheriff or other officer, by action to be commenced and prose
cuted as in other cases; but the property, personal or real, of any such
surety, shall not be liable to be taken on execution when sufficient prop
erty of the sheriff, or other officer, against whom execution may be issued,
can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
either party from proceeding against such sheriff or other officer by at
tachment or other proceeding, at his election.
§ 365. In cases where a sheriff or other offi
cer may be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the origi
nal judgment, he must be permitted to take out executions and collect the
amount of said judgment in the name of the original plaintiff, for his own
use.
CHAPTER XIV.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.
§ 366. 1. When an execution against property of the judg
ment debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the same judgment,
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or has a place of busi
ness, or, if he do not reside in the territory, to the sheriff of the county
where a judgment roll, or a transcript of a justice's judgment for twenty-
live dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return
made, is eutitled to an order from a judge of the court, requiring such
judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before
such judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the county to
which the execution was issued.
2. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof
by affidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a
judge thereof; that any judgment debtor, residing in the district where
such judge resides, has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to
wards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an
order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place,
to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be
had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an
execution.
3. On au examination under this section, either party may examine wit
nesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may be examined in the
same manner as a witness.
4. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor,
the judge may, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise to his satisfaction,
that theie is danger of the debtor leaving the territory, or concealing him
self, and that there is reason to believe he has property which he unjustly
refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of
any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before
such judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined
on oath, and if it then appears that there is danger of the debtor leaving
the territory, and that he has property which he has unjustly refused to
apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or
more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend before the judge as he
shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the proceedings,
dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from execution. In
default of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison
by warrant of the judge, as for contempt.
5. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused
from answering any question on the ground that his examination will tend
to convict him of the commission of a fraud; but his answer shall not be
used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.
Nor shall he be excused from answering any question on the ground that
he has, before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or
transfer of his property for any purpose, but his answer shall not be used
as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.
§ 367. After the issuing of execution against proper
ty, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy
the execution, and the sheriffs receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for
the amount so paid.
§ 368. After the issuing or return of an execu
tion against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or
corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him
in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may, by an order, require
such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at
a specified time and place, and answer concerning the same. The judge
may also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given
to any party to the action in such manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this section, and in section 3CG, may be
taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued upon a judg
ment recovered in an action against joint debtors, in which some of the
defendants have not been served with the summons by which said action
was commenced, so far as relates to the joint property of such debtors;
and all actions by creditors to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the
property of joint debtors are maintainable in the like manner and to the
like effect. These provisions shall apply to all proceedings and actions
now pending, and not actually terminated by any final judgment or
decree.
§ 369. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify
on any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the
trial of an issue.
§ 370. The party or witness may be re
quired to attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the
court or judge; if before a referee, the examination shall be taken by the
referee, and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before
a judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except that when
a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an officer
thereof.
§ 371. The judge may order any
property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands
either of himself or any other person, or due the judgment debtor, to be
applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earn
ings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty days
next" preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear
by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for
the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.
§ 372. The judge
may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the property of the judgment
debtor, in the same manner, and with the like authority, as if the appoint
ment was made by the court, according to section '219. But before the
appointment of such receiver, the judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by
the oath of the party, or otherwise, whether any other supplementary pro
ceedings are pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceed
ings are so pending, the plaintiff therein shall have notice to appear be
fore him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings in
relation to said receivership. No more than one receiver of the property
of a judgment debtor shall be appointed. The judge may also, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor not -exempt from execution, and any interference therewith. When
ever the judge shall grant an order for the appointment of a receiver of
the property of the judgment debtor, the same shall be tiled in the office
of the clerk of the court where the judgment roll in the action or transcript
from justice's judgment, upon which the proceedings are taken, is tiled;
and the said clerk shall record the order in a book to be kept for that pur
pose in his office, to be called '" Book of orders appointing receivers of
judgment debtors," and shall note the time of riling of said order therein.
A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named
therein, and he shall be vested with the property and effects of the judg
ment debtor from the time of the riling and recording of the order as afore
said. The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be subject to the direction
and control of the court in which the judgment was obtained upon which
the proceedings are founded. But before he shall be vested with any real
property of such judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall also
be filed and recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county in
which any real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be affected by
such order is situated, and also in the office of the register of deeds of the
county in which such judgment debtor resides.
§ 373. If it appear that a person or
corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted
to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
the debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action
against such person or corporation by the receiver; but the judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest,
till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the
action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution; but such order
may be modified or dissolved by the judge granting the same, at any time,
on such security as he shall direct.
§ 374. The judge may, in his discretion, order
a reference to a referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him,
to report the evidence or the facts, and, may in his discretion, appoint
such referee in the first order, or at any time.
§ 375. The judge may allow to the judg
ment creditor, or any party so examined, whether a party to the action
or not, witness' fees and disbursements.
§ 376. If any person, party, or witness, dis
obey an order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party, or
witness, may be punished by the judge as for a contempt. And in all
cases of commitment under this chapter, the person committed may. in
case of inability to perforin the act required, or to endure the imprison
ment, be discharged from imprisonment by the court or judge committing
him, or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as
jnay be just-
CHAPTER XY.
OK TUB COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 377. The amount of fees of attorneys, solic
itors and counsel, in civil and criminal actions must be left to the agree
ment, express or implied, of the parties.
§ 378. When by the terms of any written
instrument, it appears that the debtor has made a written contract for the
allowance of attorneys fees, the same must be allowed by the court, in
conformity to the instrument, and must form a part of the judgment and
be incorporated therein.
§ 379. In all actions and special proceedings,
the clerk must tax as a part of the judgment, in favor of the prevailing
party, the allowance of his witnesses, the jury, officers' and printers1 fees,
the compensation of referees, and the necessary expenses of taking de
positions, and procuring necessary evidence.
§ 380. Any person aggrieved by the taxation of
costs may appeal therefrom to the court or a judge thereof.
§ 381. In an action for as
sault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution,
criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty
dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages And in an
action to recover the possession of personal property, if the plaintiff re
cover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than
damages, unless he recovers also property, the value of which, with the
damages, amounts to fifty dollars, or the possession of property be ad
judged to him, the value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dol
lars; such value must be determined by the jury, court, or referee, by
whom the action is tried. When several actions shall be brought on one
bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instru
ment in writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of action, against
several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same ac
tion,,no costs shall be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such
actions, which must be at his election: Provided, That the party or par
ties proceeded against in such action or actions, shall at the time of the
commencement of the previous action or actions, have been openly within
this territory, and not secreted.
§ 382. In all actions where there are sev
eral defendants, not united in interests, and making separate defenses
by separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment
in their favor.
§ 383. In the following cases the costs of an ap
peal must be in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial shall be ordered.
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part.
§ 384. When an action is dismissed from
any court for want of jurisdiction, or because it has not been regularly
transferred from an inferior to a superior court, the costs must be adjudged
against the party attempting to institute or bring up the action.
§ 385. Costs must be allowed to the prevailing party in
judgments rendered on appeal from justices' courts, in all cases, includ
ing his costs taxed in the court below.
§ 386. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be finally
entered, must be computed by the clerk and added to the costs of the
party entitled thereto.
§ 387. The clerk must in
sert in the entry of judgment, on the application of the prevailing party,
upon live days' notice to the other, except when the a-ttorneys reside in the
same city, village or town, and then upon two days' notice, the sum of the
allowances for costs as provided by this code. The costs must be stated
in detail and verified by affidavit of the party or his attorney, stating in
substance that the items of costs have been, or will necessarily be, incurred
in the action or proceeding. A copy of the items of the costs and affida
vit must be served with a notice of adjustment. Whenever it shall be
necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory proceeding in an action, or
in any special proceeding, the same shall be adjusted by the judge before
whom the same be heard, or the court before which the same may be de
cided or pending, or in such other manner as the judge or court may
direct.
§ 388. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to
each, for every day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation.
§ 389. When an application is made to a court
or referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the
postponement, may be imposed, in the discretion of the court or referee,
as a condition of granting the same.
§ 390. When costs are adjudged
against an infant plaintiff, the guardian, by whom he appeared in the ac
tion, must be responsible therefor, and payment thereof may be enforced
by attachment.
§ 391. In an action prosecuted or defend
ed by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action
by and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; but
such costs must, by the judgment, be chargeable on\y upon, or collected
of, the estate, fund, or party, represented, unless the court shall direct the
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanage
ment or bad faith in such action or defense.
§ 392. In all civil actions, prosecuted
in the name of the territory, by an officer duly authorized for that pur
pose, the territory shall be liable for the costs in the same cases and to the
same extent as private parties. If a private person be joined with the
territory as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the defend
ant's costs, which shall not be recovered of the territory until after execu
tion be issued therefor against such private party and returned unsat
isfied.
§ 393. In an action prosecuted in the name of
the territory, for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a
right or claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corpora
tion or person, costs awarded against the party plaintiff shall be charged
against the party for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not
against the territorjr.
§ 394. In actions in which the cause of action
shall, by assignment after the commencement of the action, or in any
other manner, become the property of a person not a party to the action,
such person shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he were
a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.
§ 395. Whenever a change of venue is granted
in any case pending in the district courts, all the costs and fees paid by
the county to which the case is ordered for trial shall be charged to the
county from which such case is sent.
§ 390. The board of county commissioners of the
county to which any case is ordered for trial, as provided by this code,
must make out and present for payment to the county from which such
case is sent, an itemized bill of all the costs and fees of the trial of such
case, paid by the county according to law; said bill must be sworn to by
the county clerk, and the board of county commissioners receiving such
bill or account must examine the same and pay the whole thereof, or so
much as is legal, proper and correct.
§ 397. In cases in which the plaintiff is a
non-resident of the territory or a foreign corporation, before commencing
such action, the plaintiff must furnish a sufficient surety for costs. The
surety must be a resident of the county or subdivision where the action is
to be brought, and must be approved by the clerk. His obligation shall
be complete by simply endorsing the summons, or signing his name on
the complaint as security for costs.
§ 398. He shall be bound for the payment of all
costs which may be adjudged against the plaintiff in the court in which
the action is brought, or in any other to which it may be carried, and for
costs of the plaintiffs witnesses, whether the plaintiff obtain judgment or
not.
§ 399. An action in which security for costs is required by
the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on the motion
and notice by the defendant at any proper time before judgment, unless
in a reasonable time to be allowed by the court, such security for costs be
given.
§ 400. If the plaintiff in an action,
after its commencement, become a non-resident of the territor}', he shall
give security for costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided
in the two preceding sections.
§ 401. In an action in which security for costs
has been given, the defendant may at any time before judgment, after rea
sonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on
the part of the plaintiff; and
if,
on such motion, the court be satisfied that
the surety has removed from this territory, or is not sufficient, the action
may be dismissed, unless in
a
reasonable time to be fixed by the court,
sufficient surety be given by the plaintiff.
§ 402. After final judgment has been ren
dered in an action, in which security for costs has been given, as required
by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other per
son having a right to such costs or any part thereof, after ten days' notice
of such motion, may enter up judgment in the "name of the defendant or
his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or ad
ministrators, for the amount of the costs adjudged against the plaintiff,
or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such
judgment, as in other cases, for the use and benefit of the person entitled
to such costs.
CHAPTER XVI.
OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
§ 403. The modes of reviewing a judgment or order
in a civil action, shall be those prescribed by this chapter.
§ 404. An order made out of court without no
tice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by
the judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice in the
manner in which other motions are made.
§ 405. An}' party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in section 22 of this code.
§ 400. The party appealing is known as the
appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent, but the title of the
action must not be changed in consequence of the appeal.
§ 407. An appeal
must be made:
1. By the service of a notice in writing on the adverse party or his at
torney, and on the clerk with whom the judgment or order appealed from
is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or some specified part
thereof.
2. When
a
party shall, in good faith, give notice of an appeal from a
judgment or order, and shall omit, through mistake, to do any other act
necessary to perfect uie appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may per
mit an amendment on such terms as may be just. 3.
If service of the notice of appeal upon the attorney for the adverse
party cannot, with due diligence, be made within the territory in the man
ner prescribed by this code, the notice of appeal may be served, and
notice of the subsequent proceedings maybe given to him, in such man
ner as the court or a judge thereof shall direct.
§ 408. If the appellant do not, within twenty
days after his appeal is perfected, cause a certified copy of the notice of
appeal and of the judgment roll, or if the appeal be from an order or any
part thereof, a certified copy of such order and the papers upon which the
order was granted, to be transmitted to the supreme court by the clerk
with whom the notice of appeal is filed, the respondent may cause such
certified copy to be transmitted by such clerk to the supreme court, and '
recover the expenses thereof as costs on such appeal, in case the judgment
or order appealed from be in whole or in pait affirmed.
§ 409. If the appellant fail to cause the
requisite papers to be transmitted to the supreme court, as required by the
preceding section and the rules of the court, the appeal may be dismissed.
§ 410. The dismissal of an appeal is, in effect, an affirm
ance of the judgment or order appealed from, unless the dismissal be ex
pressly made without prejudice to another appeal.
§ 411. Upon an appeal from a judgment
the supreme court may review any verdict, decision, or intermediate order,
involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
§ 412. Upon an appeal from a judgment or
order, the supreme court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or
order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and
as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the supreme court
may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erro
neous judgment so far as such restitution is consistent with any rights of
purchasers at sheriff's sale.
§ 413. The appeal to the supreme court under subdivision 2 (f section 22 of this code, must be taken within sixty days after
written notice of the order shall have been given to the party appealing;
every other appeal allowed must be taken within two years after the judgment
shall be perfected by filing the judgment roll.
§ 414. To render an appeal effectual for any
purpose, a written undertaking must be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay
all costs and damages which may be awarded against him on the appeal,
or on a dismissal thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars; or
that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment or
order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking or
deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part of the respon
dent.
§ 415. if an appeal
be from a judgment directing the payment of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part of the appellant by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the
judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or the appeal
be dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the
judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment shall be
affirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages and costs which
shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. Whenever it
sball be made satisfactorily to appear to the court that since the execution
of the undertaking the sureties have become insolvent, the court may, by
rule or order, require the appellant to execute, file, and serve a new under
taking as above; and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking within
twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or order requiring such new
undertaking, the appeal may,on motion to the court, be dismissed with costs.
Whenever it shall be necessary for a party to any action or proceeding
to give a bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may, in lien
thereof, deposit with the officer or into court, as the case may require,
money to the amount for which such bond or undertaking is to be given.
The court in which such action or proceeding is pending may direct what
disposition shall be made of such money, pending the action or proceed
ing. In any case where, by this section, the money is so deposited with
an officer, a judge of the court, at special term or at chambers, upon the
application of either party, may, before such deposit if made, order it to
be deposited in court instead of with such officer; and a deposit made,
pursuant to such order, shall be of the same effect as if made with such
officer.
§ 416. If the judgment ap
pealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents or personal
property, the execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal,
unless the things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court shall
appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the ap
pellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court, or judge
thereof, shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of
the appellate court upon the appeal.
§ 417. If the j udgment appealed from direct
the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the
judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall
have been executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment
is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§ 418. If the judgment appealed from
direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of
the same must not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer
to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed,
or the appeal be dismissed, he will pay the value of the use and occupa
tion of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of pos
session thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed
by a judge of the court by which judgment was rendered, aud which must
be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of
mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the
sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of such defi
ciency.
§ 419. Whenever an
appeal is perfected, as provided in sections 415, 416, 417, and 418, it stays
all further proceedings in the court below upon the judgment appealed
from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but the court below may pro
ceed upon any other matter included in the action and not effected by the
judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dis
pense with or limit the security required by sections 415, 410 and 418, when
the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee or other person acting
in another's right; and may also limit such security to an amount not less
than fifty thousand dollars, in the cases mentioned in sections 410, 417 and
418, where it would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed that
sum.
§ 420. The undertakings prescribed by sec
tions 414, 415, 416 and 418 may be in one instrument or several, at the
option of the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence
of the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the notice of
appeal, unless a deposit be made as provided in section 414, and notice
thereof given.
§ 421. An undertaking upon an
appeal shall be of no effect, unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of
the sureties that they are each worth double the amount specified therein.
The respondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties,
within ten days after the notice of the appeal; and unless they or other
sureties justify before a.judge of the court below, as prescribed by sections
165 and 160, within ten days thereafter, the appeal must be disregarded aa
if no undertaking had been given. The justification must be upon a notice
of not less than five days.
§ 422. In the cases not provided for
in sections 415, 410, 417 and 418, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the
undertaking mentioned in section 414 shall stay proceedings in the court
below upon the judgment appealed from, except that where it directs the
sale of perishable property, the court below may order the property to be
sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.
§ 423. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order appealed from was entered.
§ 424. The provisions of this chapter
as to the security to be given upon appeals, and as to the stay of proceed
ings shall apply to appeals taken under subdivision 3 of section 22 of this
code.
§ 425. In addition to the appeals provided for in this chapter, and section 22 of this code, writs of error shall be allowed on all
final decisions of the district courts to the supreme court under such regu
lations as may be prescribed by the rules or practice of the supreme
court.
CHAPTER XVII.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS, HEIRS, DKVISb.ES, LEGATEES, AND
TENANTS HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.
§ 426. When a judgment shall be recovered
against one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon a contract,
by proceeding as provided in section 105, those who were not originally
summoned to answer the complaint, and did not appear in the action, may
be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judg
ment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.
§ 427. The summons provided in the preceding section must be subscribed by the judgment creditor or his attorney,
must describe the judgment and require the person summoned to show
cause within thirty days after the service of the summons; and must be
served in like manner as the original summons. It is not necessary to file
a new complaint.
§ 428. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit
of the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to
his knowledge or information and belief, and must specify the amount
due thereon.
§ 429. Upon such summons, the party summoned may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting
up any defense which may have arisen subsequently; and he may make
the same defense which he might have, originally made to the action, ex
cept the statute of limitations.
§ 430. The party issuing the summons may demur
or reply to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply;
and the issues may be tried and judgment may be given in the same man
ner as in an action, and enforced by execution; or the application of the
property charged to the payment of the judgment, may be compelled by
attachment, if necessary.
§ 431. The answer and reply must be verified in
the like cases and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer
and reply in an action.
CHAPTER XVIII.
OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART OF THE
ACTION.
§ 432. The defendant may at any time be
fore the trial or verdict, serve upon the plaintiff, an offer in writing to al
low judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the
effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and
give notice thereof in writing, within ten days, he may tile the summons,
complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the
court or judge thereof must, thereupon, order judgment accordingly. If
the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn,
and cannot !>« given in evidence; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more
favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the defendant's
costs from the time of the offer.
§ 483. If the defendant set up a counter-
claim in liis answer, to an amount greater than the plaintiff's claim,
or sufficient to reduce the plaintiff's recovery below fifty dollars, then the
plaintiff may serve upon the defendant an offer in writing, to allow judg
ment to be taken against him for the amount specified, or to allow said
counter claim to the amount specified with costs. If the defendant accept
the offer, and give notice thereof in writing, within ten days, he may enter
judgment as above, for the amount specified, if the offer entitle him to
judgment, or the amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him in the
trial of the action. If the notice of acceptance is not given, the offer is
deemed to be withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence, and if the de
fendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment, or to establish his
counter-claim for a greater amount than is specified in said offer, he can
not recover costs, but must pay plaintiff's costs from the time of the offer.
§ 434. In an action arising on contract, the
defendant may, with his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in wri
ting, that if he fail in his defense, the damages be assessed at a special
sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with
or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the damages
must be assessed accordingly.
§ 435. If the plaintiff do not accept
the offer, he must prove his damages as if it had not been made, and shall
not be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages in his favor
do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shay recover
his costs incurred in consequence of any necessary preparations or de
fense in respect to the question of damages.
CHAPTER XIX.
ADMISSION OK INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.
§ 430. Either party may exhibit to the
other, or to his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper, material
to the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If
the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission within four
days after the request; and if the party exhibiting the paper be after
wards put to costs in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be
finally proved or admitted on the trial, such costs must be paid by the
party refusing the admission, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the
court that there were good reasons for the refusal.
§ 437. The court before which an action
is pending, or a judge thereof, may, in its or his discretion, and upon due
notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an
inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any books, papers
and documents, in his possession or under his control, containing evi
dence relating to the merits of the action or the defense therein. If com
pliance with the order be refused, the court may, on motion, exclude the
paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both.
CHAPTER XX.
EXAMINATION OF PARTIES.
§ 438. No action to obtain discovery under oath
in aid of the prosecution or defense of another action, shall be allowed,
nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 439. A party to an action may be examined
as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or any of several ad
verse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same man
ner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any other witness,
to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.
§ 440. The examination, instead of being had
at the trial, as provided in the last section, may be had at any time before
the trial, at the option of the .party claiming it, before a judge of
the court, on a previous notice to the party to be examined, and
any other adverse party, of at least five days, unless, for good cause
shown, the judge order otherwise. But the party to be examined shall
not be compelled to attend in any other county than that of his residence,
or where he may be served with a summons for his attendance.
§ 441. The party to be examined, as
in the last section provided, may be compelled to attend in the same man
ner as a witness who is to be examined conditionally, and the examina
tion shall betaken and filed by the judge in like manner, and may be
read by either party on the trial.
§ 442. The examination of the party, thus taken, may be
rebutted by adverse testimony.
§ 443. If a party refuse to attend and
testify, as in the last four sections provided, he may be punished as for a
contempt, and his complaint, answer or reply, may be stricken out.
§ 444. A party examined by an adverse party,
as in this chapter provided, may be examined on his own behttlf, subject
to the same rules of examination as other witnesses.
§ 445. A person for whose immediate benefit
the action is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action,
may be examined as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules of examination, as if he were named as a party.
CHAPTER XXI.
witnesses and evidence.
§ 446.
No person offered as a witness in any action or special proceeding, in any
court, or before any officer or person having authority to examine
witnesses or hear evidence, shall be excluded or excused, by reason of
such person's interest in the event of the action or special proceeding; or
because such person is a party thereto; or because such person is the hus
band or wife of a party thereto, or of any person in whose behalf such
action or special proceeding is brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended,
except as hereinafter provided:
1- A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife without her consentTtnor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other during the marriage; but this section does not apply to a civil
action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a criminal action or
proceeding for a crime committed by one against the other.
2. In civil actions or proceedings by or against executors, administra
tors, heirs at law, or next of kin, in which judgment may be rendered, or
order entered, for or against them, neither party shall be allowed to testify
against the other, as to any transaction whatever with, or statement by,
the testator or intestate, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite
party.
But if the testimony of a party to the action or proceeding has been
taken, and he shall afterwards die, and after his death the testimony so
taken shall be used upon any trial or hearing in behalf of his executors,
administrators, heirs at law, or next of kin, then the other party shall be
a competent witness, as to any and all matters to which the testimony so
taken relates.

§ 447. Clerks of the supreme and district
courts, the judges thereof, notaries public, justices of the peace and referees
shall, on the application of any person having a cause or any matter
pending in court, or before any such officer or tribunal, issue a subpoena
for witnesses, inserting all the names required by the applicant in one
subpoena, which may be served by any person not interested in the action,
or by the sheriff, coroner or constable; but when served by any person
other than a public officer, proof of service shall be shown by affidavit;
but no costs of serving the same shall be allowed except when served by
an officer.
§ 448. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time and place, to
testify as a witness; and it may contain a clause directing the witness to
bring with him any book, writing, or other thing under his control, which
he is bound by law to produce as evidence.
§ 449. When the attendance of the witness before any
officer, authorized to take depositions, is required, the subpoena may be
issued by such officer.
§ 450. The subpoena shall be served either by reading or
by copy, delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place of residence;
but such copy need not contain the name of any other witness.
§ 451. A witness shall not be
obliged to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action, except in
the county of his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the
county where he resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is served
upon him.
§ 452. A witness may demand his traveling
fees, and fee for one day's attendance, when the subpoena is served upon
him, and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not be obliged to obey
the subpoena. The fact of such demand and non-payment shall be stated
in the return.
§ 453. Disobedience of a subpoena, or a refusal
to be sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when
lawfully ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer,
by whom his attendance or testimony is required.
§ 454. When a witness fails to attend in obedience
to a subpoena, except in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees, the
court or officer before whom his attendance is required, may issue an at
tachment to the sheriff, coroner or constable of the county, commanding
him to arrest and bring the person therein named before the court or offi
cer, at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony
and answer for the contempt. If the attachment be not for immediately
bringing the witness before the court or officer, a sum may be fixed in
which the witness may give an undertaking with surety for his appearance.
Such sum shall be indorsed on the back of the attachment, and if no such
sum is fixed and indorsed, it shall be one hundred dollars. If the witness
be not personally served, the court may, as a rule, order him to show cause
why an attachment should not issue against him.
§ 455. The punishment for the said con
tempt shall be as follows: When the witness fails to attend, in obedience
to the subpoena, except in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees,
the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dol
lars. In other cases, the court or officer may fine a witness in a sum not
exceeding fifty nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him in the
county jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify, or
give his deposition. The fine imposed by the court, and that imposed
by the officer, shall be paid into the common school fund of the county.
The witness shall also be liable to the party injured, for uny damages oc
casioned by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn, testify, or
give his deposition.
§ 456. A witness so imprisoned by an officer be
fore whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of the dis
trict court, who shall have power to discharge him, if it appear that his
imprisonment is illegal.
§ 457. Every attachment for ttie
arrest or order of commitment to prison of a witness, by a court or offi
cer, pursuant to this chapter, must be under the seal of the court or offi
cer, if he have an official seal, and must specify particularly the cause of
the arrest or commitment; and if the commitment be for refusing to an
swer a question, such question must be stated in the order. Such order of
commitment may be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or any constable of
the county where such witness resides or may be at the time, and shall be
executed by committing him to the jail of such county, and delivering a
copy of the order to the jailor.
§ 458. A person confined in any prison in
this territory may, by order of any court, be required to be produced for
oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned; but in all other
cases his examination must be by deposition.
§ 459. While a prisoner's deposition is being ta
ken, he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in charge, who
shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition.
§ 460. A witness shall not be
liable to be sued in a county in which he does not reside, by being served
with a summons in such county while going, returning, or attending in
obedience to a subpoena.
§ 461. At 'the commencement of each day after the first
day, a witness may demand his fees for that day's attendance, in obe
dience to a subpcona, and if the same be not paid, he shall not be re
quired to remain.
§ 462. Before testifying, the witness must be sworn
to testify as follows:
You do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give relative to the matter in difference
now in hearing, between , plaintiff, and , defendiut, shall be the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth. So help you God.
Any witness who is conscientiously scrupulous of taking the oath above
described, shall be allowed to make affirmation, substituting for the words
" So help you God," at the end of the oath, the following: "This you do
affirm under the pains and penalties of perjury."'

§ 403. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes :
1. By affidavit.
2. By deposition.
3. By oral examination.
§ 464. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.
§ 465. A deposition is a written declaration under oath,
made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to
attend and cross-examine; or upon written interrogatories.
§ 466. An oral examination is an examination in
the presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act upon
it, the testimony being heard by the jnry or tribunal from the lips of the
witness.

§ 467. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading,
to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process in an action, to
obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of pro
ceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted by law.
§ 468. An affidavit may be made in and out of
this territory before any person authorized to take depositions, and must
be authenticated iu the same way.

§ 469. The deposition of any witness may
be used only in the following cases:
1. When the witness does not reside in the county where the action or
proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial, by change of venue; or is ab
sent therefrom.
2. When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the witness is unable to
attend court, or is dead.
3. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other case
where the oral examination of the witness is not required.
§ 470. Either party may commence taking testimony
by depositions at any time after service upon the defendants.

§ 471. Depositions may be taken in this territory be
fore a judge or clerk of the supreme court, or district court, or before a
justice of the peace, notary public, or any person empowered by a special
commission.
§ 472. Depositions may be taken out of the terri
tory by a judge, justice, or chancellor;, or clerk of any court of record, a
justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city
or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the governor of this
territory to take depositions, or any person authorized by a special com
mission from any court of this territory.
§ 473. The officer before whom depositions
are taken, must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise
interested in the event of the action or proceeding.
§ 474. Any court of record of this territory, or
any judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions
within or without the territory. The commission must be issued to a per
son or persons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the court
granting the same, and depositions under it must be taken upon written
interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise agree.

§ 475. Prior to the taking of any deposition,
unless taken under a special commission, a written notice, specifying the
action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to
be used, and the time and place of taking the same, shall be served upon
the adverse party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual
place of abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse
party sufficient time, by the usual route of travel, to attend, and one day
for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and the day of service, and the ex
amination may, if so stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to day.
§ 476. When the party against whom the depo
sition is to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the territory, and
has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be notified of the
taking of the deposition by publication. The publication must be made
three consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where
the action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such
county; and if not, in some newspaper printed in this territory, of gen
eral circulation in that county. The publication must contain all that is
required in a written notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed
in publication of summons.
§ 477. The deposition must be written by the
officer, or, in his presence, by the witness, or some disinterested person;
and must be subscribed by the witness.
§ 478. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the officer taking the same, and by him
addressed and transmitted to the clerk of the district court where the ac
tion or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal until opened
by the clerk by order of the court, or at the request of a party to the ac
tion or proceeding, or his attorney. Depositions taken pursuant, to this chapter, shall be admitted in evidence, on the trial of any civil action or
proceeding, pending before any other court, officer or tribunal, and such
deposition must be sealed up, indorsed with the title of the action or pro
ceeding, the name of the officer taking the same, and addressed and trans
mitted by such officer, to such court, officer or tribunal.
§ 479. When a deposition has
once been taken, it may be read in any stage of the same action or pro
ceeding, or in any other action or proceeding upon the same matter, be
tween the same parties, subject, however, to all such exceptions as may be
taken thereto under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 480. Depositions taken pursuant to this chap
ter by any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take depositions,
having a seal of office, whether resident in this territory or elsewhere,
shall be admitted in evidence upon the certificate and signature of such
officer, under the seal of the court of which he is an officer, or his official
seal, and no other or further act or authentication shall be required. If
the officer taking the same have no official seal, the deposition, if not
taken in this territory, shall be certified and signed by such officer, and
shall be further authenticated, either by parol proof, adduced in court, or
by the official certificate and seal of any secretary or other officer of state
keeping the great seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of an/
court having a seal, attesting that such judicial or other officer was, at the
time of taking the same, within the meaning of this chapter, authorized
to take the same. But if the deposition be taken within or without this
territory, under a special commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated
by the official signature of the officer or commissioner taking the same.
§ 481. The officer taking the deposition
shall annex thereto a certificate showing the following facts:
1. That the witness was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole, truth,
and nothing but the truth.
2. That the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper person,
naming him.
8. That the deposition was written and subscribed in the presence of the
officer certifying thereto.
4. That the deposition was taken at the time and place specified in the
notice.
§ 482. When a deposition is offered to be read
in evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court that for some
cause, specified in section 409 of this code, the attendance of the witness
cannot be procured.
§ 483. Every deposition intended to be read in
evidence on the trial must be filed at least one day before the trial.

§ 484. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, speci
fying the grounds of objections, and filed with the papers in the cause.
§ 485. No exception other than for incompetency or
irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and tiled before the commence
ment of the trial.
§ 480. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before
the commencement of the trial.
§ 487. Errors of the court in its decisions upon excep
tions to depositions are waived unless excepted to.

§ 488. Printed copies in volumes
of statutes, code, or other written law, enacted by any other territory or
state, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published
by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence
of the existing law in the courts or tribunals of such territory, state or
government, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this territory
on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten
or common law of any other territory, state or foreign government, may
be proved as facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence
of such law. The term iv public document" is defined to be all the publi
cations and maps printed by order of the legislative assembly, or congress,
or either house thereof; and all such documents are admissible in evidence.
§ 489. Copies of the records and judicial pro
ceedings of any court of any state or territory of the United States, shall
be admissible in evidence in all cases in this territory, when attested by
the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together
with a certificate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, that
the attestation is in due form. And the said records and judicial pro
ceedings so authenticated shall have such, faith and credit given to them in
every court within this territory as they have by law or usage in the courts
of the state or territory from which they are taken.
§ 490. The affidavit of any printer, foreman of
any printer, or publisher of any newspaper published in this territory, of
the publication of any notice, order, or advertisement which, by any law
of this territory, shall be required or authorized to be published in such
newspaper, shall be entitled to be read in evidence in all courts of justice.
and in all proceedings before any officer, board, or body, and shall be
prima facie evidence of such publication and of the facts stated therein.
§ 491. A transcript from the docket of any
justice of the peace, of any judgment had before him, of the proceedings
in the action, of the execution issued thereon, if any, and of the return to
snch execution if any, when certified by such justice, shall be evidence to
prove the facts contained in such transcript, in any court or legal proceed
ings in the county or subdivision wherein such judgment was rendered.
§ 492. And such transcript may be read in
evidence in any other county or subdivision, when there shall be attached
thereto a certificate of the clerk of the district court, of the county or subdivision in which such judgment was rendered, under the seal of the
court, to the effect that the person subscribing such transcript was, at the
date of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of such
county.
§ 493. Every instrument in writing, which
is acknowledged or proved, and duly recorded, is admissable as evidence
without further proof.
§ 494. The record of such instrument, or
a duly authenticated copy thereof, is admissable in evidence when
ever, by the party's own oath, or otherwise, the original is shown to be
lost, or not belonging to the party wishing to use the same, and not with
in his control.
§ 495. Entries in public or other official books or
records, made in the performance of his duty by a public officer of this
territory, or by another person in the performance of a duty specially en
joined by law, are prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
§ 496. An entry made by an officer, or board of officers, or
under the direction and in the presence of either, in the course of official
duty,, is prima facie evidence of the facts stated in such entry.
§ 497. Whenever a copy of a writingis
certified for the purpose of evidence, the certificate must state in sub
stance that the copy is a correct copy of the original, or of a specified part
thereof, as the case may be. The certificate must be under the official seal
of the certifying officer, if there be any, or, if he be the clerk of a court,
having a Beal, under the seal of such court.
§ 498. If any person, upon whose life any
estate in real property depends, remains without the United States, or ab
sents himself in the territory or elsewhere, for seven years together, such
person must be accounted naturally dead, in any action or special pro
ceeding concerning such property, in which his death shall come in ques
tion, unless sufficient proof be made in such case of the life of such
person.
§ 499. There are particular relations
in which it is the policy of the law to encourage confidence and to preserve
it inviolate; therefore, a person cannot be examiued as a witness in the
following cases:
1. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be examined
as to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given
thereon in the course of professional employment.
2. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in
his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined in the church
to which he belongs.
3. A physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent of his patient,
be examined in a civil action as to any infofmation acquired in attending
the patient which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the
patient.
4. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to
him in official confidence, when the public interests would suffer by the
disclosure.
§ 500. If a person offer himself as a witness, that is to
be deemed a consent to the examination, also, of an attorney, clergyman,
priest, physician, or surgeon on the same subject, within the meaning of
the first three subdivisions of the preceding section.
§ 501. The judge himself, or any juror,
may be called as a witness by either party; but in such case it is in the
discretion of the court or judge to order the trial to be postponed, and to
take place before another judge or jury.
§ 502. When a witness does not under
stand and speak the English language, an interpreter must be sworn to
interpret for him. Any person, a resident of the proper county may be
subpoenaed by any court or judge to appear before such court or judge to
act as an interpreter in any action or proceeding. The subpoena must be
served and returned in like manner as a subpoena for a witness. Any per
son so subpoenaed who fails to attend at the time and place named in the
subpoena, is gnilty of contempt. The oath of the interpreter shall be as
follows:
Tou do solemnly swear that you will justly, truly, and impartially interpret to
the oath about to be administered to him ; and the questions which may be asked him, and the
answers that he shall give to such questions, relative to the cause now under consideration
before this court [or officer.l So help you God.
If the interpreter have conscientious scruples as to taking an oath, he
may affirm in form as heretofore provided in case of witnesses.
proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
§ 503. The testimony of a witness may
be perpetuated in the following manner: The applicant shall file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, a petition to be verified, in which
shall be set forth specially, the subject-matter relative to which testimony
is to be taken, and the names of the persons interested, if known to the
applicant; and if not known, such general description as he can give of
such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or otherwise. The petition shall
also state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interroga
tories to be propounded to each; that the applicant expects to be a party
to an action in a court in this territory, in which such testimony will, as
he believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate com
mencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be plaintiff.
§ 504. The court or judge thereof, may forth
with make' an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The
order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long the
parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner in which they
shall be notified.
§ 505. When it appears satisfactory
to the court or judge that the parties interested cannot be notified, such
court or judge shall appoint acompetent attorney to examine the petition
and prepare and file cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The
witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and
upon cross interrogatories, where they are required to be prepared, and
no others shall be propounded to them; nor shall any statement be re
ceived which is not responsive to some of them. The attorney filing the
cross interrogatories shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefor, to be
taxed in the bill of costs.
§ 506. Such depositions shall be taken before
some one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one spe
cially authorized by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the clerk's
office of the court in which the petition was tiled.
§ 507. The court or judge, if satisfied that
the depositions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall
approve the same and order them to be filed; and if a trial be had between
the parties named in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest,
such depositions, or certified copies thereof may be given in evidence by
either party, where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where their at-
tendance for oral examination cannot be obtained or required; but such
depositions shall be subject tothe same objections for irrelevancy and in
competency as may be made to depositions taken pending an action.
§ 508. The applicant shall pay the costs of all such pro
ceedings.
CHAPTER XXII,
MOTIONS AND ORDERS.
§ 509. Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
order.
§ 510. 1. An applica
tion for an order is a motion.
2. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by any judge
of the court, in any part of the territory.
0. Motions upon notice must be made within the district in which the
action is triable.
4. In ail the districts, a motion to vacate or modify a provisional reme
dy, and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall
have prefeience over all other motions.
5. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty days
shall be granted by a judge out of court, except to stay proceedings under
an order or judgment appealed from, or upon previous notice to the ad
verse party.
"When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any court, and
it shall be necessary for him to have the affidavit of any person who shall
have refused to make the same, such court may, by order, appoint a ref
eree to take the affidavit or deposition of such person. Such person may
be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and make an affidavit before such
referee, the same as before a referee to whom it is referred to try an issue,
and the fees of such referee, for such service, shall be three dollars per
day.
§ 511. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it
must be served three days before the time appointed for the hearing; but
the com t or judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter
time.
§ 512. The time within which any proceeding in an
action must be had, after its commencement, except the time within which
an appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing
grounds therefor, by a judge of the court. The affidavit, or a copy there
of, must be served, with a copy of the order, or the order may be dis
regarded.
CHAPTER XXIII.
NOTICES, AND FILINGS AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.
§ 513. Notices shall be in writing; and notices
and other papers may be served on the party or attorney in the manner
prescribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by this
oode. •
§ 514. The service may be personal, or by delivery
to the party or attorney, on whom the service is required to be made-,
or it may be as follows:
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving it, be
tween the hours of six in the morning, and nine in the evening, in a con
spicuous place in the office; or if it be not open so as to admit of such
service, then by leaving it at the attorney's residence, with some person of
suitable age and discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his resi
dence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 515. Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in different
places between which th^re is a regular communication by mail.
§ 516. In case of service by mail, the paper must be
deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.
§ 517. When the service is by mail, it shall be
double the time required in cases of personal service, except service of no
tice of trial, which may be made sixteen days before the day of trial, in
cluding the day of service.
§ 518. Notice of a motion, or other proceeding
before a conrt or judge, when personally served, shall be given at least
three days before the time appointed therefor
§ 519. Where a defendant shall not have
demurred or answered, service of notice or papers, in the ordinary pro
ceedings in an action, need not be made upon him unless he be imprisoned
for want of bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney, if notice of
appearance in the action has been given.
§ 520. Where a plaintiff or a defendant who has
demurred or answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the
territory, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by
mail, if his residence be known; if not known, on the clerk of the court
for the party.
§ 521. The summons and the
several pleadings in an action shall be filed with the clerk within ten
days after the service thereof, respectively, or the adverse party, on proof
of the omission, shall be entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge
that the same be tiled within a time to be specified in the order, or be
deemed abandoned.
§ 522. Where a party shall have an attorney
in the action, the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney, in
stead of the partjr.
§ 523. The provisions of this- chapter
shall not apply to the service of a summons, or other process, or of any
paper to bring a party into contempt.
CHAPTER XXIV.
DUTIES OF SHERIFFS AND CORONERS.
§ 524. Whenever, pursuant to this
code the sheriff ma3r be required to serve or execute any summons, order,
or judgment, or to do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like
manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all
respects for neglect of duty, and if the sheriff be a party, the coroner
shall be bound to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute pro
cess wheie the sheriff is a party; and the provisions of this code relating
to the sheriff shall apply to coroners when the sheriff is a party. The
sheriffs and coroners of the several counties in which the district courts are
held, shall have and exercise the same power and authority in the service
of papers, and the execution of writs and process of such courts in any
county or place within the subdivision of which this county forms a part,
as they have or can exercise in their own county.
CHAPTER XXV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 525. If any process, original pleadings, or any
other paper be lost or withheld by any person, the court may authorize a
copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.
§ 526. The various undertakings required
to be given by this code, must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless
the court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof, except that
the undertakings provided for^rh this code for the claim and delivery of per
sonal property, shall, after, the justification of the sureties, be delivered
by the sheriff to the parties respectively for whose benefit they are taken.
§ 527. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affi
davit in the action, but an affidavit made without a title, or with a defec
tive title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it were
duly entitled if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it
is made.
§ 528. When two or more actions are pending
at one time between the same parties and in the same court, upon causes
of action which might have been joined, the court may order the actions
to be consolidated.
§ 529. An action is deemed to be pending from
the time of its commencement until its final determination upon appeal,
or until the time for appeal has passed, unless the judgment be sooner
satisfied.
§ 530. The clerk must keep among the
records of the court a register of actions. He must enter therein the title
of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers
filed and proceedings had therein.
CHAPTER XXVI.
ACTIONS IN PLACE OF SCIRE FACIAS, QUO WARRANTO AND OF INFORMATION
IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRANTO.
§ 531. The remedies formerly attainable by the writ
of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information
in the nature of quo warranto may be obtained by civil actions under the
provisions of this chapter.
§ 532. An action may be brought by
any district attorney in the name of the territory, on leave granted by the
district court, or judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter or
the articles of incorporation, or for annulling the existence of a corpora
tion other than municipal, whenever such corporation shall:
1. Offend against any of the laws creating, altering, or renewing, such
corporation; or,
2. Violating the provisions of any law, by whicli such corporation shall
have forfeited its charter or articles of incorporation, by abuse of its
power; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure
to exercise its powers; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts to a
surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or.privilege not conferred upon
it by law.
And it shall be the duty of any district attorney, whenever he shall have
reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be established by
proof, to apply for leave, and upon leave granted to bring the action,
in every case of public interest, and also in every other case in which sat
isfactory security shall be given to indemnify the territory against the
costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.
§ 533. Leave to bring the action may be
granted upon the application of any district attorney; and the court or
judge may, at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to
the corporation or its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may
hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
§ 534. An action may be brought by any district attorney in the name of
the territory, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of any
private party, against the parties offending in the following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this
territory, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of this
territory; or,
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done or suffered
an act wliich, by the provisions of law, shall make a forfeiture of his
office; or,
3. When any association or number of persons shall act within this
territory as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.
§ 585. When an action shall be brought
by the district attorney by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or infor
mation of a person having an interest in the question, the name of snch
person shall be joined with the territory as plaintiff. And in every such
case the district attorney may require, as a condition foisbringing such ac
tion, that satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the territory
against costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.
§ 536. Whenever such action shall be
brought against a person for usurping an office, the district attorney, in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in the
complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a
statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office,
and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a
judge of the court for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to
bail*, and thereupon he shall be arrested and held to bail, in the manner,
and with the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as
in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.
§ 587. In every such case, judgment shall
be rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of
the party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defend
ant, as justice shall require.
§ 538. If the judgment be rendered upon
the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor
of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking (he oath of office, and
executing such official bond as may lie required by law. to take upon him
self the execution of the office; and it shall be his duty, immediately
thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action all the books and pa
pers in his custody, or within his power, belonging to the office from
which he shall have been excluded.
§ 539. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to
deliver over such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings shall be had,
and with the same effect, to compel delivery of such books and papers, as
are or may hereafter be prescribed by law.
§ 540. If judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he
may recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained by
reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the office from which such
defendant has been excluded.
§ 541. Where several persons claim to
be entitled to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.
§ 542. When a defendant, whether a natural
person or a corporation, against whom such action shall have been
brought shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlaw,
fully holding or exercising any office, franchise or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from such office, fran
chise or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover costs against such
defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, fine such defendant a
sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, which line, when collected, shall
be paid into the treasury of the territory.
§ 543. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation
against which an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter,
has by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privil
eges, and franchise, judgment shall be rendered that the corporation be
excluded from such corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, and that
the corporation be dissolved.
§ 544. If judgment be rendered in such action
against a corporation, or against a person claiming to be a corporation,
the court may cause the costs therein to be collected by execution against
the person claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment or process
against the directors or other officers of such corporation.
§ 545. When such judgment shall be ren
dered against a corporation the court has power to restrain the corpora
tion, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account and
make distribution thereof among its creditors; and the district attorney
must, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, institute pro
ceedings tor that purpose.
§ 546. Upon the rendition of such
judgment against a corporation, the district attorney must cause a copy
of the judgment to be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of the
territory, whose duty it shall be to record the same.
§ 547. Whenever, by the provisions of
law, any property, real or personal, shall be forfeited to the territory, or
to any officer for its use, an action for the recovery of such property,
alleging the ground of the forfeiture, may be brought by the district at
torney, in the district court of the county or subdivision where the prop
erty is situated.
CHAPTER XXVII.
• action for the partition of real property.
§ 548. When several co-tenants hold and are
in possession of real property as parceners, joint-tenants, or tenants in
common, in which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or
for life or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by one or more of
such persons for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of
the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a part
thereof, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without great pre
judice to the owners.
§ 549. The interests of all persons in the prop
erty, whether such persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the
complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintiff; and
if one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest .of any
of the parties, be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain, or contingent,
or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or
the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that [such parties cannot be
named, that fact must be set forth in the complaint.
§ 550. No person having a conveyance of or claim
ing a lien on the property, or some part of it need be made a party to the
action, unless such conveyance or lien appear of record.
§ 551. Immediately after filing the complaint in
the district court, the plaintiff must record in the office of the register of
deeds of the county, or of the several counties in which the property is
situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing- the names of
the parties, so far as known, the object of the action, and a description of
the property to be affected thereby. From the time of filing such notice
for record all persons shall be deemed to have notice of the pendency of
the action.
§ 552. The summons must be directed to all the
joint-tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having an interest
in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise upon the
property, or upon any particular portion thereof; and generally, to all
persons unknown who have or claim any interest in the property.
§ 553. If the party having a share or interest
be unknown, or any one of the unknown parties reside out of the territo
ry, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affi
davit, the summons may be served on such absent or unknown party by
publication as in other cases. When publication is made, the summons,
as published, must be accompanied by a brief description of the proper,
ty, which is the subject of the action.
§ 554. The defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a copy of the complaint, or who have ap
peared without such service, must set forth in their answers, fully and
particularly the origin, nature and extent of their respective interests in
the property; and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by
mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they must state the original amount
and date of the same, and the sum remaining due thereon; also whether
the same has been secured in any other way, or not; and if secured, the
nature and extent of such security, or they are deemed to have waived
their right to such lien.
§ 555. The rights of the several parties,
plaintiff as well as defendant, may be put in issue, tried and determined,
in such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title
must be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the
judgment of sale can be made; and where service of the complaint has
been made by publication, like proof must be required of the right of the
absent or unknown parties before such judgment is rendered; except that
■where there are several unknown persons having an interest in the prop
erty, their rights maybe considered together in the action, as not between
themselves.
§ 556. Whenever from any cause it is,
in the opinion of the court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to make
a complete partition, in the first instance, among all the parties in interest,
the court may first ascertain and determine the shares or interest respec
tively held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon adjudge and cause a
partition to be made, as if such original co-tenants were the parties, and
sole parties, in interest, and the only parties to the action, and thereafter
may proceed in like manner to adjudge and make partition separately of
each share or portion so ascertained or allotted as between those claiming
under the original tenant to whom the same shall have been so set apart
or may allow them to remain tenants in common thereof, as they may
desire.
§ 557. If it appear to the court by the
certificate of the register of deeds, or clerk of the district court, or by the
sworn or verified statement of any person who may have examined or
searched the records that there are outstanding liens or incumbrances of
record upon such real property, or any part or portion thereof, which
existed and were of record at the time of the commencement of the action
and the persons holding such liens are not made parties to the action, the
court must either order such persons to be made parties to the action by
an amendment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascer
tain whether or not such liens or incumbrances have been paid, or, if not
paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order among the liens
or incumbrances severally held by such persons and the parties to the
action, and whether the amount remaining due thereon has been secured
in any manner, and if secured, the nature and extent of the security.
§ 558. The plaintiff must
cause a notice to be served a reasonable time previous to the day for ap
pearance before the referee appointed as provided in the preceding section,
on each person having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to
the action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and place, to
make proof, by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the amount due or to
become due contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person be
absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be made by publication
or notice to his agent, under the direction of the court, in such manner as
may be proper. The report of the referee thereon must be made to the
court, and must be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and a new reference
ordered, as the justice of the case may require.
§ 559. If it be alleged in the complaint and estab
lished by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation
in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise
upon the requisite proof being made, it must order a partition according
to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the c:mrt, and
appoint three referees therefor; and must designate the portion to remain
undivided for the owners whose interests remain unknown, or are not
ascertained.
§ 560. In making the partition, ref
erees must divide the property and allot, the several portions thereof to
the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, accord
ing to the respective rights of the parties as determined by the court, pur
suant to the provisions of this chapter, designating the several portions
by proper land-marks, and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary
assistantsto aid them. Before making partition or sale, the referees may,
whenever it will be for the advantage of those interested, set apart a por
tion of the property for a way, road or street, and the portion so set
apart shall not be assigned to any of the parties, or sold, but shall re
main an open and public way, road or street, unless the referees shall set
the same apart as a private way for the use of the parties interested, or
some of them, their heirs and assigns, in which case it shall remain such
private way.
§ 561. The referees must make a report of their
proceedings, specifying therein the manner in which they executed their
trust, and describing the property divided, and the share allotted to each
party, with a particular description of each share.
§ 562. The court may confirm, change,
modify, or set aside, the report, and if necessary, appoint new referees.
Upon the report being confirmed, judgment must be rendered that such
partition be effectual forever, which judgment is binding and conclusive:
1. On all persons named as parties to the action, and their legal repre
sentatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or
any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or for years, or as
entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property,
or any part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate therein,
and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneiicial in the prop
erty, or who have an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for
years or for life.
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown, to
whom notice has been given in the action for partition by publication.
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either
of them.
And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the death of any party
before final judgment or decree; but such judgment or decree is as conclu
sive against the heirs, legal representatives, or assigns, of such decedent
as if it had been entered before his death.
§ 563. The judgment does not affect tenants
for years, less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the subject
of the partition.
§ 564. The expenses of the referees, including
those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, must be ascer
tained and allowed by the court, and the amount thereof together with
the fees allowed by the court, in its discretion, to the referees, must be ap
portioned among the different parties to the action, equitably.
§ 565. When a lien is on an undivided
interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made,
shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned to such party;
but such share must first be charged with its just proportion of the costs
of the partition, in preference to such lien.
§ 566. When a part of the property only is
ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for life or years, in an undivided
share of the whole property, such estate may be set off in any part of the
property, not ordered to be sold.
§ 567. The proceeds of the
sale of incumbered property must be applied under the direction of the
court, as follows:
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action.
2. To pay the costs of the reference.
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of pri
ority, by payment of the sums due and to become due; the amount due
to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment.
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares therein.
§ 568. Whenever any party to an ac
tion who holds a lien upon the property, or any part thereof, has other
securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may, in
its discretion, order such security to be exhausted before distribution of
the proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from the
amount of the lien on the property on account thereof.
§ 569. The proceeds of sale and the securi
ties taken by the referees, or any part thereof, must be distributed by
them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But
in case no direction be given, all of such proceeds and securities must be
paid into court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the court.
§ 570. When the proceeds of the sale of any
share or parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and
who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as be
tween such parties, for the determination of their respective claims thereto,
which must be ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony
may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and
the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or
law in controversy, by pleadings as in an original action.
§ 571. All sales of real property, made by referees
Tinder this chapter, must be made at public auction to the highest bidder,
upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution. The notice must state the terms of sale, and if the prop
erty, or any part, of
it,
is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge or
lien, that must be stated in the notice.
§ 572. The court must, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any
portion of the real property of which
it
may direct a sale on credit, and
for that portion of which the purchase money
is
required, to be invested
for the benefit of unknown owners, infants or parties out of the territory.
§ 573. The referees may take separate
mortgages and other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the
purchase money, or such parts of the property as are directed by the court
to be sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the
name of such owner; and for the shares of an infant, in the name of the
guardian of such infant; and for other shares in the name of clerk of the
district court, and his successors in office.
§ 574. The person entitled to a tenancy for
life, or years, whose estate has been sold,
is
entitled to receive such sum,
as may be deemed
a
reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the
person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument
in writing, filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the tiling of such con
sent, the clerk must enter the same in the minutes of the court.
§ 575. If such consent be not given, filed and
entered as provided in-the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is
rendered, the court must ascertain and determine what proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be
a
just and reason
able sum to be allowed on account of such estate, and must order the same
to be paid to such party, or deposited in court for him, as the case may
require.
§ 576. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or
years be unknown, the court must provide for the protection of their
rights in the same manner, as far as maybe, as
if
they were known and
had appeared.
§ 577. In all cases of sales, where
it
appears that any
person has a vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the prop
erty sold, the court must ascertain and settle the proportionate value of
such contingent or vested right or estate, and must direct such proportion
of the proceeds, of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such
manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.
§ 578. In all cases of sales of property, the
terms must be made known at the time, and
if
the premises consist of dis
tinct farms or lots, they must be sold separately.
§ 579. Neither of the referees, nor any per
son for the benefit of either of them, can be_interested in any purchase;
nor can a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any
real property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the
infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are void.
§ 580. After completing a sale of the property, or
any part thereof, ordered to be sold, the referees must report the same to
the court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each
purchaser, the name of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms
and conditions of the 6ale, and the securities, if any, taken. The report
must be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court where the prop
erty is situated.
§ 581. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an
order must be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and
take securities pursuant to such sale, which they are hereby authorized to
do. Such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposi
tion of the proceeds of the sale.
§ 582. When a party entitled to a share
of the property, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of
the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so
much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.
§ 583. The conveyance must be re
corded in the county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar
against all persons interested in the property in any way, who shall have
been named as parties in the action; and against all such parties and
persons as were unknown if the summons was served by publication, and
against all persons claiming under them, or either of them, and against
all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens, at the commencement of the
action.
§ 584. When there are proceeds of a sale be
longing to an unknown owner, or to a person without the territory who
has no legal representative within it, the same must be invested in bonds
of the United States for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
§ 585. When the security of the proceeds of
the sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it
must be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the
clerk of the district court of the county where the papers are filed, and his
successors in office, who must hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
§ 586. When security is taken by the referees on
a sale, and the parties interested in such security by an instrument in
writing, under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares
and proportions to which they are respectively entitled, or when shares
and proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such secu
rities must betaken in the names of and payable to the parties respectively
entitled thereto, and must be delivered to such parties upon their receipts
therefor. Such agreement and receipt must be returned and filed with the
clerk.
§ 587. The clerk of the district court, in whose name a
security is taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his successors
in office, must receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and
apply and invest the same as the court may direct; and must deposit with
the county treasurer all securities taken, and keep an account in a book
provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk's office, free for inspection
by all persons, of investments and moneys received by him thereon, and
the disposition thereof.
§ 588. When it appears that the parti
tion cannot be made equal between the parties according to their respective
rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, and
a partition be ordered, the court may adjudge compensation to be made
by one party to another, on account of the inequality, but such compen
sation shall not be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by an infant, unless it appears that such infant has personal property suf
ficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.
And in all cases the court has power to make compensatory adjustment
between the respective parties, according to the ordinary principles of
equity.
§ 589. When the share of an infant is sold, the pro
ceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his gen
eral guardian, or the especial guardian appointed for him in the action,
upon giving the security required by law, or directed by order of the court.
§ 590. The guardian who may be entitled to
the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other
person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest
in real property has been sold, may receive in behalf of such person his
share of theoroceeds of such real property from the referees, on executing,
with sufficient sureties, an undertaking, approved by a judge of the court,
that he will faithfully discharge the trust imposed in him, and will render
a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal repre
sentative.
§ 591. The general gnardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, who is interested in real property held in joint tenancy, or in
common, or in any other manner, so as to authorize his being made a party
to an action for the partition of, may consent to a partition without action,
and agree upon the share to be set off to such infant, or other person enti
tled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of
the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the
court.
§ 592. The costs of partition, including rea
sonable counsel fees, expended by the plaintiff or either of the defendants,
for the common benefit, fees of referees, and other disbursements, must be
paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in
proportion to their respective interests therein, and may be included and
specified in the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien on the several
shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against such
shares, and against other property he!d by the respective parties. When,
however, litigation arises between some of the parties only, the court may
require the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties there, or
any of them.
§ 593. The court, with the consent of the parties, may
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under
this chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed, has all the
powers, and may perform all the duties required of the three referees.
§ 594. If it appears to the court that it
was necessary to have made an abstract of the title to the property to be
partitioned, and such abstract shall have been procured by the plaintiff, or
if the plaintiff shall have failed to have the samemade before the commence
ment of the action, and any of the defendants shall have had such abstract
afterwards made, the cost of the abstract, with interest thereon from the time
the same is subject to the inspection of the respective parties, must be
allowed and taxed. Whenever such abstract is produced by the plaintiff,
before the commencement of the action, he must tile with his complaint a
notice that an abstract of the title has been made, and is subject to the in
spection and use of all the parties to the action, designating therein where
the abstract will be kept for inspection. But if the plaintiff shall have
failed to procure such abstract before commencing the action, any defendant
shall procure the same to be made, he shall, as soon as he has directed it to
be made, tile a notice thereof in the action with the clerk of the court, stating
who is making the same, and where it will be kept when finished. The
court, or the judge thereof, may direct from time to time, during the pro
gress of the action, who shall have the custody of the abstract.
§ 595. The abstract mentioned in the last pre
ceding section may be made by any competent Bearcher of records, and
need not be certified by the register of deeds or other officer, but instead
thereof it must be verified by the affidavit of the person making it, to the
effect that he believes it to be correct; but the same may be corrected from
time to time if found incorrect, under the direction of the court.
§ 596. Whenever, during the progress of the
action for partition, any disbursements shall have been made, under the
direction of the court or the judge thereof, by a party thereto, interest
must be allowed thereon from the time of making such disbursements.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
foreclosure of mortgages.
foreclosure by advertisement.
§ 597. Every mortgage of real property containing
therein a power of sale, upon default being made in the condition of such
mortgage, may be foreclosed by advertisement in the cases and manner
hereinafter specified.
§ 598. To entitle any party to give notice
as hereinafter prescribed, and, to make such foreclosure, it shall be
requisite:
1. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall have ac
crued by which the power to sell has become operative.
2. That no action or proceedings shall have been instituted at law to
recover the debt then remaining secured by such mortgage, or any part
thereof, or, if any action or proceeding has been instituted, that the same
has been discontinued, or, that an execution, upon the judgment rendered
therein, has been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part; and,
3. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly re
corded, and, if it shall have been assigned, that all the assignments there
on have been duly recorded in the county where such mortgaged premisesare
situated.
§ 599. In cases of mortgages given tosecure
the payment of money by installments, each of the installments
mentioned in such mortgage, after the first, shall be taken and deemed to
be a separate and independent mortgage, and such mortgage, for each of
such installments, may be foreclosed in the same manner and with like '
effect, as if such separate mortgage were given for each such subsequent in
stallment; and a redemption of any such sale, shall have the like effect as
if the sale for such installment had been made upon a prior, independent
mortgage.
§ 600. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed
by sale of the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, must be given
by publishing the same for six successive weeks, at least once in each
week, in a newspaper of the county where the premises intended to be
sold, or some of them, are situated, if there be one, and, if not, then in
the nearest newspaper published in the territory.
§ 601. Every notice must specify:
1. The names of the mortgagor and mortgagee, and the assignee, if any.
2. The date of the mortgage.
3. The amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of the notice.
4. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substantially
with that contained in the mortgage; and,
5. The time and place of sale.
§ 602. The sale must be at public auction between
the hours [of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun on
that day, in the county in which the premises to be sold, or some part of
them, are situated, and must be made by the person appointed for that
purpose in the mortgage, or by the sheriff or his deputy of the county, to
the highest bidder.
§ 603. Such sale may be postponed, from time
to time, by inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practica
ble, in the newspaper in which the original advertisement was published,
and continuing such publication until such time to which the sale shall be
postponed, at the expense of the party requesting such postponement.
§ 604. If the mortgaged premises consist of
distinct farms, tracts, or lots, they must be sold separately, and no more
farms, tracts, or lots, must bo sold than shall be necessary to satisfy the
amount due on such mortgage at the date of the notice of sale, with in
terest and the costs and expenses allowed by law.
§ 605. The mortgagee, his assigns, or
their legal representatives, may, fairly and in good faith, purchase the
premises so advertised, or any part thereof at such sale.
§ 606. Whenever any real property shall be sold by
virtue of a power of sale contained in any mortgage, the officer or person
making the sale shalliimmediately give to the purchaser a certificate of
sale containing:
1. A particular description of the real property sold.
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole price paid.
And such officer or person shall file in the office of the register of deeds,
where the mortgage is recorded, within ten days from the day of sale, a
duplicate of such certificate; which certificate must be executed and
acknowledged, and may be recorded as provided in case of a certificate of
sale of real property upon execution, and shall have the same validity
and effect.
§ 607. The property sold maybe re
deemed within one year from the day of sale in like manner and to the
same effect as provided in chapter XIII of this code for redemption of real
property sold upon execution, so far as the same may be applicable,
by:
1. The mortgagor or his successor in interest in the whole or any part
of the property.
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the property
sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the
property was sold. Such creditor is termed a redeinptioner, and has all
the rights of a redemptioner under that chapter.
And the mortgagor and his successor in interest, has all the rights of
the judgment debtor and his successor in interest as provided therein.
§ 608. The notice of redemption required to be
given to the sheriff under that chapter, may, in foreclosure by advertise
ment, be given to the officer or person making the sale.
§ 609. If such mortgaged premises be not redeemed, it shall be
the duty of the officer, or his successor in office, or other person, who sold
the same, or his executors or administrators, or some other person
appointed by the district court for that purpose, to complete such
sale, by executing a deed of the premises, so sold, to the original pur
chaser, his heirs or assigns, or to any person who may have acquired the title and interest of such purchaser by redemption or otherwise.
§ 610. If after any such sale, there remain in the hands of
the officer or other person making the sale, any surplus money, after satis
fying the mortgage on such real property sold, and payment of the costs
and expenses of such foreclosure and sale, the surplus must be paid over
by such officer or other person, on demand, to the mortgagee, his legal
representatives or assigns.
§ 611. Any party desiring to perpetuate the
evidence of any such sale, made in pursuance of these provisions, may
proceed :
1. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of the sale, and of any
notice of postponement may be made by the printer or publisher of a
newspaper in which such notice was published, or some person in his em
ploy knowing the facts.
2. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be made
by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale, stating the time and
place, the sum bid, and the name of the purchaser.
The affidavits specified in this section may be taken and certified by any
officer authorized to administer oaths.
§ 612. Such affidavits must be recorded at length
by the register of deeds of the county in which the real property is situated,
in a book kept for the record of mortgages, and such original affidavits,
the record thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein contained.
§ 613. A note referring to the page and book where
the evidence of any sale having been made under a mortgage is recorded,
shall be made by the register recording such evidence in the margin of the
record of such mortgage.
§ 614. A record of the affidavits afore
said, and the deed executed, upon the sale of the real property shall vest
in the purchaser or person acquiring title thereto by redemption or other
wise, the same force and validity as the deed upon foreclosure by action
provided for in section 623 of this code.
§ 615. The party foreclosing a mortgage by
advertisement shall be entitled to his costs and disbursements, out of the
proceeds of the sale, in addition to any attorney fee agreed upon in the
mortgage.

§ 616. Actions for the foreclosure
or satisfaction of mortgages may be brought in the district court
of the county or judicial subdivision where the mortgaged real property,
or some porlion thereof, is situated, and in case any defendant be not a.
resident of the county or subdivision, process may be served on him in any
other county or subdivision within the territory; or, if he be a non-resident
of the territory, or absent, or concealed, the same proceedings may there
upon be had as are provided by this code in such cases.
§ 617. Whenever an action shall be brought for
the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall have power
to render ajudgment against the mortgagor for the amount of the mortgage
debt due at the time of the rendition of such judgment, and the costs of
the action, and to order and decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or
such part thereof as may be sufficient to pay the amount so adjudged to
be due, and costs of sale, and shall have power to order and compel the
delivery of the possession of the premises to the purchaser; but in no
case under this chapter shall the possession of the premises so sold, be
delivered to the purchaser, or person entitled thereto until after the expi
ration of one year from such sale; and the court may direct the issuing
of an execution for the balance that may remain unsatisfied after apply
ing the proceeds of such sale.
§ 618. After such action shall be commenced while
the same is pending, no proceedings at law shall be had for the recovery
of the debt secured by the mortgage, or any part thereof, unless author
ized by the court.
§ 619. If the mortgage debt be secured by the obliga
tion, or other evidence of debt, of any other person than the mortgagor,
the plaintiff may make such other person a party to the action, and the
court may render judgment for the balance of such debt remaining unsat
isfied, after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as well against such other
person as against the mortgagor, and may enforce such judgment as in
other cases, by execution or other process.
§ 620. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfac
tion of a mortgage, the complaint shall state whether any proceedings
have been had at law or otherwise for the recovery of the debt secured by
such mortgage, or any part thereof; and if there has, whether any and
what part thereof has been collected.
§ 621. If it appear that any judgment has been ob
tained in an action at law for the moneys demanded by such complaint,
or any part thereof, no proceedings shall be had in such case unless an
execution against the property of the defendant in such judgment has
been issued and the sheriff or other officer shall have made retnrn that the
execution is unsatisfied in whole or in part, and that the defendant has no
property whereon to satisfy such execution.
§ 622. All sales of mortgaged premises
under an order and decree of foreclosure must be made by a referee,
sheriff, or his deputy, of the county or subdivision where the court, in
which the judgment or decree is rendered, is held, or other person ap
pointed by the court for that purpose, and must be made in the county or subdivision where the premises, or some part of them, are situated, and
shall be made upon the like notice and in the same manner as provided
by law for the sale of real property upon execution.
§ 623. Whenever any real prop
erty shall be sold under an order, decree or judgment of foreclosure, un
der the provisions of this chapter, the officer or other person making the
sale must give to the purchaser a certificate of sale as provided by section 606 of this code; and at the expiration of the time for the redemption of such mortgaged premises, if the same be not redeemed, the person or offi
cer making the sale, or his successor in office or other officer appointed by
the court, must make to the purchaser or purchasers, their heirs or as
signs, or to any person acquiring the title of such purchaser, by redemp
tion or otherwise, a deed or deeds to such premises which shall vest in the
purchaser, or other party entitled theieto, the same estate that was vested
in the mortgagor at the time of the execution and delivery of the mort
gage, or at any time thereafter; and such deed shall be as valid as if exe
cuted by the mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall be a complete bar
against each of them, and against all the parties to the action in which
the judgment for such sale was rendered, and against their heirs re
spectively, and all persons claiming under such heirs.
§ 624. The proceeds of every such sale must be
applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by the court to be due, and
of the costs: and, if there be any overplus, it must be brought into court
for the use of the defendant or of the person entitled thereto, subject to
the order of the court.
§ 625. If such overplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in
court, for the term of three months, without being applied for, the judge
of the district court may direct the same to be put out at interest, for the
benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, subject to the or
der of the court.
§ 620. Whenever an action shall be commenced for
the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest,
or any portion or installment of the principal, and there shall be other
portions or installments to become due subsequently, the complaint shall
be dismissed upon the defendants bringing into court at any time before
decree of sale, the principal and interest due, with costs and disburse
ments.
§ 627. If at any time before sale, the defendant
shall bring into court the principal and interest due, with cost, the pro
ceedings in such action shall be stayed until a further default, and in case
of a subsequent default in the judgment of any of the installments, or
any part thereof, of such mortgage, the court may enforce by order or
other process the collection of such subsequent installment.
§ 628. If the defendant shall not bring into court
the amount due, with costs, or if for any other cause, a judgment or de
cree shall be entered for the plaintiff, the court may appoint a referee to
ascertain and report the situation of the mortgaged premises, or may de
termine the same on oral or other testimoiw, and if it shall appear that
the same can be sold in parcels, without injury to the interests of the par
ties, the decree must direct so much of the mortgaged premises to be sold
as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on such mortgage, with
costs, and such judgment or decree shall remain as security for any sub
sequent default.
§ 629. If, in the case mentioned in the
preceding section, there shall beany default subsequent to such judgment
or decree, in the payment of any portion or installment of the principal
or of any interest, due upon such mortgage, the court may, upon the ap
plication of the plaintiff, by a further order founded upon such first judg
ment or decree, direct a sale of so much of the mortgaged premises to be
made, under such decree, as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due,
with costs of the application and the subsequent proceedings thereon; and
the same proceedings may be had as often as a default happen.
§ 630. If, in any of the foregoing
cases, it shall appear to the court that the mortgaged premises are so sit
uated that a sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the
judgment or decree must, in the first instance, be entered for the sale of
the whole premises accordingly.
§ 631. In such case the proceeds of such sale
must be applied as well to the interest or portion or installment of th&
principal due, as towards the whole or residue of the sum secured by such
mortgage and not due and payable at the time of such sale, and if such resi
due do not bear interest, then the court may ^direct the same to be paid
with a rebate of the legal interest for the time during which residue shall
not be due and payable, or the court may direct the balance of the pro
ceeds of such sale, after paying the sum due, with costs, to be put out at
interest for the benefit of the plaintiff, to be paid to him as the install
ments or portions of the principal or interest, may become due, and the
surplus for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to
be paid to them by order of the court.
§ 632. x\ppeals to the supreme court may .be taken in ac
tions for the foreclosure of mortgages in the same manner as in other
civil actions.
§ 633. All real property sold upon foreclosure of
mortgages, by order, judgment, or decree of court, may be redeemed at
any time within one year after such sale, as prescribed by Jsection 635 of
this chapter upon foreclosure by advertisement.
§ 634. The court may, by injunction, on good
cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the
injury of real property during the existence of the lien or forclosure of a
mortgage thereon and until the expiration of the time allowed for re
demption.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY, AND
OTHER ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.
§ 635. An action may be brought by any person against
another who claims an estate or interest in real property adverse to him,
for the purpose of determining such adverse claim.
§ 636. If the defendant in such action disclaim in
his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to
be taken against him without answer, the plaintiff cannot recover costs.
§ 637. In an action for the recovery of real 'property, it
must be described in the complaint with such certainty as to enable an
officer, upon execution to identify it.
§ 638. In an action brought by a person out
of possession of real property, to determine an adverse claim of an in
terest or estate therein, the person making such adverse claim a'nd persons
in possession may be joined as defendants, and if the judgment be for the
plaintiff, he may have a writ for the possession of the premises, as against
the defendants in the action, against whom the judgment has passed.
§ 639. Any two or more persons claiming any estate or
interest in lands under a common source of title, whether holding as ten
ants in common, joint-tenants, co-parceners, or in severalty, may unite in
an action against any person claiming an adverse estate or interest therein,
for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, or of establishing such
common source of title, or of declaring the same to be held in trust, or of
removing a cloud upon the same.
§ 640. In an action for the recovery of real
property, where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the ac
tion was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during
the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according
to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the
property.
§ 641. In an action for the recovery o' ' real property, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a
defendant or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title ad
versely to the claim of the plaintiff, in good faith the~value of such im
provements must be allowed as a counter claim by such defendant.
§ 642. The counter-claim in such action must
set forth among other things, the value of the land aside from the im
provements thereon, and also as accurately as practicable the improve
ments upon the land and the value thereof.
§ 643. Issues may be joined and tried as in other
actions and the value of the land aside from the value of the improve
ments thereon, and the separate value of the improvements must be spe
cifically found by the verdict of the jury, the report of the referee, or the
findings of the court.
§ 644. The judgment of the court upon
such finding, if in favor of the plaintiff, for the recovery of the real prop
erty, and in favor of the defendant for the counterclaim, shall require
such defendant to pay to the plaintiff the value of the land as determined
by such finding, and the damages, if any, recovered, for withholding the
same and for waste committed upon such land by the defendant within
sixty days from the rendition of such judgment, and in default of such
payment by the defendant, that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant
the value of the improvements as determined by such finding, less the
amount of any damages so recovered by plaintiff for withholding the
property, and for any waste committed upon such land by the defendant,
and until such payment or tender and deposit in the office of the clerk of
the court, in which such action is pending, no execution or other process
shall issue in such action to dispossess such defendant, his heirs or
assigns.
§ 645. The court in which an action is pending for
the recovery of real property, or for damages for an injury thereto, or a
judge thereof, may, on motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause
shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon the
property, and make survey and measurement thereof, and of any tunnels,
shafts or drifts thereon, for the purpose of the action, even though entry
for such purpose has to be made through other lands belonging to parties
to the action.
§ 646. The order must describe the property, and
a copy thereof must be served on the owner or occupant; and thereupon
such party may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors and
assistants, and make such survey and measurement; but if any unneces
sary injury be done to the property, he is liable therefor.
§ 647. When real property has been sold
on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have suc
ceeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover dam
ages for injury to the property by the tenant in possession after sale, and
before possession is delivered under the conveyances.
§ 648. An action for the recovery of
real property against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any
alienation made by such person, either before or after the commencement
of the action.
§ 649. In actions respecting mining claims, proof
must be admitted of the customs, usages or regulations established and
in force at the bar or diggings embracing such claim ; and such customs,
usages or regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of this territory
and of the United States, must govern the decision of the action.
§ 650. Any person settled upon the public lands
belonging to the United States, on which settlement is not expressly pro
hibited by congress, or some department of the general government, may
maintain an action for any injuries done the same, also an action to re
cover the possession thereof, in the same manner as if he possessed a fee simple title to said lands.
CHAPTER XXX.
action for nuisance, waste, and willfpl trespass on real property.
§ 651. Anything which is
injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruc
tion to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the coroforable
enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action.
Snch action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously
affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and
by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as
damages recovered.
§ 652. If a guardian, tenant for life or years,
joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon,
any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against him there
for, in which action there may be judgment for treble damages, forfeiture
of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the premises.
§ 653. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction
shall only be given in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against
the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion shall
be adjudged in the action to be equal to the value of the tenant's estate or
unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.
CHAPTER XXXI.
ACTION TO ENFORCE MECHANICS' LIENS.
§ 654. No person is entitled to a mechanics' lien who takes
collateral. security on the same contract.
§ 655. Every mechanic, or other person
who shall do any labor upon, or furnish any materials, machinery, or fix
tures for any building, erection or other improvements upon land, inclu
ding those engaged in the construction or repair of any work of internal
improvement, by virtue of any contract with the owner, his agent, trustee,
contractor or subcontractor, upon complying with the provisions of this chapter, shall have for his labor done, or materials, machinery or fixtures
furnished, a lien upon such building erection or improvement, and upon
the land belonging to such owner, on which the same is situated, to secure
the payment of such labor done, or materials, machinery, or fixtures
furnished.
§ 656. Every subcontractor wishing to
avail himself of the benefits of this chapter, shall give notice to the owner,
his agent or trustee, before or at the time he furnishes any of the things
aforesaid or performs any labor, of his intention to perform the same, and
the probable value thereof; and if afterwards the things are furnished or
labor done, the subcontractor shall settle with the contractor therefor, and
the settlement in writing, signed by the contractor and certified by him to
be just, shall be given to the owner, his agent or trustee; within thirty days
from the time the things shall have been furnished or the labor performed,
the subcontractor shall file with the clerk of the district court of the county ,
or judicial subdivision in which the building, erection or other improve
ment is situated, a copy of such settlement, which shall be a lien on such
building, erection or other improvement for which the things were furnished
or the labor performed ; and shall at the time file a correct description of
the property to be charged with the lien, the correctness of which shall be
verified by affidavit.
§ 657. Every
railway owner, company, or contractor, and subcontractor upon any rail
way, shall be deemed to hare the notice provided for by the preceding section for a period of sixty days from the last day of the month in which
such labor was. done, or material furnished, during which period any per
son who has performed such labor or furnished such material, may file a
lien with the clerk of the district court as provided in the preceding sec
tion, which lien shall be binding upon the erection, excavation, embank
ment, bridge, road bed or right of way, and upon all land upon which
the same may be situated, to the full value of such labor or material, in the county or judicial subdivision in which the same is filed. In case the
lien is sought to be enforced against the owner, the liability shall not be
greater than his liability would have been to the owner at the time the
labor was performed or material furnished; but the liability of the owner
in case actual notice shall be given after the sixty days, shall be the same
as provided in this chapter.
§ 608. Every subcontractor
may, at at any time within six months after his labor is performed or ma
terials furnished, make a statement thereof in writing, supported by affi
davit that the same is just and true, and file the same with the clerk of the
district court of the proper county or judicial subdivision, and give notice
thereof, with a copy of such statement to the owner, his agent or trustee,
and to the contractor-, and from and after the service of such notice, his
lien therefor, shall have the same force and effect, and be prosecuted in
like manner as a lien by the contractor, but shall be enforced against the
property only to the extent of the balance due to the contractor at the
time of the service of such notice upon the owner, his agent or trustee.
§ 059. In case the contractor shall refuse to
make and sign such settlement, then the subcontractor may make a just
and true statement of the labor done, or things furnished, giving all
credits, which he shall present to the owner, his agent or trustee, and
shall also within said thirty days file a copy of the same, verified by affi
davit, with the clerk of the district court of the county or judicial subdivi
sion in which the building, erection or other improvement is situated, to
gether with a correct description of the property to be charged with the
lien.
§ 660. The certificate of settlement or statement
of the sub-contractor, shall be a justification to the owner in withholding
from the contractor the amount appearing thereby to be due the subcon
tractor until the same has been paid and the owner shall become the surety
of the contractor to the subcontractor for the amount due to the extent be
fore provided.
§ 661. The notices mentioned in this chapter may
be served by any sheriff or constable, and the return thereon shall be re
ceived in evidence without further proof.
§ 662. Every person, except as has been pro
vided for subcontractors, who wishes to avail himself of the provisions of
this chapter, may file with the clerk of the district court of the county or
judicial subdivision in which the building, erection or other improvement
to be charged with the lien is situated, and within ninety days after all
the things aforesaid shall have been furnished or the labor done, a just
and true account of the demand due him after allowing all credits, and
containing a correct description of the property to be charged with Baid
lien, and verified by affidavit; but a failure to file the same within the
time aforesaid shall not defeat the lien, except against purchasers or in
cumbrancers in good faith, without notice, whose rights accrued after the
ninety days and before any claim for the lien was tiled.
§ 663. The clerk of the district court shall
indorse upon every account the date of its tiling, and make an abstract
thereof in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, and properly in
dorsed, containing the date of its tiling, the name of the person tiling the
lien, the amount of said lien, the name of the person against whose prop
erty the lien is fileo", and a description of the property to be charged with
the same.
§ 664. The liens for labor done or things furnished
shall have priority in the order of the filing of the accounts thereof as
aforesaid, and shall be preferred to all other liens and incumbrances which
may be attached to or upon said building, erection or other improvement,
and to the land on which the same is situated, or either of them, made
subsequent to the commencement of said building, erection or other im
provement.
§ 665. The entire land upon which
any such building, erection or other improvement is situated, including
that portion of the same not covered therewith shall be subject to all liens
created by this chapter, to the extent of all the right, title and interest
owned therein by the owner thereof, for whose immediate use or benefit
such labor was done or things furnished, and when the interest owned in
said land by such owner of such building, erection or other improvement,
is only a lease-hold interest, the forfeiture of such lease for the non-pay
ment of rent, or for non-compliance with any of the other stipulations
therein, shall not forfeit or impair such liens so far as it concerns such
buildings, erections and improvements, but the same may be sold to sat
isfy said lien, and be removed within thirty days after the sale thereof
by the purchaser.
§ 666. The lien for the things afore
said, or work, shall attach to the buildings, erections or improvements,
for which they were furnished or done, in preference to any prior lien or
incumbrance, or mortgage upon the land upon which the same is erected
or put, and any person enforcing such lien, may have such bilding, erec
tion or other improvement, sold under execution, and the purchaser may
remove the same within a reasonable time thereafter.
§ 667. Any person having a lien by virtue of this chapter may bring an action to enforce the same in the district court of
thecounty or judicial subdivision wherein the property is situated.
§ 668. Upon the written demand of the owner,
his agent or contractor, served on the person holding the lien, requiring
him to commence suit to enforce such lien; such suit shall be commenced
in thirty days thereafter or the lien shall be forfeited.
§ 669. Every person for whose immediate use and
benefit any building, erection or improvement is made, having the capacity
to contract, including guardians of minors or other persons shall be in
cluded in the word owner thereof.
§ 070. Whenever a lien lias been
claimed by filing the same in the clerk's office, and it is afterwards paid,
the creditor shall acknowledge the satisfaction thereof on the proper book
in such office, or otherwise in writing, and if he neglects to do so for ten
days after demand, he shall forfeit and pay twenty-live dollars to the own
er or contractor, and be liable to any person injured to the extent of the
injury.
§ 071. All persons furnishing things or doing
work provided for by this chapter, shall be considered subcontractors, ex
cept such as have therefor contracts directly with the owner, proprietor,
his agent or trustee.

§ 072. Any farmer, ranchman or herder of cattle,
tavern keeper, or livery stable keeper, to whom any horses, mules, cattle
or sheep, shall be entrusted for the purpose of feeding, herding, pasturing
or ranching, shall have a lien upon said horses, mules, cattle or sheep,
for the amount that may be due for such feeding, herding, pasturing or
ranching, and shall be authorized to retain possession of such horses,
mules, cattle or sheep, until the said amount is paid: Provided, That
these provisions shall not be construed to apply to stolen stock.
§ 073. The provisions of this act shall not be
construed to give any farmer, ranchman or herder of cattle, tavern keep
er or livery stable keeper, any lien upon horses, mules, cattle or sheep,
put into their keeping, for the purposes mentioned in the previous sec
tion, when said property was not owned by the person entrusting the
same at the time of delivering them into the possession of said farmer,
ranchman, herder, tavern keeper or livery stable keeper.
CHAPTER XXXII.
ACTION TO FORECLOSE LIENS ON CHATTELS.
§ 074. An action to fore
close a lien upon a chattel may be maintained by an innkeeper, boarding
house keeper, mechanic, workman, bailee, or other person having a lien
at common law or under the statutes of this territory. A judgment in
favor of the plaintiff must specify the amount of the lien and direct a sale
of the chattel, to satisfy the same and costs, by the sheriff or other officer
of the court in like manner as when the sheriff sells personal property under
execution, and the application by him of the proceeds of the sale, less his
fees and expenses, to the payment of the judgment and costs. The judg
ment must also provide for the payment of the surplus to the owner of the
chattel, and for the safe keeping of such surplus if necessary, until it is
claimed by him.
§ 075. A justice of the peace has jurisdiction of
such action, in all cases to enforce liens upon personal property where the
amount of the lien claimed is less than one hundred dollars, concurrent
with the district court: Provided, This chapter shall not be construed to
affect any other existing right or remedy to foreclose or enforce a lien,
upon a chattel.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
DAMAGES FOR INJURIES TO PERSONS AND PROPERTY.
§ 676. If the life of any person, not in the
employment of a railroad corporation, shall be lost, in this territory, by
the reason of the negligence or carelessness of the proprietor or proprie
tors of any railroad, or by the unfitness, or negligence, or carelessness of
their employees or agents, the personal representatives of the person
whose life is so lost, may institute suit and recover damages in the same
manner that the person might have done for any injury where death did
not ensue.
§ 677. If the life of any person or
persons is lost or destroyed by the neglect, carelessness, orunskillfulness
of another person or persons, company or companies, corporation or cor
porations, their or his agents, servants or employes, then the widow,
heir, or personal representatives of the deceased shall have the right to
sue such person or persons, company or companies, corporation or cor
porations, and recover punitive damages for the loss or destruction of the
life aforesaid.
§ 678. All railroad corporations in this territory
shall pay full damages to the owner or owners of horses and other stock
and cattle that they may negligently or carelessly kill or damage by their
cars, locomotives, agents or employes, along said railroad or its branches,
within the territory of Dakota.
§ 679. The killing or damaging of any horses, cattle, or
other stock, by the cars or locomotive along said railroad or branches,
shall be prima facie evidence of carelessness and negligence of said
corporation.
§ 680. Whenever any horses, cattle, or stock, may be
killed or crippled by any train of cars or locomotives upon any railway
within this territory, it shall be lawful for the owner of the horses, stock
or cattle so killed or crippled, after first giving a station agent of the corpo
ration to which said railway shall belong, written notice of his intention,
to apply to a justice of the peace within the county in which said stock
may have been killed or crippled, to appoint appraisers to affix a value
upon the horses, cattle or stock so killed or crippled, and said justice of
the peace shall appoint three discreet and disinterested citizens of the
county a board of appraisers, who, after having been duly sworn, shall
examine the horses, cattle or stock so killed or crippled, and affix a value
upon the same if killed, or assess the damages to the same if crippled,
and return to said justice of the peace a written report, describing the
horses, cattle or stock, stating whether they were killed or crippled, and
also setting out the valuation or assessment of damage made by them;
which report said justice shall preserve as a part of the records of his
office.
§ 681. In case the corporation shall fail,
for the space of sixty days, to pay to the owner of the horses, cattle or
stock so killed or crippled, the full amount assessed by said board of ap
praisers, and one-half the costs attending the assessment, the owner shall
have the right to institute an action, in any court in the county of compe
tent jurisdiction, on the original cause of action; and if upon the trial of
this action the owner recovers a verdict, it shall be the duty of the court
to render judgment in the owner's favor for the amount of said verdict,
and all costs incurred subsequent to the killing or crippling; but if the
owner fails to recover a verdict, the costs of the action shall be taxed
against him.
§ 682. The justice of the peace and the three appraisers shall
receive for their services under this act, each, the sum of one dollar, to be
paid equally by the railroad corporation, owner or owners of the horses,
cattle or stock, killed or crippled.
CHAPTER XXXIY
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.
§ 683. The party prosecuting a special proceeding may be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 684. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final
determination of the rights of the parties therein. The definitions of a
motion and an order in a civil action are applicable to similar acts in a
special proceeding.

§ 685. A writ of certiorari may be
granted by the supreme and district courts, when inferior courts, officers,
boards or tribunals have exceeded their jurisdiction, and there is no writ
of error or appeal, nor in the judgment of the court, any other plain,
speedy and adequate remedy.
§ 686. The application must be made on affidavit by
the party beneficially interested, and the court may require a notice of the
application to be given to the adverse party, or maj^ grant an order to
show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
notice.
§ 687. The writ may be directed to the in
ferior court, tribunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having the
custody of the record or proceedings to be certified.
§ 688. The writ of certiorari shall command the
party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ, at
a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record
and proceedings, describing or referring to them, with convenient cer
tainty, that the ^same may be reviewed by the court ; and requiring the
party in the meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to
be reviewed.
§ 689. If a stay of proceedings be not intended,
the words requiring the stay must be omitted from the wiit; these words
may be inserted or omitted, in the sound discretion of the court, but if
omitted, the power of the inferior court or officer is not suspended or the
proceedings stayed.
§ 690. The writ must be served in the same manner as a sum
mons in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the
court.
§ 691. The review upon this writ cannot be ex
tended further than to determine whether the inferior court, tribunal,
board or officer, has regularly pursued the authority of such court, tribu
nal, board or officer.
§ 692. If the return of the writ be defective, the
court may order a further return to be made. When a full return has been
made, the court must hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for
that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment either affirming or
annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.
§ 693. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
clerk, must be transmitted to the inferior court, tribunal, board or officer,
having the custody of the record or proceedings certified up.
§ 694. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, constitute the judgment
roll.

§ 695. The writ of mandamus may be issued by
the supreme and district courts, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board or person, to compel the performance of an act, which the law
specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station; or
to compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or
office to which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by
such inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person.
§ 696. The writ must be issued in all cases where there
is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of
law. It must be issued upon affidavit, upon the application of the party
beneficially interested.
§ 697. The writ may be either alternative
or peremptory. The alternative writ must state generally the allegation
against the party to whom it is directed, and command such party, imme
diately upon the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do
the act required to be performed, or to show cause before the court, at a
specified time and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ
must be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the party to
show cause why he has not done the command, must be omitted, and a re
turn day inserted.
§ 698. When the application to the court is
made without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the
alternative writ must be first issued; but if the application be upon due
notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory writ may be issued in the
first instance. The notice of the application, when given, must be at least
ten days. The writ cannot be granted by default. The case must be heard
by the court, whether the adverse party appear or not.
§ 699. On the return of the alternative writ, or the day on
which the application for the writ is noticed, the party on whom the writ
or notice has been served may show cause by answer, under oath, made in
the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.
§ 700. If an answer be made, which raises
a question as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the
motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the
supposed truth of which allegation the application for the writ is based,
the court may, in its discretion, order the question to be tried before a
jury, and postpone the argument until such trial can be had, and the ver
dict certified to the court. The question to be tried must be distinctly
stated in the order for trial, and the county or subdivision must be desig
nated in which the same shall be had. The order may also direct the.jury
to assess any damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case
they find for him.
§ 701. On the trial the applicant is not precluded
by the answer from any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may coun
tervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
§ 702. The motion for new trial must be made in the
court in which the issue of fact is made.
§ 703. If no notice of a motion for a new trial
be given, or, if given, the motion be denied, the clerk, within five days
after rendition of the verdict or denial of the motion, must transmit to the
court in which the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of
the verdict attached to the order of trial, after which either party may
bring on the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party.
§ 704. If no answer be made, the case must be heard on the
papers of the applicant. If the answer raises only questions of law, or
puts in issue only immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial
rights of the parties, the court must proceed to hear, or fix a day for hear
ing, the argument of the case.
§ 705. If judgment be given for the appli
cant, he may recover the damages which he has sustained, as found by
the jury, or as may be determined by the court or referee, upon a reference
to be ordered, together with costs; and for such damages and costs exe
cution may issue; and a peremptory mandamus must also be awarded
without delay.
§ 706. The writ must be served in the
same manner as summons in a civil action, except when otherwise ex
pressly directed by order of the court. Service upon a majority of the
members of any board or body is service upon the board or body, whether
at the time of the service the board was in session or not.
§ 707. When a peremptory mandamus has
been issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or
person, if it appear to the court that any member of such tribunal, corpora
tion, board or such person upon whom the writ has been personally served,
has, without just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court
may, upon motion, impose a tine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the party
to be imprisoned until the writ is obeyed, and may make any orders neces
sary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ.

§ 708. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart
of the writ of mandamus. It arrests the proceedings of any tribunal,
corporation, board or person, when such' proceedings are without or in
excess of the jurisdiction of such tribunal, corporation, board or person.
§ 709. It may be issued by the supreme
and district courts, to an inferior tribunal, or to a corporation, board or
person, in all cases where there is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy
in the ordinary course of law. It is issued upon affidavit, on the applica
tion of the person beneficially interested.
§ 710. The writ must be alternative or
peremptory. The alternative writ must state generally the allegation
against the party to whom it is directed, and command such party to desist
or refrain from further proceedings in the action or matter specified there
in, until further order of the court from which it is issued, and to show
cause before such court, at a specified time and place, why such party
should not be absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in such
action or matter. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except
that the words requiring the party to show cause why he should not be
absolutely restrained, etc., must be omitted and a return day inserted.
§ 711. The provisions for the proceeding under the writ
of mandamus, except the first three sections thereof, apply to this pro
ceeding.

§ 712. Writs of certiorari, mandamus and
prohibition may be issued by any two justices of the supreme court or by
a judge of the district court, in vacation, and when issued by a judge of
the district court, may be made returnable, and a hearing thereon be had
in vacation.
§ 713. Except as otherwise provided in this chap
ter, the provisions of part 2, of this code are applicable to and constitute
the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this chapter.
§ 714. The provisions of part 2, relative to
new trials and appeals, except in so far as they are inconsistent herewith
apply to the proceedings mentioned in this chapter.
CHAPTER XXXV.
OF SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS.
CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.
§ 715. A judgment by confession may be enteied
without action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure
any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or
both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 710. A statement in writing must be
made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following
effect:
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and
authorize the entry of judgment therefor.
2. If the judgment to be confessed be for money due or to become due,
it must state concisely the facts out of which the debt arose, and must
show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become due.
3. If the judgment to be confessed be for the purpose of securing the
plaintiff against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts
constituting the liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor
does not exceed the amount of such liability.
§ 717. The statement must be pre
sented to the district court or a judge thereof, and if the same be found
sufficient, the court or judge shall indorse thereon an order that judgment
be entered by the clerk, whereupon it ma}' be filed in the office oi the clerk
who shall enter in the judgment book a judgment for the amount con
fessed with costs. The statement and affidavit, with the judgment, shall
thenceforth become the judgment roll. Execution may be issued and en
forced thereon, in the same manner as upon judgments in other cases in
such courts. "When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not all
due, or is pnj-able in installments and the installments are not all due,
the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such in
stallments as have become due, and shall be in the usual foim, but shall
have endorsed thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a di
rection to the sheriff to collect the amount due on such judgment, with in
terest and costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest thereon, and
the costs of said judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and collection of
such execution, the judgment shall remain as security for the installments
thereafter to become due, and whenever any further installments become
due, execution may, in like manner, be issued for the collection and en
forcement of the same.

§ 718. Parties to a question in difference, which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and pre
sent a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction
if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the
controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the
rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, at a general term, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
pending.
§ 719. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to
trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall con
stitute the judgment roll.
§ 720. The judgment may be enforced in the
same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be sub
ject to appeal in like manner.

§ 721. Every person confined in jail on execu
tion issued on judgment recovered in a civil action, shall be discharged
therefrom at the end of ten days from his first confinement therein, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified.
§ 722. Such person must cause notice in writing
to be given to the plaintiff when and where he will apply to the judge of
the district court in which the judgment was submitted, for the purpose
of obtaining a discharge from his imprisonment.
§ 723. Such notice must be served by delivering to
and leaving with the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, a copy thereof, at
least one day before the hearing of the application, when the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney served, live in the town or city where the application is
to be heard, to which time of service one day must be added for every
twenty miles or fraction thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney served
shall reside, distant from the place of hearing.
§ 724. At the time and place specified in the notice, such
person must be taken under the custody of the sheriff before such district
judge and examined on oath concerning his property and effects, and the
disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judgment for which he is com
mitted; and such district judge shall also hear any other legal and perti
nent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or creditor; and such
examination must, at the election of the creditor, be reduced to writing
and subscribed and sworn to by the debtor and other witnesses.
§ 725. If, upon such examination, the judge before
whom the same is had, shall be satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to
his discharge, he shall administer to him the following oath, to-wit:
I do solemnly swear [or affirm] tlmt I have not any estate real or personal, to the
amount of ten dollars, except such as is by law exempt from levy and sale o" ' ••po.ntion, and
that I have not any other estate, nor have I conveyed, concealed or in any Wiy disposed of
any ot my property, real or personal, with design to secure the same to my use, to hinder or
delay or defraud my creditors. So help me God. [Signed A B.]
§ 726. After administering the oath, the
judge must make a certificate under his hand as follows:
To the sheriff of the county of. . . ., I do hereby certify that , confined in your jail
upon an execution at the suit of . . . ., is entitled to be discharged from imprisonment, if he bo
imprisoned from no other cause.
§ 727. The jailor, upon receiving such certificate,
must forthwith discharge the prisoner, if he be imprisoned |from no other
cause. The prisoner, after being so discharged, shall be forever exempt
from arrest or imprisonment for the same debt, unless he shall haVe been
convicted of having sworn falsely upon his examination, or, in takingthe
oath herein prescribed.
§ 728. The judgment against any prisoner
who is discharged as herein provided for shall remain in full force against
the estate which may then, or at any time after, belong to him. And the
plaintitf may take out a new execution against the goods and estate of
the debtor, in like manner and with like effect as if he had never been
committed in execution.
§ 729. If the debtor shall undertake to satisfy the ex
ecution he shall not be entitled to his discharge from imprisonment until
he has paid all the charges for his commitment, and support in prison, in
addition to the sum due on the execution and the costs and charges
thereon.
§ 730. The prisoner may at any time be dis
charged upon the order of the plaintiff in the action, and when so dis
charged such debtor shall not thereafter be liable to imprisonment again
for the same cause of action.
§ 731. Whenever a debtor is committed to jail on
execution in a civil action, the creditor, or some one in his behalf, must
advance to the sheriff or jailor sufficient money to pay for the support of
such prisoner from time to time; and in case such creditor shall neglect or
refuse' to so advance the money for such prisoner's support, upon the sher
iff's or jailor's demand, the jailor must,. at the expiration of twenty-four
hours after such demand, discharge such prisoner from custody, and such
discharge shall have the same effect as a discharge by order of the
creditor.
§ 732. If upon the examination the prisoner shall not
be discharged he must be recommitted to jail under the execution, and
shall not be again entitled to apply for his discharge from imprisonment
as herein provided except upon the ground of newly discovered evidence,
or for other good cause shown to the district judge granting the appli
cation.
§ 733. Either party may appeal to the supreme court from
the order of the district judge, granting or refusing a discharge from im
prisonment, under these provisions, in the same manner as from an order
granting, refusing, continuing, or modifying, a provisional remedy.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
CHANGE OF NAMES OF PERSONS AND PLACES.
§ 734. The district court shall have the author-
ity to change the names of persons, towns, villages and cities within this
territory.
§ 735. Any person desiring to change his or her
name may file a petition in the district court of the county or siibdivision
in which snch person may be a resident, setting forth:
1. That the petitioner has been a bona tide citizen of such county or subdivision for at least six months prior to the tiling of the petition.
2. The cause for which the change of the petitioner's name is sought.
3. The name asked for.
And it shall be the duty of the judge of the district court, at any term
thereof after the filing of such petition, upon being duly satisfied by proof
in open court, of the truth of the allegations set forth in the petition, and
that there exists proper and reasonable cause for changing the name of
the petitioner, and that thirty days previous notice of the intended appli
cation has been given in some newspaper printed in such district, to order
and direct a change of the name of such petitioner, and to direct that such
order be entered by the clerk in the journal of the court.
§ 736. Whenever it may be desirable to change
the name of any town, village or city, in any couuty of the territory, a
petition for that purpose may in like manner be filed in the district court
of the county or subdivision in which such town, village or city is situated,
setting forth the cause why such change of name is desirable, and the
name asked to be substituted, and the court being satisfied by proof that
the prayer of the petitioners is just, proper and reasonable, and that notice,
as in case of the change of names of persons, provided for in the preceding section, has been given, and that two-thirds of the legal voters of such
town, village or city, desire such change of name, and that there is no
other town,- village or city, in the territory of the name asked for, may
order and direct such change of name, and direct the clerk to enter such
order upon the journal of the court.
§ 737. All proceedings under this chapter shall be
at the cost of the petitioner or petitioners, and judgment may be entered
against him or them for costs as in other civil actions: Provided always.
That any change of name under the provisions of this chapter shall in no
manner affect or alter any action or legal proceedings then pending, or
any right, title or interest, whatsoever.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
OF BASTARDS.
§ 738. When any woman residing in any county in this
territory is delivered of a bastard child, or is pregnant with a child which,
if born alive, will be a bastard, a sworn complaint may be made in writ
ing by any person to the district court of the county or judicial subdi
vision where she resides, stating that fact, and charging the proper person
with being the father thereof. The proceedings shall be entitled in the
name of the people of the territory against the accused as defendant.
§ 739. Upon the filing of the complaint the clerk shall issue
a summons against the person so charged, which shall be served as in
civil actions.
§ 740. From the time of the filing of such com
plaint a lien shall be created upon the real property of the accused in the
county or judicial subdivision where the action is pending, for the pay
ment of any money and the performance of any order adjudged by the
proper court.
§ 741. The judge. of the district court may order an at
tachment to issue on such complaint without undertaking, which order
shall specify the amount in value of property to be seized under the at
tachment, and may be revoked at any time by such judge or by the dis
trict court on a showing made for the revocation of the same, and on such
terms as may be deemed proper in the premises.
§ 742. The district attorney, on being
notified of the facts justifying a complaint as contemplated in tlie first sec
tion of this subdivision, or of the filing of such complaint, shall prosecute
the action on behalf of the complainant.
§ 743. The issue on tlie trial shall be ''guilty" or
''not guilty," and shall be tried as a civil action at law.
§ 744. If the accused be found guilty, he shall be charged
with the maintenance of the child in such sum or sums, and in such man
ner as the court may direct, and with the costsof the suit; and the clerk
may issue execution for any sum ordered to be immediately paid, and af
terwards, from time to time, as it shall be required and necessary to
compel compliance with the order of the court.
§ 745. The court may at any time, enlarge, di
minish, or vacate any order or judgment rendered in the proceeding here
in contemplated, on either party and notice to the other.
§ 740. In case any bastard becomes a county
charge, for the support of which no proceedings have been instituted un
der the provisions of this subdivision, it shall be the duty of the board
of county commissioners to proceed against the father of such bastard, if
known, as herein directed.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
HERD LAW.
§ 747. Any person owning, or having
in his or their charge, or possession, any horses, mules, cattle, goats,
sheep or swine, or any such animals, which shall trespass upon any culti
vated land, cultivated or uncultivated meadow lands, or young timber,
either fenced in or not fenced, belonging to any person or persons other
than the owners of such animals, such person or persons owning
or having in charge or possession such trespassing animal or animals,
shall be liable to any party or parties sustaining such injury for all dam
ages he, she or they, may have sustained by reason of such trespassing
aforesaid, to be recovered in a civil action, before any court having juris
diction thereof, in the county where such damage may have occurred, and
the proceedings shall be the same in all respects as in other civil actions,
except as herein modified: Provided, That no property shall be exempt,
except those exemptions made absolute, from seizure and sale under exe
cutions issued upon judgments obtained under or by virtue of this chapter.
§ 748. Any person occupying or cultivating lands
shall be considered the owner thereof in any action under the provisions
of the last section.
§ 749. The parties sustaining damage done by
animals as mentioned in section 747, before commencing an action thereon
shall notify the owner or person having in charge such offending animal
or animals, of such damage, the probable amount thereof: Provided, He
knows to whom such animal or animals belong:.
§ 750. The person suffering damage done by ani
mals as mentioned in section 747, may retain and keep in custody such
offending animals until the damage and costs are paid, or until good and
sufficient security be given for the same; and whenever any animal or
animals are restrained under this chapter, the person restraining the same
shall forthwith notify the owner or person in whose custody the same was
at the time the tresspass was committed, of the seizure of said animals,
providing the owner or person who had the same in charge is known to
the person making said seizure.
§ 751. Upon trial of an action under the
provisions of section 747, of this chapter, the plaintiff shall prove the
amount of damage sustained, and if he has restrained and kept in cus
tody the animals committing such damage, the amount of expense in
curred for keeping the offending animals, and any judgment rendered for
damages, costs and expenses against the defendant shall be a lien upon
the animals committing the damage, and they may be sold and the pro
ceeds applied to the satisfaction of the judgment as in other cases of sale
of personal property on execution; but if it shall appear upon the trial
that no damage was sustained, judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintiff for cost of suit, and damage sustained by defendant.
§ 752. If upon the trial it appears that the
defendant is not the owner or person in charge of such offending animals,
he shall be discharged and the action and the suit may proceed as against
a defendant whose name is unknown, and if at the commencement of the
action, the plaintiff does not know the name of the owner, or keeper of
such offending animals, he may bring suit against a defendant unknown.
In such case service shall be made by publishing a copy of the summons
with a notice, stating the nature of the action, in a weeekly newspaper, if
there be one published in the county; and if not, by posting copies of the
summons and notice in three of the most public places within the county,
in either case not less than ten days previous to the day of trial.
§ 753. After judgment shall have been rendered against
the defendant, unknown as aforesaid, the offending animals shall be sold,
as in other civil actions, and after the said judgment and costs have been
satisfied, if there is a surplus of money, it shall be placed in the hands of
the county treasurer, and if the defendant does not appear and call for the
same, within six months from the day of sale, it shall be paid into the
school fund for the use of the public schools of said county.
§ 754. Justices of the peace shall have concur
rent jurisdiction with the district court of all actions and proceedings un
der this chapter, when the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred
dollars.
