TITLE XX. 
OF COURTS AND THEIR OFFICERS. 
CHAPTER 171. Of the superior court.
CHAPTER 172. Of the court of common pleas. 
CHAPTER 173. Of the adjournment of courts. 
Ce.u>TER 17 4. Of clerks of courts. 
CHAPTER 175. Of justices of the peace. 
CeA.PTEB 176. Of juries. 
CHAPTER 177. Of attorneys.· 
CHAPTER 178. Of ;heri.ffs. 
Ce.APTER 179. Of coroners and constables. 
CBAPl'ER 171. 
OJ' THE SUPERIOR COURT 01' JUDICATUU. 
SECTION 1. The superior court of judicature 1hall consist o1 · a
chief justice and two associate justices, appointed and commissioned
as prescribed by the constitution. 
SEc. 2. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all pleas real.
personal and mixed, and of all civil actions and eriminal proceed­
ings commenced according to the course of the common law 
which
may be legally brought before them. 
S:sc. 3. The said court shall have exclusive authority to issue
writs of error, certiorari, mandamus, prohibition and quo warranto, 
aDd may issue writs of habeas corpus and all other writs and pro­
eesses to courts of inferior jurisdiction, to corporations and indi­
viduals, for the furtherance of justice and the due administration 
of the laws.
SEc. 4. The said court shall have the general superintendence 
of all courts of inferior jurisdiction, for the prevention and corree­
tion of errors and abuses> where the laws have not expreasly 
provided a remedy. ·
81:c. 5. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all questions 
of divorce and alimony, and all appeals from courts of probate
and applications therefor, all applications for review or new trial
founded on any statute, petitions for the redemption and foreclosure
el mortgages, petitions for partition of real estate, of proceedings
relating to the forfeiture of any estate or franchise granted by the
State, and of all actions and questions •vhatever which shall be
transferred from the courts of common pleas for decision according 
to law.
81:c. 6. The said court shall have power to hear and determine, 
u a court of equity, in cases of grants, devises and appointmeuia
of any real or personal property for any charitable use, in all cue, 
of trust, fraud: accidents or mistakes, in cases respecting the adjust­
ment of the concerns of copartners, joint tenants and tenants in 
eommon, in cases respecting die redemption and foreclosure ~
mortgages, in cases respecting the assignment of dower where the 
probate court has not jurisdiction, in cues respecting the secreting
and withholding any personal property where there is not a plam,
adequate and sufficient remedy at common Jaw, in suits to comP@l
the specific performance of contracts, and in suits for discovery ~
cases where a discovery may be lawfully required. . ,, 
SEc. 7. The said court may grant writs of injunction, whepever
the same shall be necessary to prevent injustice, and any justicei qi
la.id court may issue writs of injunction to stay proceedings 91 
waste until the end of the next term of said court in any cmul1y,
unless sooner dissolved. , 
SEc. 8. No jurors shall be summoned at the superior court; bua 
1 
iC it shall be found necessary in any case to ascertain any facts bJ
a jury, an issue shall be made up, under the direction of said court,
and tranmnitted to the court of common pleas for trial, and the ver­
dict of the jury thereon shall be certified to said superior court,and 
judgment rendered thereon as the case may require. 
· SEc. 9. The justices of the superior court shall make, from time
to time, all necessary rules and orders for conducting the buainelt
in said court and in the court of common pleas. 
Sze. 10. If two of the justices of said court shall be legally
disqualified to act as such in any case, the other justice shall hear
and determine such cue, and shall have all the powers of the 
court.
81:c. 11. For the business of the superior court the State is di­ 
vided into five judicial districts, as follows :
District No. 1, to consist of the counties of Rockingham ad 
8tra1ford;
. DistricfNo. 2, of the counties of Menimack and Hillsborough; 
District No. 3, of the counties of Cheshire and SulliYBD ; 
District No. 4, of the counties of Belknap and Carroll ; and
District No. 5., of the counties of Grafton and Coos. 
Sze. 12. The superior court shall be holden annually within
aid districts, at the times and places following : 
At Exeter, on the third Tuesday of July, and at Dover, on the 
diird Tuesday.of December, for the counties '1f Rockingham. and
Strafford; 
At Concord, on the second Tuesday of July, and at Amhent, oa
the second Tuesday of December, for the counties of Merrimack
and Hillsborough ; 
At Keene, on the first Tuesday of December, and at Newport,
on the first Tuesday of July, for the counties of CQeshire and 
Sullivan;
At Ossipee, on the fourth Tuesday of July, and at Gilmanton. 
on the fourth Tuesday of December, for the counties of Belknap 
an4 (;arroll; ·
At Haverhill, on the Tuesday next after the fourth Tuesday of 
December, at Plymouth, on the Tuesday next after the fourth
ti'uesday of July, and at Lancaster, on the Tuesday next after the· 
term of said court at Plymouth.
Sze. 13. The said court sitting in any county in any district, 
shall have jurisdiction and may · take cognizance of all matte111
arising in either county or counties belonging to the district, in the 
• · ame manner as though such matters bad arisen within the county
where the court is sitting. 
· Sze. 14. The clerk of the superior court in each county shall
tttend at each term of said court within the district to which his 
· eounty belongs; and under tbe direotion of the court, dil!IC~ 
Ids duties in relation to the business of his own count1,(in die
11111e. manner as if the court were sitting therein. • 7 
,.. . . . . r 
·. 81:~TION r, The court of common pleas shall consist of the ju-' 
tices of the superior court, of two justices of the court of. commori' 
pleas, to be appointed and commissioned as prescribed by the con ...
stitution, and of the· justices of the court of common pleas appoint­
ed for each county. The chief justice of the superior court shall
be chief justice · of the court of common pleas, and the chief or 
st;nier justice of the superior court present at any court of common
pleas, shall preside; and if no justice of the superior court be pre­ 
sent, the· senior circuit justice present shall preside.
'· 8Ec. 2~ The court of common pleas shall be holden by one or 
more justices of .the superior court, or one or more circuit justices,
lftd one or both judges of the court of common pleas for the conn­ 
ty ; but if the justice of the superior eourt or the circuit justice
presiding, shall be disqualified or decline sitting in any case, and 
no other justice of the superior court or circuit justice be present,
the-county judges shall be a quorum for all purposes. · 
SEc. 3. The court of common pleas shall have original jurisdic­
tion of all civil actions in which the proceedings shall be according
to- the course of the common Jaw, except in cases where justices
of the peace have jurisdiction, and where the proceedings must be
commenced by writs of which the superior court has exclusive
jttrisdiction, and in all other cases provided by law. 
BEc. 4. The said court. shall have original jurisdiction in all
criminal cases whatever, except such as are within the jurisdiction
of justices of the peace.. Two justices of the superior court shall
lie present at the trial of every person who shall be charged with' 
any crime, the punishment of which may be death, and the clerk
of the court where any such indictment may be found, and everr
justice who may hold any person to answer for such crime, shall
forthwith certify the fact to the justices of the superior court. 
'- SEo. 6.' The said court shall have jurisdiction of all appea'lf
~iustices of the peace in civil and criminal cases, and· of a.It 
i,etiti~~ for the laying ont and discontinuing of highways in easeJ
provided\bf law. · • . , · · 
Sze. 6. · , -iv.e court of common pleas shall have authority to -VJ 
all issues of fact which shall be transmitted :to. them for trial from
the superior court; and to make all proper orders relating thereto in.' 
their discretion,
Ssc, 7. Any persen aggrieved by any opinion, direction or judg­ 
ment of aid court of common pleas in any aclioo or proceeding,
may allege exceptions thereto at the same. term, which. shall bev
reduced to writing before the adjournment of the court without
day, and being conformable to the truth of the case, shall be 
signed by the presiding justice and be. a part of the record in .such
case. 
SEc. 8. The question arising upon such exceptions or upon a 
special verdict, and any issue of law, motion for a new trial· or
statement of facts agreed upon and signed by the parties in any
~ase, may be reserved and assigned by the presiding justice, if he
drink fit, to the determination of the superior court, and such jus­
tice shall direct such documents and papers as he thinks necessary," 
a. be transmitted to said court. · ·
S•c. 9. The decision of said superior court in any of the cases 
aforesaid, shall be certified by the clerk thereof to the clerk of the
eourt of common pleas in which the action is pending, and' .such,
judgment shall be entered or disposition of the actionmade as isr.
directed therein. . 
SEc. 10. No judge shall sit on the trial of any cause UJ¥>ll:
appeal, which-he has before tried in. the. court below, nor in ~f. 
cause in which he has been concerned as a party or attorney.
81:c. 11. The court of common pleas shall be holden.annually, 
at-the times and places following : • .
.At Portsmouth, on the first Tuesday of February, and at Ex.eter,. 
OQ. the fourth Tuesday of August, for the county of Rockingham;
At Dover, ·on the third Tuesday of January and OQ. the firs.~ 
Tuesday of August, for. the county of Strafford;
· At Gilford, on the second. Tuesday of February and, on tlf~. 
third Tuesday of August, for the county of Belknap;
· At Ossipee, on tho third Tuesday of April and on the second 
Tuesday of October, for the county of Carroll;
At Concord, on the third Tuesday of March and on the third 
Tuesday of September, for the county of Merrimack; ·
At Amherst, on the second Tuesday of April and on the second 
Tuesday of October, for the coµnt.y o( Hillsborough ;
.At Keene, on the first Tuesday of April and on the first Tues­ 
day of October, for the county of Cheshire;
At Newport, on the third Tuesday of April and on the third 
Tuesday of October, for the county of Sullivan; 
Aa Ha\verbill, on uie &st Tuesday of September and on the first
., Taesday of F~ for the western judicial district 0£ the coun­ 
ty of Grafton ;
A.t ltfymonth, on the first Tuesday of November and on the 
thud Tuemay of May, for the. eastern judicial district of the coun­ 
, 1,v, of Grafton; 
At I.ancuter, on the first Toeeday of May and on the thinl
'lueeday of November, for the county of Coos. · 
Sze. 12. This and the wt preceding chapter shall go into effect 
on the first day of January next, and the goTemor and council: 
may, immediately after the passage of this act, proceed and make 
die appointments required of them by this chapter. : : 
.. CTIH 
1. Power to adjourn. 
OF THE ADJOURNMENT OF COURTS • 
I. Any justice may adjourn. 
VILI.PrER H'S. 
1
8aCT1os 
3. Sheril' may adjoua. 
4. Change• of tel'IDI. 
SECTION 1. The superior court of judicature and court of com-
mon pleas may adjourn their sittings from time to time, as they 
may think proper. . ..
Sze. 2. If the number of justices required to hold any term or 
the court, shall not attend, any of the justices present may open
and adjourn the court from day to day, or to any future day or to 
the next term of the court.
SEc. 3. If none of the justices of the court shall attend at any 
tenn, the sheriff may Mjourn the court from day to day, until one
of the justices shall attend. 
SEc. 4. When the time or place of holding any court shall be
changed by law, all writs, actions, processes, venires and every
matter and thing whatever which may be returnable at or contin­ 
ued to such term, shall be returned to, entered, have day ~ be 
beard at the times and places fixed by law as aforesaid. 
~ER 174. 
OF THE CLERKS OF COURTS. 
81JC'ffl>N 1. There shall be a clerk of the snperior court and a
clerk of the court of common pleas in each county, each of whom· 
..U. before he enters upon the duties of his office, give bond to
the county in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, with two or 
iaore .sufficient sureties, to be approved by one of the justices of
the court of which he is clerk, conditioned for the faithful dis-
charge of the duties of his office, the payment of all moneys by
him received as clerk, to the State, county or individuals as the
law directs, and for the safe keeping and delivery of all records,
files and papers belonging to his said office, immediately upon hia
leaving the same. 
Sze. 2. No clerk of any court shall be at the same time register
of deeds or county treasurer. 
SEc. 3. Every such clerk shall immediately after each tenn ol 
the court, account with and pay over to the county treasurer all
money by him received for the use of the county, and the presi­
ding judge shall certify the account of the clerk at the close of
each term. ' 
SEc. 4:. Every clerk of said courts shall, at the close of each
court, or earlier, make and deliver to the sheriffs, proper writs,
warrants and processes for the collection of all fines and forfeitures
imposed by said court, and shall make and transmit to die treasurer
of the county a list of the same ; and if any clerk shall neglect
his duty herein, he shall forfeit the sum of twenty dollars to any
person who will sue for the same. 
SEC, 5. The records and files of the several courts of sessions 
and courts of common pleas heretofore established by law, and all
records and files of justices of the peace deceased or removed from
their counties, shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of the
court of common pleas, who shall give attested copies thereof and
shall be for that purpose the proper certifying officer . 
. Sze. 6. The clerks of the superior court and court of common
pleas sha11 keep their offices and the records of said courts in one
of th.e towns in which such courts are holden, and if any suitable
office is provided by the county, such records shall be there kept. 
SEc. 7. In all cases where it shall become necessary in any ju­
dicial proceedings to use or file a copy of any writ, pleading, case
or other writing or document, a copy thereof agreed on or certified
aa such by the contending parties in such proceeding, or by their
counsel or attorneys, may be received, used or filed, and shall u 
between said parties and all persons claiming under them, be •
e1feetual for all purposes as a copy thereof made or certified bf
IDJ clerk or other cerlifying officer. 
" 
SzcTION 1. Every justice of the peace within his county may
hear, try and determine all pleas and actions in which the title to
real estate shall not be drawn in question, when the damages de­
manded do not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents. 
SEc. 2. When any action of trespass shall be brought before a
justice and the defendant shall plead the general issue, he shall not,
be allowed to offer any evidence that may bring the title to real. 
estate in question. 
SEc. 3. If, in any such action, the defendant shall plead any 
special plea by which the title to real estate may be drawn in
question, the justice shall record such plea, and no further proceed·
ings shall be had in such action before him, except that the plain­
tiff, if he so choose, may become nonsuit. 
SEc. 4. In case such special plea shall he filed, the plaintiff may
enter his action in the next court of common pleas, and file there
attested copies of the writ, plea and all other· papers used in said
cause. and there prosecute the same as in- actions originally com­
menced in said court. 
Ste. 5. If such plaintiff shall not enter his action in the court 
of common pleas, the said court, upon complaint M the defendant,
shall allow him his costs both before the justice and at said. court. 
SEc. 6. Either party aggrieved by the judgment given by any .
jmitiee in any civil cause, ma'y appeal therefrom to the next c~
of common pleas to be holden in the same county. 
81:r. 7. Every appeal shall be claimed within two hours aftw
the judgment is rendered, and shall not be granted naless the party
appealing shall enter into recognizance to the adverse party, with
sufficient sureties, in the sum of twenty dollars.vto pay the costa
which may be recovered against him. 
8Ec. 8. The party claiming an appeal, shall produce at th4; court 
to which the appeal is claimed, attested copies of the writ, plead·
ings, judgment and all other papers used and filed in the cause in 
the court below.
SEc. 9. If any appellant · shall fail to enter his appeal, or to pro­ 
duce such copies or to pay the jury fees, the former judgment shall
be affirmed and costs taxed· for the appellee, 
SEc. 10. If the court shall reverse the judgment of a justice that 
any writ be abated, the case shall not be remanded, but shall 'be 
heard and determined in said court.
Sec, 11. If the plaintiff appeal in any action founded on con .. 
tgact, and shall not recover damages to a greater amount than were
awarded by the justice, the defendant shall recover his costs on 
111eh appeal. · ·
· -Sac. 12. Every justice may adjourn the trial of any civil cause 
before him to such future time as may be proper, not exceeding 
thfee- months. 
SEc. 13. If such justice shall fail to attend at the time and place
to which any proce::,s is returnable or continued before him, any
other justice may attend and continue the ·same, not exceeding
thirty days, without cost to either party· and saving the rights of
all parties. 
SEc. 14. No justice shall be of counsel nor act as an attorney to
either party, nor advise nor assist any party in any case before him . 
. SEc. 15. Every justice shall keep a fair record in one or more 
books, to be kept for that purpose, of all proceedings; civil or
criminal, before him. 
Sec. 16. The. executor or administrator of every deceased jus­
tice, and every other person into whose hands the records and offi­
cial files of such justice shall come, shall forthwith deposit the 
same in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas, where 
they shall be kept ; and if any such person shall neglect to deposit·
the same as aforesaid for six months, he shall for each month's
neglect afterwards, forfeit and pay to any person who will sue for
the same, the sum of five dollars. 
Sad. 17. When any justice in commission shall remove from his
;eounty, he shall deposit his records and files with the clerk as afore­ 
sajd; and if he shall .neglect so to do, he shall forfeit for every·
'mcnth'sneglect after such removal, the sum of five dollars to any 
_person who will sue for the same. 
SEc. 18. Any justice 'may issue execution on any judgment
recovered before him during his term of office under any former 
eommission, in the same manner as if his commission had not
frXpired. . 
SEc. 19. Every person who has sustained the office of a justice 
. of the peace, 11\ay give attested copies of any proceedings before 
him as such justice, and his certificate shall be valid. 
SzcTJoN 1. The selectmen of each town shall annually, in De­ 
cember, make a Iist-of such persons as they shall judge best quali­ 
/lled to serve as jurors ; and the list thus annually made by the 
selectmen, shall be by them kept and delivered over to their suc­ 
cessors in office.
SEc. 2. Such list shall not contain the names of more than 
fifteen persons in towns containing less than one hundred and fifty
ratable polls, twenty-five in all other towns containing less than
three hundred, thirty in all other towns containing less than four 
hundred, thirty-five in all other towns containing less than five
hundred, forty in all other towns containing less than twelve hun­
dred, and forty-five in all other towns containing more than twelve
hundred ratable polls. 
Si:c. 3. The governor, secretary and treasurer of the State,
judges and clerks of the courts, register of probate, register of deeds,
lheri1fs and their deputies, counsellors and attorneys at law, or·
dained ministers, and practicing physicians and surgeons are ex­ 
empted from serving as jurors, and their names shall not be placed 
OD aid lists.
Sze. 4. The names on said list shall be written. upon separate 
and similar pieces .of paper, which shall be so rolled up that the 
umes cannot be seen, and placed in a box to be provided for that 
purpose by the selectmen, which shall be delivered to the towp 
clerk to be kept by him under lock. ~
Sze. 5. The courts shall direct the number of jurors to be SlJDj­ 
moned, and from what towns, in such manner that each town may
tbmiah its due proportion of jurors in each year. 
SEc. 6. The clerk of the court of common pleas shall issue writs
of venire facias, directed to the clerks of such towns as the court
may order, forty days before the sitting of such court, requiring
each of them to cause to be selected and returned so many juron
• are therein mentioned. 
SEc. 7. The clerk shall cause such venires to be delivered to
IIICh town clerks twenty-five days, or to the sheriff' forty clays,
before the sitting of the court.and the sheriff shall cause all venires 
80 delivered to him, to be delivered to the town clerks twenty-five 
days before the sitting of the court.
8Ec. 8. Each town clerk, upon the receipt of the venire, shall 
notify the selectmen of the time and place by him appointed for 
the selection of jurors, and post up a notice thereof in some public 
place in such town seven days at least before the time so appointed.
SEc. 9. At the time and place so appointed, the town clerk in 
preeonce of the selectmen whose duty it shall be to attend, and
of such other persons as may choose to attend, shall draw from
Ike box held in such manner that the papers therein cannot be
aeen, the names of so many persons as are required by the venire. 
In the absence of the town clerk, one of the selectmen shall draw
the same. 
SEc. 10. If any person whose name is so drawn, has deceased,
become insane, has removed from town or is disabled by sicknesa,
the town clerk shall certify these facts on the venire and draw
another name. . 
8Ec. 11. The pel'90ns whose names are so drawn, shall be re­
turned to serve as jurors, and their names shall not be again placed
in such box for the term of two years. 
SEc. 12. The town clerk shall record the notice posted by him
as aforesaid, the names of the selectmen present and of the perao111 
drawn as jurors.
SEc. 13. A notice in writing of his selection as a juror, of the 
court he is to attend and nf the day and hour he is to appear, shall
be given to each juror or left at his usual place of abode, four day, 
at least before the sitting of the court, by the town clerk or a
constable. 
SEc. 14. The town clerk shall certify upon the · venire, the 
names of the persons so selected as jurors, and that they have been
'notified as aforesaid, and cause such venire to be returned to the 
.clerk of the court at the hour at which the juror has been notified
· to attend. 
SEc. 15. Upon any emergency jurors may be selected while the
court is in session. The venires shall be issued and notice of the
time and place of such selection given, and the jurors drawn and
notified forth with ; and the jurors so drawn and notified, shall im­
mediately attend the court. 
". SEc. 16. H any clerk, sheriff or town clerk shall neglect to per­ 
form any of the duties enjoined by this chapter, he shall be fined 
.bv the ootut in the sum of twenty dollars. 
_ Sec. 17. If any person selected as a jtp"or. and dµly notified to
. attend, shall, without sufficient cause, neglect to attend agreeably 
to such notice, he shall. be fined by the court in a sum not exceed­
ing tw.enty dollars. 
SEc. 18. If any selectman shall wilfully neglect to perform any
_ puty required by this chapter, or shall put upon the list a greater 
number of names than is allowed by law, or shall put on the list
the name of any person at his own request or on the request of any
other person, or shall withdraw from the box the name of any per­
son legally put upon the list, or shall be guilty of any fraud or col- 
.. lusion with respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall be punished
by a fine of fifty dollars for each offence. 
SEc. 19. If any town clerk shall draw from the box a greater
. number of names than are mentioned in the venire, except in cases 
. provided, or shall put or suffer to be put in said box any name after
the same is delivered to him as aforesaid, or shall be guilty of any
fraud or collusion in respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall be
punished by a fine of fifty dollars. · · 
SEc. 20. The sheriff, coroner or other officer under the direction
of the court, may return jurors of the persons present; but the num­
ber of persons so returned to serve upon the grand jury, shall not
exceed five. 
SEc. 21. Any juror may be required by the court on motion of 
any party in the cause to_ be tried, to answer upon oath, whether
he expects to gain or lose by the issue of the cause then pending;
"Whether he is related to either party ; whether he has advised or
_assisted either party; or directly or indirectly given his opinion or
has formed any opinion; or is sensible of' any prejudice in the
cause ; and if it appears that any juror does not stand indifferent in 
_ any cause, he shall be set aside on that trial. 
SEc. 22. The oaths to be administered to jurors shall be in the
following forms- 
GRAND JUROR'S OATH. 
"You, as grand jurors for the body of this county, do solemnly
swear that you will diligently inquire, and a true presentment make
of all such matters and things as shall be given you in charge ; the 
·, State's counsel.vyour fellows' and your own you shall keep secret ;
· you shall present no man for envy, hatred or malice ; neither shall 
you leave any unpresented for love, fear, favor, affection or hope
of reward ; but you shall present things truly as they come to your
knowledge, according to the best of your understanding. So help
you God." 
PETIT .JUBOB'S OATH IN CBIJIINAL CASES. 
"·You solemnly swear that you will well and truly try, and D'U8 
4eliverance make between the State of New Hampshire and the 
~prisoner at the bar, wh$11 you shall have in charge, aocordiag,to 
•law and the evidence gieen you. So help you God." 
. "You swear that in all causes betwixt party and party, that stwl 
be committed unto you, you will give a true verdict, according -to 
law and the evidence given you. So help you God." 
82CflOS lbOTI01' 
J. Parties may appear in _penon or b7 4. AUoraeya of' auperiol'courtmay ,,.._
any citir.en of good character. tice in any court. 
9. Any citize• may be adlllitted an aitor-
5· 
ney. 
PE'l'IT JUBOJL's OATH nr CIVIL CA.SEI. 
CBA.P.rER 177. 
OF ATl'ORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS. 
" to take oath, and form.
6. No one to practice unless admittN. 
7. Attorney• may be removed.
3. AUomey1 of otJaer atate. admitted. 8. Diaqualiticati.on or att.orneya. 
SECTION 1. Every party in any cause, prosecution or suit may 
appear, plead, pursue or defend in his proper pe.cson or by any citi­
zen of good character. 
SEc. 2. Any citizen of the age of twenty-one years, of good
,. · moral character, on application to the superior court, shall be admit­ 
ted to practice as an attorney.
Sec. 3. Any person who shall have been admitted an attorney 
or counsellor of the highest judicial court of any other State of
which he was an inhabitant, shall be admitted to practice as an 
.attorney, upon satisfactory evidence of his good character.
SEc. 4. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid, shall be qualified 
to practice as an attorney in any court of this State, upon fili~g a 
eopy of the record of his admission with the clerk.
SEc. 5. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid, shall take 1and 
subscribe in open court the oaths to support the constitution o{ the 
i 1 ~United States and of this- State, and the -oath of. office in the fol­ 
lowing form :
"Yon solemnly swear that you will do no falsehood, nor con­ 
.. •nt that any be done in the court, and i' you know of JI.DY, 
that you will give knowledge thereof to the justices of the court or
some of them, that it may be reformed ; that you will not wit­ 
.. -, .tingly or willingly promote, sue or procure to be sued auy false or 
,tuJIIDla.wfnt. suit, non coment to ·tb.e 81i.Ole ; .. that you. shall delay. no
0011DD.-for;lacre·or:malioe;:but:.ahall act m·the, offi.ce -of:~ alW91ey 
:within the court, according to the best of your learning and ditwJt8.. 
-tion, and with all good fidelity as well to the court as your client.
So help you God." : 
Sze. 6. No person shall be permitted commonly to practice·• 
an attorney in court, unless be has been admitted by the coun·pd
taken the oath aforesaid. . . 
SEc. 7. If an attorney shall be charged with any fraud or ~
practice, or any contempt of court, the court shall inquire ini.
such offence in a summary manner, and if found guilty, he shall 
be suspended or removed from office. . :
Sze. 8. No person shall be admitted to prosecute or defewl, u 
an attorney, any cause in which he has acted as judge. 
lscTJOS 
1. Sheriff' to giR bond. 
t. " not qua.lifted till given. .
3. Sherii"1 bond annually examined. 
4, New bondl to be giTen, or eherift' re.
moycd. 
15. Deputy 1berift'•, how appointed and'
qualified. 
G. Special cleputie•, how appointed.
7. Deputies, :how dillCbsrged. 
8. Sheriff responeible for deputies. 
9. " and dep11tie1 to .ene writ.I, 
&c., and act u crier. 
10. Penalty for negleet to .ene precept.
11. " fbr neglect to pay money 
oollected. 
It. Sheriff' and deputie. may 11equire aid. 
13. " out or otllee ma, complete
lnamleN commenced. 
1', Depa• to .ct in cue of vacancy.
16. " not to receiye buioea, a(. 30. 
ter what time. '
16. Defaulta durin, vacancy, breach of 31. 
bond. · 
V.RA.PrER. 178. 
OF 8HERIFF8 AND THEIR DEPUTIES. 
SscTJON 
ff. Execationsagaimt...r'aot.,.... 
body. 
18. If unsatisfied, •herift' remond.
19. Sheriil'•' bonds, when ned. 
20. " " copy eyidence, ,, ....
11. " " breachee aaigned. . 
a. " "' judpe.nt for~
ho• recove,ecl. 
13. SherHf'1 bond, endoner liule At· 
defendant'• eo1t1. 
2'. Sheriff' accountable for iaN.
25. Penalty for neglect-.. 
*i. Account apimt cou.nt7, how .,.
jmted. 
Z'/. Sheriff' and deputies not to act u ai,.. 
tomey1.
28. Deputit-• to rendenccount of re. to 
sheriff'.
~. Sheriff' to aeco111tt for fees to oout, 
treuurer.
" to pay oyer haluee aboM · 
alary.
" to retain fen for ....., '
made by him11elt. 
Bi:CTION 1. Every sheriff' hereafter. appointed, shall give a bon'1 
to the county in the sum of thirty thousand dollars, with sufficienlJ 
IUl'etiea, to be approved by the justices of the court of co...._~ 
1 
..... for the faithful performance of the· iutiea c,£ Im oflee,- and &o 
. .-wer for all neglect and misdoings"of his depuries, and such bond. 
aa.11 be deposited in the office of the clerk of said court.
81:c. 2. No sheriff shall be deemed qualified to perform an.y duty 
oC his office, until he shall have given security as aforesaid. .
· 81:c. 3. The justices of the court of common pleas shall' annual-
1,, at the term of said court next after the first day of August, con­
sider the sufficiency of the sheriff's Bond aad of his sureties, and i£ 
they determine {he same to be insufficient, they shall cause a recori
thereof to be made, and a cersified copy thereof to be forthwitf;l
aerved on said sheritf. 
· · 81:c. 4. If the sheriff shall neglect to .give new security to ti» 
llllisfaction of said justices, at or before the next term of the court
for said county, they shall forthwith certify the same to the· go.,,..
emor and-council, who shall remove him from office, unlese he shall,
within twenty days after such certificate is made, give such. new 
aecnrity to the satis~action of the govemer and council.
See. 5. Every sheriff may a.woint so, many deputies as he shaD 
think proper, by deputation in writing under his hand and seal, an~ 
not otherwise, who shall. each be sworn. to the faithful discharge
of the duties of his office before a justice of the peace, and the dep­
utation and certificate of. such oath thereon shall be reoordetl at 
llagih, in a book kept for th.at purpose by the cler.k of the- court of
common pleas, and no deputy sheriff shall be deemed qualified to 
act as such until such record shall be made. 
SEc. 6. Any sheriff may constitute a special deputy fox the ses­
vice and return of auy proesss, by warrant endorsed thereon, in sue~
manner as has been heretofore in practice in this State.
. Sec. 7. Any sheriff may discharge from. office any deputy by 
hio\ appoin&ed, by writing under his hand and seal, which shall ia. 
aerved by another deputy by reading the same, or giving an at­
!estPd copy thereof to the deputy so discharged; and such discharge
with a certificate oC the service thereof, shall be recorded in the
manner prescribed for recording deputations.
. Sec, 8. Every sheriff shall be responsible for the official conduct 
of his deputies respectively, until such discharge and the certificate 
ol service thereof shnll be recorded as aforesaid. 
· SEc. 9. The sheriff of every county, by himself or his deputy, 
~IJ serve and execute within his eonnty all writs and precepts to
him directed, issuing from lawful authority; and shall perform all 
ta. duties pertaining to the office of crier of the courts.
Sac, 10. If any sheriff, deputy sheriff or constable shall refuse or 
~ to serve any legal precept to him directed aod delivered for 
aervice, his legal fees therefor being first tendered; except in crimi­
nal cases when the precept shall be endorsed by the attorney gen­
eral or solicitor, or by the clerk by order of court, he shall forfej] 
the- sum of fifty dollars to any person aggrieved thereby, who shall 
.,_therefor within three months after snch neglect or refusal. 
~'1 :gEc. 11. If any -sheriff er his deputy shall, on demand ...t., 
"'refuse or neglect to pay to the creditor ·in any execution, any Stl'8l 
_of money received by him or his deputy on such execution, he
~all forfeit and pay to such creditor five times the lawful interesl
thereof, so long as he ~hall detain the same after such demand 
m~. . 
. : S'tc. lt. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff or other t>fficer, in tN 
1!xecntion of his office for the preservation of the peace, or appre­
~cndiug or securing any person violating the same, or for any other 
·criminal matter or cause, may require suitable aid in the execution
of his office, and if any person when so reqoired, shall neglect or 
refuse to give such aid OP assistance, he shalt be punished· ·by a fine 
not exceeding ten dollars, for the use of the town where the of. 
Tonce 'is committed, . . 
,i S'Ec. 13. In case of the resignation or 'removal from office of any, 
ftheritf~ or of the expiration of his term of office, he may ex&-
1;n\e all precepts then in his hands, and shall be answerable ror 
~ompletmg all business which may have been committed: to his 
~.nte, and for the delivery to his successor of all prisoners who maj 
1>e in his custody, and for that purpose may detain such prisoners
1R his custody. 
,,. S-ec. 14. Whenever a vacancy, from any cause whatever, shall
happen in the office of sheriff of any county, the deputies antl 
jailers then in office shall continue in office, and shall execute tlM
same in the name of the late sheriff, until another is appointed and 
duly qualified, and until they have completed all business. which 
may have been entrusted to them before the person appointed 
sheriff is qualified.
· St:c. 15. No deputy sheriff shall receive any business after the 
'expiration of thirty days from the next meeting of the govemoi
and council after such vacancy shall have occurred. · 
· S Ee. 16. The defaults and misfeasances of such deputy shem&
lud jailers, during the time aforesaid, shall be deemed a breach uC 
their respective bonds to the sheriff who shall have deceased, i-. 
signed or otherwise ceased to hold his office, and the executor or
administrator of a deceased sheriff shall have like remedy for such 
· defaults and misfeasances, ns such sheriff would have had if he
had continued in life and in the exercise of his office. 
· SEc. 17. When judgment shall be rendered against any sheriff,
-.bether in his official or private capacity, execution shall imue
against his goods: chattels and lands, and not against his body; hilt 
when he shall cease to hold his office, execution may issue againll
his goods, lands and body as in other cases. :\ 
- · 81:c. 18. If any execution against the goods and lands of M'rf 
lsberitf shall be returned unsatisfied, the creditor may file a certiW
copy thereof and of the return thereon, with the secretary of stat6
who shall thereupon issue a notice to snch sheriff informing hifa 
thereof, and of the day· when the 8811le was·filed, and i( 1111ch .- 
ctitiell ihaD not he paitl with the costs of such copy &1id nodeef' . 
1"itllin forty 4ars ai\er nch notice is terved on aid aheri1f, tlw 
governor, with advice of the council, ah.all forthwith remove hilll,.
f~ bis office. 
·· S.C .. 19. Any persen injn*1 by the breseh of aay sheriff's bond·
t• the county, may after recovering judgment against the sheriff",
Iris executors or acilministraton, in an action brought for the default,. .
misfeasance or nonfeasance of such sheriff or his deputy, cauee a, 
sait to be instituted on such bond at his own coat, in the name <1f 
tke·county.
81:c. iO. The clerk of the court of eommon plea ehall deliver 
an· attested· copy of any sheriff's bond filed in his office, to any per· 
9Ml ·applying and. paying for the same, and such copy shall be re­
ceived as evidence in nny case; but if the execution of the bond 
l[hall be disputed, the court may order die clerk to briag the orif§inal
bond into court. 
Sze. it. In every suit on such sheriff",s bond the declaratioa
lhall set forth the eonditien of the bond, and assign the breach or
~hes relied upon in the action, and judgment in euch suit sbaM"
aot be a bar to any other aetion on such bond ats~ng otb.-. 
breaches. 
~81:c. 29. In such suit, if the plaintiff" shall recover, the jad~
ahall be rendered in favor of the county, for the use of the persoD·
alleged in the· declaration to be injured by the breach or breaches
assigned therein, and such person shall be taken and deemed to be
tlie creditor for eTery purpose whatever. 
· Sze. 23. If the defendant shall recover judgment for coets, ·a ..
cation shall not issue therefor against the county, but the endcm,e11.
of the writ shall be liable to pay the same, and a writ of scire 
f.ciu may be forthwith sued out against him. 
SEc. 24. The sheriff of each county shall be accountable to the 
treasurer thereof, for all fines and forfeitures imposed by the superior 
court and court of common pleu, and for which warrants shall be
mted to him by the clerks, unless the justices of said court shall
eertif y to such treasurer that the same has nm been and cannot be
recovered, and for all money by him received for the use of the -.
eounty. 
ilK. 25. If uy sheriff ahaU neglect or refuse to pay over to the
county treasurer any such fine, forfeiture OJ' money immediately ou
receipt thereof, or immediately after he shall voluntarily or negli­
gently sirlfer any prisoner on whom the same was imposed, to 
88C8pe, he shall forfeit and pay· treble the amount thereof, with
double costs of snit, on action brought bf sueh treasurer in the 
1J81118 of the county, and mch neglect or refusal shall be a gooi
ground of removalef such sheriff' from offiee • 
• SEc. 26. Every sheriff" shall BftlltuiUy lay before the conrt GI 
emmuon pleas his account 'for·all services done by h&&elf or laia
cfeputies, for which the eotmtf is by law chargeaWe, and; _. _., 
lowance shall be made him. as justir.e may r-iuire ; and no "1Ch
aecount shall be allowed unless it shall be presented withia one 
,eu after the ser.vice is performed, · - 
-~ ' 
8Ec .. 21. No sheriff or deputy sheriff' shall be suffered· to- appear 
•· any court, or before any justice, as attorney to any puty in a
IUit, and if any sheriff" or deputy sheriff shall make any process,
writ, declaration or plea for any; other person, the same sllall be 
..Su. 28~ The deputies of each sheriff shall once in every twelve·
months at least, and. oftener if required, render to such sheriff under
oath a tl'lle acoount of all feee which they shall' have received,. or
which sllaU eecrue to them by Yir.tue of their offioe, for their travel
and service on all writs of mesne process, ancl pay over M> the
sheriff twenty per oent. c-f the amowit thereof. 
Sac. 29. Every sheriff shall, en tbe first Tttesday of January
aanually, render to the county treasurer under oath a true account
of all mo~eys recened A,om,. bu- deputies l>y virtue of his office,
and return to such treasurer the accounts rendered him by his depu­
ties, and the treasurer shall state the saJDe in the aBDual statements-·
he is required to make for publicuion.. . 
SEc. 30. Such sheriff shall retain for his own use, if he shall re­ 
ceive so much, the sum allowed him by law, and the- residue of
the sums received by him as aforesaid, he shall, at the time of ren­
dering his account, pay over to the county treasurer for the 1188 of 
the county. 
SEc. 31. Every sheriff shall retain fGr hie own use Iha fees for 
all services by him personally made, and which he is by law bound 
to perform. 
811:CTIOW 
~IIAl'TEII 179. 
91' CORONERS AND CONSTABLES. 
1. Coroners to gin bond.·
2. Remedy thereon.
3. Coroners to Rne writ,, when: · 
SzcT1011 
4. Remedy on eon1table'1 bond.
6. Conirtablee ~ Rl'Te proce~ from ja­ 
tiee. 
SECTJON 1. Every coroner, befol'e he enters upon the duties of
his office, shall give bond to the county for which he is commie­
lioned, in the sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with sufficient sure-~
ties, to be approved by the justices of the court of common pleas,
and to be kept by the clerk ef said court. • 
SEc. 2. Any person injured by the breach of any coroner's bond; 
111&y .CQmmence and maintain an action thereon, in the same man-. 
uer. he might do upon the bond given by a sheriff", if he were ill· 
jured by the breach thereof, and subject .to the same provisions •
. SEc. 3. The coroner shall serve and -execute all writs and pro­ 
c;esses directed to him, when the sheriff' .is a party, and in all CUii 
where the sheriff' is a party interested, or related to either party, he 
shall return talesmen and attend ahe jury, and in all such cues ht 
shall have the same powers and authority aa is by law vested ia
abari1fs in similar cases. 
SEc. 4. Any person injured by the breach of any constable'•
bond, may commence and maintain an action thereon, in the num
qC the town, in the same manner he might do in the name of the
county upon the bond given by the sheriff, if he were injured br 
the breach thereof, .and subject to the same provisions. 
. SEc. 5. Any constable to whom any writ or other legal precept 
IJlay be directed by a justice of the peace, is empowered and re. 
quired to .serve and return the same according to law, and is vested
with the same powers and subject to the same liabiliti.ea in relatioa 
&hereto as sheriJfs are in like .caaes. 
TITL:t; XXI. 
OF ACTIONS AND PROCESS. 
· SECTlON l. All personal or transitory actions, where both parti• 
· Jre inhabitants of this State, may be commenced· in the county
, where either of the parties to the writ may be an inhabitant, and 
{lbt elsewhere.
SEc. 2. ,!ctions of scire facias, upon any judgment or other prcr 
seeding before a justice, may be .commenced in the court of com­
'Jnon pleas, where the amount of the judgment or other demand
claimed, including costs and interest, shall exceed thirteen dollars 
and thirty-three cents.
SEc. 3. An action of debt may be maintained, if commenced 
within six years, upon any judgment upon which an execution has
been issued and returned satisfied, where it shall appear that the 
.popeny levied or extended upon was not Iiable to be so leYied ~ 
extended upon, for the amount equitably due and costs of levying,
and such levy shall not be a discharge of such debt for any 
purpose. ·
SEc. 4. Any copartner or joint o~er rnay maintain an action 
of assumpsit against one or more of his copartners or joint owners,
to recover his just ~re of any goods or chattels. choses in action 
or the proceeds thereof received by such copartners er joint owners,
and not accounted for, delivered, paid or otherwise settled for on 
demand.
SEc. 5. Any eotenant of real estate may recover by actionof 
assumpsit against one or more of his cotenants, his just share
of the value of any trees destroyed, or cut or carried away by sueh
cotenant, which were standing, I ying or growing on such real
estate, or of any other property attached thereto and destroyed,
severed or carried awny by such cotenant. 
SEc. 6. If any cotenant of any real estate shall hold the exclu ..
sive possession and income thereof, against the will and without
the consent of his cotenant, the cotenant so excluded may, in an
action of assumpsit, recover of the person holding such possession,
the full amount of all damages he may have sustained thereby. 
SEc. 7. No action shall be maintained upon any coutract for
the sale of lands, unless the agreement upon which such ~tiolJ 
shall be brought, or some memorandum thereof, is in writing and
eigeed by the parties to be rhrm~e,1 therewith, or hy some other
person thereunto lawfully authorized by writing. 
81:c. 8. No action shalt be brought in the following cases-- 
lirat, To charge any ell8Cntor or administrator upon any a}lOOial 
JIIOID• to 11fl8Wer, daJD11geg out of -his own estate ; ·1 
. . Second, To charge any person upon any 'special' prormse to an­ 
ner fer the debt, -default or 'miscarriage of another person;
Tlaird, To charge any person npon en agreemem made upoh 
cormderation of marriage ;
Fourth, To charge any person upon any agreement that is not to 
t.e performed within one year from the time of m·aking it r
Unless such ·promise· or agreement, or some memorandum ti_ 
llf1te thereof.' is m writing and signed by .the party to ht charget{
therewitil, or by some person thereunto by him lawfully author-' 
Med. 
. SEc. 9. No action shall be brought upon any contract for th~
mle of any goods, wares or merchandise for the price of thirty- 
1hree tioHars or upwards, and no such contract sha. U be valid uulesa
the buyer shall accept part of the property so sold and actually
n,ceive the same, or give something in earnest to bind the bargain 
l1r in part payment, or unless some note or memorandum in wtiting:
of the said bargain be made and signed by the parties to be' 
ebarged by such contract, or 'their agents thereunto lawfully au-, 
thorized.
Sw:c. 10. No bill of exchange, negotiable promissory note, order. 
er draft, except such as are payable on demand, shall tie payable:
antil days of grace have- been allowed thereon, unless i~ appear in'
the instrument that it was the intention of the parties that days of ~
ptce should not be allowed. · 
Sze. 11. If any person shall be compelled to pay any sum cf I 
aoney, on the account of the escape of any prisoner, he may main­
tain an action· therefor against such· prisoner and all persons aiding .. 
.mc,h escape. . ' 
8Ec. 12. An action upon the case, and no other, shall be com-" 
menced against any sheriff, deputy sheriff, corener or other officer ' 
l• any damages arising from any default or misconduct in his
oliee. • 
tJDAP.rER 181. 
OF THE LIMITATION OF SUl'l'lt. 
J 
SECTION 1. No action for the recovery .ctf any real estate shall ~.
mai,.itained, unless such action is brought .within twenty years after'
the right first accrued to the J>laintiff or to any person under w4om 
be claims, to commence 'an action for the .recovery thereof.
. SEc. 2.. If the person first entitled to maintain an action for the
recovery of such .real estate, was within the age of -twenty-one
,ears, a married woman or insane at the time such right accrued.
11uch action may be.commenced .within fure years after such disa-
1:)ility is ,emoved. 
SEc. 3. Actions.for words an4 for any .assault, battery, wound­
.mg or imprisonment shall be brought within two years after the
-eause of action accrued, and not afterwards. 
SEc. 4. All other personal actions shall be brought within six
years after the cause of action accrued, and not afterwards. . 
SEc. 5. Actions of deat .founded upon any judgment or rccogni-
.:ance, or upon any contract under seal, may he brought within
twenty years after the cause of action accrued: and uot afterwards, 
SEc. 6. Actions upon notes secured by mortgage, may be brong~
.so long as the plaintiff is entitled to-commence any.action upon tbe.
mortg~e. 
SEc: 7. W.1its of error m;g be commenced within three _yeam_
after judgment rendered, and .\flot afterwards. 
· SEc. 8. Any infant, married woman or insane person .may ccm-; 
,nence .either of the personal actions aforesaid, within u.v.o years 
after such disability is removed.
SEc. 9. If the defendant,at .the time the cause of action.accrued 
-or afterwards, was absept from and residing out of the State, ,he.
time of such absence shall be excluded in the computation of the.
11everal times before limited for the commencement of personal 
actions.
· SEc. 10. If judgment shall be rendered against the plaint itf, in 
any action commenced within the times before limited, or upon·
any writ of error brought thereon, he may commence a new action
thereon within one year thereafter, in .case his right of action is
not barred by such jltdgment. 
SEc. 11. The previsions of this chapter shall not apply to any 
eaae in which, by any statute, a different time is limited. · 
I ' 
. SEcmoN 1. All writs, declarations, precesses, indictments, an-. 
swers, pleadings and entries in the courts and \lefore justices shall
be in the English language, and no other. 
' SEc. 2. All writs and processes issuing from the clerk's office. 
oC any court, shall be in the name ef ithe State of New Hamp­
shire,. shall be nuder the seal of such court, shall bear teste of the
chief, first, or senior justice of the court who is not a party, and
shall be .sigued by the clerk and directed to .the sheriff of ~y
county -in the State or his deputy, shall have force in any county,
and be obeyed and executed ~y any officer to whom they may be 
directed. ·
SEc. 3. Original process in said courts shall be summons, ~ · 
tachrnent and eapias, and shall be iu the forms prescribed by 
~w. 
'° the sheriff of the county or his dep11ty, antl to any constable
of any town in ·the county or to either of said officers. . 
SEc .. 4. Writs issued by justices of the peace, shall be directed 
ilsc. 5. They shall be made retaraable before such .justioe at a . 
lay, hour and place named therein, and shall be signed by him. 
In all other respects they shall be substantially -in the form ~
ec,ibed by law. . , 
SEc. 6. When a defeadant has personal property liable to attach­
ment in any county in which he does .aot reside, a justice of .the
peaee may .direct his writ or execution to the sheriff' of any county
or his deputy, or to any constable of any town in which the
defendant resides or has such property. • . 
S Ee. 7. In cases where no form of process ·.is presem>ed by law,
•ch process .shaU l>e made conformable to .the forms prescribed in
tJwJ chapter, M far as the Dllture oC the case will admit. 
SEC. 8. In real actions and actions of ejeetment, the original
1Vrit shall be a summons or an attachment only. 
SEc. 9. When the name &fa defendant ia not known to the
plaintiff, the writ may i888e againet . him by a fictitious name, a.-1 
if duly served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may be
amended on such terms as the court may order. '. 
Sec, 10. The forms of writs shall be in substance as follows, a 
the following cases :- 
e 
R. IS. 
We command you to attach the goods or estate of A. D. of, &e. 
to the value of dollars, and summon him ( if to be found in. 
your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of 
• be holden at in said county of on the Tuesday 
.,C to answer to B. P. of in a plea of to the
damage of the said B. P., as he says, the sum of dolla&
And make return of this writ with your doings therein. 
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D. 
Sv.c.11. SUMMONS WHERE GOODS ARE ATTACHED~· 
O ToA.p.of 
18. 
ATTACHMENT. 
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIJlE. 
To the sheriff of .-iy county in this State, or his 
.deputy. 
TBE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
We command you to appear at the court of to be holdea 
at in said county of on the Tuesday of 
to answer to B. P. of ine plea of which plea the said
B. P. has commenced against you, to be heard and tried at the ..S 
court, and your goods or estate are attached to the value of
dollars for security to satisfy the judgment which may be reeo-,. 
ercd against you. Fail not of appearance at your peril. 
R. G. CI~rk.. 
W ituess J. P. Esquire, the day ef A. D.
&. G. Clerk. · 
CAPIAS ·AND A. TT .A.-OHMENT.
:. · lsc. 19. 
• 
'&. SI. 
lle command you to arrest the body of A. D. of or to
attach his goods or estate to the value of dollars, ( if to be 
found in your precinct.) and summon him to appear before the
justices of the court of to be holden at in said county 
of on the Tuesday of to answer to B. P. of
in a plea of to the damage of the said B. P., as he says, ti. 
!JU1D .of dollars, And make return of this writ with your 
doings therein.
Witness J. P .. Esquire, the 
R. SS. 
,. To the sheriff of any county in this State, or hi1
.. deputy. 
We command you to summon A. D. of ( if to be found iri
your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of to
be hol.den at iu said county of to answer to f ofJ 
ma plea of to .he damage of the said B. P., as he says.
the sum of dollars. An~ make return of this writ and your 
doings therein.
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D. 
,,. 
L- H. 
~ 
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIR,J. 
To· the sheriff' of any county ~ this State, or hJs
deputy. 
SUMMONS.
Sec, 13. 
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIR'E;. 
REP LEVIN.
SEC. 14. 
A.D .. 
R. G. Clerk.
day of 
R. G. Clerk. 
'j
T~-IE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
To the sheriff of any county in this Stak,, or h•
deputy. 
We command you to replevy belonging to A. P. of
W1fll1~fully taken and detained, as it is &1:,1, by A. D. of and
deliver the same to the said A. P., provided he give bond to the
value of dollars, with sufficient sureties, to prosecute his ~
plevin at the court of to be holden at in the county of 
on the Tuesday of and so from court to court 
. mta the cause be ended, and to pay such costs and damages as the 
said A. D. shall recover .against him. And we command y~ io 
summon the said A. D. (if to be found in your precinct) to appear
before the justices of ·the court aforesaid, at the time and place
aforesaid, to answer to said A. P. in a plea of -replevia -19
the damage .of the said A. P., as he says, the sum of dollan.
And make return of this writ with your doings therein. 
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D.
B. G. Clerk. . 
TB.UST EE.
Sze. 15. 
• 
1L SS • 
THE ST~TE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
To the aheritr of any county in this State, or Im 
deputy. .. 
We command you to attach the goods or estate of .A. D. of
to the value of dollars, and summon him ( if to be found: 
ia your precinct) to appear before the justices of the court of
to be holden at .in said cou~y, on the day of
to answer to A. P. of in a plea of to the de.map
of the said A. P., as he says, the sum of dollars. We also 
eommaml ·rou to aJtach the money, goods, chattels, rights and
credits of the said A. D. in the hands and possession of E. T. to 
the value of dollars, and summon said E. T. ( if to be found 
in yoar precinct) to appear at said court and show cause, if any he 
baa, why execution should not issue against him for the damage
which .may be recovered b3 said A. P. against said A.. D. hd 
"1Dake return of this writ with your doings therein.
Witness J. P., Esquire, the day of A. n 
SC1R.E F ACIAS. 8&c. 16. 
THE STATE OF NEW Hi\MPSHJRE. 
B.. ss,
,. To the sheruf of any ·cou~y in ithis State, or Ilia 
~ depu~y. · •
Whereas A. P. -of by the consideration of the justices of 
the const of holdenat iR .said county, on the day_. 
f4 recovered judgment against A. D. of for the sum 
a( dollars, and costs taxed at as appears of record, an4
uecution thereof remains .to .be done : 
We command you, therefore, to summon -the said A.. D. te 
appear before the justices-of the court of to be holdea at 
R. G. elctk. 
in Aid ceuJlt¥ •f en die Tueaday of to show ·' 
ea.use, if any he has, wherefore the said A. P. sflould not ha?• 
exeention against him for the sums aforesaid. And make retum 
• this writ and your doings therein,
·Witness J .. P., Esquire, the day of 
ti.; 
Sa<r. rr. ~l original writs· shaft, before they are served; be en­ 
dorsed on the back thereof by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,_
being- an inhabitant of this State, and if lhe plaintiff is not an in­
habitant of the State, by some responsible person who is such
inhabitant. 
Stec. 18. The· person so endorsing any writ, shall be liable, io
~ the- plaintiff shall live out of the State, upon return of non 
8lt inventus or: ihat such execution as may have issued against thet
plaintitf, is unsatisfied, to pay to the defendant all such colts as. be 
may recover against, the plaintiff.
SEc. 19. Such defendant shall have his remedy by writ of scire 
&cias.against such, endorser, which shall be 881'Yed upon the ee­ 
doner before the second term of the court after final judgment •
entered against the plaintiff, or within one year alter final judgment 
ii 80· rendered befose a justioe, and not afterwaru. 
8scno• SaoT10•
1. Notice, ?aow fong-reqairecl. 6. E:viden.ce of such lffYice, wlaat ie. 
I. Senice of acint faciu, rev.iew, &.o. 7. Sen·ice oa. attomey,. when.
3. Summons to be given, when. 8. " on town,, how made.
,. What imerted in such eummons. 9. " OD other corporatioD1.
6. Service, if defendant ia not an iohab- 10. '" , OD eounties, 
it.ant of the Slate. 
SECTION 1. All original writs and writa of mesnc process shall
be served upon individuals, fourteen days before the sitting· of the 
court to which the same are returnable, and upon corporations,
thirty days before the sitting of such court. 
- .8Ec. 2. Writs of summons, scire facias and review shall be
1erved by reading the same to the defendant, or by giving to him· 
ari attested copy thereof or leaving such copy al his usual place of
abode ; and if the writ is brought for dower, a like copy shall be
left with the tenant or occupant of the land whereof the dower ii 
demanded, if there is any. 
CBA.Pl'EB 183 .. 
. 9F TYE SERVICE OY WRl'J8. 
A..D.
B.. G. Clerk. 
·sEc. 3. When the goods or estate of any person shall be attached,
a summons in the fonn prescribed by law shall be delivered to the 
... 
'8Aliulant or let\ at hi& usoal place of aiede, with . the name and 
edlce of the offloer serving tbe Biiiie, endorsed by hio;i thereon.
SEc. 4. Every such summons shall set forth the IWD ia the notls 
or obligation declared upon, w.ith the endonements and· dates ~re­
of, the amouut of the account, in covenant what sum is demanded
in damages, and for what, and in all cases shall briefly give to the
4iefenda.nt the same information which the declaratioa gives more
~t large, and shall contain the substance thereof. 
SEc. 5. If any defendant is not an inhabitant of this' State and
the writ is not served oa him in penon,. but his goods or __.
within this State are attached, an attested copy of the writ, wit&
au aiteaed copy of the return, may be given to the defendaot or
lt!ft at his ulWll place oi abede, or left with his agent lawfully au-·
dtoriaed. to. appear M>r him, er with his tenant· on or near. the,lddJ
auached.. 
SEc. 6. The giving or leaving such copy with the defendant CJr< 
• his plane of abode, shall 'be proved by the certi~ under Ollth
of the officer who made the attachment, or of some proper otliOllt 
ie the stale where the defendant lives, or of IOBle other· person,
. Stce. 7. Writs of review and of l!ICire faciaa may be served, ut• 
case the defendant therein is Jlot an inhabitani of this Staae, on the 
attorney who appeared for such defendant in the original action,
or by giving to such defendant a copy of such writ, and affidavit
madethereol • 
SEc. 8. Any writ or mesne process against any town may be
served by giving to the town clerk,.if any .there be, or leaving al 
his usual place of abode an attested copy of the writ, and by giving
to one of the selecteaea, if any' there be, or leaving at his usual
place of abode a like copy; or, if there be no town clerk or ae­ 
lectman, by giving such copy to one of the principal inhabitantw·-.i
leaving the same at his nsnal place of abode. ' 
SEc. 9. Any writ or process against any other corporation tit 
body politic, may be served by leaving an attested copy thereof
with the clerk, treasurer or one of the directors, and in case di 
their absence from the· State, with any principal member thereat;
or with the agent, overseer or person having the care and control 
di the corporate property or part thereof, or leaving the same at
the· usual place of abode of either of them. 
SEc. 10. Any writ against a county shall be served by leavinfr 
an attested copy thereof with the clerk of the court of comlllOII, 
pleas, thirty daya before the sitting of the coart lo which sach writ
is returnable. · 
SsCTION 1. All property, real and personal, which is liable to be
taken in execution, may be attached and held as security for die .
jod~ment the plaintiff may recover. 
· Ssc. 2. The following goods and property shall be exemplei. 
fh>m attachment and exr,eution :
: . I. The wearing apparel necessary for the use of the debtor and­ 
his .family ;
2. Comfortable beds, bedsteads and bedding necessary for tlao 
debter, his wife and children ;
3. Household furniture to the value of twenty dollars ; 
~ •# The bibles and school books ·in use in the family ;
5. One cow and one and a half tons of hay ; 
6. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same when slaug'b- 
18red;
1. Tools of his occupation to the value of twenty dollars;
8. Six sheep and the fleeces of the same ;
9. One cooking stove and the necessary furniture belonging • 
• Cbe same; 
10. Provisit>ns and fuel to the value of twenty dollars ; ..
11. The uniform, arms and equipments of enry officer and pri­ 
vate in the militia ;
12. The debtor's interest in one pew in any meeting house. in 
which he or his family nsnally worship ;·
13. The debtor's interest in one lot or right of burial in any 
ceinetery. .
SEc. 3. Re.al estate shall be attached on any writ or mesne pl'd­ 
cess, by the .officer leaving an attested copy of such writ and of
bis return of snch attachment' thereon, at the dwelling house ~f 
the town clerk of the town in. which such real estate is situate, or
if there is no town clerk, with tlie clerk of the court of commoa 
pleas of the couuty, without any other act or ceremony .
. 81:c. 4. The· otlicer's return shall always be sufficient evidence 
that such copy. has been so· left. and of the time thereof; but the
town clerk or olerk of the court shall certify thereon the time
when such copy was received, and keep the same on file, and shall
receive of the officer ,herefor seventeen cents. 
SEc. 5. By an attachment of real estate all the debtor's interest
therein shall be held t,o satisfy the judgment, though such interest
be 11: right of redeeming the same upon a mortgage, or levy, or sale
on execution or for taxes, or a sight to receive a conveyance there- 
of by any contract. · '
SEc. 6. Any creditor attaching such right of redeeming, may at 
any time while such right exists, as well before as after sale there. 
o( on his execution, pay or tender to the person entitled to tr. 
redemption money, the full sum due to him; and, upon such pay .. 
meut or tender, the interest in such real estate derived from such
mortgage, levy or sale, shall, as against such attachment aud the
rights acquired under it, cease. 
, Sec. 7. Stach creditor or the officer serving tl'le writ, may de­
mand of the perSGn entitled to the redemption money, an account
nuder oath of the amount due him; and if such account be not
rendered within ifteen days alter or a false account shall be ren­
dered, his said interest in such real estate shall, as against such
attachment and the rights acquired under it, cease. 
SEc. 8. If such creditor, after payment of the redemption mon­
ey, shall suffer his attachment or levy· to be dissolved, or the same
shall in any way be defeated, he shall be entitled to receive from
the person to whom the pnymeut was made, a good and valid con­
veyance of his right to such real estate. 
SEc. 9. If any such person, being requested to make such con­
veyance and having his reasonable charges therefor paid or tender­
ed to him, shall unreasonably neglect or refuse to make and cxe4:
cute the same, such creditor mny maintain nu action of assumpsit
agaiust such person to recover the money paid ns aforesaid, with
i11tercst. Tho debtor in such case shall he c11 tit led to uot ice. in·
writing of such conveyance, neglect or refusal, and, after such Q~ 
tiee. ehall have the same time for redeeming auch real estate that 
he had at the time of attachment.
.. Sec. 10. No attachment of any interest in real estate shall bJ 
defeated by any change of the nature of the debtor's right thereto, 
JIS hy redemption of any mortgage or other incumbranee, or the-
execution to him of any conveyance pursuant to a contract, bid.
the whole interest of the debtor upon such change shall be held 
.by the attachment,
, . SEc. 11. The share or interest of any person in ariy corporation 
.may be attached by the officer, by leaving an attested copy of tha
·writ and of his return thereon with the clerk, treasurer, cashier, 
agent or person having the care of the property of such corpora­
tion, or at his usual place of abode, and the dividends becoming
due afterwards shall be holden by such attachment. • 
SEc. 12. Pews or seats iu meeting houses or places of public
worship shall be deemed personal property, and may be attached
by leaving an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return.
thereon, with the town clerk of tho towu in which such meeting­ 
lsouse is. 
· · Sac. 13. The franchise of any corporation authorized to receive­
tolls, so far as relates to the rights to receive tolls, with all the priv·
ileges and immunities belonging thereto, may be attached by leav­ 
iug an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return thereon
with the clerk, treasurer or a director of such corporation. 
SEc. 14. The officer attaching grain unthrcshed, hay or pota­
toes, any lumber or fuel, bricks, stone, lime, gypsum or ore, manu­
faeturing or other machinery, bark or hides in the process of tan­
ning, may leave an attested copy of the writ and of his return of' 
such attachment thereon, as in the attachment of real estate; and·
in such case, the attachment shall not be c'kssolvcd or defeated by 
•ny neglect of the officer tu retain actual possession of the pro-
perty. . 
81:c. 15. Any personal property not exempt from attachment,
tSUbject to any mortgage, pledge or lien, may be attached as the
property of a mortgager, pledger or general owner, the attnching
creditor or officer paying or tendering to the mortgagee, pledgee,
Qr holder the amount for which said property. is holden, as ascer­
tained in tire mode provided by the following section. 
SEc. 16. Such creditor or officer may demand of the mortgagee,
pledgee or holder an account on oath of tho amount due upon tho 
debt or demand secured by such mortgage, pledge or lien, and th•
officer may retain such property in his custody until the same ~
given, without tender or payment; and if such account shall noe 
be given within fifteen days after such demand, or if a false ac-
. count is given, such property may be holden discharged from sucla 
iportgage, pledge or lien. 
·. Sr.c. U. Personal property attached shall be sold by the oflicur 
Wore judgment, if the parties consent thereto. in writing, and suclt 
47 
tale shall be made in the same manner 38 sales of property ta,lcen
on- execution, unless a different mode shall be agreed on by the 
~~ .
. SEc. 18. When Jiving animals or goods liable to perish, or waste 
or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot be 
kept without great expense, are attached aud the parties do not
eonsent to a sale, the officer on application of either of the parties
may cause the same to be examined in the manuer following :- 
SEc. 19. Three disinterested persons conversant with the nature ·
and value of such property, shall he appointed, one by the officer,
one by the creditor and one by the debtor. The officer shall ap- .
~int an examiner for the creditor or debtor, in any case where he
might appoint an appraiser for the debtor upon the levy of an exe ..
cutiou on real estate. 
SEc. 20._ The persons so appointed being sworn to the faithful
discharge of their duties, shall examine the property and decide
what part of the property is such as is described in the secorid pre­
ceding section, and certify the same to the officer, and he shall ._
thereupon advertise and sell the property so certified, in the same
manner as if the parties consented thereto. 
SEc. 21. If the debtor shall before such notice of sale request
any personal property attached to be restored to him, and the offi· 
eer shall not agree with him as to the value thereof, the officer 
shall cause three disinterested persons to be appointed to appraise
the same, who shall be appointed and sworn in the manner provi- .
ded in the two preceding sections. 
SEc. 22. The officer shall cause a schedule of such property to
be prepared, and the persons so appointed shall appraise the same
at their cash value at that time, and make a certificate of their
doings on such schedule. 
. SEc. 23. The property so appraised or the value of which. baa
been agreed on by the officer and debtor, shall be restored to the
debtor upon his giving a bond to the sheriff, if the attachment is ,
made by him or his deputy, otherwise to the coroner or constable
making the same, in sufficient penalty, with sufficient sureties, con- .
ditioned to pay the appraised or agreed value thereof, or so much
as may be necessary towards the satisfaction of any executions, .,
for the payment of which tho property or its proceeds are by law 
holden. 
SEc. 24. Property attached shall be deemed to remain in the :
custody of the officer, so far as to be liable to attachment in the. 
lllllle manner it would have been, if it had remained in his hands .
apecifically, notwithstanding the same may have been sold or re­
stored to the debtor, or taken from the officer by any writ of
1eplevin. . 
SEc. 25. The officer shall make return of his doings upon .ever,
writ where property is sold by consent or upon such certificate u · 
afo~said, or restored to the debtor, and in those cases the b~nd 
taken shall be returned with the writ on which the first attach­
ment is made, and shall be deemed a record of the court to which 
.i1eh writ is returnable.
Sze. 26. Every bond given by' the debtor and every replevin 
bond in the cases aforesaid, shall be deemed to be given for the
benefit of all persons who have attached or may attach the same,
to the full value of the property. 
SEc. 27. In case such bond shall be forfeited, any attaching
creditor or his representative may bring a writ of scire facias there­
on, within two years after the cause of such action shall accrue,
and not afterwards. Two or more creditors may join in such
action, and separate executions shall be awarded to each for the
amount due to them respectivEly. 
SEc. 28. Any party interested may maintain an action of debt 
on such bond· in the name of the officer to whom the same is pay­
able, within the period above limited. The name of such party
shall be endorsed on the writ, and any other party may cause his
name to be so endorsed at any time by leave of the court. 
SEc. 29. The persons whose riames are so endorsed, shall be
deemed the plaintiffs for every purpose, and execution shall issue
in' favor of each for the amount due to them respectively, and
against them for costs, if judgment should be rendered for the·
defendants in such action. 
· SEc. 30. When any judgment shall be rendered for the defend­
ant, upon which execution may issue, or when the action shall be
compromised or dismissed, the attachment made in such action 
shall be dissolved thereby. 
SEc. 31. Attachments shall be dissolved by the death of the
defendant; in case his estate shall be decreed to be administered as 
an insolvent estate, but not otherwise, if the cause of action by law 
survives.
SEc. 32. In case the attachments on any property are .dissolved 
or if the same has been sold, the money arising from the sale there­
of, deducting the charges and expenses of sale, shall be restored to
the debtor or his personal representative upon request, or if the
same has been restored to the debtor on his bond, the said bond 
ahall be void. 
SEc. 33. Property attached shall be holden until the expiration
of thirty days from the time of rendering such judgment in the·
action, in favor of the plaintiff, that execution may issue thereon ;
and if there are several attachments, the property shall be holden 
to the creditors in the order in which their attachments were made . 
. SEc. 34~ The proceeds of property sold on any writ, and the
amount secured by bond when property attached is restored to the
debtor, shall be holden to pay the executions issuing in the actions 
in which the attachments were made, in the order in which they
~ere made, if demanded by the officer to whom such execution
11'.lay be committed, within thirty days after judgment is rendered. 
, 
8Ec. 36. If jndgmen! shall be rendered ia. vacation by direotioa 
e( the coart as of a previous term, the clerk shall enter of record
&he day on which the order of court is dated, and all, property 
attaehed shall be holden mail the expiration of thirty days froaG 
that date. 
OP ARRES1J'8 AND BAii.. 
8:SCTJO!f J:C:TI01' 
' 
1, Female, no, be arrested fo, debt. 9. Pttreon1 a1re.ated discharged by _;..
L Nor yolt'n,. on i&y• of election. tices, bow· 
s. 1'c,r ot1icen llld sol4ien on duty. 10. Court may discharge deltor, how. .
ti. Nor admin"straton for cau»e• of &e· 11. Dischnge doe, not aft"eot debt. 
12. Court may permit arrut and W 
tion against deceued.
pendiag a suit. 
6, ft'or sheriS:. while in office. 13. Bail, bow takt'n on writ. 
6. Nor deft'adants in real aclione. J.C. " " " afler commitment. 
'1. Nor upon a contract, where d&magee 15. Names and reeidence of bail to be-
under $13·:tJ. returned. 
8. Nor on contract. 1ince March 1, 1841, 16. Person, imprittoned held ao da71 J.' 
unleu on aildayit. kr ju4iment. 
SECTION 1. No female shall be arrested or imprisoned upon. any,. 
w..-it in any action founded on contract.
Ssc. 2. No person entitled to vote at any town meeting, shall i 
be liable to arrest upon auy civil process on the day on which such
aeeting is held. 
SEC. 3. No officer or soldier shall be liable to arrest upon any
rivil process while going to, returning from or attending at any
military exereise or parade, or any court martial or court of inquiry,
which it shall be his duty to attend. 
SE&-. 4. No executor or administrator shall be liable to arrest for
any cause of action against any person deceased. 
SBc~ 5. No sheriff shall be liable to arrest upon any civil process
while he remains in office. " 
Sec. 6. No. person shall be liable to arrest on mesne process ia. 
any real action or action of ejectment. ·
Sec. 7. No person shall be arrested or imprisoned on any writ 
in any action founded on a contract, unless the debt or damage f<Jr
the recsvery of which such action may be brought, exclusive. of all ,
the costs, shall exceed the sum of thirteen dollars and thirty-three, 
cents.
Sec. 8. No person shall be arrested upon any writ or execution , 
COllllded on a ceatract made after the irst day of March, one thou- ~ 
· llllld eight hundred and forty-one, unless the plaintiff' or some· per­ 
,on in his behalf shall make an affidavit before a justice, on tbe
~aek of such writ, that in his belief the defendant is juatly i•
debted to him in a certain sum exceeding thirteen ciollars and tlru­
ty-three cents, and that he conceals his property so that no attach· 
.mentor Jevy can be made, or that there Is good reason to believe
·he is about to leave the State to avoid the payment ·of his debts. 
SEc. 9. The defendant in such case, when arrested, may require
the officer making the arrest, to carry him before two justices, one
of whom shalJ be of the quorum; and such justices upon consider­
ing his affidavit and sueh evidence as may be laid before them, if
they believe he does not so conceal his property and has no inten­
tion to leave the State, may make an order for his discharge upon 
the writ or execution, and he shall be released.
· S1:c. 10. At the return term of such writ the defendant may 
move the eoart to be discharged, or that his bail or ,sureties may be
discharged, and the court, upon satisfactory evidence that the d,r
fendant does not conceal his estate and does not intend to leave the 
. 8tate, may order such discharge. 
SEc. 11. No such discharge nor any discharge of any peJBOn 
an-ested or imprisoned on execution, shall discharge the deb&- or
judgment upon which the execution -issued. 
· 8Ec. 12. In any case when no sufficient attachment has been
made, and there is no sufficient bait, the court or any justice there­
of, upon motion and satisfactory evidence that the defendant intends
to leave the State, may order a capias to issue, on which the de­
fendant·may be arrested and held to bail as on an original writ. 
81:c. 13. When any person shall be arrested on raesne process,
he shall be committed to jail, unless he shall procure one or more
pershns of sufficient ability, to the satisfaction of the officer, to be­
come his bail by endorsing their names or signatures, as bail, on the
beck of the writ. 
SEC. 14. Auy person committed to jail before judgment by any
officer, or by his nil, or upon a surrender by his bail in court, 
.shall he discharged upon procuring one or more persons of sufficient
ability, to the satisfaction of the keeper of the jail, to become his 
bail by endorsing their names or signatures, as bad, on the back of
the copy or order of court on which such person shall be detained
in jail, and the jailer shall make return of such copy or order and
hil doings thereon, into the court, and such endorsement and re­ 
turn shall be of the same force and effect as if made on the original
writ 
'SEc. 15. The officer taking any person 'as baa, shall return his
name and place of abode upon the writ, copy or order of c<Jl!lrt on
which such person shall be arrested or detained ill prison. 
SEc. 16. If any person shall be committed to prison by the <>ffi­ 
cer ot his bail, or upon surrender 'by his bail, he shall, unless he
aball be· bailed before the judgment, be held in prison until tt. 
expiration of thirty days after the rendition of such judgment for
the plaintiff as execution may issue upon, unless sooner legally
discharged. 
CHAPTER 186. Of nonsuit, default, notice and abatement. 
CHAPTER 187. Of tender, confession, pleading aud set-oft 
CHAPTER 188. Of views and evidence. 
CHAPTER 189. Of auditors; 
CHAPTER 190. Of judgments. 
CHAPTER 191. Of costs. 
CHAPTER 192. Of reviews and new trials. 
SaoT101t 
OF :PROCEEDINGS IN COURTS. 
OF NONSUIT, DEFAULT, NOTICE AND ABATEMENT. 
l. Neglect to enter aclion, penalt7. 
I. Nonsuit, co,ta for defendant. 
3. Default to be entered, when. 
t. " when ,truck off".
6. Notice by publication, when made. 
6. " 1pecial, when riven.
7. Notice by advertiaement before ju1- 
tieee,
8. Bond to re9J>Ond on review, when. 
9. Review, when to be brought. 
TITLE XXII. 
10. Want of form, not to abate.
11. Amentlmea&a in 1uNtance ma41e. 
CBA.PrER ISG. 
8ZCTI01' 
12. Nonjoinder of tenanw not to .bate.
13. Piaclaimer, cb8tl en, when.
14. Sunivor of actioua, when.
15. Suniving party may prooeed, when. 
16. Marriage of female defendant 1aot te
abate. 
17. Marria,e of female plaiAtil' not. te
abate 
18. N.onjoinder of any party not to abate. 
]!). Names of defendants struck out. 
*). Notice of peliliom, how given. _
21. Order of notice i• vacation,how givea. 
St:cTJON 1. If any person shall neglect to enter in court any 
action by him commenced, in which any process shall have been
aerved on the defendant, judgment shall be rendered against him, 
on complaint, for costs. .. · 
· SEc. 2. If the plaintiff after entry of any action shall become
nonsuit, judgment shall be rendered against him in fnvor of the
defendant for costs. 
, . $ce. 3. If any defendant 011 whom proceas has been duly served,
shall neglect to appear at the court to which the same is returned, 
ni's default shall be recorded and judgment shall be rendered
against him for such damages as, upon inquiry, the .plaintiff shall
appear to have sustained. 
SEc. 4. The defendant may be permitted to enter an appearance
after a default, at the discretion of the court or. justice, upon the
payment of reasonable costs. 
SEc. 5. In any action commenced against any defendant who is
not an inhabitant of this State, or whose residence is unknown to
the officer serving the writ, and the goods arid estate of the defend­
ant within this State shall be attached, or when the defendant shall
be absent from the State at the time of commencing such action;
and shall not have returned at the time appointed for trial, and no
personal service is made on the defendant, the court, on the sug­
gestion thereof, may order the action to be continued and notice
to be given of the pendency thereof, by publishing the order of:·
court in such newspaper printed in this State, and for such period
of time as the court may therein direct, the last publication to ho
at least thirty days before the next term of the court. 
SEc. 6. The court may also, in their discretion, order such fur •.
ther notice and in such form, by mail or otherwise, as they may­
think proper, and upon satisfactory evidence that the order of tho
court has been complied with, such notice shall be sufficient. 
SEc. 7. In actions before a justice commenced by attachment, if·
no personal service is made upon the defendant by reason that he
resides out of the State, or that his residence is nnknown to the
officer serving the writ, the action shall be continued not less than 
sixty nor more than ninety days, and the justice shall order notice 
of the pendency of ·such suit to be given, by posting up a copy of
such order in two or more public places in the town where the de-:
fondant was last known to be an inhabitant in this State, fort}"
days at least before the day to which said action shall be oou­
tinuod. 
S Ee. 8. lf the defendant shall not appear at the time and place.
to which said action was continued, judgment shall be rendered on:
satisfactory evidence that notice has been posted up us aforesaid, 
- and execution shall issue thereon, upon the plaintiff filin~ with·
the justice a bond, with sufficient sureties, to the defeuduut, to:
respond the judgment which the defendant may recover upon a, 
· review of said action. • 
SEc. 9. Such review may be brought before the justice at any~
time within two years after the rendition of the judgment, and the·
plaintiff' in such review may have the benefit of nil pleas and ad­
vantages which he might have had in the original action. 
81-:•~. 10. No writ, declaration, return, process, judgment' or other·
proceeding in the courts or course of justice, shall be abated, quash­ 
ed or reversed for 9;ny error or mistake, where the person or ease 
may be rightly understood hy the court, nor through defect or
want of foam or addition 011ly, and courts ani justices ma7, on 
· lllOtion, order amendment in auy sueiil case.
SEc. 11. Amendments in matter of substance may be permitted 
in any action, in any stage 10f the psoceedings, upon-such terms as
the, court shall deem just and reasonable, but the rights of third
persons shall uot be affected thereby, · 
SEc. 12. In real actions the writ shall not abate because alt ,ho
tenants are not named in it, but those on whom the writ ~s served,
shall answer for such part of the premises demanded as they claim,
and may disclaim for the residue. · 
S1:c. 13. In any real action the defendant who shall disclaim the
whole, shall recover costs, unless the plaintiff shall maintain his 
w.rit as to zhe whole or part of the demanded premises.
SEc. 14. Actions -of trespass for breaking and entering on any 
zeal property, actions on the case for trover and conversion, actions
against any sheriff or his deputy for any faults and misdoings in
office, J1eal actions, actions of ejeetmem, and actions of trespass f or1 
taking and carrying away any goods and chattels, shall not abate
by reason of the death of either party, but may be prosecuted. to
ju,dgment and reviewed in the same manner as other actions the . 
eause of which by law survives. .
SEc. 15. If there are two or more plaintiffs or defendants nnd 
either of them shall die, the action saall not be abated if the right
of action shall surwve, but may be prosecuted by or against tl,c
surviving parties, such death being suggested on the record. · 
SEC, lo. If any female defendant ehatt maITJ pending any ac­
tion, the -court, upon suggestion, may order notice of such snit to
the husband, and upon evidence that such order has hecu com] .lied
with, the action shaU proceed against th~ husband and wife in the
.same manner as if -it had been origina.Hy comraenced against them. 
SEc. 17. No action shal) be abated by the marriage of any fe­
male plaintiff, if the husband, after due notice, to be directed by the
court, shall become party to the suit, in which case the action shall
-be prosecuted in ,the same manner as if the same had been origi­ 
nally commenced by the husband and wife.
SEc. 18. No action shall be abated by the plea that there are 
other plaintiffs or defendants who ought to be joined therein, but·
such persons may be made parties to the action npon such terms · 
as the court shall order, and may be summoned by writ of scire i 
facias or notified by publication in some newspaper, as the ront1;
may order, and the action shall thereafter proceed as if -their names ·
wore inserted in the original writ. 
SEc. 19. In all actions where there .are two or more defeedaeta,
the plaintiff may araend the writ before the evidence is closed, by 
miking out the aaraes ofoae or.more of the defendants, 011 paying
them their coats up to that time. 
SEc. 20. When any petition, complaint, libel.jipplieation or mo- 
·-lion in writing shalt be filed in ·co\lrt, the eonrt shall order notiee
dlereof to be give• in such manner as they think proper., and ne 
· judgment or decree shall be rendered thereon without compliance
•itb lltch order. 
812C. -21. Any sach petition, complaint, libel, application or mo­
·tion may be filed .in the clerk's oil.ca in vacation, and order of 
notice may be issued thereon under the direction and rules of said 
eGW't. 
81lCTI01' 
CJIAPrER 187. 
or TENDEJI., CONFB8810N, PLEADIJitG AND 8ET-OFI'. 
1. Tender to I.he attomey, how made.
'2: Conflc',aion of dl\Dlagea, whea. 
3. Brief statements under general issue .
.C. Set-oft" of mutual debts, when.
5. " by and against admiaistraton. 
St;CTI01' 
~- Set-off' of bonda, when allowed 
'1. Plea or notice of .. tA>tr given.
8. Continuance, if ao notice before court.
9. Judgment for balance (or either party. 
10. No set-oft"unleN right of action exiata.' 
SECTION 1. At any time before the sitting of the court to which
any writ may be returnable, the defendant may tender to the plain­
tilrs attorney who brought the action, the amount of the debt an•
costs, and such tender aii.all be a bar to any furtker proceedings ia
such ease. 
Sec. "2. In any action the defendant may confess the plaintiff's
action or any part thereof, and that the plaintiff is entitled to re·
cover certain real estate or a certain amount of debt or damages,
nrld plead to the residue of his elaim, and if the plaintiff shall
afterwards prosecute his action nnd shall not recover more than ·is
so confessed, the defendant shall recover his costs from the date of 
stteh confession.
Sec. 3. No special plea shall ever be required in any civil action, 
except a plea of title to real estate before justices of the peace.
Either party may give in evidence any matter in support or de­
fence of the aetion under .the general issue, upon filing in court a
btrief statement thereof within sueh time as the court may order. 
Sec. 4. If there are mutual debts or demands between the plain­
tiK and defendant at. the ,time of the commencement of the 
p1ain61"~ action, ose debt .or demand may be set -0tl' against the
otner. 
fhr.. i. Mntual debts or demands existing between any person
decea11ed at the time of his death and anr other person, may :be set
<>ff in actions by or 82,'aiust the esecntor or administrator. 
S&c. 6. If the defendant's debt or aemancl is founded on. any 
bond or specialty with a penalty, the amennt equitably doe 0111f 
shall be set off. '.
8Ec. 7. The defendant may plead such set-off or give notice 
thereof with a plea of the general issue, describing 111ch debt or
demand with the same certainty as is required in a declaration. · 
SEc. 8. The plaintiff shall be entitled to one continuance in 
ease of a set-off, unless a particular statement of such debt or de­
mand, with a notice that the defendant will set off the same, ~
been served on the plaintiff ten days before the sitting of the eourt, 
SEc. 9. Judgment shall be rendered for the balance which may
appear to be justly due to either of the parties, unless in cues 
before justices the balance due to the defendant shall exceed thir­
teen dollars thirty-three cents ;1 in which cases judgment shall be
rendered for costs only. · . . 
SEc. 10. No debt or demand shall be set off as aforesaid, unleaa
a right of action existed thereon at the commencement of the 
plaintiff's action. 
8SCTIO:f 
OF VIEWS AND EVIDENCE. 
1. View, when and on what terms.
2. Summon•, form or. 
3. Clerks may iaoe, for witneuea.
4. Justices may iaue-, for witne .. es.
6. Summom to depo1e, justice may ia- 
sue.
6. " how eened on witneaea. 
'1. LiabilitY, for neglect to attend.
8. Courts may compel attendance.
9. No person disqualified u a witncu 
by bis religious belief. 
JO. Ceremony in swearing.
Jl. Affirmation, when allowed. 
12. Members or public corporations, &.c.,
competent. 
J:J. Depoeitions, when may be taken.
U. Who may take deposition,.
15. Notiee ginn to resident.a, how. 
8ECTI01' 
16. Notice given to attorney,, wbea.
17. Attorney, who ia, for th•• purpoa. 
18. Wbo di,quaJifi.ed to take ~position.
19. Dep<>11ition, how signed and ,wora. 
20. Certificate of taking, requi1ite9. 
2l. Proof of notice annexed. to oe~ 
cate.
22. Neglect to take, after notice, pen&liJ.
23. Depo1ition1 to be sealed and directed. 
24. " " in perpet•al remem-
brance. 
25. Statement of claim to be made. 
26. Notice, how to be given.
27. Deposition, how to be ta.ken. 
28. "' may be recorded, how.
29. " or copy, when usecl.
30. Witness to attend out or State, when.
31. Neglect to attend, u 1och, penalty. 
SECTION 1. In all actions involving questions of right to re.al 
estate, the court of common pleas, on motion of either party, m;iy
in their discretion direct a view of the premises by the jury under
".'lch mies as they may prescribe, and subject to such adjudication 
' 
\ •· to the whole or part of the co1ta thereof u they shall think
equitable. 
· . 81:c. 2. Writs of summons to witnesses shall be signed by the
clerk or justice by whom they are issued, directed to the person to 
be summoned, and shall be substantially in the form following- 
·-a. ss. 
• THE STATE Oi' NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
.,., To
-~ 
You are required to appear at in the county of
on the day of to testify what you know 
relating to a plea of to be heard and tried betwixa
plaintiff, and defendant. 
Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default under the pen­
alties prescribed by law. 
Dated at the day of A. D. 18 • 
Sze. 3. Clerks of the courts may issue writs of summons for
witnesses in all cases pending in such courts. . 
Stec. 4. Every justice may issue writs of summons for witnesses
in cases pending in any court, in all matters before the general
court, in cases pending before himself or any other justice, and in
all matters triable before auditors, referees, arbitrators or commis- 
sioners. _
8&c. 5. Every justice or notary may issue writs of summons to 
witnesses to appear before himself, or any other justice or notary,
, to give a deposition in any matter or cawie where the same may 
be lawfully taken.
Sze. 6. Any person may be summoned to attend as a witness to 
· testify or give a deposition, by reading to him the writ of sum ...
moos and paying or tendermg to him the fees by law established
for his travel to and from the place where his attendance is re­
quired, and for one day's attendance. 
SEc. 7. If any person so summoned shall neglect to attend, or
to give his attendance so long as may be necessary for the pmpo~ 
for which he was summoned, or refuse to testify or to give his 
deposition, if required, having no reasonable excuse therefor, he
ehall be liable to the party aggrieved for all damages sustained by
sneh default or refusal. 
S~c. 8. Every court and justice before whom any witness has
been summoned to appear and testi 'y or give a depsuiou, may
bring any snch witness neglecting or refusing to appear a ·d testify, 
.· by attachment, before them, and if on examinatiou he has 110 rea­
. sonable excuse, may punish him by a fi.ie rtc•t exceeding tif,y dol­ 
lars, if imposed hy a court, or tei c.hihrs. if inposerl by a justice,
· and may order himtn p.1y (';-,s:c.. · 
. SEc. 9. Ntt person who believes in the existence of a Supreim,
Being, shall be adjudged an incompetent witness in any judicial
proceeding on account of his opinions on matters of religion. 
SEc. 10. No other ceremony shall be deemed necessary in sweu.
ing than holding up the right hand. 
SEc. 11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may affirm, the mag~ 
trate administering the oath using the word ~, afli. rn" instead. of.
the word "S\\'ear," and the words "this you do nuder the pa.in&· 
and penalties of perjury," instead of the words "so help }"OU Goel'!:
SEc. 12. Inhabitants of towns, and members of public corpors­ 
tions, and members of mutual insurance corporations, shali be com­
petent witnesses in eases affecting the interests of such corporation& · 
SEc. 13. The deposition of any witness in a civil cause, who as­ 
old and infirm, or sick and unable to appear at ooart, or who livee'
oltt of the State or more than ten miles from the place of trial, or·
wlao is about to leave the Stare and not return before the time of
tlial, may be taken and used on the trial. 
Sec. 14. Any justice or notary public in this State. any· com-·
missioner appointed under the Iaws of this State to take depositions .
in other states, any judge, or justice of the peace <n notary public
in any other state or country may take such depositions. 
SEc. 15. The party proposing to take such • 4eposit.i<>n. shall , 
Mue a notice in writing signed by a justice (tr notary, stating. tlle
day, hour and place of taking the same, to be delivered to the,,
adverse party or one of them, or left' at his usual place of abode, if.~
either of such parties reside in this State, or within twenty mil~;_
of the place of taking or of the party taking the same, a reasoo.able.
time before 1he taking thereof. · 
8Ec. 16. If suclt adverse party resides out of the State, OI' more .
than twenty miles from the place of caption or from the party ,
proposing to zake ~Heh depos.itions,:aJ.ike notiee given to the agent 
er attorney <Jf such adverse party, or 1eft at his esual place of abodef I 
-ahall be suflicie1•.
SEc. 17. No person shall be deemed such agent or attorney '°" · 
this purpose, un.less he has endorsed the writ or the summons to be
left witlt the defendant in· the cause, or appeared for his principel « 
before the court, justice, referees or arbitrators, where tke act10n is~
pending, or shall ltave giveu. uotice in writing that he is such .1 
attorney- or agent. . ,
S&c. 18. No pel'BOn shall write the testimony of any witness • ~ 
act as a magistrate in taking the same, who would be disqualified. l 
lo act as a juror on the trial of tile cause {or any reason exciupt ~
exemption from BeNice as a juror, . ' 
SEc. 19. Every witness shall subscribe his deposition and shall
tnake oath that IUCft deposition contains the truth, the whole tmth, " 
and nothing but the truth relative to the cause for which it wu I 
taken. )
S.l)C. ZO. The magistrate taking any deposition shall certify suck t· 
Glth ·with the time, place and eause of tak ins the- same, and the
cue and court in which it is to 1>e used, and that the adverse party
w.as or was not present, was 01 was not notuied, and that he did 
or.did not object. ·
SEc. 21. A copy of the notiee left· with tho adveese party, hia 
98eot or attorney, with the :re'°111 of 'the o.ftreer or allidavit of the
person leaving such notice thereon, stating the time of leaving the 
lldlle, shall be annexed to the certificate of the taking thereof,
when the adverse party did not attend . 
. Sec. 22. tf auy party, after giving notice to the adverse part/
u aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse· to take a deposition, such ad­
yerse party shall be entitled to recover twenty-five cents a mile· for
actll81 travel of himself or his attorney to attend the l&llle, by ac­
tion on the case, unless seasonably notified in writing signed by
the party giving such notice, that such deposition wiU not be taken. 
· Ssc. 23. Depositions shall be sealed up by the megistrate taking
the same, directed to the court or justice before whom they are to
be used, wish a brief description of Ille case, and shall be so deli v­
ered into court. 
- SEC. 24. Depositions may be taken, in perpetual remembrance
of any fact or transaction, before any court of record or before two 
justices, one of whom shall be of the quorum. 
S'Ec; 25. Any person wishing to take such depositioas, shall
make a statement in writing, under oath, briefly setting forth in
aubstance his title, interese or claim in or to the subject, or setting
forth the facts to which the desired testimony relates, and the
names of all persons supposed to be interested therein, and also the 
names or the witnesses proposed to be- examined, which statement
ahaU be delivered to the court or justices before whom the deposi­
tions are to be taken . 
. SEc. 2&. Notice shall be given in the manner provided by law
in cues of depositions taken to be used in actions then pending, to 
all persons known to be interested in the property or transaction to
W'hich the testimony relates. 
,8EC. 27. Every such deposition shall be written, signed arm 
a"1om to as is provided in this chapter in ease of depositions in
~ions pending, with the necessary variation in the form of the 
oaUt; and the said court or jnsli'ces shall annex to each deposition 
a certificate of the time and place of taking, the name of the per- . 
.., Ill whose request it was ta.ken, and of all those who were noti­
fied to attend and did attend, and shall· also annex thereto a copy 
oe,:the notice as is prescribed in the twenty-firat section of this
chapter. . 
'. SEc. 28. The aaid statement, deposition, certificate and copy of 
n9C~e shall, withiu ninety days after taking the same, be recorded 
iii- .the rcgistty of deeds in the county where the land or auy pn.r& : 
ot it lies, if the deposition relate to real estate, and if not, in tbe 
coamty in. wlaich .it .wu taken. 
· S£c. 29. All depositions taken in perpetual remembrance nsr~
aforesaid, or a copy of such record, the original being lost, may be·,
used in the trial of any cause between the person atwhose request
it was taken, .and any of the persons named in the statement and­
duly notified, or those claiming · under them, concerning the title,
claim, interest or facts set forth in the statement. - · 
SEc. 30. If the clerk of any court in any other of the United :
States shall certify that there is a criminal cause pending in such ·
court, and that a person residing in this State is supposed to be· a_
material witness therein, any justice shall upon such certificate or
paper annexed thereto, issue a summons requiring such witness to
appear and testify at such court. 
SEc. 31. If any person on whom such summons shall be served, ·
having tendered to him twelve cents for each mile to be travelled
to and from such court, and two dollars for each day his attendance
may be required, shall unreasonably neglect or refuse to attend and
testify at 'said court, he shall forfeit the sum of three hundred dol- 
lars to any person who will sue for the same. · 
CJU.PrER 189. 
OF AUDITORS • 
8&eTIOlf S&ct'JO• 
1: Auditon, when appointed. 5. Cue may be tried by jury, when.
I. In actions between copartnen and co- 6. If party refue to produce boob, a... . 
tenanta. report may be, what. 
3. Auditors-to be 1worn-giTe notice- 7. Judgmeat in 1uch cue, how ttnde ...
may adjourn-report, how made. ed . 
... Auditors discharged or report reeom- 8. Auditor'• oompensation, how paicl.
mitted; when. 
SECTION 1. Whenever it shall appear to the superior court tJ'I 
court of common pleas, that an investigation of accounts or an
examination of vouchers is necessary in any action pending in
1Ueh court, they may appoint one or more auditors to state the
acoount between the parties and make report to the court. 
81:c. 2. Auditors may be appointed in actions brought by copart- · ·
ners or cotenants against their copartners or cotenants. 
SEc. 3. Auditors shall be sworn and shall give notice to th : 
parties of the time and place of hearing, may adjourn when neees- · 
181)', and shall all hear the parties, but a majority may report.
8iec. 4. Auditors may be discharged by the court and others ' 
appointed, or their report may be recommitted for reYision. '
81:c. 6. If either party is dissatisfied with the report, the caee l, 
may be tried by jury, ~d soch report shall be given in evidenct 
1~ 
to the jury, sobject to be impeached by evidence offered by either 
prty. 
81:c. 6. If either party shall· neglect or refuee to appear before 
the auditor, or to render an account, or to produce such 'books and 
papers and to answer on oath such interrogatories relating to the
matter in controversy as may be pertinent and material, the audi&o(
lball certify the same to the court. 
· Sec. 7. The court shall thereupon render judgment against sucb 
~y, as upon nonsuit or default, and, if necessary, cause the
daQiages to be assessed by the jury. 
SEc. S. The court shall allow a reasonable compensation to the
t111ditors, which shall be paid by the plaintiff and taxed in his bill 
of coets, if he recover. 
9&cTre• SJ:CTIOII 
t. Judgment. to be reradeied in dollars 8. Judgment, on boad to be tor U. 
and cent.. amount equi&ably due.
I. Interest, at what rate-usury. 9. " 1ecurityforfutu.reb~
3. Evidence, and triple deduction made. es, 
4. What ia not u.sury. 10. " .cire faciu on, in su.c:11 
6. St.atement of betterments made. cue. 
6. v erdiet u to amount how rendered. 11. " on mortgage, c:onditioa-
7. J1udgment, how entered. al, 
SF.CTION 1. All judgments shall be rendered in dollars and
cents. 
SEc. 2. Interest in the rendition of judgment! and in all business
lra.u,sactions where interest is secured or paid, shall be computed al
therate of six dollars on a hundred dollars for one year, unless a
lower rate is expressly stipulated; and every person who upon any 
contract shall, directly or indirectly, receive interest at a higher
rate. shall forfeit for every such offence three times the sum IO 
recei:ved. 
«:,RAPTER 190. 
OF JUDGMENTS. 
• 
S ec. 3. When any person, for the recovery, of any debt or
~es, shall be sued upon any instrument hereafter made, and
intell!St at a higher rate than six dollars {or 'a hundred dollars for
one year has been paid or secured upon the money sued for, or ia
~d by such instrument, if the debtor, (the creditor being
alive,) will ~e ioto court where the action is pending, and offer
to.~aKe oath and, if required by the court, actually .swear that the,e 
-..il>een taken or aecured upon tho money sued for, or that uua 
has been· or • secured in and by tfle instrument BUed, interea
above the rate aforeseid, then the court in rendesing judgment shall 
deduct from the sWD lawfully due, three times the amount 80
taken or secured, un1le11 the creditor will swear that he baa not,
directly or indirectly, willingly taken or secured on the money aued
for, er secured in and, by the instmment sued, any interest aiov­
the rate aforesaid. 
. SEc. 4. Noth mg in this chapter shall · extend to the letting ef 
cattle or other usages of like nature in practice among farment, ft 
to maritime contracts, as bottomry, insurance or eeurse .of excbaoge,.
as heretofore used. 
SP.c. 5. Any person against whom: any action may 1,e broughe
for the recovery of real estate, may with his plea file a brief state­
ment, setting forth that he and the persons under whom he claims,
have been in the actual peaceable possession thereof, under a sup­
posed legal title, for more than six years before the action was
commenced, aiw that the value thereof has been increased by ihemi
by buildings or ether improvements. : 
SEc. 6. The jnry, if they find a veidiet for the plaintiff', shall
determjne if the said lands have been so possessed and improved,
and the amount of the increased value- thereof, at\cr allowing for
any waste or injury the samP. may have sustained. :. 
SEc. 7. The judgment rendered for the pbin~iff upon sucfr
w,rdict, shall be eonditioned that if'-the plaintiff shaH, within one' 
year, pay to the clerk of the court for 1hc use of the defendant the
amount of the increased value so found, a writ of possession shall
issue for the plaintiff, otherwise all his right to such lands shall· be 
fbrever barred. . 
SEc. 8. In all actions for the recovery of any penalty or forfeit~
ure in any obligation or contract under seal: the superior court or 
court of common pleas shall render judgment for the amount
,rhich shall appear to be equitably due. 
SEc. 9. If such penalty or forfeiture shall be designed to secure:
the performance of scvernl things to be done at different times,
judgment shnll he rendered for the whole of such penalty or for·
feiture, and the court shall award execntiou only for so much as is 
jHtly due at that time. 
SEc. 10. The plaintitT or his administrator may, from time to:
time, have a scire facias upon such judgment, and execution shall·
be awarded him for any further sums which may have become
equitably due to him. 
SEC, 1 l. In actions on mortgages the judgment shall be eondi-'
tional, that if the mortgagee or person having his right, shall pay to
the mortgagee or person having his right, the sum the court shall'
adjudge due, within two months after judgment rendered with
interest, such judgment shall be void, otherwise a w1it of posse8- 
sion shall issue. 
8*CTro• 
1. Con. to fbDow ennt, 1mlea. 
I:. Mo cOlt in action on judgment, when.
,. Ca.ta where 11e.eral auita brought, 
bow allowed. 
CIUP.rBR · 191. 
4. Con. not to exceed damage• in ae­
tiom for penonal injmie11. 
SECT1011 t. Costs shall follow the event of every action or peti<II
tion, unless otherwise directed by law or by the court. 
SEc. 2. No costs shall be allowed the plaintiff in any action
µpon a judgment upon which execution might lawfully issue, if 
the court shall be of opinion that the plaintiff could have availed
~lf of such execution as advantageously, for the collectio11
of his demand, as lie could of such action. 
~ 8Ec.. 3. When a plaintiff shall, at the same tenn, bring divene
actions against the same party which might have been joined, GI 
~l bring more than one action upon a joint and 'several contract, 
the court may allow such and so many bills of cost as they may
~ equitable • 
. Sec, 4. No more costs than damages shall be recovered in anJ
a«:tiou commenced in the court of common pleas for tlander,
assault and battery, imprisonment or malicious prosecution, unle11
the damages recovered shall exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents. 
, 8.Ec. 5. In actions of trespass for injuries to real estate com­
menced in the court of common pleas, when the title of real estate 
ii not in question, the court shall allow so much cost as they may 
think proper. not exceeding the damages recovered, in case such
damages. do not exceed thirteen dollars thirty-three ceuts. 
. SEc. 6. In all actions commenced in the court of common pleas, 
if it appears that the plaintiff had no reasonable expectation of
~overing more than thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, the coart 
111ay limit the costs to such sum as they think reasonable .
. . $Ee. 7. lu all actions or petitions pending in the superior co.mt 
or court of common pleas iu the county where the judgment WM 
1'Jldered. the said courts may, on motion and on good cause shown,
lµuit and allow such costs and order such security for costs as theJ' 
~)' deem just and reasonable.
- 49 
OF COSTS. 
8&CTI01' 
5. Nor in tre11paa to real Ntate.
6. Coeta limited where lea than tJ3-. 
recovered, in what cuea. •
7. Coert to limit and allow cOlltt ._ 
motion. 
fJBA.Pl'ER IH. 
OF REVIEWS AND NEW TRIALS. 
8ECTIO!f SECTIO!f 
.J. (.'ivil aetione may be reviewed, ifislllle 7. R~views where triable, &m~J.l4,Jpe..._ 
· of fact joined. 8. Plaintiff' in review t.p peoduce cqpif-.
2. Court inay ,ran't review in other !J. New evidence m:,.y be offered. · . 
c11.11e1. 10. Ju~gment, how rendered. ,
3. Petition to be presented, where, 11. " for costs, how rendered.
-'· TerlDII may be imposed, how. 12. Costa limited in reviews, when.
~· Li~itatio~ of ~view-e.xceptiona. 13. Ex«-oution nolltayed unltlu b7 order · 
6. Petition mu!'L be. filed wi~in three of eourt.
yeU'I. 
SECTION 1. All civil ac.tions in which judgment has been re~~
8ered in the court of common pleas or superior court, in which.
any issue of fact has been joined, except those in which by· law a 
different provision is made, may be once reviewed.
81:c. 2. The superior court may grant a review in ~y other 
case, where it shall appear that justice has not been done through 
p.ny accident, mistake or misfortune, and that a further hearing
would be just and equitable. _.
: SEc. 3. In such case, a petition shall be presented to said court 
jp the county where the original action was brought, by any pcr­ 
fOU interested, setting forth the reasons for such review ; and such
notice shall be given to the adverse party or to his attorney RS the
court may order. 
SEc. 4. The court may grant such review upon such terms and
eonditions, and may allow such costs to either party, U:{>On the
petition of review, as they may think just and reasonable. 
81:c. 5. No action of review shall ho brought of right after one
year from the time of the judgment rendered, saving to any infant
or insane person the right of such review for one year after such
\tisability is removed. 
Si:c. 6. No review shall be granted upon petition, unless such
petition is filed within three years after the rendition of the judg­
ment complained of, or the discontinuance or failure of the original-
1Uit; and such review shall be commenced within ninety days after
~ grant thereof.
• Ssc. 7. AU writs of review shall be returnable in the court of'
~mmon pleas in the county where the judgment was rendcted;
and shall be tried UJX>D the pleadings filed in the original action; 
if any, unless the court, upon such terms as they shall think rea­
eonable, shall permit amendments to be made. 
81:c. 8. The party bringing any action of review, shall produce 
in court attested copies of the writ, pleadings, judgment and all 
papers used and filed at~ {~trial, athenme a nonsuit shall 
be entered.
SEc. 9. Every ease shall be tried upon review ip the same man­ 
ner as if no judgment had been rendered therein, and any new or
further evidence may be produced therein. . 
S11c. 10. If the amount of property, debt or damages recovered
by the original plaintiff, is increased on review, he shall recovet 
jddgment for the excess and costs: if such amount is reduced, the.
original defendant shall recover judgment for the amount of sueb
reduction and costs. 
S_,;c. 11. If the original plaintiff shall review and shall not
recover a greater amount of property, debt or damages, the defend~ 
an1 shall recover costs: if such review is brought by the defeudaot,.)
and the amount of property, debt or damages is not reduced, the
original plaintiff shall recover costs. 
SEc. 12. No costs shall be recovered in an action of review, ex-
cdpt' those accruing upon such review, and the party bringing such
nwiew shall recover no more costs than the amount of the J>fO"'
perty, debt or damages he may recover therein, unless the original 
judgment shall be wholly reversed.
· Sze. 13. Execution in the original action shall not be stayed by 
rel88on of any writ of review, but the court, on motion, may order 
a stay of execution, where it may appear just and reasonable, upon
tenBI. 
• 
TITLE XXIII. 
• 
OP EXECUTIONS, LEVIES~ BAIL AND RELIEF OF POOR
DEBTORS. 
l8CTle• . 8SCTI09 
I. Execut.iom, wlaen to i11ue. 7. Ezec11tiou iuaed on ICin faeiu • 
. .& " from supericr court, bow 8. One only on nme contract. at a ti-.
returnable. 9. If eseeution not apinat body,~ 
4. 
.. 
" 
S..:cT10N 1. No' execution shall issue until the expiration o( 
twenty-four hours after judgment rendered. 
8Ec. 2. Executions issued by the superior court, may be made 
returnable at the next regular term of the court, if within six
months, otherwise within six months from the date thereof. 
SEc~ 3. Executions issued by the court of common pleas, mq 
be made returnable at the next term of said court.
· S1:c. 4. Executions issued by justices, may be made returnable 
within sixty days from the date thereof.
SEc. 5. Executions may be issued at any time within two years 
after the judgment rendered, or after the return day of any former 
execution. • 
SEc. 6. Interest shall be payable on all executions in civil actions,
lrom the time the judgment was rendered. . 
·SEc. 7. The court may award execution on any judgment after
the expiration of said two years, upon scire facias, for the amount 
"1en due, with interest. ·
SEc. 8. Where several judgments are rendered upon the sam• 
contract, at the same term, only one execution shall be issued oa 
laid judgments at one time, except by order of the court. . 
SEC. 9. Where any execution shall not run against the body of 
the defendant, the form may be varied by omitting such parts~ 
relate to the arrest of the person. 
SEc. 10. Writs of execution shall be substantially in the follow.
ing form:- · 
O To the sheriff of any county or his deputy.
Wa1:au1 A. P. of by the consideration of our jnac• 
B. SS. 
from court of common to be omitted •
pleu, how returnable. 10. Execution, form of writ of. 
from justices, how re- 11. Poueaion, form of writ of.
turnable. 12. Execution against property of per- 
6. " may iame within 2 yeare. IOD imprisoned, when. 
& . Interest payable on executioas. 
or EXECUTIONS. 
THE Sl'ATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
et our court of holden at in said county of
on the Tuesday. of recovered judgment agains&· A. D.: 
or for the sum of dollars and costs taxed at , 
as appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done: We
commaud you, therefore, that of the goods, chattels or )ands of the 
said debtor in your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to the
ID.id creditor the aforesaid sums, with lawful interest thereon, aac1 
more for this writ and your own fees, and in default the•
of to arrest the said debtor and commit him to jail ; and the
keeper of such jail is required to detain him in custody until he
pay the same with your fees, or until he is discharged by the
creditor or otherwise according to law. And make return of trua 
writ with yonr doings thereon to said court, to be holden at
in said county, upon the Tuesday of 
Witness J. P. Esquire, the day of A. D. 
SEc. 11. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the fol,. 
lowing form:- 
e 
SS.
a. 
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
To the sheriff of any county of this State, or hie
deputy. 
WHERE.ls A. P. of by the consideration of our justiees 
of our court of holden at in· said county of
on the Tuesday of recovered judgment 
against A. D. of for a certain with the appurtenances,
situate in the town of and costs taxed at as appears
of record : We command you, therefore, that without delay you
cause said A. P. to have possession of the said premises: We also 
command you that of the goods, chattels or lands of the said' 
debtor in your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to said
creditor the aforesaid sum, with lawful interest thereon, and
more for this writ and your own fees, and in default thereof to 
arrest the said debtor, and commit him to jail; and the keeper or 
ttre jail is required to detain him in custody until he pay the same,
with your fees, or until he is discharged by the creditor or other-­
wise according to law. And make return of this writ and your
doings therein unto said court to be holden at in said coun-
ty, upon the day of 
Witness J. P. Esquire, the 
day of 
R. G. Clerk: 
A. D. .
R. G. Clerk. 
81:c. 12. Whenever a debtor shall be committed. to prison on· 
execution, the creditor, on the return of the same, may have a 
far&ber execution against the property of the debtor, notwlthstaad­
ing the debtor shall not be discharged; and upon the satisfacu­
~ ncb uecution, the debtor shall be discharged. 
SECTIGII 1. Executions· in which the creditor in one is debtor fn
the other, in the same right and capacity, &hall be set off' by the 
officer to whom one of such executions has been delivered, and the
other shall be tendered ; and such officer shall return both sueb
,.xecutions satisfied, so far as such set-off will extend . 
. Ste. 2. Money may be taken on execution and paid to the ered­
itor. Bank notes and other evidences of debts issued by any mon­
eyed corporation and circulated as money, may be taken on ex­
eeution and paid to the creditor at their par value, if he will accept 
ol them, otherwise they may be sold at. auction like other chattels. 
SEc. 3. Goods and chattels taken on execution, shall be safely
kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, four days at least; 
lih.all be advertised for sale, by posting up notices of the time and
. place of sale, at two of the most public places iu the town where 
the sale is to be, forty-eight hours before the expiration of said four
days, and sold at public auction to the highest bidder. 
· SEC. 4. Personal property subject to any mortgage, pledge or
lien, may be taken in execution in the same manner it may be
attached, and may be sold in the same manner as other personal
property; and the creditor and officer shall hare the same rigl~t to
demand an account of the amount due and to hold the same, if no
account or a false account is given, as in case of an attachment . 
. S.1:c. 5. The proceeds of the sale shall be appl ied to pay the
aum paid or tendered to the mortgagee, pledgee or holder, au4 &
tereit, and the residue to the sarisfaction of the execurious oil
. which the same is holden. 
SEc. 6. The debtor's right to redeem such property ,may Ila 
taken on execution and sold aa in other cases, without such p:i y"• 
ment or tender.
SEc. 1. The owner may redeem any goods and chattels before 
the sale, by otherwise satisfying the execution and officer's feea 
and charges. ·
SEC. 8. The money arising from any sale of personal property, 
shall be applied '1Y the officer to the payment of the charges and
"the satisfying of the executions levied thereon, in the order in 
which the attachments thereon, if any, were made, otherwise ht
the order in which the executions were delivered to him; and the 
balance shall be returned to the debtor, upon request.
Sec. 9. The officer shall make return of the execution accords 
mg to his precept, with his doings thereon, particularly describmg 
#ie goods and chattels taken and sokl, and the snm for which each
article was sold. · 
. S1:c. 10. If any officer shall be gnih.y of any fraud in the sale or
. a,tmn, he shall be liable to each pai:ty injured to pay him five tim~ 
tbe sum defrauded. ·
8Ec. 11. The officer may adjourn any sale under this chaptde 
from time to time, not exceeding ten days at one time, or sixty­ 
days from the seizure, giving the same notice of the adjournment
as of a sale. 
· SEC. 12- Pews or seats in meeting houses may be taken, ooTer­
J~ and sold on execution in the same manner as other persona) 
;property, except that if there has been no previous attachment. t.he 
debtor shall be notified by the officer of the time and place of sale of
filch pew or seat, by giving to him a notice in writing or leav iug,
ench notice at bis usual place of abode, if he resides in the town,
9tJ-u?rwi8P. with the town clerk, and the time of giving or leaving: 
'11CO notice shall be deemed the time of taking such property.
. SEC. 13. The frarvhise of any corporation authorized to take 
~ls, may be taken and sold on execution at public auction, th&
officer giving notice of the time and place of so.le, by posting up a, 
fi'()tice thereof at any toll house at which such tolls are or ha've
been usually taken, aod causing a like '10tice, with the name of the· 
creditor and the amount of the execution, to be posted ·up at two
or more public places in the town in whieh any toll house of said·
corporarion is situate, at least thirty days before the day of snle, 
_ SEo. 14. The person who will pay such execution and the taw.;·, 
. fut fees and expenses thereon, for the right to receive all such tolls
ior the shortest period, shall be the highest bidder. and shall. 11!~:1 
such sale, be entitled to the possession of the toll houses and gates
of the corporation, to .be delivered by the officer, and entitled to
receive all such tolls for the term of his purchase, with all the
ughts of the corporation in relation thereto. 
811:c. 15. The rights and obligations of the corporation, except
as to such tolls, shall not be affected by such sale, and they may 
redeem such Iranchise by paying the purchaser the amount paid by 
him therefor, with twelve .per cent, interest thereon, at any time
within three months from such sale. 
SEc. · 16. The shares or interest of any person in any corpora­ 
uon may be taken on any execution, in the same manner they may ' 
be attached. 
SEc. 17. Notice in writing of the time and place of sale of such
ahare or interest, shall be given by the officer to the debtor or left
at his usual place of abode, and posted np at one or more public
places in the town where the sale is to be, and in two adjoining
towns, thirty days before the sale. 
SEc. 18. If the debtor does not reside in the county, the posting
up [of] such notice as prescribed in the preceding section, and pub­
lishing such notice in some newspaper, if any in the county. other­
Wi9e in an adjoining -county three weeks previous to the sale, shall
be sufficient without further notice to the debtor. 
SEc. 19. The officer shall cause an attested copy of the (''t'.CCU· 
tion and of his return thereon ·to be filed with the clerk, treasurer 
or cashier of the corporation, and pay for the recording thereof;
ahd the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to such shares or in­
terest, and the income or dividends become due thereon since the
attachment, and to such certificates as are the usual evidence oC' 
the shares or interest .of a proprietor in such corporation. . .;
SEc. 20. Tho officer of every corporation, having the care of 
the records or accounts of the shares or interests of the corpo­
rators therein, shall, on request and on the exhibition of a writ of
attachment or execution against any person interested in such cor­
poration, give to the officer having such writ, a certificate of the
number of his shares or amount of his interest therein, with the
numbers of the shares or other description by which they arc distin­
guished; and on neglect or refusal to give such certificate. or if he
shall wilfully give any false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to
pay to the creditor the whole amount of his demand against such
debtor, to be recovered by an action of debt. 
SEc. 21. If any officer of a corporation shall, on request of an
officer and on exhibition of such writ of attachment or execu­
tion, refuse or neglect to exhibit to him such records and docu­
ments in his keeping as may be useful to direct and assist him iri 
the discharge of his duty, he shall forfeit twenty dollars to the offi­
cer, and shall be answerable for all damages sustained by any pcr- 
10n thereby. 
8zCTIOW 
OF LEVIES ON REAL ESTA TE. 
. 1, Rn1 estate to be appraiNd. 
10. Rent or income, ilow extended •
.4. N oticc to officen or corporationa. 
SECTION 1. All real estate may be taken on execution, and shall be 
- appraised and set off to the creditor, at its just value, in satisfaction
of such execution and the cost of levying, except in those cases
where by law a sale of it is authorized. 
SEc. 2. The officer levying such execution, shall cause three 
appraisers to be appointed, one by the creditor, one by the debtor
and one by himself, who shall be discreet and disinterested men,
resident in the county, and shall be sworn by a justice impartially
to appraise such real estate as shall be shown them as the estate of
the debtor. 
SEc. 3. If the de~tor, on due notice, neglect to appoint an ap­
praiser, or in ease he does not reside in the county or within twenty
miles of the property to be appraised, the officer shall appoint an 
appraiser for the debtor. . 
SEc. 4. Notice given to the clerk, treasurer, agent or one of the
directors of a corporation to choose an appraiser for the corporation,
ten days before the levy, shall be legal notice to the corporation. 
Sec. 5. A levy commenced by the appointment and swearing
of one or more of the appraisers, may be completed before t.ie re­
turn day of the execution. 
SEc. 6. Such appraisers shall set off to the creditor, by metes
and bounds or other distinct description, the real estate appraised 
by them, or so much as may be necessary in payment of the exe­
cution and cost of, levying. 
SEc. 7. If snch real estate is holden jointly or in common with
others, the levy shall be made upon the undivided interest of the 
debtor or a part thereof.
SEc. 8. If such real estate cannot, in the judgment of the ap­ 
praisers, be divided and set out by metes and bounds without
greatly impairing the value of the whole, the levy may be made
upon an undivided interest therein or by such mode of division u 
&he nature of the property will admit. 
. SEc. 9. In either of the cases aforesaid, the whole of the pro- 
50 • 
11.
Return to be made and recorded. 
5. Lny, when commenced '1ld com- )2. Effect if return i1 not recorded.
pletH. 
. 6. Apprai9en to .et oil" by bound,. 
S&CTIO. 
7. UndiYided interest, when .et ofr .
8. How part aet o1F in special CUN. 
9. Whole to be described in aaoh cue.·
. 2. A pprai.er11w how appointed ; oath. 
3. tr debtor neglecta or ia &Heft, 
13. Debtor may redeem, how •
14. Creditor to releue on paymenL 
perty of which part sha1l be set off, shall be detcribed by metes 
and bounds or other distinct description.
Ssc. 10. If any debtor is seised of a r.nt or of the income cf 
any real estate, a levy may be made thereon, mid the appraisers
may set off the same for s,tch term as. ihey judge sufficient to pay 
the judgment, interest and costs ; and the sheriff shall cause the
tenant to attorn and become tenant to the creditor; and UJJOR laa 
refusal, shall tum him out of possession and <M'nver seisin to *8
creditor to hokl for the tP.J111 aforesaid. 
SEc. 11. The officer shall deliver seizin and possession of the
property so set off, to the creditor or his attorney, shall make e full
return of his proceedings, and cause the execution and retlll'll ·to
be recorded at length in the registry o( deeds of the county, and
returned to the office of the clerk of the court to which it iB t.y
law returnable . 
. SEc. 12. All the debtor's interest in such real estate shall pus 
by the levy as against all persons whatever, if the levy is reconled
as aforesaid on or before the return day of the execution ; othes­
wise, only as against the debtor and his heirs until such record · iii 
.made.
SEc. 13. Such. extent shall be void, if, within one year from 
the return day of the execution, the debtor or any person interested
shall pay or tender to the creditor the 9Um at whw.h such real eew 
tate was appraised, with interest from the time such levy ·W116 
received for record by the register of deeds.
SEc. 14. The creditor, upon such payment or tender, t..ing 
his reasonable charges therefor duly tendered to him, shall executfJ'
a release to the debtor of his ,igbt in inch ,eal es~e acquiH& e:r 
such levy. 
SscT1011 
1. Rights in equity may be sold. 
a. Notice to debtor and public, 1ivea. 
3. " by publication, when.
4. Levy, when commenced and com- 
pleted, 
C DAftER 198. 
OF L1!VIES O'N EQtnTIES OF RED£MPTJON. 
S. Debtor may redeem, when and how. 
6. Creditor lo release, -when and how.
'i. Vt>cd of oftlcer, how made. 
8ECTf01' 
8. Deed not Ta1id unleas reconW.
9. Proeeeds of Ale, ho• app1iecl. 
10. Purchuer; how liable for -prelta. ,
11. Right lo receive conveya11c«uold, 
12. " to redeem any interest aol,. 
13. Term. fol' year, and other imere,J9. ·
how BOld. 
14. Rights or pllrchallf'r in sach ellSf'& 
Sv.CTION 1. Rights in equity of redeeming mortgaged renl eaftlN
&akeu Oil execution, may be sukl at pubti; auction, an4 ~ ffllld 
.;,tleed thereof made by the officer to the purchaser ; and sueh e•-
ention, with the doings of the officer thereon, shall be returned 
"804d0rding to the precept thereof ..
.; Sze. 2. Notice of the time and place of sale shall be given to 
. the debtor or left at his usual pince of abode, if he resides iu tbe
tonnt y or within twenty miles of the property, and. a like notice 
. ·Ji>9ted up at two of the most public places in the town in which
· ehe _property is situate, thirty days before the sale, 
S zc. 3. IC the debtor does not reside in the county or within
ttenty miles of the property, a like notice shall also be published 
in some newspaper printed in the vicinity, three weeks successively 
before the sale. .
SEc. 4. The levy shall be commenced by posting np notices as 
aforesaid, and may be completed afterwards, and the sale may be
adjourned, not exceeding ten days at a time nor sixty days in the 
· whole, notice of the adjournment being posted up in the same
manner as notices of the sale. 
SF.c. 5. If the debtor shall, within one year after the sale, re­ 
.doem such right in equity, by paying to the purchaser the purchase
money and auy money paid by him to redeem snch mortgage in 
. \riJole or in part, after entry or notice for the purpose of foreclo­ 
. Rre, with interest thereon, the sale and deed thereof shall. he void. 
Sze. 6. 011 payment, the purchaser, having his reasonable char­ 
·-«- iherefor duly tendered to him, shall execnre a release to the
debtor of all right to such estate acquired by or under such sale. 
Sze. 7. The deed of the officer making such sale shall briefly
atate his office, the names of the part~s to 1he action in which the 
. execution issued-end the court and term at which the judgment
was rendered therein, the consideration paid therefor 
a description
of the premises conveyed and the right o( the debtor to redeem
the same ; and shall contain a covenant that the officer has ob­ 
1 
eerv~ all the requisitions of the law by virtue of wf1ich the deed
is made. 
Ssc. 8. No sale upon execution of any greater interest in any
,eal estate than a term of seven years shall be valid, except against
the debtor and his heirs, unless the execution · and the retnm shflll 
be recorded in the registry of deeds in the county in which die
estate is situate. 
Ser.. 9. The proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the mis­
fattion of the executions issuing irt the actions in which such
e&aafe was attaehed, in the order of the attachments, and then to 
lhe· payment of any other execution in the officer's hauds, in the 
order in which they were received, and the residue shall be paid 
"to the debtor. 
SEc. 10. The purchaser shall be liable to the debtor, after re­
demption, for the rents and profits received therefrom over the
~llpend ittlleCS rsade thereon; bnt snch purchaser may pay or ten­ 
: id,, te the debtor, either before or after action brought, the. amomit 
fbr which he deems himself justly accountable as aforesaid, and 
costs; and unless the debtor shall recover a greater amount, th~
defendant shall recover his costs. " 
SEc. 11. The right of any debtor to receive a conveyance of 
real estate on performance of any contract, may be taken on execu­
tion and sold at auction, and the purchaser shall have a remedy by
bill in equity to compel a conveyance. 
SEc. 12. The right of any debtor to redeem any right or in­
terest in real estate, may be taken in execution and sold at auction. 
• SEc. 13. Terms for years may be attached on mesne process,
and taken and sold on execution, and in all cases where real estate
taken in execution is required to be sold at auction, the proceed­
ings relative to such sale, and the rights of parties thereupon, shall
be the same as in cases of the sale of equities of redemption. 
Si:c. 14. The person having the estate or right of the creditor,
purchaser or debtor in any real estate taken in execution, shall be
deemed to be, and shall have the rights, privileges and remedies, in
all cases, of the creditor, purchaser or debtor as to all persons ~v­
iug notice of his right ; and no act done by or to the original
creditor, purchaser or debtor, shall thenceforth be of any validity~. 
CBAPl'ER 197'. 
OF LEVIES AND INJUNCTIONS .: 
8&CTIOK I SSCTI01' . 
1. Lien not lOllt 'by injunction; when. · 3. Proceedings, if notice of n.le gi•cn.
I. Proceedinga in cue of injunction. 
SECTION 1. Whenever the levy of any execution shall be stayN 
by injunction, the lien and interest of the attaching creditor, ex~ 
ing at the time of such injunction, shall continue and be in fuD, 
force until the expiration of thirty days after the dissolution of such 
injunction. .
8,;c. 2. The proceedings on such levy shall be suspended during, 
the continuance of such injunction, and may be resumed and com,:.. 
pleted at any time within thirty days after the dissolution thereor,
notwithstanding the return day of such execution may have passed;
and such execution shall for this purpose remain in full force until
euch proceedings shall have been completed. 
8.:c. 3. H the notice of the sale of any property, real or personal,
ehall have been given on any such execution at the time when the 
Je~ thereof shall be stayed by such injunction, notice of the ale 
. "\ 
,r such property on such execution may be given alter the disaola­
tion of such injunction, in the same way and manner as is pre- 
1eribed by law for the sale of personal property .on executions, ao4 
auch sale shall be valid. 
•cmo• 
OF EXECUTIONS AGAINST TOWNS. 
I. Estate of towns, how taken.
.. Copy of execution to be left with ee· 
leetmea. •
~ S.lectmen to r,ay or ..._ ~· 
£11A.PrER 198. 
88CTIO• 
,. ~tent ma7 i•ue apimt eotaeet.. 
5. Property of .electmea au otllen lilL' 
ble, when.
6. Contribution, how replated. 
· 8ECT10N 1. The goods and estate of towns may be taken on
execution, and appraised or sold in the same manner as the property 
of other corporations.
SEc. 2. If no such goods or estate are found, an attested copy 
oC the execution shall be left with one of the selectmen . 
. 8£c. 3. The selectmen, upon such copy being so left, shall pay 
.ach execution or shall assess the inhabitants of such town in a 
IOm sufficient to satisfy the same, and within thirty days there­
after, collect the sum so assessed by a collector by them appoint- • 
ed, and with the money so collected satisfy such execution. 
8Ec. 4. If the collector to whom any warrant or list of taxes 
lhall be committed under this act, shall neglect to collect and pay 
over such taxes to the selectmen within thirty days after he shall
-receive the same, the selectmen may issue an extent against him .. 
SEc. 5. If such execution shall not be satisfied within sixty
days after a copy of such execution is left as aforesaid, such exe­ 
Clltion may be levied upon the goods and estates of the selectmen, 
aaa, if they are insufficient, upon the property of any inhabit.au&. 
ol such town or owner of property situate therein . 
.. s~c. 6. Every person upon whose property an execution again1t
any town has been levied, may, in an action of assumpsit for money 
P,aid, teeover of such town the sum so levied, and damages and
deu.ble eosts, 
VBA.r.l'EB IH. 
., 
OF IMPRISONMENT AND PMSON BONDS • 
Bae~ , liH'fUt•. ./) • 
1. Any pri10ner on ezecutioa -may rive 8. P2i•o r surr,'_w · red cannot .,... .
beads. e ~'hd. '-I""' 
s, Form of boncl and condition. ~. J grrtt,i an*ecution on bond.
3. Suretiee, laow to be approvet, 10. 0.btorA(isch d, not liable to ar- .
4. Boad dcli.-elled to er-udit.or, whf'n. ,re1t for o e ear un same.
6. Sutrender by prisoner, how made. 11. ~no.,Aetained for prieon chargee ·
6. Notice, if two jails, ltow given. , on civil p~ea. 
7. S~iic• 1114,y aurrender, whea. 12. ~&inti to ,-,,.re prit!Oll oluispa. • 
· SECTION 1. Any pe,Stln arrested or imp~onJ on execution, or
detained iu prison far want .. ef bail after final judgment agaioat
him, or who shall be committed to ,g_risqJlf by_A1is bail or by the
court upon a surren~ by hif"}>ail afte~~h:·· dgment, shall ~-
discharged npon givi~ond .as "hereinnft~ · ed. 
SEc. 2. Such bond shall btr given' to t~ c itor, with two suf..
· fieient sureties, residents of the ~te, . .lf be') hound jointly and 
severally in at least double the sum r ~eh;ch person is arreat- .
ed or imprisoned, with a condition i substan as follows :-'lThe. 
condition of the above obligation i~ th,rif th said now ·a· 
prisoner at the suit of said sht{TIAwithm one year from the 
tdate hereof, apply to the proper authority and, be admitted to take,.
,and shall actually take the oath 1-rlr affirmation prescribed by law ·
for the relief of poor debtors, or ~ default thereof shall surrender 
· himself to prison as prescribed bjlaw, then this obligation to bfr 
void." The blanks in the collflition shall be filled as the caee'' 
may require. . ,
Ssc, 3. The sureties shall .,;,, deemed sufficient when they are · 
approved in writing on the back ~f such bond, either by the cred.if. 
or, his agent or attorney in the 'action, or by two disinterested jtts- ·
tiees of the quorum of the county in which such person is arrested'
or imprisoned. 
SEC. 4. Such bond shall be delivered by the otfief!r to the ere­
dkor, UJM'lD request and upon giving a pm-per receipt therefor. 
SEc. 8. If the debtor giving such bond shall not, within one';, 
year from the date thereof, take the oath or affirmatioa preseribedl
by law for the relief of poor debtors, or be otherwise discharged,
he shall, on the day next after the expiration of said year, unless
the same shall be Sunday, and in that case on the Monday follow­
ing, surrender himself up to the keeper of the jail in fhe county
where he was originall y arrested or committed, and remain at said, 
jail from twelve o'clock at noon till three o'clock in the afternoon
of said day, and his sure•s on such bond shall be thereby di8- 
charged. I 
'I 
., 
11• 
1 
SF.c. 6. If there is more 1han one jail in the county, the person 
making the surrender, shall cause notice in writing to be given to
the creditor or his attorney, or left at the usual place of abode of
one of them, if either lives in the State, stating at which of said 
jails the surrender will be 'made, at least ten days prior thereto.
SEc. 7. The sureti'es in" any such bond may take the body of· 
the principal, and ,urrenderhim at such jail in the manner and fu 
the purpose afo~id. - ,
SEc. 8. In tlfcl c&stt of S!lch surrender, the creditor may cause 
Bqe~ debtor to ~arres~d (lD his execution and committed to jail, 
where he shall remain in close confinement and shall not be again
discharged QD giving -Q<>nd ,at aforesaid. 
81:c .. 9. On condil,ion broken, the creditor shall recover by actioa 
Oil ~h bond, his jQft ~bt Ci damages and costs thereof, with teo 
per cent. interest from the tiine of the arrest, with costs, and tbe 
clerk shall certify ~ll the execution therefor.th~t it W&lJ issued OQ., 
qch bond; and any person arrested or committed in any suit
thereon, shall be kep, in ~lose J!iil and shall fWt be discharged on
giving such bond. ,.. '"" · . 
. Sec. 10. If any ~btof shall be disehargea:-'from jail, by reason 
or the neglect of the creditor to levy 'his execution upon his body
withiu thirty days after jttdgm~1t rendered, he shall not be liable
to arrest in any action of debt upon such judgment at any time 
within one veur afterwards. ...
Ssc. 11. ·No person eomt!itted on civil process, shall be detained . 
in prison for the non-payment of prison charges ; but such charge,
shall be a debt against the prisoner, if he _is of ability to pay the 
same.
· Sec. 12. The person at whose snit any person is committed to 
iail, shall give bond to the jailer, tith satisfactory security or such 
83 may be approved by a justice, to pay the prison charges in case
of the prisoner's inability; otherw~ such prisoner shall be dia­ 
charged, 
CB.&P.l'EB 908. 
OF THE RELISF OF POOR DEBTORS. 
8ECTHHI 8J:CTI01' 
J. Person imprisoned may petition. 6. Oath to be taken-form of. 
t. Order of notice, bow made. 7. Form of oath may be changed.
3. Juatice• may adjourn, when. 8. Certificate ot oath, form of.
,. Petitioner examined on oath. 9. Person of debtor discharged. 
•· Preperty to be appraiaed and .,.ign- 10. In wilful trespau or neglect, no boM.
eel, ia wh&t cues. to be taken • 
. • 
SscTro!f S11:cT1«*
11. In such cue not discharged, unless. 13. Costs taxed for credit.or, when.
12. Persons disqualified to testify, may 14. No new application till prior .eoa 
· take oath. paid. 
· SEcTtoN 1. Any person arrested or committed to jail en my
execution, or who has given bond as provided by law, may imme­
diately apply to any twq justices of the peace and of the quorum,
by petition setting forth that he had not, at the time of his arre~ 
or at any time afterwards, estate to the value of twenty dollars,
excepting goods and chattels by law exempted from attachment,
and praying to be admitted to take the oath hereinafter prescribed': 
SEc. 2. Either of the justices may make an order on sueh appli­
cation, appointing a time and place for hearing and· considering
such application ; and the debtor shall cause the creditor or· hia
_attorney to be served with a copy of such application and order 
of notice thereon, at least fifteen days before the day of. hearing. · 
St:c. 3. Said justices or either of them, on receiving satisfactory
evidence that due notice has been given to the creditor, may~
journ the hearing on such petition, not exceeding ten days. 
SEc. 4. The person so applying may be examined under oatb,i
on motion of the creditor or his attorney, and any other evidence.
produced by either party shall be heard; and if it shall appear thaa; 
such person has been guilty of any fraud, deceit or falsehood in: 
_ relation to his property, his application shall be refused. . . 
SEc. 5. If it shall appear or shall be alleged that the person; 
· applyiug had any property at the time 'of J.is commitment, over
and above the property exempted by law, his interest in the same
may be by him assigned to the creditor, at the discretion and ap:,
praiscment of the justices, in case the parties do not agree; and oa­
his refusal or neglect forthwith to make such assignment, his appli .. 1 
cation shaJl be refused. 
SEc. 6. If no sufficient objection is made, said justices shall ad-. 
minister to the debtor the following oath:
"Yon, A. B., do solemnly swear ( or affirm) that you have not'. 
any estate, real or personal,' or any right thereto, to the amount"
of twenty dollars, excepting goods nnd chattels by law exempted· 
from attachment, and that yon have not at auy time, directly or
indirectly, sold, leased or otherwise conveyed any part of your"
property or intrusted any person therewith, with any intent or''
design to secure the same, or to receive or expect any profit or
advantage therefrom; nor have caused or suffered any thing else
whatever to be done whereby any of your creditors may be de­
frauded. So help you God," ( or, "This you do nuder the paina 
and penalties of perjury.") 
SEc. 7. If the creditor or his attorney shall not accept any 
property of the debtor, an assignment whereof as aforesaid bu 
been tendered, the form of the oath shall be altered accordingly, 
10 as to except such property, which shall belong to such debtor.
· SEC. 8. The said just.il:es shall" make ·a &rtificate of such oath 
when administered, substantially in the form following: 
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE. 
R. ss. On the day of A. D. at . ill 
said county, A. B., of heretofore a prisoner at U. 
suit of C. D. of took the oath prescribed by law for the
relief of poor debtors, the said C. D. ( or the· attorney of the said
C. D.) having been duly notified, did '( or did not) attend; be(ote ~ 
5 Justices of the peet:e 
~ and of the 'quorum.
: · 8sc. 9. The person' of · the debtor· sh&ll · be thereafter· !otev'er 
dmeharged frorn arrest or impneonment on th~ debt or demand on 
which he vas 10 arrested or imprisoned ; but his estate shall nhvays·• 
remain liaMe therefor, and anew execution· may·at any time isstif'1 
againlt melt estate.
Ssc.10. If··tbe eause of·action,·in·any·actlon-of trespas$'·or; 
t,espass on the case, has ariaen from· the ·w-ilfttl 'and tnalfoiotts oof1: 
or neglect of the defendant, the court or justices before whom the''
aetion is tried, shall eause a certifiente··thereof iobe made: on 'the
beck- of the ezeentiorr issued in 'Such' action;and 'the- de(~dan'I" 
lhtll not be discharged on giving·bond as provided· in the preced-' 
ing chapter.
· Sac. 11. In such case the defendant 'shell not be entitled, as a 
llllltler of right, to be discharged upon ·taking 'the poor debtor'i-
CJlllh ; but if the justices to whom ·application is made; shatt ··1hint · 
proper, he may be discharged upon -snch terms and condition$'.,. 
ti., ·tnay· impose, 
Smc. 12. Any penon disqualified· to testify 'u • witness, triaY"'be
admitted totake the otath prescribed by law. . ' 
SEC~ 13. · If the application of any person to take such oath sha.tr:
not·prenil,costs shall· be taxed fonhe ereditar in the·sarne!Vlah'tfer 
as in ictions in the court of commton pleas, and jndg•rit rentlerecl
qd-execution issaed by the justices therefor. · 
: S Ee. U. No 'application of any person to take the poor debtor',·
Gath shall be allowed, until the costs which have been adjudg~ 
apmat- him on all former applioatiolls, have been paid: - 
Gl 
81t~TI01' 
OF THE LIABILITY OF BAIL. 
J~ Bail, how must. be notified.
I. Bail may produce body of debtor.
3. Bail not. charged unlees not.ice re­ 
turned u duly given. 
4. Rail di1ch1.1,ed by ooanmiUing debt­
or to jail, when. 
6. Scire faciu il81led, in what cue. 
SscTIOlf 
6. Bail may surrender on scire faclu.
7. Coat.a to be pa.id by bail, how. 
~· Scire faciu must. be 11e"ed on bail
within one year. 
9. Bail, how discharged before just.ice..
10. Copy of process left with jailer. 
SECTION 1. Creditors intending to charge the bail on the execn ...
tion, shall endorse thereon the names and places of abode of .thev
bail; and the officer, at least fifteen days before the return day 
thereof, shall deliver to each of the persons intended to be charged ·
as bail, or leave at his usual place of abode a notice in writing,,
stating that such execution is in his hands, the amount thereof and
when it is returnable, and keep such execution until the retum·day.t
thereof. 
SEc. 2. If the bail so notified, shall, at any time before the
return day, produce the body of the debtor to the officer, so that ·
he may arrest him, and pay the reasonable charges for such notice, ·
they shall be forever discharged. 
SEc. 3. The bail shall not be charged upon any return of non
e• inventus, unless the officer shall certify in such return that 
notice was given as aforesaid to the bail .
. SEc. 4.. Bail shall be discharged at any time before judgment 
against them, by committing the principal to the common jail of
the county in which the arrest was made, or in which the action
is pending, and giving to the creditor or his attorney in the action,
within fifteen days after, notice in writing of the time when and
place where the principal is so committed, and causing the board of 
tile principal to be paid or secured to the jailer until the expiration
of seven days after notice given to the creditor or his attorney, 
unless he shall be sooner discharged by giving bond according
to law. · 
SEc. 5. If the officer shall make return on the executien ,against
the principal, that he has made diligent search, and has not been
able to find the principal in his precinct, and that ho gave notice
to the bail as herein prescribed, the creditor may have a writ of
acire faeias against the bail, and judgment and execution against
him for the amount of such execution and interest, and for costs. 
8Ec. 6. If the bail shall, at any time before judgment against
them, bring into the court the body of the principal and move to 
be discharged, they shall be discharged, and the court shall order 
the keeper of the. prison to receive him into custody ; and he shall 
be holden in the same manner as if he had been committed on the 
writ for want of bail.
Sze. 7. The bail shall not be discharged by committing his, 
· principal and notice to the creditor as aforesaid, after notice given 
to the bail as aforesaid, without paying to the officer, creditor or
his attorney the cost of such notice, and the cost which has arisen 
in any action which has been commenced against such bail.
Sze. 8. No scire faeias against bail shall be supported, unless the 
same shall be served on the bail within one year after the final 
judgment against the principal.
SEc. 9. The bail, in actions before justices, may commit the 
principal to jail at any time before judgment against them, and 
shall be discharged upon producing to the justice a certificate
thereof from the jailer, in the same manner and upon payment o( 
tho like cost as if he were surrendered in court.
Sxc. 10. The bail, on committing their principal to jail, shall in 
all cues l_eave with the jailer an attested copy of the writ or
process on which the arrest was made, and of -the oflicer's retum 
I hereon, with a certificate of such commitment ; and the jailer 
shall detain sueh principal in his custody in the aame manner u
if he were committed for want of bail. 
SECTIOK 1. Any ~rson imprisoned in any common jail or otber­
wfse restrained" of his personal Iibert v. by. any offlcet or' other per.:.'' 
aon, except in the cases mentioned in the following section, shall 
be entitled of right to a . w~it of habeas corpus, according to the. 
provisions of this chapter. 
SEc. 2. The following pel80ll8 shall no~ of .right be entitled to
111ch writ: · ., · 
First, Persons imprisoned upon legal process, civil or criminal, 
in which the cause of ~h i~F.ison~~nt is di~tinctly expresse~ ; 
Secon.J, Persons committed by any court or Judge of the Umtecl 
States, and where no judge of any court of this State has authority
to discharge or to commit to bail. 
Sze. 3. Application for such writ may be made to the superior
court of judicature, in term time, in any county, or to any justice
thereof at any time, by any person so imprisoned or restrained al 
his liberty, or by some person in his behalf. 
SEc. 4. The application shall be in )Vriting signed by the appli­ 
esnt, and under oath. · It shall state the place where the person ia 
1t1pposed to be imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, and bf
whom, and a copy of the warrant or precept, if any, under which 
he is con1bte4, 'shall be annexed to such application,
S:r:c. 6. tr, on inspection of the copy of suc_h precept, i_t s~~ 
appear to such court or justice that such person 1s lawfully 1DlJll19'.' 
·a. • . 
.
,. To 
. 
. oned or restrained' of his liberty. by virtue thereof, ... wnt of habeas
corpus shall not be granted. 
SEc. 6. If, by the copy of such precept, it shall appear that such
person is imprisoned on mesne process for want of bail, or on crimi­
nal process before a magistrate for want of recognizance, and ~hat
~cessive bail or recognizance was required, such court ot justice
shall decide what bail is reasonable, and he shall, on giving such
bail, be discharged. 
SEc. 7. If any officer having the custody of any such penoo
by virtue of any precept, shall refuse or delay unnecessarily to
deliver to such applicant an attested copy of such precept, Oil 
demand, such court or justice, on proof of such demand and refusal
or unnecessary delay, to be proved by, the affidavit of the appli- 
Ollllt. or other credible witness, shall forthwith issue the writ of 
· habeas corpus as prayed for. .
,.81:c. 8 .• The form of the writ may be substantially as follows: 
THE STATE 01" NEW H..lllPSBIRE. 
'4!111'1 GaEETINO. 
We command you that the body of in our prison under
your custody detained, ( or, by yon imprisoned and restrained of 
. his liberty, as the case may be,) as is said, together with the day
and canse of the taking and detaining of the said - by what- 
. ever name the said may be called or charged, you have
before our justices of our superior court of judicature holden at 
within and for our county of immediately after the
receipt of this writ, to undergo and receive what our said justices
lhall then and there consider of him in this behalf; and have you
then there this writ. 
Witness at this day of in the year
of our Lord 
· 'An necessary alterations, in the foim thereof, shall be made. to 
~t the same to the circumstances of the· application. . 
_. SEc. 9. Said writ, when awarded by the court, shall be under' 
the seal of the court, tested by the chief justice or first justi99
who is not a party, and signed by the clerk: when awarded by-· 
aqy justice of said court, it shall be under his hand. and seal . 
. SE(?, 10. Said writ, when issued by the court, may be made
returnable immediately to the court or auy justice thereof in any 
county, or at any time and place certain, or before any justice of
said court at any time and place therein directed. . 
. SEc. 11. If. the writ is issued by any justice of said court, it 
m,ay be made returnable before himself or any other justice of said
court, immediately at a place therein directed, or at a time and
pace certain, or before said court as may be therein directed. 
. 
SEc. 12. In. alf cases such writ shall be made returnable in such
a mode, as to secure to the applicant the enjoyment of the· same in 
· the most free, easy, cheap and expeditious manner. 
SEc. 13. The court or justice awarding such writ, may, in his
discretion, before the same is awarded, require that the applicant
shall file a sufficient bond or give satisfactory security to the person
to whom such writ is directed, for the payment of all charges
incurred by reason of such process, and that the person imprisoned
shall not escape by the way ; and may also order that the expenses
of bringing the person imprisoned or restrained of his liberty,
before such court or justice, ( which sum shall be fixe~ by such
court or justice and endorsed on such writ.) shall be paid or ten- 
, dered at the time of the service of such writ.
SEc. 14. The service of such writ may be made by any person, 
and shall be by delivering the original to the person to whom it
is directed, or if the person for whom application is made, is in 
prison, it may be left with the jailer or deputy keeper at such pri­
son, and paying or tendering the sum endorsed on said writ, if any. 
SEc. 15. The person making such service, shall keep a ~opy
of such writ, and shall make his return or affidavit of service and
of such payment or tender of fees thereon, as in other cases, and
deliver the same to the court or justice before whom the same is
returnable, on or before the time of hearing therein designated. 
SEc. 16. The person to whom such writ is directed, shall receive
the same when offered, and upon payment or tender of the sum
endorsed on said writ, if any, shall yield due obedience to the
command thereof: and shall make due return thereof to the court
or justice, and at the time and place therein mentioned; and shall
state every cause of taking and detaining the person imprisoned or
restrained, all which shall be made under oath ; and shall also have
present the body of such person, unless imprisoned or restrained
for some one or more of the causes specified in the second section
of this chapter. 
SEc. 17. If no time is specified for such return, the same writ
being returnable immediately, the return shall be made within 
· three days after such service, unless the prisoner is to be brought
more than twenty miles, in which case the return shall he made
within so many days more as will be equal to one day for every
ten miles of such further distance. 
SEC. 18. Any justice of said court, when any such writ is re­
turned to him, may certify and return the same, with all things 
pertaining thereto, to said court, if then sitting; and at any time be­ 
fore the prisoner shall have been discharged, bailed or remanded,
any such justice may adjourn further proceedings on such writ to
said court, if then in session, or to the next term thereof, if to com­ 
mence within three months next afterwards. The said court, in
any such case, shall proceed thereon as if such wnt bad been, by 
the tenor thereof, returnable thereto. 
Si:c. 19. If said court shall not be in session when any such
writ is made returnable, the same shall be returned to any justice
of said court as if the same was issued by and returnable to him. 
Ssc, 20. Such court or justice may require and take security by
recognizance, with sufficient sureties if necessary, for the appear­ 
ance of any party at the time and place of hearing on any such
writ, and to abide the order of court thereon; and may make all
decrees necessary to insure the attainment of the object of such
writ, and enforce the same upon the principles of equity. 
St:c. 2 l. When auy person shall be brought before any court or
justice thereof as aforesaid, such court or justice shall, within three 
tlays after, proceed and examine the causes of detention.. ' 
SEc. 22. If the person imprisoned or restrained, shall be so im­
prisoned or restrained without sufficient cause or due order of law,
be shall he discharged ; hut if otherwise, he shall be remanded. 
81:c. 23. If such person is committed for any bailable offence,
such court or justice may bail him by ordering him to recognize,
with sufficient surety or sureties, in a reasonable sum, for his
appearance at the court havmg cognizance of such offence, and
shall certify their recognizance into such court. 
Sec. 24. If such person is committed on mesne process in any 
civil action for want of bail, and it shall appear that the bail re­
quired was excessive, such court or justice may discharge him Oil 
reasonable bail being given. 
SEc. 25., If any officer having the custody of any prisoner, on
-pa.yment or tender of his fees therefor, shall not, within six hours 
alter demand made, deliver to such prisoner a true copy of the
warrant or process by which he is held in custody, he shall forfeit
to the perry aggrievedthe sum of two hundred dollars. 
SEc. 26. If. any pcJ'SC1n to whom any writ of habeas corpus· is
directed, shall refuse to receive the same, or shall conceal himself
or avoid so that such writ cannot be delivered to him, or after the
receipt thereof shall refuse or neglect, after the payment or tw1:d~r
of expenses when required as aforesaid, to yield obedience thereto,
unless prevented by the sickness of the person detained or other
necessity, he shall forfeit for every such offence to the person
aggrieved, the sum of five hundred dollars. 
Sec, 27. If auy person shall make any false return to any sueh
writ, he shall be also liable to the action of the party grieved, and
also to any action at common law for false imprisonment or unlaw- · 
(Ql restraint, 
. SEc. 28. The court or justice thereof awarding any such writ,
or to whom it is returned: may punish every discbedience to the
order thereof as for a contempt, and may compel obedience thereto 
by process of attaehment.. . · · 
81:0. 29. No person enlarged by habeas corpus, shall again ·be
imprisoned or restrained of his. liberty for the same cause, unless ht
lhall be indicted therefor or convicted thereof, or shall uegleet to 
. appear according to hi, recognisaace, or to m,d bail when reqnlred · 
. thereto ; and if any officer or other person shall wilfuU y agl9in
imprison or restrain the person so discharged, except as afor~, · 
. he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved eight hundred dollars.
Ssc. 30. All actions and prosecutions for. any offence against t,he · 
. provisions of this chapter, shall be commenced within two y.- · 
· next after the commission of such o1fence; saving to all persons in ·
· prison the right to sue or prosecute at; any tune within two y~ : 
I 
after such impediment is removed.
.SEc~ 31. The right of action in any such case, exc:eptitlg. ae&ions 
of trespass for false imprisonment, shall not cease by the death ,ol 
either pw:ty,. but shall survive for and against the personal tepl't­ 
eentatives of the deceased. 
8acno•
t. " Great," construction of word. 
. j, " 0,,o~," " && M 
3. Grant.I, how f~rfeii.d.
. 4. Eft"ect of forfeiture. 
5. Information or complaint, how filed.
. 6. Proceedings,. where to be W. 
. '1. Se"ice, in cue of lauds, how m~e.
8. " in other cues, how made.
9. Several persons may join. 
10. Grantee, when defaulted. 
"n, Grantee, when bet.rd in chancery. 
S&c-,1QN 1. The word "grant," u used in this chapter, lhall 
be construed to mean all grants or charters of lands in this State, 
made by the supreme executive or legislative power thereof, and 
all acts of incorporation and laws giving to individuals powers or
rights W>t common. to all citizens. , 
. 81:c. 2. The word "grant.ti' ahall be construed to mean the
person, persons or corporation to whom such grant is made, their
,epresentatives, successors and asisigns, and all persons interested 
&horein. · 
CBA.PI'Bll 908. 
OF THE FORFEITURE OF .GRANTS. 
81!CTI01' 
12. Judgment maybe conditional.
13. Jadgment, how rendered,
U. Copy of cue to be ret11flle4 to~ 
tary.'• o8i~. 
15. lmpf~eme11t1, •:hn alloWN »r. · 
16, Value thel'e'JJ', bow determined. ,
17. When 1&IIU ~,ranted, condiLiou. 
18. If conditions noL fulfilled, remedy.
19. Possesaion, how recovered.
20. Complainant liable for costs. 
SEc. 3 .. Any grant may be adjudged forfeited for the non-pet·
formance of any condition annexed to or contained in such grant• 
whet.her sueh condition be expressed or from the nature of the 
ease clearly implied, in the manner .hereinefter provided.
Si:c. 4. Whenever any grant shall be adjudged forfeited, the 
, ·gMltMp· aha)( be iramedia&e)y diYested of all rights, ·powers and 
privileges derived by virtue of such grant; and the gmnt mall be
tl\encef orth deemed to be vacated, and shall revert to the State. 
SEc. 5. The ordi11ary mode of process shall be by-information 
fihtd by thJt atto,ney general, or ·other_ person duly authorized in
, bualf -0f· the -State, a,etting forth that such grant is forfeited, or- if 
tho elaim is by an individual for the forfeiture of a grant of· land,
~ ltJI a complaint by ,snch individual, setting forth such forfeiture and
. his claim thereto. In the latter case, before any order is issued, 
- the complainant shall file witk the clerk a bond running to the
Stale, in a reasonable sum and with sufficient sureties, conditioned 
: to pay all costs which may be recovered against him on such com­
·plaint. 
SEc. 6. Such information or complaint shall be directed to the
justices of the superior court of judicature, for the county in' which 
~ auah laud or corporation; or any part thereof, lies; and may be filed 
i io vacation; and the clerk shall make an order thereon, directing
such grantee to appear at the next term of said court in said county, 
. then and there to show came . why mth forfeiture: should not be
decreed. 
Sec, 7. Such process shall be: served upon the grantee, in
· the case of forfeiture of lands, by posting up a copy -of such com­ 
plaint or information and order of court thereon, in some public
place in the shire town of the county in which such land lies, for 
· the space of thirty days prior to the term of the court at whieh
th6.;same is to be heard and tried, and also by publi!hing the same 
· in some newspaper printed ill' such county, if any there be, other­
wise iu some adjacent county, and also in the· New 'Hampshiee 
: Patriot and State Gasette, three weeks successively, the last publi­ 
. cat1en to be at least thirty days prior to said term. 
8Ec. 8. · In all other cases service shall be made by giving an
attested copy of such information and order of court thereon, lo
such grantee or the clerk of such corporation, or one of ·the prin ..
eipal proprietors thereof, or by leaving the same at his usual place
of abode, thirty days at least prior to said term, or by such· other 
. notice as the court, on consideration, shall order. ,
Sec. 9. If several persons in any case claim nnder the· same 
grant, they may appear and plead severally.
81:c. 10. If the grantee shall not appear after service duly made, 
the eourt shall hear theevideuce and try the truth of the matters
all•ged iu the informaiion or complaint, and may, for good cause 
~•howo, adjudge the grant· to be forfeited. · · ·
Sec, 11. If the verdict of the jury or the decision· of the court, 
in a1.1y sueh case, is that such grant is forfeited er that the· condi­
tions of the grant have not been performed, the grantee may show
his -reasons in writing to the eonrt why the ·gra·1t in ·equity and
good conscience should not be forfeited, although 1l forfeiture baa 
12 
been legally incurred, and the court ehall judge the same aecoriling
to equity and good conscience. 
BKc. 12. If the court, upon due consideration, shall deem such
reasons to be sufficient, the same shall be briedy recited inthe
judgment, which shall· be. that the grant, in equity; might not to be
forf eited and is not forfeited, and that the grantee pay the c0St1 oC 
suit.
Sec, 13. If no reasons are shown.or if the reasons shown;are 
insufficient, the judgment shall be that the grant is forfeited, and
the reasons shown, if any, and their ineufficiency shall be brietly 
recited in said judgment. ·
SF.r.. 14. When final judgment has been rendered that a graut it 
forfeited, the clerk of the court in which such judgment is ren­
dered, shall, within thirty days thereafter, transmit to the secretary
of state a copy of all the papers in such case, including the judg­
ment, certified by him and under the seal of the court, which shall
be kept by the secretary and laid before the legislature at the next
session. 
Sec, 15. At and upon the rendition of any judgment of forfeit­
ure of any grant of land as aforesaid, such grantee may, by petition
or motion in writing, set forth the facts respecting his performance
of the condition of such grant and the improvements made. by
him thereon, and may pray' the court to be heard thereon, 
Ssc. 16. The court shall immediately proceed to hear the same,
either by a jury or before themselves, at the option of such par­ 
ty; and upon the value of such improvements and the valne of
the land, at the time of the entry of such grantee, being foued, the
court as a court of equity, shall determine and decree that ,the
Stateshall pay to such grantee the value of such improvements, or
so much thereof as they shall think reasonable, before having poa­
session of such lands, or that the grantee shall pay to the State the
value of the lauds before such improvements were made, and upon
such payment to have all the title of the State thereto, or ,t may
be conditional, leaving it to the option of the. grantee to pay or
receive said sums, as he may think expedient ; which decree shall 
· prescribe the time and mode of such payment, which shall he at
the treasury of the State, and such notices and other requirements
as equity may demand. 
Sec, 17. \Vhouever any grant of laud has been declared forfeit­ 
ed, and tho same has been regrauted, snch second or other grantee
may appear nt and upon the rendition of judgment of forfeiture,
in the manner provided in the preceding section, and a heaa:ing
shall be had and a conditional judgment rendered ns is therein .pro­
vided, and such judgment returned to the secretary of state as in
other rascs. . 
Sxc. lS. lf such g nntco shall not comply with nn I fulfil said
decree or judgment of court, in the 'mode and w ithi.i the time 
therein preecribed, the attt>mey general or other person appointed,
may bring a writ of scire facias in the same court, and said court
Bitting in equity, upon a hearing of said case, may decree such
grant to be forfeited. 
Ssc, 19. Whenever any grant o( lands shaU be declared forfeit­
ed, and the grantee shall continue to hold possession thereof, an 
action may be brought by the State to recover such possession, un­
less the same has been regranted so that the State has no present 
·title thereto. 
SEc. 20. If any person not employed 'by and in behalf of the
State, shall enter any complaint or prosecute any snit as aforesaid,
and shall not support his title, costs shall be taxed against him for
the defendant. 
\ I 
8scr10•
1. Beuta impounded, how replevied. 
' 2. Property claimed by third person. 
SECTION I. Any person whose beasts are impounded, may at any
time, while they remain in the pound, maintain replevin therefor
against the imponnder thereof. 
SEc. 2. When any goods or chattels attached on any writ oC
mesne process. are claimed by any other person, he may maintain 
' repleviu therefor. · 
SEc. 3. If any goods or chattels exempted by law from attach­
ment, are attached upon mesne process, and before they are taken 
on execution, the owner or person out of whose possession they
were taken, may maintain replevin therefor. 
SEc. 4. If the value of property replevied does not exceed
thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, the action shall be brought 
before a justiep : otherwise, in the court of common pleas. ·
SEc. 5. The plaintiff iu the writ, before the service thereof, 
shall give bond to the sheriff or the county, with sufficient sure- ' 
ties, in a sum not less than double the value of the property reple­
vied, conditioned to prosecute his suit and to pay all such damages
and charges as may be awarded against him. 
I 
OB.~Pl'ER M4. 
3 " exempt from attachment. 
OF REPL~VIN. 
1SECTI01' 
I 4. Suits, where to be brought. 
j 
5. Plaintiff to gi,·c bond, how.
6. Officer may seize property, how. 
S Ee. 6. If any property attached as aforesaid, is in the possession 
or any person for keeping or otherwise, the officer having the writ 
of replevin, may demand the same, and on neglect or ref usal to 
deliYer sneh property, may enter any close Of building· and repleYy 
· the same. The delivery to or ·taking l>y such officer or any pro­ 
·perty shall exonerate the person having.possession thereof as afore­
aid, from all liability therefor. 
8SCT10ll' 
1. Writ of dower, when brought.
I. Demud of dower to be &rat made.
3.' Form of writ of dow~r.
(. Dama.pa to be rendered, what. 
St:CTIOS 
5. For'm of judpaent for doweT.
6. Dower, how 1et nut b7 o5oer.
7. Right, of widow therein. 
SECTION 1. If dower · is not assigned to any woman entitled
thereto, to her satisfaction, by the heir or tenant of the f reeholtl·w
by the judge of probate, she may recover the same by action o£;
dower. 
SEc. 2. She shall make demand in writing of her dower of the
person seized of the freehold, if in this State, otherwise of the:· 
tenant in possession ; and if such dower. is not set out within ona:
month, may sue for and recover the same against such penon. 
SEc. 3. The writ in actions of dower shall be a summon&
SEc. 4. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, ~" 
· shall also, in the same action, recover her reasonable damages for
the detention thereof by the tenant in such action after demand· 1 
-·~e.
SEc. 5. Judgment shall be rendered for the demandant tbai sh•, 
recover " seizin of such part of a certain · with the a~.
.naaees, as will produce a yearly income equal to one third part of1· 
· the yearly income thereof on thq day of "
Sac. 6. The officer to whom such writ of seizin is directed,· 
· shall cause such dower to be set off by three discreet and disinte-.
rested men of the neighborhood, who shall be appointed and shall~ 
·proceed in the same manner as is provided in the cue of the leYJ 
- oC executions on real estate. • · ;{ 
S&c. 7. The rights of every such woman and the mode of a-1 
11ng out her dower, shall be .the 1ame as in similar cues beCore '•1 
. jlldge or probate. 
· CJIU.PTEB NG. 
OF THE ACTION OF .DOWER. 
8sn10• 
1. Partition may lae lllllde, wi,en. 
9. Petition, if ownen known.
S. .. " " · unknown. 
4. Notioe, where ownera known.
6. " " " unknown .. 
I. Ir petitionee i• ah.rot, notified.
7. If petitionee i• an infaqt, what.
8. If unknown, agent to be appointed.
9. Qaeation, triable by jury, bow. ~ 
10. Committee to be appointed, how.
11. Notice to be ,;nn by committee. 
11 .. Proeeedinr, if owner unknown.
13. Partition, how to be made. 
~··. ~-port and judgment thereoD. 
8WGTIOW 
15. Com, how aclj9sted.
16. If pe&itioner pnn.m in put, ....., 
how tued.
17. If petitioner fails, Cont. 
18. It petitio!l not entered, costs. 
19. Petition not aff'eeted by nle, &c.
20. Lepl owaer to hue ahare .et o&'.
21. lf no dispute u to title, petition 61e4. , 
in probate court. ·
22. Notice how given in such cue. 
23. Partition, how made in sueh cue.
24. If costs not paid, how con~cted.
25. E,tate not divisible, how •t d. 
· · SiwnON 1. One or more persons having or holding real estate· . 
with.others, may have partition thereof in the mode hereinaCt•
'provided. 
· 8Bc. 2. Application may .be made by such peraon to the superior .. 
court of judicature in the county in which such real estate or an)'
~ theroof lies, by petiti-.n in writing, particularly deeeribing the 
estate of which pertition is desired, tho names of all owners or per­ 
lODS interelted, if known, and the share . of the petitioner tbereiD,, 
and praying for partition thereof. ·
· Sao. 3. If the persons owning or· interested in any:. such real~ 
eeeate with the petitioner, are unknown, the estate shall be de- .
8Cribed in such petition in the same manner as is required by law
ill the case of tuing unimproved lands of non-residents, specif yiag.,
the: share aeverally held by each petitioner, and stating the. same,a,,.: 
held with person• unknown. 
SEc. 4. The petitioner shall cause notice to be given to all per- . 
8'JIIS interested in such estate, by causing such petition, with ~-­
order of notice thereon, to be duly served on each in 1he same ..
Dlanner that writs of snmmons are required to be served. 
Su. 6. If any petitionee is unknown, or if his residence 'is un-.
known, or if he resides out of the State not having had penoul, ·.
notice, the court shall ordE?r said petition and order of notice to l>e .· .•
pablilhed in some ne,npaper printed in the county, if any. there _
be, otherwise in some adjoining county, three weeks atcceuively, ..
the last publication to be thirty days at least before ,the term of tho 
1 
or, PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE. 
court at which such petition is to be heard.
SEC. 6. If any petitionee is absent from home. at the time of .. .: 
the aervic_e of auch petition, and has not returned and does not ap- .. . 
pear at the sitting of the court at which such petition is entered or 
eoneinued, the court may continue such petition and order furthQr
notice to be given, if they think proper. 
81:c. 7. If any petitiouee is an infant or otherwise incapacitated
to take care of his estate, the court shall not cause partition to be 
made until a guardian or agent has been appointed, and such apnt
may be appointed by the court. 
~Ec. 8. If any petitionee is unknown, the court may, whenevee
they think it expedient, appoint an agent to aid and advise in hit,
behalf in making such partition. 
Sao. 9. If any of the facts alleged in such petition ·are deniee
hy the petitionee, the objections shall be made in writing l>y plea
drawn with legal certainty, to which the petitioner may reply or
demur, so that the matter in dispute may be reduced to an issue
of law or fact, and tried and determined as in civil cases. Every 
such issue of .fact shall be sent to the court of common pleas (or 
trial, unless by agreement of parties it is tried by the court.
SEc. 10. If the issue is determined in favor of the petitioner, or 
if after due notice the petitionee shall not appear, the court shall
render judgment that partition be made, and shall appoint a com·
mittee consisting of three suitable persons, residents of such county,
to make partition of such estate and to set oft' the share of the
several persons interested, according lo their respective titles, aod
shall award costs to the petitioner against the petitionee and i88lle 
execution therefor.
8Ec. 11. Such committee, before proceeding to make partition. 
shall cause notice in writing of the time and place appointed for a
hearing in relation thereto, signed by their chairman, to be served
upon each person interested, or his agent or attorney, or left at bi• 
~sual place of abode, seven days at least before such day of hear,, 
mg.
SEc. 12. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, the 
committee shall cause such notice to be published in some new ..
paper published in the same county, if any there be, otherwise in
some adjoining county, three weeks successively before said day 
of bearing. · .
SEc. 13. Said committee, before such hearing is had, shall be 
sworn faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties of their
commission, and shall proceed to make partition of the estate aa ia 
therein directed, by dividing and setting oft' to each owner bis jus&­
ahare thereof, according to his right, by proper metes and bounds
or othet distinct description, and shall return to said court a full 
report of their doings, with a particular description of each portion
of the estate so divided, and a certificate of said oath, 
Sze. 14. Such partition and report being made and returned- to
said court, judgment may be rendered thereon; and the same being
recorded in the registry of deeds for the county where tbe real 
esta&e ilea, shall be valid and eft"ectual to all intents and purpoee&: _ , 
• •o. · 15. The committee shall oollllider and adjust the eosta and 
charges of making such partition, and apportion the same in sOClh
manner as they shall think just and reasonable for or against the 
puities interested, and report the same to the court, and execution 
IDlff iS1Ue therefor.
8l':c. 16. If, on the trial of any issue, it shall be determined that 
the petitioner has a right or share in the estate described, but leSB 
than he claims, the court shall order that partition be made in the 
IDOllner aforesaid, according to the actual rights of each, but the
petirionee shall recover costs. 
8EC; 17. If on such trial it shall be determined that the peti­
tioser has no right or share in such estate, the petitionee shall 
recerer costs. ,
S~c. IS. If the petitioner shall fail to enter or to prosecute his 
said petition, costs shall be awarded in favor of all the petitionees 
Updfl whom service thereof was made, to be recovered as in other 
eases. . 
Sec. 19. No partition shall be avoided by any conveyance made
by any petitionee, after the entry of the petition therefor, nor by 
auy eonveyanee, unless dnly recorded at the date of such entry,
nor by any mortgage, attachment or lien thereon, whenever made,
or by the death of either party, but the share of each party named
in t'he petition, shall be .set off in severalty and be subject to all
legal claims thereon, as if such claimant had been a party thereto. 
S Ee. 20. If, in making any partition, any share shall be set off 
to.any person other than the legal owner thereof, such share shall
enure to the benefit of such legal owner, his heirs or assigns, as iC
the same had been set off to him. 
SEc. 21. . If there is no dispute about the title, the petition for
partition may be directed to and filed with the judge of probate
of the connty where the real estate or the greater part thereof lies,
who shall appoint a time and place of hearing thereon. 
SEc. 22. Notice thereof shall be giveu to all parties interested
by giving to each in hand, or leaving at his usual place of abr de 
"1l true and attested copy of such petition and order of notice, fifteen
days at least hefore the day of hearing, or by causing the same to 
be published in some newspaper printed in the vicinity, three'weeks
suceessively, the last publication to be at least thirty days before
such day of hearing. 
SEc. 23. If, on such hearing, no sufficient objection appears,
said judge shall cause partition [to be made l by a committee, who 
sh.aJI be appointed, he sworn, give notice and proceed in making
partttion ; and the court shall appoint guardians or agents for all 
minors or persons incapacitated, and agents for all persons un­ 
k1.mwn or out of the State, interested in such estate, receive and
acc~pt the report of such committee, and render judgment and
award costs thereon, in the manner herein-before prescribed. 
Sec. 24. IC any party interested, against whom costs are award- 
-..ecwllhalinegleet -te 
,. 
;aSAWIH· 
1plythe:.same,
Che. aid judge ·•Y -..Ue)ti, 
'WJUDllt of: atre:1111 therefor. · · · · · ~ 
SEc. 25. When any real estate is llO sitoaaed that it cann«Jtille·­
dirided, so· as to- give to each· .owner his equal,share therein, witbom 
. great prejudice or inconvenience, the same or part thereof mat~ 
1 •gned- to one of the petitioners; he· paying · to · the other i,e!Mbl
,.imerened who·shall have less than their- shares, sueh sum of mone1 
. u the committee shall award, or giving bond, with su(i.cient stite• 
. taa, to ply;the aame with interest within such time aa1he court
; : aball order. ;, 
CR.u-rER 901'. 
or TRESPASSES AND ,v ASTE. 
1. Tres.,...- ea weo4 lot, penalty.
: :2.· ·Akerillg,mark• ien lop, penafty1 · 
;· a . .Lu.Ying gatie.,Ac.,opea, penalty.
: -6. Carrying a-way urth,. &a., penakJ. 
r 6. ~qf. proqsediDg .in ,ucla cue, •. 
81:ctTroif · 
6. Tre1pu1119 on pa.blie Juu; · · · '-~ 
7. Such · poMNtiOG of no aftil.
8. CuUing limW'r.treea, ~ ,.--..~ 
9. Limiati• er pra.ec11tiou... . . ,-'-4 
. SECTION L If any person shall cut, fell, destroy or carry awa;,. 
.aµiy tree, wood, timber or underwood whatsoever standing, lying 
'or _being on _ the land .of any other person, having no right there, 
withont lesre from the owner of the land on which sueh trees, 
timber, W()f'd or underwood Were, or shall aid therein, he shall for• 
feit for ea<11 trespass to the person injured, five dollars for every·
tree or lo~ of one foot over, for every tree or log of greater dimen­
sions, five doJlars and three times the value thereof, and three dol­
Jars for ej ery tree, log or pole less than one foot in diameter, and.
for other wood or underwood, treble the· value thereof. 
log, or •w or cut into any lumber or any log not his own property, 
SEc. ~· If any person shall cut out or alter the mark of any mill 
w1thm1 the leave of the owner, or shall aid therein, he shall be
liable fj.>r each offence to the same penalty affixed in the preceding
1ectiOlJ to cutting any tree or log of the same dimensions, · 
SEq. 3. Jf any person shall throw down· or leave· OJ>ffl any lm,
gate tr fence belonging to or enclosisg any laud holden -in com·
moo/or belonging to any particular person, or shall aid· thei,,in/he 
shall' for every such offence forfeit and pay treble dam-ages· to ~he 
pP.l'$0D injured, and nlso a sum not exceeding flfteen ·doll~ 
according to the aggravation of the offence. -~ 
8£c. 4. If any person shall dig np or carry away any stone, ~re, 
gjavel, clay or sand, turf or mould belonging the proprietors of any 
. I 
.• 
.i 
.«amon lands, or to any particular person, or shall aid therein, he 
lhall for every such offence forfeit the same sum as is prescribed in 
the preceding section.
Sc.c. 6. In any case which may arise under the precediug Ne­ 
tions, the plaintiff may proceed as at common law, or the plaintiff,
bis agent or attorney may make oath that certain aet1 set forth in 
iho declaration, have been committed, and that he suspecta dis&
&he defendant committed such acts, and the court upon aueh and 
: other evidence to be offered by the plaintiff, may award him 
damages and costs as aforesaid, unless the defendant shall accput 
hi1DBelf upon oath, to be administered by the court, in which case
he shall recover of the plaintiff double costs. 
SEc. 6. If any person, without leave of the State, shall enter
into or take possession of any waste lands unappropriated and be­
longing to this State, and shall continue in possession thereof with­
out color of right for the space of three months, he shall forfeit for
such offence one hundred dollars, to be recovered by indictment,
one half to the use of the State and the other half to the use of the
complainant. 
SEc. 7. No possession obtained or held as aforesaid, shall be ol 
any avail in law in favor of such possessor. .
8Ec. 8. If any person shall wilfully cut, fell, destroy, injure, or 
~ away any pine or other timber trees standing or growing on
any tract of land within this State, without leave of the owner
thereof, or shall be accessory thereto, he shall be liable to the person
injured, in a sum equal to five times the value of all the trees IO 
cut, felled, destroyed, injured or carried away. .
81:c. 9. No prosecution for any trespass under this chapter shall 
· 'be sustained, unless commenced within two years from the. com-
mission thereof. · 
OF FOREIGN A Tr ACHMENT OR THE TRUSTEE PROCESS. 
"'8E«it10lf 
·-1~. Liabi'lity•otl negotiable note.
19. " how determined. 
~· tM. lk-btor refusing to appear, penalty. 
it. Aiitwer not Mldenee on indictment,
,, , , u-.pt(or perjury. , 
.-fil If prope"y clainitd hy anoµu,r. 
a.1Corporatioa liable• trustff. . 
q,U. If. ~Mee dies before diecloaure. 
1
~- Commi•ioJJ~ appointed, when.'. 
. ~. ll~tmta~ .about to lea~ the Btat.e, 
discloeure may be taken. 
!fl •. Dieclesure tale~ in vacation, bow.
!JS. Trial by jury allowed, how. 
· ~.' V~rdict of jury, judgment and coils. 
Sr.CJ'IO~ ' ... 
30. Judgment aga.in11t trustee, what.
31. If defendant hu had no .notice. 
32. tr collusion behveen ttae parties.
33. If trustee i, fraudulent; COBta. 
34. Holding property tnadalently, coMi 
allowed, hotr.
35. If delayinr, cmdi~r to pay· doata. .i 
36. An1wen of tru1tee to be aevenJ; , ..
)7. Executions, how to be iuued,. . 1 : 
38. Jud1meat again11t ll'Uff.tt, a bu, ,
39. Trustee suits before a ju-lice •.
40. Procces, how to be direc~d.
41. PlaintiJf to file bond, whea.
42. Fees of trustee in such cue. 
, SECTION .1. An· personal actions may· be commenced. by' ·,he 
:,Proce~s of foreign attachment, or trustee process, i.11 the manu~
"hereinafter provided, except actions of replevin, actions on the c~
for r~icions prosecution, or for slander_ or libel, and 'actions of 
trespass for assault and battery and false rmpnsoumenr. . 
" SEc. 2. All such actions shall be brought in the same county in 
'whfc~ they. would have. been _brought, if' no .trustee were su_rq~
moned therein, except as 1s hereinafter provided. . .. . 
. Sic, 3. The trustee writ shall be an attachment and s11mmonj, 
:and shall be served upon. the trustee and upon the principal defend­ 
ant iu the same inanner as writs of summons, and the property or 
the principal defendant may be attached thereon. , . .
: : SEc. 4. The plaintiff may insert the names of as. many persons 
as t'rttstees as he may deem necessary, at any timo before the pro-
cess is served upon the principal defendant, but not after. · 
SEc. 5. If such trustee do not appear at the term of the court tc;> 
which such process duly served on him, is returnable, or if contin­
ued, at the term to which it shall he so continued, his default shall. 
be recorded, and the charge cf his having in his possession money,
goods, chattels, rights or credits· of the principal defendant to the 
amount alleged in such process, shall be deemed to be true, and
judgment shall be rendered and execution issue against the trustee~
his proper goods and estate for such amount as the plaintiff shall
recover against the principal defendant in such process, but not 
exceeding the amount so alleged in such process 1lS aforesaid. 
See, 6. If any trustee shall not be able to attend in person, at. 
the term of the court to which said process is returnable or may be
continued, or shall have other good and sufficient cause, a continu­
ance may 'be granted upon such terms ns the court may order. . 
SEC. 1. Every person summoned as trustee as aforesaid', 'may be 
pot to answer interrogatories as to his liability as such trustee,
which interrogatories and answers shall be in writing, and· sub- 
1eribed and sworn to in open court, or hef ore some _ju~lice of· t~e. 
pea~e, if the parties agree; or the question 'of his liability niay be 
tried by the jury,'as the plaintlff may elect._ .. . . ... ·'
Sac, s: Every person summoned as trustee ~as aforesaid, h4virt& 
in his possession any money, goods, chattels, rights OJ' credits J>f
~ principal defendant at the time of the service of such writ upon
him, or at any time after such service and before hie disclosure, 
shall he adjudged a trustee therefor. . · .
Ssc. 9. No person summoned as trustee, shall be charged as such 
on account of the personal services or earnings of the w1fe of the
debtor at auy time, or on account of any labor. performed by ,he, 
debtor or any of his family after the service of the process, 'or with·
in fifteen days prior to such service. . . ·. · 
. SEC. 10. When the trustee is indebted to the principal defend­ 
ant, nnd the time of payment has not expired, the court may sus­
pend issuing execution against such trustee as justice may require: 
" SEc. 11. If the trustee has any goods or chattels of the principal
aefendnut in his possession, not subject to any lieu, judgment shall 
be rendered and execution issue against the trustee therefor, or for 
so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such execution. '
SEc. 12. Ifthe trustee is under contract for the delivery of any 
specific article or articles to the principal defendant, or payment in
any articles, judgment shall be rendered and execution issued
against the _trustee for such articles, or so much thereof as may be 
necessary to satisfy such execution, which shall be paid and deliv­
ered to the creditor according to such contract.. . '. 
SEC. 13. The creditor shall be the agent of the principal defend:
'!,nt for the purpose of receiving the goods, chattels or articles men!
famed in the two sections preceding, and shall levy his exec.ution
fhereon to the amount of his debt and cost, and no more ; . but i( 
no .division of such goods, chattels. or articles can be made,., the 
whole may be sold. The property unsold and the overplus of t~~ 
proceeds of the property sold, shall be retained by the officer to be
delivered to the debtor whenever he shall demand the same. 
. SEC. 14. If any person adjudged trustee for any goods,' chattels 
~r other property whatever, shall re.use. to expose the same so that
the creditor may levy his execution thereon, the court shall, oq 
return thereof made by _any officer, gmnt a rule upon such trustee 
to show cause why execution should not issue against snch trustee,
h'is own goods and estate; and u~n such rule being dnly served 
and no sufficient cause shown to the contrary, judgment shall 1:>e 
rendered and execution issued against him for such sum as the 
COltrt may· think just and proper, . . 
Sac. 15. If upon the disclosure of any person summoned as 
t~t~e in the court o( com11_1?11 pleas, or upon the trial of rui 
issue between him and the plaintiff, it shall appear that .such per­ 
~n h~ in his possession, at the time of. the service of the. r.ro; 
~-~~ upon him or. afterwards, any promissory note, order, r~~1pt~ 
bill of exchange, bond or other promise for the payment of money 
1 
,r the delivery of property belonging to the principal def endm,~,
the court may appoint a receiver whose duty it shall. be, under the 
direc"tion of the court, to collect and apply the proceeds to jhe pay­
ment of the debt a"hd costs recovered by the plaintiff against th~
principal debtor, _and to pay the surplus, if any, to such debtor. . 
· SEc. 16. If it shall appear as aforesaid that the person sum­ 
moned as trustee, had in his possession, at the time of the service 
()f such process or afterwards, any personal property of the princi­ 
pal- defendant,' and that the same is subject to any pledge, li~n or
mortgage, and at the time of the disclosure has not been sold by
the trustee, the court may appoint a receiver whose duty it shall
be, under the direction of the court, to dispose of the same, if a
sreater amount than the sum due can be obtained therefor, and
~fter paying the amount of such pledge, lien or mortgage, to apply 
the balance as afore said. 
SEc. 17. If the person so summoned as trustee, shall refuse in 
.either of the cases specified in the two preceding sections, to de­ 
t)iver any such note, order, receipt, bill, bond, promise or other pr9-
perty, on the order of the court, he shall be charged as trustee for 
Jhe amount thereof, and judgment be rendered and execution
~ued accordingly. · . · 
· SEc. 18. If any person summoned as trustee as aforesaid, is in­
debted; at the time of the service of such proecss or afterwards, to
such debtor by a negotiable promissory note. made or payable in 
this State, or the parties to which at the time of making the same
resided in this State, the court may make a rule requiring such
debtor to appear and answer on oath all interrogatories respecting
the possession, transfer or other disposition of such note, and a
rule or order of notice to be served upon any individual or pub­
lished in some newspaper, for the information of any person who 
may claim an interest in said note, so that such person may appear 
and show that the same was transferred f o 'him in good faith, and
for an adequate consideration, before the service of such trustee 
process ; and the question whether the same was so transferred to
him, shall be decided by the jury, if 'he or the plaintiff request it.· 
SEc. 19. If it shall not ap~ar that the note was so transferred;
the promiser shall be charged as the trustee of sneh debtor, and 
the payment of the judgment rendered against him, shall he •·
discharge from the note or from such part thereof as is equal '. fo., 
the amount so paid by him, together with all costs taxed in 'hia·
~oc . . 
.. · SEc. 20. If any such debtor shall refuse to appear, upon such 
order of court, he may be arrested and brought into court np<>n ·a 
eapias and fined not exceeding .fifty dollars, and if he shall refuse
__ to answer, may be proceeded against as for a contempt of court .. ·. 
·:. 8Ec. 21. No answer or disclosure of any person, or any other·
J>roceedin'gs under the provisions of this chapter shall be used' i:n · 
evidence upon any criminal prosecution against such perso~, ex~~?' 
upon an indictment of the trustee for perjury in . the making ot 
such answer or disclosure. · 
· 81:c. 22. If any person shall claim any money, goods, chattelr,
rights or credits, or other property as aforesaid, in the hands of any
supposed trustee, by assignment from the debtor or otherwise, the
court may permit or cause him to appear and maintain his right.
The testimony of the debtor or of any competent witness may be
taken in such manner as the court shall direct, and filed with or
appended to the disclosure of the trustee, and the court .may awa~
such costs between such claimant, the creditor and trustee, as jus­ 
tice and equity may require.
· s1;c~ 23 .. Any corporation may be summoned as trustee, and
may appear and answer by its treasurer, cashier, or such other offl.~ 
eer or officers as such corporation shall appoint or the court shall
direct ; and the examination on oath of such officers shall be
deemed to be the answer of the corporation. 
·. SEc. 24. If any person summoned as trustee, shall die before
disclosure made or before judgment, his executor or administrator
may come in or be summoned in to become a party to such action,
as in other cases, and shall be liable in the same manner as if said
action had been originally commenced against such executor or 
.administrator.
8Ec. 25. Upon the motion of either party, the court may ap­ 
'point a commissioner to take the disclosure of any trustee, and if 
upon due notice, such trustee shall neglect or refuse to appear be­ 
'f ore such commissioner or to answer all proper interrogatories, on
oath, the commissioner shall report such neglect or refusal to the 
'court, who may thereupon enter judgment against such trustee as 
1wan default, or order such further proceedings and upon such
.terms as may be just and reasonable. 
·, Sr.c. 26. If any person summoned as trustee, is about to leave
.the State to be absent beyond the next term o( the court to which
.the trustee process is returnable, or for other sufficient cause may 
not be able to attend court, and either party desires that his disclo-
sure shall be taken, application in writing may be made to any jus- 
LJice of the peace for that purpose, stating the cause thereof.
. 81:c. 27. Such justice shall, if he deems the cauS4t sufficient,. 
,.. ,;ause such notice to be given to the adverse party as is given in
,,the case of depositions, and may, at the time and place of hearing, 
proceed to take such disclosure, which shall be by written interro­
.g!llories and answers, and signed· and sworn to by said trustee. 
~Upon the return of any such disclosure into court, judgment may 
,,De rendered thereon, or such further 'proceedings had as equity may 
. "require . 
.. ,. SEc. 28. Upon disclosure made by any person summoned aa
'.trustee, the- creditor may move the court that the question whether 
;.uch person is trustee or not, be tried by the jury; and upou pay- 
ment of the trustee's costs up to the time of filing soch motion, 
1 
11:11less tile cc;mrt 1haltrestrict.the ~, an order shall be made and 
ah issue·'frauied for 'the'. trial of such question; and OU such lr~·t 
I.lie. di1elo1Ure so made and ;&ny other competent evidence may be: 
Wf creq, - arid. judgment shall he rendered on the verdict as in ot~·
cases against trustees, In any such case the debtor may be •· 
_,.I• • • 
competent witness. · - :.
: ··'$.Ee·. 29. If, on· such trial, judgment shall. be rendered against 
the · 'trustee for a greater amount or for other property than ho:
would'luive been chargeable for on his disclosure, judgment ~.
b,e. re1idered 'against him for costs also, including costs SQ paid him I 
ait aforesaid ; otherwise the trustee shall recover his costs. ·
. SEc. 30. Wbeu any person shall be adjudged a trustee of any 
~btor 88 '.nfor~sa.id, except where it is otherwise specially provided,
jhdgmen.~ shall be rendered and execution issue against such trus-. 
tee, his own goods and estate therefor, or for so much thereof.at;.
will satisfy the judgment obtained against the principal defendant;
in the same manner as if such suit were brought against him per:­
~nal)y ;· but no judgment shall be rendered against the trustee or .
agains~ the 'pnncipal · def endant, unless such defendant has been 
~u1y summoned or notified of such suit .
.. S_Ec. 3't If any person· summoned. as trustee, is chargeable as, 
such," and the principal defendant has had no personal, notice of
such snit, the trustee may appear and defend such suit for such ,
def~ndant, and may have a continuance for the purpose of uotify- ·
ing such defendant, upon such terms as the court shall order, and ..
11~1cb costs shall be awarded for or against such trustee as 8(1uity : 
... 1 . • • • . • 
may require. 
··: SE~. 32. If it. shall ap~ar to the court that there is fraud and.: 
collusion between the creditor and trustee, the court may refuse to 
admit such trustee to appear and defend as aforesaid, or may order,
such notice to be given to the debtor as will be most likely to he ef-:
fpctual, or proper security to be filed for the protection of-the rights, 
of such defendant, before judgment shall be rendered against him, . 
' SEC. 33. When real estate shall be attached on any such pwceflS, 
~y person summoned as trustee in such process, may lie required.. 
to disclose the grounds of his claim, if auy he have, to the same; -,
and if ii shall appear on the disclosure that it was conveyed to ~
ljim, to prevent its being seized on mesne process or execution.:
against the principal debtor, or for the purpose of delayiug or de­
(rauding any creditor, or that he. holds the same by a title nppa- 1 
rently absolute, but which is in. fact on any trust for such debtor, 
or other person, judgment shall be rendered agaiust such trustee for 
~osts. . . 
SEc. 34. Whenever it shall appear that any person summoned as ·
~stee, has received the property of the principal defendant, or : 
qolds any bill of. sale or other conveyance from him, or has doue.. 
a1~y net in relation thereto, with intent to aid him in defeating or, 
dplayang any creditor. costs shall be taxed. against such trustee. , 1 
~ . . 
Si:c. 3S. In all cues where the trnstee has not been guilty of
lhwd or unnecessary delay, he shall be entitled to his costs ; and 
tbe court may order the same to be df:'<lq~u;,d from the amount for
which such trustee is adjudged charg'eiib!e; .. l>r may render judgme111, 
•d is~ue execution_ therefor, or malce such ~f touching the same·
as eqmty may require. 
8&c. 36. Two or more pelfJODIHteverally liable may be summon- 
cd as trustees in the same process, and ,their · dilclosn,ea ·aml all
otller proceedings eb.all be several, and judgment·elhall be nmdelled 
for such sumos the court shall order for or·agaiosteaeH 1eRN11.y,.
and execution shall issue therefor accordingly. · • · · t . : .. }. 
_. SEC. 37. Execution may be issued by the court against the pein­
cipal defendant for any balance due to the plaintiff", on his jndgnte~1 
recovered against such defendant in any trustee suit, beyond the
amount for which the trustee or trustees in such suit are charge­ 
able, and further executions may be issued from time} to time agaios~
such defendant or any trustee, as the court may order, until su,ch , 
judgment shall be satisfied in full. · · 
SEc. 38. Any money, goods, chattels, rights or credits or any,
property 0£ any description of any debtor, taken by the provisions
of. this chapter out of she possession of.any tnultee, shatl fully dis­
charge such trustee, his executors or adminiskators from aiaetioo• i 
orcauses of action in favor of such debtor, his executors or adrniois-.­
trators ; and if any such trustee shall be sued the.ref or, or for aay, 
thi1i~ done by virtue of the provisions of this ·chapter, he mq plead
the1general issue and give the $pecial'matter in evidence under it. ·· 
SEc. 39. Any trustee process may be· brought and mailltained
IMtforc:any justice of. ·the peace, where the Bllm demanded indam~
~ shall noe exceed thirteen dollars and tbirty•three cenu. an«L all,
the several provisions in this chapter contained, not re!ltrieted to, 
the oourt of common pleas, so far as the· 1&1De are apphcable·to
:arid not inconsistent with process before a justice of the peace, 
shall be deemed to apply thereto .
.Sr.c. 40. If any trustee named in any such process, resides o'1t 
ol the county in which the same is bronght, the writ and aBY exe- .,
cution issued against such trustee, shall be directed to the sheriff
of any county in this State, or his deputy, or to .any ooD$table of·
the town in which such trustee resides. 
8.:c. 41. When the trustee· in any such suit resides out of the
COW'lty in' which the proeess is brought, the plaintiff sllall ·file at· 
hood, to be apprevedby the justice before whom the suit iN·h~ught,
and in mch sum .as he shall order, running to such trustee and eou­ 
ditioned to pay nil costs which such trustee may recover i1 1 St1Ch ·
s11it,. which bond shaU be filed wilh · such justice, and a mtt111te; 
thereof made on such writ 'and signed by him before the. service·,
ofjs~h ·Writ' on any·snch tn1stee. · · 
· ·8£c. 42. The fees of every trustee in any court for aetnal· nee
eeaary att$ldanee as tQ1steer shalt be the" aame u tha~ of a. w1tneas. 
SECTION 1. Any lessor or owner of any lands or tenements, may·~ 
at any time deter.mine any lease at will or tenancy at sufferance, ~
by giving to the tenant or occupant a notice in writing to quit the •
same at a day therein named. 
SEc. 2. If any tenant or occupant neglects or refuses to pay the
rent due and in arrear, upon demand, seven days' notice shall be
sufficient. If the rent is po.yable more frequently than once in
three months, whether such rent is due or not due, thirty days' uo-v' 
tiee shall he sufficient, and three months' notice shall be suflicieµt · · 
in all C8888. 
Sze. 3. If any .lessee shall violate the condition of any written . '.
leue, notice to quit at the end of seven days shall be sufficient aud
equivalent to an entry for condition broken. '! 
.S£o. 4. If any lessee shall hold over after the expiration of.~
definite written lease, seven days' notice shall be sufflcient. . . :: 
8.-:c. 6. Every tenancy or occupancy shall be deemed to he nt· .~
will and the rent payable upon demand, unless a different contract.
is shown. 
S•c. 6. Any lessee may terminate his lease by nonce in writing., 
in-the same manner as the lessor, and snch notice shall have. the . 
IIUlle effeet for all purposes as a notice by the lessor to the lessee. .~
·Sec. 1 .. The owner or lessor of any tenement ·or real estate m~ 
NOVt'r possession thereof, against auy lessee or occupant holding .. 
the same without right, after a notice to quit the same, in the ..
manner herein prescribed. , ·, 
Sec. 8. A writ of summons may be issued retnrnablc beforea ,
j11stice~ which shall set forth in substance, that the plai11titr is
entitled to-the po8868Bionof the demauded premises, aud that~:, 
1 
defendant is in possession or the same without right, after notice
in writing to quit the same. 
SEC. 9. Such writ shall be served seven days before the return
day thereof, in the same manner as other writs of summons should 
~y law be served. · ·
SEc. 10. IC the defendant shall make default, or if, on trial, it 
ahaU be considered hy the justice that the plaintiff has sustained
his complaint, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintiff" recover
possession of the demanded premises and costs. 
. SEc. 11. A writ of possession shall 'be thereupon issued by said.
justice, substantially in the form prescribed by law in the case of 
like writs issued by the court nt' common pleas.
SEc. 12. If the plaintiff dJaU neglect to enter his action or to 
support the same, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for
his costs, 
· SEc. 13. Under the general issue, the defendant shall not be
allowed to oirer any evideuee which may briJi.S the title to the 
demanded premises in question, · 
SEc. 14. If the defendant shall plead any plea which may briltg'
in question the title to the demanded premises, he shall recognize
to· the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum -as tbe justice
ahml order, to enter and prosecute said action at the next court of 
common pleas for the county, and to pay all rent then due or which
shall become due, pending said action, and the damages and costs
which may be awarded against him. 
SEc. 15. If the defendant shall neglect or refuse so to recognize,
judgment shall be rendered against him in the same manner as 
if he bad refused to make answer to the suit.
·Sr;c. 16. After the filing of such 'plea and the entry of such 
recognizance, no further proceedings shall be had before sach jua- ·
tiee, but the action may be entered and prosecuted in the court
of common pleas, in the same manner as if it were originally com­
menced there. 
· SEc. 17. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of any justice
upon issue joined in such case, may, within two hours after the 
rendition of such judgment, appeal to the next court of common
pleas for the county. 
S1:c. 18. The plaintiff, before his appeal is allowed, shall reeog- · 
nise to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the
justice may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal and to pay· 
auch costs as may he awarded against him.
'8Ec. 19. The defendant, before his appeal is allowed, shall 
rec~nize to the plaintiff", with snfficient sureties, in snch sum as
the Justice may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal and to pay'
all reut then due or which may become due, pending such soil,
arid sueh damages and costs as may be awarded against him. 
·--sEc. 20. The party appealing shall produce certified copies o( 
tlie 'whole cue at the court appealed to, and either party may there 
ofter any evidence in tbe same manner as if the cat~ had- ~
originally commenced there. · · · · · · : 
. SEc. 21. I( the appellant shall neglect to enter his appeal or to
produce such copies, the court, on complaint of the appellee, ,hall 
affirm the former judgment with additional damages and costs, ' :·: 
. SEc. 22. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed ·io pr~v.eni 
BflY lan.~Iord from pursuing ~is legal remedv at connhon law .• · ;1 
QF REFEREJ:CES OF DISPUTES DY C<?NSENT, AND CO~FE~_Slp_fta
OF OEDT DEFORE ~ JUSTICE OF THE PEAC,&. 
8scTI01' 
1. Refereaees, when allowed,
~. Form of agret?ment to. refer. 
3. Agreement to be acknowledged.
4. Rc-ft>rcnce of specific dt>11111nd, mode. 
5; Reference of :ill deuiands, mode. 
G. Submission not to he revoked.
7. Hearing may be fixed by parties.
8. Award,' how to be made.
!t. Powers of ttff"l't't'S1 and oatha. 
10. Report returned to court, how ..
JJ. ~-ward, when to~ made pub~ic. 
8EcT10~ 1. Alt controversies which may he the subject of a per+.
snnal action, may be submitted to one or more referees in the mode -
prescribed in this chapter. . · · ···: 
Sac. 2. The parties may appear personally or by attorney before·
auy justice of the peace in the county i11 which either of the
parties resides, aud there sign and acknowledge an agreement m: 
substance as follows: 
St:CTIOll .: 
12. Report aceepted by court or tec,em. 
milted, and proceedinga. 11
13. Powers of the court in aucb cue. . . 
. . ~ 
)4. Fees of justices, referees, &c. .
1 
] :;. Costs, how allowed by referees, 
16. If amount under $20(), justice ~,i! 
issue execution on report.' · · ·
)7. Confession of debt regulated.'
18. Record to be made by justice. 
J!). Executions the-refor, how ier~.t .•.. 
" Know all men by these presents, thnt of in the . 
county of aud State of . and' of i1_1 the'
count y of aud State of have agreed to 'submit the..
demand made by the said against the said . which is· 
hereto annexed, (or; "aml all other demands between said parties,'~: .. 
as the case may be.) "to the determination cf the report 
(l~ Wh«'m., or· the major part of \~h()ID, bein_g made as S~Oll as lilll)' 
be to the court of common pleas for the said county of _ 
judgmert thereon shall be final. And if either party shall ueglect,
to· appear before said referees, after proper notice given to thell!. · 
. . 
. , t 
.... : 
of the timo and place appoioted by the referees for ~aring th! 
parties, the referees may proceed in his absence. 
~- ~ted this day of in the year 18 . " ....
·· St:c. 3. Said agreement having been signed by each of the 
parties, shall 'be 'acknowledgod by them or their attorueys as their 
free act and deed, hefore the same or some other justice, and any 
referee, being a justice, may take said acknowledgment. 
· Sec, 4. If a specific demand ouly is submitted, it may he 
inserted in the agreement, or the same shall be signed by the party 
maki!ag it and annexed to the agreement, and such demand shall
be as particular in stating the substance.of the claim in controversy,
as the nature of the case will admit. · 
SEc. 5. If all demands between the parties are submitted to the
referees, no specific demand need be annexed to the agreement. 
SEc. 6~ Neither party shall have power to revoke the submission 
;tithout .the consent of the other. •
SEc. 7. The parties, if so disposed, may agree upon and fix in 
aid agreement the time and place for the hearing, for making an
award thereon, and may vary the form accordingly. · 
·-·Sec. 8. All the referees must meet and hear the parties, unless
the parties otherwise agree, but a majority may make an award, 
and· their report shall be as valid as 'though signed by all the
referees. It shall appear on the face of the award, or by the cer­ 
tificate of the dissenting referee, that all of them attended and 
hbard the parties, unless the parties shall waive the same in writing 
OJI said agreement. ' 
SEc. 9.· The referees shall have the same authority as those 
appointed by rule of court, and any one of them may administer
at1 oath to witnesses in the cause. 
' Sec, 10. The report of the referees shall be delivered by one 
of the referees to the court to which the same · is 'to be· returned,
eeording to the agreement; or it shall be sealed np by them and 
- transmitted to such court, and remain sealed until opened by thd. 
clerk in open court. 
.Sec, 11. If the parties agree, the referees may make known
tlaeir determination prior to its being returned to the court as afore­
said, and if the parties agree to settle their dispute accordingly,
said report need not be returned to court. • 
. Sac. 12. The court to which any such report is made, may
accept, reject or recommit the same for further consideratiou ; and
the referees, upon any recommitment, shall appoint a. time and 
.place for a new hearing and give the parties notice thereof, and the 
proceedings thereupou shall be the same as iu the original hear­ 
ing, 
SEc. 13. The court shall have the same cognizance of any such
report of referees, as they would have if such report were made 
by referees appointed under a rule from said court in a case 
pending therein, and may render judgment and issue execution
thereon. 
SEc. 14. The fees of the justice for making and taking the
acknowledgment of such agreement shall be fifty cents, to be paid 
by the party making the demand, and charged in the bHl ef eoM
The entry and aH other fees shall be the same as in suits in the
same court. 
SEc. li. The re(erees may allow such costs as they may- deem 
reasonable, unless restricted by the submission, and subject le · the
revision of the court for good cause shown. 
SEc. 16. In aay case contained in the first section of this chap­
ter, the parties may enter into an agreement to submit the same to
referees as herein-before proYided, and that the report of such
referees shall be made to such justice and judgment by him ren­
dered thereon, in which case the form of said agreement may be 
varied accordingly. The referees shall proceed in the manner
and possess the same powers as is herein-before provided; all.d 
the justice, u~n receiving such report, shall render judgment and 
issue execution· thereon for damages and costs. . .
. SEc. 17. Any person may voluntarily appear before any justice
of the peace in the county in which he resides, and confess that
he is indebted to any other person in a sum not exceeding iw.o 
. hundred dollars, and consent that a record thereof be made.~ 
execution issue accordingly, or be stayed, as said parties ~
agn,e; and the justice shall make a fair record of such coofeaian
and agreement, which shall be signed by the debtor and · tlae
ereditor or-his agent, and shall .enter up judgment a11d issue exeeu­
tion thereon. 
SEc. 18. Every justice to whom any confession of debt or report
eC referees is made as aforesaid, shall keep a full and true record
thereof, signed and certified by himself. · r 
~Ee. 19. Every execution issued by any justice as aforesaid, mat
be serred in the same manner as if issued by the court of common 
pleas. • I 
r, I. 
i . 
- FINES, FORPEITURES, COSTS AND 'RECOGNIZANCE& 
r '; 0HAPTIIR 211. Of fin~ penalties, costs and recognizances.
· iCaAn&a 212. Of forfeitures of personal property. 
' ~ . ' 
s , l ·, 
or FINES. PENALTIES, COSTS AND RECOGNIZANCES. 
~1011 l8rcTI01' 
,J .. Penalt.ieJ and forfeitues, how recov- 10. WilneA not di9qualifi"d by intel'NL
' ered. 11. If a penalty belonpto a town, 1Uit, 
,..t . .Pfflaltiee and toJWitQ?N, how appro- how brought.
: , . priated. 12. Oft"ender negleding to perform W. 
'3. Time of neglect, how ~koned. sentence. Lo be committed.
;·,. Fine•, bow recovered. 13. Fines, bow to l>e appropriated.
·--$. Trial,'wbere to be had. '14. Defendut, if guilty, to pay C08tl. 
~ .. Jodiee, when qualified to 9it. 15. Expenees of pro100ution alloWM. ,
t~. Generali11rUemay be pleaded, eft'ect. 16. Uponforfeita~ofreoogaisa.nce,Nllle
~• Jf. ptin.te pro98Cutor neglects t.o pro- plainant indt'mnifiNI. 
1rcate, bow protee11ted. 17 -. RecogDisanoet, bow ta.ken, and lailf
9. Limitation of proeecation,. · thereon. 
~. 81:CTION 1. All penalties and forfeitures may be recovered by
action of debt before a justice of the peace, if such penalty or 
tor.(eiwre do· not exceed thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, other­
~ise before the court of common pleas; by any person who will 
sue for the same, unless otherwise provided by law. 
SEc. 2. Every such penalty and forfeiture shall be one half for
the use of the county in which the offence is committed, the other
half for the use of the prosecutor, unless otherwise limited by law. 
Sec, 3. When any penalty shall be imposed by any law for anJ
neglect fornoy period of time, such neglect ma/ be alleged to have
commenced at any specified time, and shall be reckoned from the
time so alleged. 
Sec. 4. All fines imposed by any statute, may be recovered by
• information or indictment, if no other mode of recovery is speciallJ 
provided. 
TITLE XXV. 
VBA.P.l'Ell 911. 
SEC. 5. All actions, in format ions and indictments founded on , 
any penal statute, shall be brought within the, county in which the
otrence is committed, and not elsewhere. 
. I 
St:c. 6. In actions for the recovery of any penalty before any 
just ice, it shall be no cause of except ion I hut such just ic:e resitl~ 
tor has property within the town hr ,V:hifl\ t~ offence was commit­
ted, or that tho penalty 01' any part thereof may belong to sndt 
town. ' . ' . '' i i ' . • ' . •• ;· 
SEC. 7. The defcndri11t in any snch action mny plead the gi·ne111l 
issue, and nuder it give any special matter in evidence.
81-:c. 8. If a. fine , orforfeiture or any part .~l~crcof is giveu .hy 
any statute to ~l)Y prosecutor, and 11~ ~1·so11 shqll prosecute there­
fo.· within the time limited by such statute, n11 i11fori1~~t1011 nm}; ho 
filed or nn indictment he found therefor, within 011e year after
such limitation shall expire, and ·rhc penalty shall accrue to the use
of the 'countv. 
Sec. 9. Ail snits or prosecutions fonnded npou any penal statute,
which arc wholly or in part for the use of the prosecutor, shall h4}. 
brought within one year, and all other snits or prosecutions on such
stnture, within two years after the commission of the olleuce, Ul'lf
less otherwise specially provided. : 
. Sxc. IO. {\O person shall be disqualified from being a witness 01t 
the trial of any such iuformation or indictment, by. reason of any 
iutuwst which he may have in any penalty to be recovered therein. 
81-:c. 11. When nuy penalty or forfeiture or any part thereof 
shall he ~iven to any town by any penal statute, the scff!ehnct(
mny sue therefor in the name of'snch town which shall he entitled! 
\o the benefit, and shall def ray the expenses of such prosecunon.'
and the selectmen may remit any such penalty or forfeiture. · · . 
.., SEC. 12. If any person sentenced under any penal statute, shall 
refuse or neglect to perform such sentence, ho shall he. committed · 
to the common jail, there to be imprisoned until such sentence i:f·
performed, or he is discharged by due course of law. . . · , 
SEc. 13. All fines arising in auy manner, shall he. for the use of.'
~10 conuty, and shall be paid over to the treasurer thereof, unless 
I 
otherwise specially appropriated. .
Sac. 14. It, upon any complaint or proseeurion before any coul1; 
or justice, the defendant shall be ordered to pay a fine, enter into a J 
~?g1~izance or suffer any penalty, he shall also be ordered to pay
costs of ·proliecntion or such port thereof m~ justice may require. '•
~ -~~c. 15. If any service shall be performed by any persou hr di-> 
i:ection of any court or justice, or of the attorney geucnd or !-<t~iT-' 
citor of the county, in bringing to jnsricn any offender clrargetl _.
with a crime or high-handed misdemeanor, thajusticcs of tlit,
~111t .of common pleas shalt allow 11: reasonable sum t hefflfrr, ' 
;p,<l draw their warrant for the same npou tho treasurer of ch•~ 
county. . . .. · · 
.. S.-=c. 16. If any. recognizance sba.l.l ~ forfeited in ~my Cl,ISO. i11 ·· 
~hi~ if such recoguizor had been ccmvi~t~, any sum might l1t1••
been dne to the complainant or a11y qU1~r !pel'BOI), the ju~tices ·,Qt"' 
the court of common pleas may ascertain the just sum and ceslt . 
. \hat might be due,. and dtaw their warrant therefor upon the'~i- 
~rer of the county. . . • 
•.
1• 
SEc ... 17 . .AU recognizances shall be taken in the name of the 
~~~t,e, and suits thereon may be brought and tried in the countt ¥' 
j,1hich they may be taken, unless the court, in their discretion, sliiill
~tder the venue to be changed to some adjoining county.' 
ltcTll>lf 
OF .FORFEITURES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
·1. Seizure of property forfeited, how.
9, Libel to be filed, when and where. 
., 3.. . W anaat .U..reoa,. how iuuecl.
4. Notice of libel to be ginD. 
i. Property may be 110ld, how. 
·. SECTION 1. Where any personsl property shall he forfeited for
~1y violation of law, ahy sheriff,' deputy sheriff, constable or any 
person by law authorized to seize the same, may take and retain
auch property until he shall deliver it to a proper officer having a 
warrant to detain the same. 
SECTION 
~· Property ;prraieed and restored, wbe•
7. Mode or trial and decree. 
8. Costa on t.tULl, how .Ilowll14 , . 
9. Appeal and proceedings thereon. 
SEc. 2. The person making or directing such seizure, shall, with­ 
out unnecessary delay, file a libel before a justice, if the property 
does not exceed in value thirteen dollars thirty-three cents, other­
wise in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas, stating
tile cause and praying for a decree of forfeiture. . .. 
Sic. 3. Upon the filing before or after seizure of any libel for a
forfeiture, a warrant shall be issued to the proper officer, requiring 
.~m to .take such property into his custody and detain the same
Ulltil legally disposed off . 
. St:c. 4. Notice of such libel shall be issued by the court or jµ~
tice to the owner, if known, otherwise notice shall be published in
IOflJe newspaper printed in the vicinity, that all persons interested
\DRY appear at the time -and place appointed for trial, and show 
~Ul8 why a decree of forfeiture should notbe passed .
. SEc. 5. If ~y person interested shall .. appear and claim such 
y,,operty, the same may be sold by consent of parties, or it may
is any case be sold, upon ~ination 1111d a certificate of its ~­ 
.J~able or expensive character, in the same manner as prope~ty 
attached i;nay be examined ~n4 sold, , . . ..
• 8&c. 6. If such elaiman~ shall request it, such property shall be 
, a~ in the same manner as property attached may be apprai,­ 
fJIA M<l it.ihatl be deli.el'fJd·ro llleb danaol upori· his giving t>o8'1- 
io pay· to the persons entitled thereto, the agprai,;ed !U~: ~
and costs, in case a decree of forfeiture is made. . , ,·' 
SEC. 7. The case may be tried by a jury, if in the 
co~ ;or
eommon pleas, upon the request of either party, otherwise by .\be 
court; and the cause of forfeiture alleged, being proved, the cqoit
or justice who shall try the same, shall make a decree for_' the.f:o~ 
feitnre and disposition of such property according to law. . · , i 
SEc. 8. Costs may be awarded to the libellant, if a re889Dable
cause of seizure appear, in which shall be included the, D~ 
expenses of the seizure and detention of the property, otherw~
reasonable costs and damages shall be awarded to the claimant, 
S.Ec. 9. An appeal may be claimed by either party from apy, .,le­ 
eree made by a justice of the peace in the same manner as in ~vil
actions; and the like proceedings may be had therein as in case of
libels originally filed in the court of common pleas. , . 
I 