PRACTICE.
1. Terms, when and whero held. 
:l. ~uits, etc., continued, if term lost, 
a. Court. alway• open for certain purpo ...
4. Procees endorsed, signed and sealed. 
5. \Vhat defendants named in one proceu.
ti. When bill filed before proceea iuued. 
7. 0£ security for CO.Std. 
S. Who te eerve proeees, 
~. llow to be eerved.
10. Wben accompanied by ticket.
11. Securiay on in;unction after verdict. 
12. Same, tu mixed actione.
lJ. Remedy, if11ecurity insufficient. 
U. Chancellor may reter quoecion.
15. Af!idavit for injunction before verdict. 
16. Of motion to dissolve ofter answer,
l'l. Notice of 1pecial modona. 
H!. Breach of injunction punished. 
Jt. Ne exeat. 
m. What equivalent to eenice of eubpceDL
~l. Pleadings, when to be filed. 
22. Order for publication.
23.. Plea or demurrer aet down. 
24. Replication to plea.
~ Demlll'J'1lr tint diapoaed or. 
26. Answer ofter plea or demurrer.
Z7. Coats on plea or demurrer.
98. When complainant must proceed. 
29. Exceptiona to answer.
30. Coets on exceptions.
31. When second answer required.
32. When third answer required.
33. Ccneequeneee if l.neufflcient. 
3t. Crou bill and 11111wen.
35. Rule, entered of eourse, 
:16, Amendmente. 
TITLE XXXIII. 
PRACTICE IN CHANCERY. 
Chap. 1 Pa.t.cTICE. 
" 2 BILLS OP DISCOVERY, 
" 3 D !VORCE. 
3'1, Pardee so take notice, ofwb&L 
38. When answer taken u true.
39. Cau1e, when at il8Ue. 
- ------ --------- 
40. lnterropsoriea to complainanL 
CHAPTER 1. 
41. or examinations.
42. \Vltnceses' fees.
43. Cue for opinion of jltdgee.
4·1. Issue, when ordered.
4~. Rule for henring.
46. What if complainant do not attend.
47. What if defendant do not attend.
48. Papers to be used st henring.
49. Fees for attending to advise court. 
50. Pleading!', otc., to be enrolled.
51. But not after dismie1al.
5:3. Record to be signed by chancellor.
53. Enrolhncut after clerk's death.
54. Signing by the et.acute. 
55. Eftect of decree.
56. ,vben to operate as conveyance, 
57. When fili.q hill deemed notice.
58. Clerk to file and record notice. 
5'J. Lien of decree.
60. Fees on notice and abttract.
61. Of decrees against absent defendants.
62. Of moneys brought into court.
63. P roccN after decree.
64. Salee on foreclosure.
65. Deed made, money applied.
66. Whoo execution eupereeded. 
67. Proceedings when money not ull due.
68. Fl. fL to bind from delivery. 
69. Amercement of shcritr.
70. Hie liability for neglect. 
n. Redreu In sueh cue.
72. Penalty for not returning proceee. 
73. Punishment for contempt.
74. Clerk to account for ftnee.
75. Of costs, and compelling payment. 
76. Certain proeees omitted.
Tl. Regiater'1 office aboUahed. 
78. What not to be registered.
79. Rule• of practice. 
80. Appeals, time allowed fur. 
An !et reapeding the eeurt of chancery. 
Revuion....Approved April 16, 18t8. 
1. BB IT DACTm bg t!,,e 8mate and Geaeral .AllffllOly of tAe
S
tale of Nn, Jer,eg, That the court of chancery aball hold uou- 
ally, at Trenton, four stated terms, commencing on the third Tues­
in March, June, September and December, respectively, and 
such special terms, at the same or any other place, as the chancellor
shall from time to time appoint, 
2. And be it enacted, That i( the said court shall not sit or be
opened at any of the said terms, whether stated or special, the
writs and process then returnable, and the bills, suits, pleadings, 
and proceedings depending before the said court, shall be contin­
ued of course till the next term, and so from term to term until the
court shall sit. 
3. A1id he it enacted, That the said court of chancery shall be
considered as always open for the granting of injunctions, writs of 
ne exeat to prevent the departure of defendants from the state,
and other writs and process heretofore usually granted in vacation. 
4. A11d be i.t enacted; That every subpoena, process of seeues- 
tration, writ of execution .. or other writ or prooess, shall be issued
by a solicitor, or by the clerk, at the instance of the party, and 
before the service or execution thereof: shall be subscribed or en­ 
dorsed with the name of the said solicitor or party, and also signed 
and sealed by the said clerk.
5. And he it e,iacted, That the names of all defendants in any 
suit who are resident in the same county, shall be inserted in one
subpeena or process. 
6. bd be it ettacted, That no subpoena or other procees for ap-
b 11 , ( h f h . 
pearance s a issue out o t e court o c ancery, except m cases
to stay waste, until after the bill shall have been filed with the clerk
of the court. 
7. And be it enacted, That if the complainant reside out of this 
• , 
state, he shall, before the 1ssumg of process to appear, cause a
bond to be executed by at least one sufficient person, being a free­
holder and resident within this state, to the defendant, in the penal
sum of one hundred and fifty dollars, conditioned to prosecute the
suit with effect, and to pay costs to the defendant, if he shall be en­ 
titled thereto, and have the same filed with the clerk, or in default
thereof, the complainant's solicitor, who shall file the said bill aud 
issue process thereon, shall be responsible to pay the defendant
such costs as he may be entitled to by the order of the court; and
if the said bill and process be signed by the complainant, and not
by any solicitor, then the said suit shall be stayed till such bond be 
filed, and if it be not filed by the time appointed by the court, the
bill shall be dismissed, with costs. 
8. A,ul be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the sheriff" or
coroner, as the case may require, of any county in this state, to 
whom any eubpcena, order, attachment, proce88 ol sequestration, 
---i 
writ of execution, or other proceas issuing out of the court of chan- 
~ 
eery, shall be directed. or delivered, to serve or execute the same,
and to make return thereof at the time and place therein mention- 
ed, which shall be filed by the c1erk. 
9. And he it enacted, That every subpama or process for appear-
ance shall be served on the person to whom it is directed, or a copy
thereof left at his dwelling-house or usual place of abode, at least
ten entire days prior to its return. 
10. hd he it e11aeted, That where a bill shall be filed on any
mortgage, or instrument in the nature thereof for a foreclosure or 
sale of the premises contained in the same, or any part thereof, and
the complainant shall deem it expedient to make any person a de-
fendant therein, other than the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, ad­
ministrators, or assigns, such complainant shall, with the subpoena
to be issued against such other defendant, cause to be issued a
ticket, in writing, shortly making known, for what cause he is sub- 
pcenaed to answer ; which ticket shall be, by the officer serving
the subpoena, left with the said defendant at the time of such ser-
vice, and no charge be made therefor. 
11. And he it enacted, That no injunction shall issue to stay pro-
din
1 
. l . ft di . d 
cee gs at aw m any persona action a er ver ict or JU gment,
on the application of a defendant in the said proceedings at law, 
unless a sum of money equa1 to the amount for which the verdict
or judgment is given, with costs, shall be first deposited with the
clerk of the court by the applicant for such injunction, or unless
said applicant shall give such security, by bond, as the chancellor 
shall deem good, to the party or parties at law against whom such
injunction is prayed, in double the amount of such verdict or judg- 
ment and costs at law, with condition to abide such order or decree 
as the chancellor shall make in the premises. 
12. .A1ttl he it tmaeted, That no injunction shall issue to stay
proceedings at law in any mixed action after verdict or judgment, 
on the application of a defeedanl in the said proceedings at law,
unless the applicant shall first deposit with the clerk of the court
such a sum of money as . the chancellor shall direct, or give such 
security, by boud, to the party against whom the injunction is 
prayed, BB the chancellor shall direct. 
13. And be it e1&aCted, That when any injunction shall be granted 
upon bond as aforesaid, and the party against whom the same has 
been granted shall think the said bond not sufficient security, such 
party may apply to the chancellor to have the security made suffi- 
cient; whereupon the chancellor, if he shall deem it expedient to 
hear such applicant, shall direct notice to be given to the party
giving said bond to. appear before him atauch time and place as he 
shall appoint ; and upon proof that the notice directed has been 
duly served, the chancellor shall hear the matter, if moved so to 
do, with power to adjourn ; and if, upon the hearing of the matter,
it shall appear that the said bond is not sufficient security, then the
chancellor shall have power to order further security ; and if such
further security shall not be given, according to the order made for
that purpose, then, for that cause, the chancellor shall have power
to dissolve the injunction granted on such bond. 
14. And be it enacted, That the chancellor shall have power to 
refer the whole matter of the la.st preceding section to a master in
chancery, who shall hear the parties, after at least six days notice 
to the party giving the said bond, and make report to the chancel­
lor with all convenient speed. 
15. And be it enacted, That no injunction shall be granted lo
stay proceedings in any suit at law, before a verdict or judgment,
unless the chancellor be satisfied of the complainant's equity, either
by affidavit, certified at the foot or on the back of the bill, that the
allegations thereof are true, or by other means. 
16. And be it enacted, That no motion to dissolve an injunction,
which has been regularly obtained, shall be heard until ten days 
after the answer is filed, if the party rely in any measure on bis
answer for the dissolution. 
17. .And be it enacted, That neither a motion to dissolve an in- 
• • • h --.3 • 
junction, nor any other special motion, s all be heard, unless eight
days notice, exclusive of Sunday and the day of service, shaU
have been given thereof to the opposite solicitor. 
18. .A,ul be it enacted, That if the person against whom an io- 
h 11 b · d b 11 fie h ' h f.
Junctions a e 1SSue to stay waste, s a , a rt e sernce t ereo. 
do or commit, or consent, direct, or suffer to be done or committed,
any waste or destruction of or upon the premises, contrary to the 
said injunction, and the chancellor, on affidavit or other proof, ehall
be of opinion that such waste or destruction hath been done or
committed, then the said chancellor may, on motion, order an at­
tachment of contempt to be issued against the person so charged
with disobedience to, and a breach of the said injunction; and if
the person so offending shall be brought before the chancellor, by
virtue of the said attachment, and shall not make it appear to bis 
satisfaction that no waste or destruction hath been done or com­
mitted as aforesaid, then the said chancellor may, in his discretion.
and on motion, order such offender to be committed, and kept in
close custody, until he shall give further order therein. 
19. Antl be it macted, That no writ of ne exeat shall be granted,
unless satisfactory proof be made to the chancellor, that the de-
fendant designs quickly to depart from this state ; and if granted, 
the chancellor shall direct to he endorsed thereon the sum in which 
, , 
the party shall give bond, with surety or sureties, being freehold-----
ere in this state. 
20. .And be it enacted, That a written appearance in any suit in
b . . k l ~ f h . f b 
e ancery, or a written ac cnow engment o t e service o any su ·vice 
prena to answer, signed by a defendant, or his or her solicitor, shall
have the same force and effect as if such defendant had been regu- 
larly served with a subpeena to answer by the sheriff or any other
proper officer. 
21. And he it enacted, That when a su bpmna to answer shall
h 
ave been returned duly served by the proper officer, or the ap-msa 
penrance of the defendant shall have been signed, or service of a
subpeena acknowledged, as mentioned in the preceding section, the
defendant shall file his plea, demurrer, or answer to the bill of
complaint, on or before the second day of the stated term next 
after the day of appearance specified in such subpeena, unless the
court shall grant the defendant further time ; and if the defendant
shall not file his plea, demurrer, or answer within the time hereby 
limited, or that granted by the court, the bill of complaint shall be
taken as confessed against such defendant, and such decree made
thereon as by the court shall be deemed equitable and just; or the 
chancellor may, at his discretion, order the complainant to produce
documents and witnesses to substantiate and prove the allegations
in the bill of complaint; or the chancellor may examine the com­
plainant on oath or affirmation, to ascertain the truth of the alle- 
gations in the said bill; and such decree shall be made in either
case as the chance11or shall think equitable and just. 
22. And be it enacted, That in case of a bi11 filed against any
d . 
efend ant agamst whom a subpoena or other process to appear
shall issue, and such defendant shall not cause his appearance to be
entered in such suit, as according to the rules of said court the 
same ought to be entered, in case such process has been duly ser-
ved, and it shall be made to appear by affidavit or otherwise to the 
satisfaction of the chancellor that such defendant is out of the state,
or cannot upon due inquiry be found therein, or that he conceals 
himself within this state, every such defendant shall be deemed
and taken to be an absent defendant, and thereupon the chancellor 
may, by order, direct such absent defendant to appear, plead, an-
swer, or demur to the complainant's bill, at a certain day therein to 
be named, not less than two, nor more than six months from the
date of such order; which order shall, within twenty days thereaf-
ter, be served personally on such defendant, by a delivery of a copy 
thereof to him, or be published in one or more of the public news- 
papers printed in this state, and designated in such order, for six 
successively, at least once in every week; and which said
shall also be published or served in any other manoer Ula 
the chancellor may see proper in the same to direct; and in ease
such absent defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur
within the time so limited, or within some further time to be allowed
by the chancellor, if he shall think proper, and on proof of personal 
service or of the publication of said order or orders as aforesaid,
and of the performance of the directions contained in said order
or orders to the satisfaction of the chancellor, the chancellor may
order and direct that the complainant's bill be taken as confessed
against such absent defendant so failing to plead, answer, or demur, 
or the chancellor may, at his discretion, order the complainant to
produce documents, depositions, exhibits, or other evidence to sub­ 
stantiate and prove the allegations in the bill, or the chancellor
may examine the complainant on oath or affirmation, touching or
concerning the allegations in the biU, and thereupon such decree
shall be made, in either case, as the chancellor shall think equitable
and just. 
23. And he it enacted, That when a plea or demurrer shall be 
filed, it shall be the duty of the party pleading or demuning to set 
it down fur argument at the next term, or in default thereof, the
said plea or demurrer shall be overruled of course. 
24. And he it enacted, That when the complainant conceives the
plea to be good, though not true, he may reply to, and take issue
upon it, and proceed as in case of an answer. 
25. And be it enacted, That if the defendant file a demurrer
and answer, the complainant shall not proceed on the answer till 
the demurrer has been argued or disposed of.
26. And he it enacted; That if the plea or demurrer be over· 
d h 1 b h ft
ruled, no other plea or emurrer s al e t erea er received ; but 
in such case the defendant shall file his answer to the complainant's
bill in forty days after such overruling ; and if be fail to do so, the
said bill shall be taken as confessed, and the said court shall there­
upon proceed as directed in the twenty-first section of this act, 
27. A1«1 he it enacted, That if the plea or demurrer he allowed, 
th 1 . ball d ·r d
e comp amant s pay costs, an 1 overrule , the defendant 
shall pay them.
28. Aiul be it e11adcd, That the complainant shall file exeep- 
tiona or a replication, or set down a cause for bearing upon bill
and answer within thirty days after the expiration of the time fun­ 
ited or granted for filing the answer, or on failure thereof, his bill
shall be dismissed, with costs, unless good cause be shown to the
contrary. 
29. And oe it eaa•ted, That when exceptions &hall be filed to aa 
answer, a rule may be entered of course with the clerk, either in 
. . , ~ h f h
term ttme or m vacation, to rerer t e same to a master o t e court, 
who shall decide and report upon them within thirty days after
they are filed ; bot an 'appeal from such report shall be allowed to
the chancellor, who shall hear and determine the same at the next
term. 
30. And be it enacted, That the complainant, if his exceptions
be overruled, shall pay costs to the defendant ; and the defendant, 
if his answer be adjudged insufficient, shall pay costs to the com­
plainant. 
31. And be it enacted, That when an answer shall be adjudged 
• • 
to be insufficient, the defendant shall file a second or further an-
swer within thirty days after such adjudication, or on failure thereof
the said biU shall be taken as confessed, and such proceeding had
thereon as if the first or original answer had not been filed within
the limited or granted time. 
32. And be it enacted, That if such second or further answer
shall be adjudged to be insufficient, the defendant sha11 pay double 
costs, and shall file a third or further answer within twenty days
after such adjudication, or on failure thereof the said Mll shall be
taken as confessed, and such proceedings be had thereon as if the
first or original answer had not been filed within the limited or
granted time as aforesaid. 
33. And he it enacted, That if such third or further answer
shall be adjudged to be insufficient, the defendant shall pay treble
costs; and in such case further time to answer shall not be allowed,
but the said bill shall be taken as confessed, and such proceedings
be had thereon, as if the first or original answer had not been filed 
in due time.
34. And be it enacted, That if a cross bill be exhibited, the de- 
fendant to the first bill shall answer thereto before the defendant
to the cross bill shall be compelled to answer such cross bill. 
35. And he it enacted, That all rules, common or special, by
f
1 
. h • 1· . h 11 be d f
consent o t 10 parties or t eir so icitors, s a entere o course 
with the clerk, whether in term time or in vacation.
36. A11d be it enacted, That all amendments shall be made with 
or without costs, and on such equitable terms as the said court shall
direct. 
37. And be it enacted, That parties to suits in chancery shalJ
take notice, at their peril, of the filing of answers, demurrers, pleas,:::. 
replications and other pleadings, and of the prooouncing and
signing of decrees. 
38. A,sd be it ffllJCted, That if the complainant proceed to a~~.-:!
hearing on bin and answer onJy, the answer shall be taken to be 
true in all points; and no evidence shall be received unless it be 
matter of record, to which the answer refers, and is proveable by
the said record. 
39. And be it e11aCted, That every cause in the court ol chancery
shall be deemed to be at issue on filing a replication; and it shall
not be necessary to issue a subpcena or enter a rule to rejoin in any 
cue.
40 . .A11d be it enacted, That the defendant in chancery, after he 
shall have filed bis answer, may exhibit interrogatories to the com­
plainant, which shall be answered by him on oath or affirmation;
and such answer shall be evidence in the cause in the same manner
and to the same effect as the defendant's answer to the com­
plainant's bill is evidence; and if the complainant shall not answer
such interrogatories by the time appointed by the court, he shall be
in contempt, and bis bill dismissed, with costs. 
41. And be it enacted, That all examinations of witnesses here-
after to be taken and made use of at the hearing of any cause in
the court of chancery, shall be taken and reduced to writing by
one of the examiners of said court, or before a commissioner or
commissioners appointed by the chancellor according to the course 
o{ the court, who are hereby authorized to administer the proper
oath or affirmation to the witnesses examined by them, or any of
them; and all examinations of witnesses before examiners shall be
taken on ten days notice of the time and place of taking such ex­
amination, given by the party or bis solicitor to the opposite party
or his solicitor; and either of the parties in the cause shall and may, 
in their proper persons, OT by their solicitor or counsel, have liberty 
to be present and examine and cross-examine such witnesses; all
which examination of witnesses so taken, shall be filed with the 
clerk of the court, to be made use of and read in evidence upon
the hearing of the cause, saving all legal exceptions. 
42. AM he it e,aacted, That witnesses in the court o( chancery
shall be allowed the same fees as by law are allowed to witnesses
in the supreme court. 
43. And be it enacted, That the court of chancery may send any
matter of law to the supreme court, for their opinion to be certified
thereon. 
44. And he it f11,Q,cted, That if any matter of fact shall render the
intervention of a jury necessary, then the court of chancery is
hereby authorized to direct an issue for the trial of the same in the
1upreme court. 
45. A.,ad he it macted, That every cause shall be set down for
hearing at the next stated term after the filing of the replication;
or on failure thereof: the complainant's bill shall be diamiaeed, with 
costs, unless the court, on just cause and reasonable terms, allow
further time for the said hearing; and if the said hearing be not
had within the time so limited or aUowed, then the court shall dis- 
miss the said bill, with costs; provided always, that there be fifteen
days between the filing of the replication and the next stated term;
and if there be not, then the hearing shall be bad at the subsequent
stated term or at a special term. 
46. And be it enacted, That if the complainant shall not attend
at the time appointed for the hearing of the cause, his bill shall be
dismissed, with costs. 
47. And be it enacted, That if the defendant shall not attend at
. , d f h h . f h b bill 
the time appomte or t e eanng o t e cause, t e 1 , answer,
replication, documents, examinations and proofs shall be read, on
the part of the complainant, and the court thereupon shall decree
in favour of the complainant or dismiss his bill, as the case may 
require.
48. And be it enacted, That the bill, answer, pleadings, papers, 
· · d
I
fil d · h h b
documents, exammations an proo1s e in t e. cause, s all e 
used at the argument or hearing, for which no charge shall be
made by the clerk. 
49. And be it enacted, That whenever the chance11or shall deem
it necessary to call to his assistance the chief justice or anv justice 
or justices of the supreme court, or one or more of the masters in
chancery, to advise with upon the hearing of a cause, or an argu-
ment, or upon motions of importance, each justice and master shall
be allowed after the rate of two dollars a day, by way of compen-
sation for attending the said court, to be paid by the treasurer of
the state, on a certificate, signed by the chancellor, of the time of
such attendance, allowing one day for every twenty miles from his
place of residence. 
50. And be it enacted, That when any cause shall be finally
determined in the court of chancery, except where the suit, bill or
proceeding shall be dismissed by consent, the clerk of the court 
shall enter ur enroll together, in order, the bill, answer, pleadings,
reports, decretal orders, and decree in such cause, in a book to be
kept for that purpose, which shall be signed by the chancellor, as 
of the day on which such decree was pronounced; but such decree
shall not contain any recital of the said bill, answer, or other plead- 
ings.
51. Ancl be it enacted, That whenever any suit, bill or pro- 
ceeding shall be dismissed out of the court of chaucery, in pursu-
ance of any consent or agreement of the parties for that purpose,
no enrollment of the bill, petition, answer, or other proceedings had
in such suit, shall be necessary; nor shall any fees be allowed or 
" 
taxed therefor ; provided always, that either party may, at ha or 
own expense, require the same to be enroJled.
52. And be it enacted, That whenever the proceedings and de- 
cree in any cause are by law required to be entered or enrolled in
manner aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter or enroll
the same, so that the record may be ready to be signed by the
chance11or within three months after the final decree in such cause
shall have been filed with the said clerk; and no clerk shall charge
any fee therefor, until such service shall have been actually per­
formed. 
63. And be it enacted, That whenever any cause shall be finally
d . ed , h f l d tl h 
etermm m t e court o c 1anccry, an ie person t en being
clerk of the said court, shall cease to be such, by death or other­
wise, before he shall have entered or enrolled the proceedings in 
such cause, in manner aforesaid, if by law they ought to be so en­
tered or enrolled, then it shall be the duty of his successor in office,
within three months after his appointment, to make, or cause to be 
made, such entry or enrollment. 
54. And be it enacted, That if any chancellor by whom any 
cause shall have been .finally heard and determined, shall go out of
office, and some other person shall be appointed chancellor before
the proceedings and final decree in such cause shall have been en­
rolled and signed in the book kept for that purpose, then it shall be
the duty of his successor in office, or' the chancellor for the time 
being, to sign such enrollment with his own name, pre.fixing to
such signature the words "by the statute ; " and all proceedings
and decrees so signed, shall he as good and effectual in law, to all
intents and purposes, as if the same had been duly signed by the 
chancellor who pronounced such final decree.
55. And be it enacted, That the decree of the court of chancery 
shall, from the time of its being signed, have the force, operation,
and, effect of a judgment at law in the supreme court, from the
time of the actual entry of such judgment. 
56. And be it enacted, That where a decree of the court of
chancery shall be made for a conveyance, release, or acquittance, 
and the party against whom the said decree shall pass, shall not
comply therewith by the time appointed, then such decree shall be
considered and taken, in all courts of law and equity, to have the
same operation and effect, and be as available as if the con\"ey­
ance, release, or acquittance had been executed conformable to 
such decree.
57. And he it enacted, That neither the filing of a bill in chan- 
a· h d b had h b ~ fi l
cery, nor any procee mgs a or to e t ereou, erore a na 
d d tak be . .
decree, sha11 be eeme or en to constructive notice to any 
bona fide purchaser or mortgagee of any lands or real estate to be
affected thereby, until the complainant in such bill, or his solicitor,----
shall have first filed in the office of the clerk of the court of com- 
mon pleas of the county in which such lands or real estate lie, a
written notice of the pendency of such suit, setting forth the title
of the cause and the general ohject thereof, together with a de­ 
ticription of the lands or real estate to he affected thereby ; pro- 
eided, that nothing in this section contained shall be construed or
taken to a pp1y to any bill filed or to be filed for the satisfaction or
foreclosure of any duly registered mortgage. 
58. And be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the clerk
with whom any such notice shall be filed, forthwith to record the 
same, together with the ti"me of the filing thereof, in a proper book,
to be by him provided and kept in his office for that purpose ;
which hook shall be properly indexed by the said clerk, and be a
public record, to which all persons desirous of examining the same 
shall have access.
59. And he it enacted, That no decree of the court of chancery, 
• 
hereafter to be made, shall, as agamst nny person not a party
thereto, become a lien upon or bind any lands, tenements, heredi­
taments, or real estate, other than those specifically mentioned and
described in such decree, or in the bill of complaint on which the 
same is founded, until the parties interested in such decree, or
some or one of them, shall have filed in the office of the clerk of
the supreme court a statement or a bstract of such decree, containing 
the names of all the parties thereto, designating particularly those
against whom it is rendered, with the state and county in which
they respectively resided, the time at which the said decree was
signed, and the amount of the debt, damages, costs, or other sum 
of money thereby directed to he paid; which statement or ab-
stract the said clerk shall forthwith record in a proper book, to
be by him provided and kept in his office for that purpose; which 
book shall be properly indexed by the said clerk, and be a public
record, to which all persons desirous to examine the same shall 
have access.
60. And be it enacted, That the following, and no other fees 
shall be allowed for the services required by the two last preced-
ing sections of this act, viz : to the county clerk, for filing and re- 
cording each notice, ten cents per folio; to the clerk of the supreme
court, for filing and recording every statement or abstract, twenty-
five cents; which fees shall be included with the other costs in the 
cause, and taxed therewith, by the clerk of the court of chancery.
61. And be it enacted, That in cases where a decree shall be 
made upon any bill in equity• against au absent defendant, the 
chancellor, before issuing process to compel the performance vf
d r. d · h 
such decree against such absent eren ant, may require t e com- 
. · b d · h h · d · b b 
p amant to give on , wit sue secunty an in sue sum as e
di bid h d d hi h . . 
may irect, to a 1 e sue ecree or or er touc mg t e restitution
of the estate and effects of such absent defendant, or the repa~- 
• • • • 
ment of any sum of money which the complamant may receive by 
virtue of such decree, but which shall afterwards be made to ap­
pear, as hereinafter provided, not to have been due and owing to
him; and in case no such security shall be girnn, no process or 
execution shall issue to compel the performance of the decree so
made agaiust such absent defendant, but the estate and effects of
such absent defendant may, by order of the chancellor, be sequ~ 
d d . d L di . f I h 11 bid
tere , an remam un er t e irecuon o 11e c ance or, to a I e 
such order as he shall think just and proper respecting the same.
And in case any such absent defendant, against whom any decree
shall be made as aforesaid, his heirs, devisees, executors, adminis-
tors, or assigns, as the case may require, sha11, within six months 
fi , • · · I • hi b f h .l 
a ter notice m wriung le given to im or t em o sue uecree, or 
• hi 1 J1. h d · h '
wit m t iree years arter sue ecree, m case no sue nonce as 
aforesaid shall be given, petition the chancellor touching the mat­
ter of such decree, and pay, or secure to be paid, such costs as the 
chancellor shall think reasonable to order and direct, then and in
such case the person or persons as aforesaid, so petitioning, may 
be permitted to appear and answer the complainant's bill, and
thereupon such proceedings shall be had, as if such absent defend­
ant had appeared in due season and no decree had been made; or
such absent Jlef endant may, within the times aforesaid, file his bill
of complaint in the said court, for an account and settlement of 
the amount which was really and truly due to the complainant at
the time of the decree, and to compel the said complainant to re­ 
fund and repay what he may have wrongfully recovered and re­
ceived, together with the interest from the time of the receipt
thereof, with costs of suit, the former decree against such absent
defendant notwithstanding; but in case no petition shall be pre­ 
sented, or bill filed, as before provided for, within six months from
the time notice as aforesaid shall be given, due proof thereof being
made, or within three years from the date of the decree, the decree 
shall be deemed and adjudged to be confirmed; which confirms­
tion shall have relation to the time of making said decree. And the 
decree shall ho executed and performed as in cases where the de­
fendant had duly appeared. 
62. And he it enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the
h . . 
c ancellor tu cause any moneys brought mto court, to be deposited
by the c1erk, in his name as clerk of -said court, in one of the banks 
of this state, to the credit of the cause to which it belongs, or to
b 
· d ·
e mveste m any public stock of the United States; and the mo- 
neys so deposited, or public stock in which it shall be so invested,
shall be, from time to time, accounted for, invested, transferred, or 
reinvested, or otherwise disposed of, as the court shall deem rea­ 
sonable and proper ; and on the resignation, death, or removal of
the clerk of the said court of chancery, all moneys deposited in
either of the said banks, by the said clerk, shall be carried to the
account of his successor in office, and tho said bank shall take notice 
thereof and transfer such accounts accordingly ; and the chancellor
may, from time to time, make such rules and regulations respect-
ing such deposits and investments, as to him shall appear just and 
right, and for the interest of all persons and parties concerned
therein. 
63. And be it enacted, That the complainant having obtained
a decree, it shall be lawful for the said court to issue process 
for the immediate sequestration of the real and personal estate of
the defendant, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy
the demand of the complainant in the decree specified, with costs,
or to issue a writ of fieri facias against the goods and chattels, 
lands and tenements, hereditaments and real estate, of the defend-
ant, upon which sufficient property shall fie taken and sold to satisfy
the said demand, with costs, or to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum
against the defendant, upon which writs of fieri facias and capias 
ad satisfaciendum there shall he the same proceedings as at law;
or to cause, by injunction, the possession of the effects and estate 
demanded by the bill, and whereof the possession or a sale is de- 
creed, to be delivered to the complainant or otherwise, according
to such decree and as the nature of the case may require; and in 
case of sequestration, the court shall order payment and satisfac-
tion to be made out of the estate so sequestered, according to the
true intent and meaning of the decree. 
64. And be it enacted, That where a bill shall be filed for the
· fa ' f ' h 11 b I f 1 ~ 
foreclosure or satrs cnon o any mortgage, 1t s a e aw u ror
the said court to decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such 
part thereof as shall be sufficient to discharge the said mortgage or
encumbrances on the said mortgaged premises, besides costs; which
sale shall be made, either by one of the masters of the court or by 
. . d .
the sheriff of the county where the premises are situate , by Virtue 
or a writ of fieri faeias issued for that purpose; which said writ of
fieri facias shall, before it is sued forth, be recorded by the clerk of
the said court in the book kept by him for recording of executions 
against real estate.
65. And be it enacted, That the sheriff or other officer to whom 
such writ· of fieri facias, as mentioned in the last preceding section,
shall be directed and delivered, shall make sale pursuant to the 
command of said writ, and shall make and execute a deed or deeds 
for the premises sold, as the case may require; and the monep
arising from the said sale shall be applied to pay off and discharge
the moneys decreed to he paid, and the remainder, if any there
be, and if the person or persons entitled to receive it shall be ab­
sent out of this state, may be invested in stock of the United
States, or put at interest on such security as the said court shall
think proper to order; and the same shall be delivered or paid to
the person or persons entitled to receive it, upon his or her appli­
cation to the court for the same; prorided ahcay,, that no greater
estate in tho premises sold, shall at auy time be conveyed or
granted to such purchaser, than would have vested in the mort­
gagee had the equity of redemption been <luly foreclosed. 
66. .And be it enacted, That in all cases of a decree for sale of
mortgaged premises against any absent defendant, if such defendant 
shall, at any time before the sale made by the sheriff, in pursuance
of any writ of execution, issued as aforesaid, cause his appearance 
to be entered in court, and shall pay such costs to the complainant
as the court shall think reasonable, then it shall and may be lawful 
for the said court. by a writ of supersedeas, directed to the sheriff
or other officer, to stay his proceedings on the execution for the
sale of such mortgaged premises; and thereupon such proceedings
shall an<l may be had, as if an appearance bad been entered,
within such time and in such manner as, according to the rules of
the court, the same ought to have been entered, in case the nm 
process in the suit hac.l been duly served.
67. And be it enacted, That when a decree of the court of 
chancery shall be made fur the sale of mortgaged premises (in cases
where the whole sum secured by the mortgage is not due) either
for nonpayment of any portion or instalment of the debt or de­
mand intended to be secured by the mortgage, or the nonpayment
of interest due, or both, and it shall appear to the court that a part
of the mortgaged premises cannot be sold to satisfy the amount
due without material injury to the remaining part of the mort­
gaged premises. and that it is just and reasonable that the whole of
the mortgaged premises should be sold together, it shall and may 
be lawful for the said court to decree a sale to be made of the
whole of the mortgaged premises, and to apply the proceeds of the
sale of said premises, or so much thereof as shall be necessary,
as well to the payment of the interest, instalments or portions then
due, and also the costs then due and payable, es to the payment 
of the whole or residue of the debt or demand which bath not 
~­ 
become due and payable, and the residue of the proceeds of such
sale to be paid to the person or persons entitled to receive tbe
same, or to be brought into court to abide the further order of the 
court, as the equity and circumstances of the case require; pro- 
t:ided always, that when the residue of the debt or demand intended
to be secured by the said mortgage, is payable at a future day 
without interest, and the. mortgagee is willing to receive the same,
the court shall deduct a rebate of legal interest for what the mort-
gagee shall receive on the said debt or demand, to be computed
from the time of the actual payment thereof to the time such resi-
due of the debt or demand would have become due and payable. 
68. And he it enacted, That a writ of fieri facias shall bind the
f b
d f h 
. h .. , _1 f
property o t e goo s o t e person agamst w om it is issueu, rom 
the time that it was delivered to the sheriff or officer to be executed,
as at law. 
69. And be it enacted, That if the sheriff or other officer shall 
neglect or refuse to execute any process of sequestration to him
directed and delivered, or to make paymenL of the rents, issues
and profits of the estate so sequestered, according to the order of
the said court, or, where tho execution shall be by fieri facias, shall
neglect to file a just ancl true inventory of the goods and chattels,
lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate, so levied on and 
seized, unless he return that he hath levied to the amount of the
demand or sum therein specified, with costs, or shall voluntarily or
negligently omit, for the space of two months, to rencler to the
complainant, or his representative or solicitor, the money which he
shall have received from the sale of the estate, real and personal, 
of the defendant or otherwise, then such sheriff or officer shall be
amerced by the said court to the amount of the demand of the com­ 
plainant, with costs, for the use of the said complainant; provided,
that ten days notice in writing shall be given to such sheriff or
officer by the complainant, his representative or solicitor, of the in- 
tended application for such amercement; which amercement, so
ordered by the court, shall have the force, operation and effect of a
decree, whereon execution, in the name and for the use of the said
complainant or his representative, may instantly, on motion in term
time, and without further proceedings, be awarded and issued
against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments and
real estate of the said sheriff or officer. 
70. And he it enacted, That if the sheriff or other officer shall
. f fie . fi . hi di d 
neglect or refuse to execute any writ o n acias to im irecte
or delivered, for the space of two months, or shall adjourn the sale
or vendue of the lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate 
by him levied upon by virtue of such writ of fieri facias, more than 
, • 
twice, and exceeding one month for each adjournment, be shall he
and hereby is made Hable to the amount of the debt or damages 
and costs, or sum or sums o( money mentioned in the said writ,
with interest, and for the recovery thereof may be amerced and
proceeded against in the manner prescribed in and by the last pre-
ceding section of this act; provided alway,, that if the said sheriff
or other officer shall, at any time before the entry of such amerce­
ment against him as aforesaid, sell the property levied upon and
bring the whole amount of the product of such sale (after deducting
his lawful fees) into court, the said sheriff or other officer shall be
exonerated from n1l liability on account of said amercement. 
7 l. And be it enacted, That if any party to a suit in chancery
shall be aggrie,·ed by the neglect, default, malpractice or miscon-
duct of the sheriff then such party, his representative or attorney,
may apply and be redressed, to the amount of the sum specified in
the order or decree, in the manner prescribed by the eleventh and 
twelfth sections of the act entitled, "An act concerning sheriffs."
72. And be it enacted, That if any sheriff or other officer, to 
whom any writ, process or order of the court of chancery shall be
directed or delivered, shall not make return thereof at the day of 
return, and according to the tenor of such writ, process or order,
the same not being countermanded, he shall be in contempt, and
pmccss of contempt shall, on motion in term time, be issued against
him; and before he shall be discharged from such contempt, he
shall pay to the clerk, for the use of the state, as a fine for the said
contempt, a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, to be imposed by the
court, and the costs incurred by means thereof. 
73. And be it enacted, That to enforce obedience to the process,
rules and orders of the court of chancery, where any person shall
be in contempt according to the law, practice, or course of the said
court, he shall, for every such contempt, and before he be released
or discharged from the same, pay to the clerk in chancery, for the
use of this state, a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, as a fine for the
said contempt; and the said person being in court, upon process 
o{ contempt or otherwise, shall stand committed and remain in
close custody until the said process, rule or order shall be obeyed
and performed, and until the fine so imposed for such contempt,
with the costs, be fully paid. 
7 4. And be it enacted, That the said clerk in chancery shall
account for, on oath, and pay annually to the treasurer of this state,
the fines which he shall have received by virtue of this act. 
7 5. A11d be it enacted, That except where it is otherwise directed
by this or some other act of the legislature, it shall be in the dis­ 
cretion of the court of chancery to award coats or not; and the 
payment of costs when awarded may be compelled by writ of 
.. ' ' 
fieri facias or capias ad satisfacieudum, issuing out of the said court,
or by aubpcena and attachment. 
76. A1td be it enacted, That subpcena to hoar judgment, at·
h 
. h 1 . d • • f b lli l }] .
tac moot wit proc amations, an commission o . re e 1011, s ia , m 
all cases in chancery, be deemed unnecessary, and omitted accord·
ingly. 
77. And be it enacted, That the office of register in the court 
f
h
b 
d
. . h b b 1· h d 
o c ancery e, an 1t is ere ya o rs e .
78. And be it enacted, That it shall not be necessary for the clerk 
· h · ] <l d ,
m c ancery to register any ru e, or er, or ccree, or auy master s 
report, that may be made in any cause or proceeding depen<ling or
hereafter to be brought or prosecuted in the said court of chan- 
cery; nor shall any fees be allowed or taxed for registering any
such rule, order, decree or report. 
79. And be it enacted, That it shall be lawful fur tho court of
h 
f • • k 1 d k
c ancery, rorn time to time, to ma ce, a ter, amen , or revo e any 
rule of practice, so as to obviate doubts, advance justice, and expe·
dite suits in the said court, so that the same be uot contrary to the
provisions of this act. 
80. An<l be it enacted, That all persons aggrieved by any order
or decree o( the court of chancery, may appeal from the same, or
any part thereof, to the court of errors and appeals; and all ap· 
peals, except from final decrees, shall be made within forty days
after filing the order or decree appealed from; and all appeals
from final decrees in tho said court shall be made within three
years after making such decree ; prorided, that in cases where the
person entitled to such appeal from any final decree be an infant,
fcme covert or insane, he shall have three years to bring such ap·
peal, after such disability shall be removed. 
CHAPTER 2. 
2. Court may compel. 1. Bill for, authorized.
BILLS OF DISCOVERY. 
A supplement to "An act respecting the court of chaneery." 
Approved March~. 1845. 
BE IT ENACTED hy tlLe Senate and General Aaaemhly ef the
State of New Jeraey, aa follow, : 
Sze. 1. Hereafter whenever an execution against the property of 
b
. d . ~1 l d 
a defendant shall have een issue on a judgment at aw, an shall 
ham been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, Jeaving an
amount or balance remaining due- exceeding one hundred dollars, 
exclusive of costs, the party suing out such execution may file a
hill in chancery to compel the discovery of any property or thing
in action belonging to the defendant in such judgment, and of
any property, money, or thing in action, due to him or held in trust
for him, except such property as is now reserved by ]aw, and to
prevent the transfer of any such property, money, or thing in ac­
tion, or the payment or delivery thereof to tho defendant, except
when such trust has been created by, or the fund so held in trust
has proceeded from, some person other than the debtor himself. 
Sze, 2. The court shall have power to compel such discovery,
and to prevent such transfer, payment, or delivery, and to decree 
satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such judgment, out of
any personal property, money, or things in action belonging to the 
defendant, or held in trust for him, with the exception above stated,
which shall be discovered by the proceedings in chancery; pr<>­ 
nided, that if the personal property, money, or thing in action, which
shall he discovered as aforesaid, does not amount to the sum of
one hundred dollars, no costs shall be recovered by the plaintiff 
arrainst the defendant in such proceeding, 
this state at the time of the injury, desertion or neglect complained
k
of, or where the marriage shall have been solemnized or ta en 
place within this state, and the complainant shall have been an
actual resident in this state at the time of the injury, desertion or
neglect complained of, and at the time of exhibiting the bill; or
where the adultery was committed in this state, and the parties,
complainant aud defendant, or either of them, reside in this state
at the time of exhibiting the bill; or where the complainant or de·
fendant shall be a resident of this state at the time of filing the bill
of complaint, and the complainant or defendant shall have been a
resident of this state for the term of five years during which such 
desertion shall have continued; provided, such complainant shall
make his or her oath or affirmation, to be annexed to the bill of•worn 
complaint, that his or her complaint is not made by any collusion
between him or her and the defendant, for the purpose of dis- 
solving their marriage, but in truth and good faith for the causes
set forth in the biJl of com plaint. 
2. And he it enacted, That the like process and course of practice
and procedure shall be had and pursued in all such causes as are 
usually had and pursued in other causes on the equity side of the
said court, except that the answer of defendants shall not be under
oath. 
3. And he it enacted, That divorces from the bond of matrimony,
shall be decreed where either of the parties had another wife or 
husband living at the time of such second or other marriage; and 
}
11 
• h ' h f 1 • ] ..ail l I.'. 
t rat a marriages w ere ell er o t ie parties s 1is1 rave a termer
} 
'I.'. l' ' h ' f l · h 11 b '
ms an or wire 1vmg at t e urne o sue 1 marnage, s a e m- 
b
<l 
valid from the beginning and absolutely void, and the issue thereof
shall be deemed to be i11egitimate, and subject to all the legal dis­
abilities of such issue. 
4. And be it enacted, That divorces 'from the bond of matrimony
b
d 
.l • h , . hi l d . 
may e ecreeu, m case t e parties are wit m t re egrees prohi-
bi d b 1 d • f d 1 . ' h f h • d 
ite y aw, an m case o a u tery m mt er o t e parties; an
also for wilful, continued, and obstinate desertion for the term of
five years; but the decree or sentence of divorce in such cases
shall not render illegitimate the issue of any marriage so dissolved. 
5. And be it enacted, That if it appear to the court that the
adultery complained of sha11 have been occasioned by the collusion 
of the parties, and done with an intention to procure a divorce, or
that the complainant was consenting thereto, or that both parties 
have been guilty of adultery, then no divorce shall be decreed.
6. An<Z he it enacted, That if any persons, who shall be di-Wbeuoha­ 
vorced on account of their being within the prohibited degrees,
shall, after such divorce, cohabit together, such persons so offending
shall be liable to al] the pains and penalties provided by the then 
• , , • 
----ex1st111g laws agamst mcest.
7. And be it enacted, That if any persons shall cohabit or Jive 
• • 
together m the same house, after a divorce for the cause of adultery
or prior marriage, such persons so offending shall be Hable to all
the pains and penalties provided by the laws against adultery. 
8. And be it enacted, That for extreme crue1ty in either or the 
• h f h d di f bed d
parties, t e court o c ancery may ecree a ivorce rom an 
board for ever thereafter, or for a limited time, as shall seem just
and reasonable. 
9. And be it enacted, That when a divorce shall he decreed, it
shall and may be lawful for the court of chancery to take such 
order touching the alimony and maintenance of the wife, and also
touching the care and maintenance of the children, or any of them,
by the said husband, as from the circumstances of the parties and
the nature of the case shall be fit, reasonable and just; and in case
the wife is the complainant, to order the defendant to give reason­
able security for such alimony and maintenance; and upon his
neglect or refusal to give such reasonable security as shall be re­
quired of him, or upon default of him and his surety, if any there
be, to pay or provide such alimony and maintenance, to award and
issue process fur the immediate sequestration uf the defendant's 
1 <l h d fi f } · I 'd
persona estate, an t e rents an pro ts o 11s rea estate, an to 
appoint a receiver thereof, and cause such personal estate and the
rents and profits of such real estate, or so much thereof as shall be 
necessary, to be 'applied towards such maintenance and allowance,
or to such maintenance and aJlowance as to the said court shall,
from time to time, seem reasonable and just, or to enforce the per­
formance of the said decree or orders by such other lawful ways
and means as is usual, and according to the course and practice of
the court of chancery. · 
10. And be it enacted, That in case a husband, without any justi­
fiable cause, shall abandon his wife or separate himself from her 
and refuse or neglect to maintain and provide fur her, it shall and
may be lawful for the court of chancery to decree and order such
suitable support and maintenance to be paid and provided by the 
said husband for the wife and her children, or any of them, by that
marriage, or out of his property, and for such time as the nature of
the case and the circumstances of the parties render suitable and 
proper in the opinion of the court, and to compel the defendant to
give reasonable security for such maintenance and allowance, and
from time to time to make such further orders touching the same
as shall be just and equitable, and to enforce such decree and
orders in the manner mentioned in the last preceding section of 
this act; but during the time such maintenance shall be allowed by
the decree or sentence of the court, the husband shall not be 
chargeable with her debts. .
11. And be it e11acted, That in any such suit as is mentioned in 
the last preceding section, it shall and may be lawful for the chan-
ce1lor, if applied for before answer filed, to order a bond to be
given in one hundred dollars, by one or more sufficient freeholders,
with condition to pay such costs as shall or may be awarded by the
court to be paid to the defendant. 
12. AJJd be it enacted, That all suits in the court of chancery for
divorces, may be commenced by filing a petition with the clerk oftition. 
the court; which petition shall plainly and fully state the cause or
causes of the application for such divorce and the relief prayed;
and the complainant shall make his or her oath or affirmation, to be
annexed to the said petition, that his or her complaint is not made
by any collusion between him or her and the defendant, for the
purpose of dissolving their marriage, but in truth and good faith
for the cause or causes set forth in the petition. 
13 . .A.,w be it e11aCted, That upon filing the said petition, the
clerk shall, if required, make out a certified copy thereof to be
served on the defendant, and issue a citation under the seal of the
court for the defendant to answer the said petition on or before the
first day of the next stated term of the court ; which citation shall
bear date the day of issuing thereof, and be tested in the name of 
the chancellor.
14. And he it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or 
coroner, as t~ case may require, of any county in this state, to
whom any such citation and certified copy of the petition shall be
directed or delivered, to serve the same, and to make return of the 
said citation at the time and place therein mentioned, which shall
be filed by the clerk. 
· 15. And he it enacted, That every such citation shall be served,
either by delivering to the defendant a copy thereof, together with 
a certified copy of the petition, or by leaving the said copies at his
or her dwe1ling-house or usual place of abode, at leaet twenty en- 
tire days before its return.
16. And be it enacted, That on a citation being returned "ser- 
ved" or "cited'' by the sheriff or coroner, as the case may require,
the defendant shall, on the day mentioned therein for him or her to 
answer the said petition, or within three days thereafter, file his or
her answer to the said petition, unless the court shall grant the de-
fendant further time tor that purpose ; which answer shall plainly
and fuUy set forth the cause or causes of his or her defence, and 
shall be signed by the deiendant, but not sworn to ; after which, 
without any replication or further pleadings or rule, the parties 
id · h · b 
shall proceed to take their evi ence as in ot er cases m t e court 
of chancery, so that the cause may be heard at the next stated term 
thereafter, unless the court, for good cause and upon such terms as 
shall be considered by the court just and reasonable, shall think 
proper to put off the hearing thereof to another term.
17. And he it macted, That if a defendant, upon the citation 
being returned " served" or "cited" as aforesaid, shall not file his
or her answer to the petition, within the time limited by this act or 
granted by the court, the court may make an order that the petitioner
proceed to take depositions and other evidence to substantiate and 
prove the allegations in the petition, and to bring on the hearing
of the cause ex parte. 
18 • .A.,ad be it e11aeted, That in case a petition as aforesaid shall 
be filed, and it shall be made to appear, by affidavit or otherwise, to 
the satisfaction of the chancellor, that such defendant is out of this 
state, or cannot upon due inquiry be found therein, or that be or
she conceals himself or herself within this state, the chancellor may
thereupon, by order, direct such defendant to answer the Aid peti­
tion, at a certain day therein named, not less than two nor more
than six months from the date of such order, which order shall,
within twenty days thereafter, be served on such defendant, by a
delivery of a copy thereof to him or her, or by leaving it at his or
her dwelling-house or usual place of abode, or be published in one
of the newspapers printed in this state, and designated in such order,
and continued therein for four weeks successively, at least once in 
every week, and shall be published in such other manner as the 
particular circumstances of the case may require, if, in the opin­
ion of the chancellor, any other or further publication shall be ne­
cessary ; and in case such defendant shall not file bis or her answer
within the time so limited, or within some further time to be allowed 
by the chancellor, on proof of due service or publication of the
said order, the court may order and direct the petitioner to pro­ 
duce depositions or other evidence to substantiate and prove the
allegations in the petition; and the said petitioner may then pro­
ceed ex parte, and bring on the hearing of the said cause . 
19. .A1lll he it enacted, That no petition, citation, answer, or 
other proceedings in any suit commenced by petition as aforesaid, 
shall be set aside, or otherwise annulled or made void for any de­
fect in matter of form, or for any mistake or omission not affecting 
the real merits of the cause ; and the chancellor may permit either
party to amend his or her petition, answer, or other proceedings in
the cause, either in matters of form or substance, and proceed to 
give judgment according to yi., merits of the case. 
20. And he 1t enacted, That in all cases where the proceedings
shall be commenced by petition as aforesaid, it shall and may be---­
lawful for the chancellor, where not otherwise herein directed, to~::-~~:!~ 
proceed as directed and allowed by this act in other cases, and toted.
make such decree as authorized in such cases ; which decree shall
he carried into effect in the manner herein directed and provided
for, and the court is hereby invested with a11 powers necessary to
the conducting and finally determining such cases, according to the 
trne intent and meaning of this act.
21. And he it enacted, That when any cause shall be finally 
determined, which shall be commenced by petition as aforesaid,
the clerk of the court of chancery shall enter or enroll together in
order, the petition, answer, decretal orders, reports and final decree 
in such cause, in his book of decrees; which enrollment shall be
signed as i1:1 authorized and required in other cases. 
22. And Le it enacted, That there shall be allowed in the taxa-
tion of costs, for the petition, the sum of one dollar ; for the an­ 
swer, the sum of one dollar; to the clerk for the citation and cer­
tified copy of the petition, seventy-five cents ; to the sheriff for serv­
ing and retuming the citation, one dollar and fifty cents ; and to
the examiner for taking the examination of every witness, for each 
sheet, ten cents, and for certifying every exhibit shown to a witness,
ten cents ; and that no other or greater fees shall be allowed for 
the said services.
23. And he it enacted, That if, in the opinion of the chancellor, 
any matter of fact shall render the intervention of a jury necessary 
in any suit or proceeding for a divorce, then the court of chancery 
is hereby authorized to direct an issue for the trial of the same in
the supreme court, or in one of the circuit courts. 
24. And he it enacted, That whenever any poor person shall
have cause of suit under this act, and shall make an affidavit or 
affirmation, that he or she is not worth one hundred dollars clear
estate, the chancellor may, at his discretion, assign to such poor
person a solicitor and counsel learned in the law, to prosecute the
said cause, who, together with all other officers, shall perform their
respective duties therein without fee or reward. 
Chap. l.. .. PRACTICE. 
" 2 .... JUDGMF.NTS ON BONDS WITH WARRANTS. 
11 
3 PERSON.&L ACTIONS AGAINST CORPORATIONS. 
" 4 SUITS BY COMMON INFORMERS. 
" 5 .... BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
" 6 ••.. FACILITATION OF PLEADINGS. 
" 7 REMEDY WHERE PARTIES DIE. 
" 8 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES. 
" 9 WITNESSES. 
" 10 COMMISSIONS TO TAKE DEPOSITIONS. 
" 11 EVIDENCE IN LIBEL CASES. 
" 12 DAMAGES IN REAL ACTIONS. 
" 13 J URJES AND VERDICTS. 
" 14 DocKETING JUDGMENTS. 
" 15 EXECUTIONS. 
" 16 EXECUTIONS AGAINST CORPORATIONS. 
" 17 BILLS OF EXCEPTIONS. 
" 18 WRITS OF ERROR. 
" 19 CERTIORARJ. 
" 20 AMENDMENTS A.ND JEOF AILS, 
" 21. ExcEPTIONS TO JUDGES. 
" 22 SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS. 
" 23 .•.• HABEAS CORPUS EXTENDED. 
" 24 .•.. MANDAMUS. 
" 25 Quo WARRANTO. 
" 26 REMEDIES ABOLISHED. 
'' 27 .INDICTMENTS, ETC., AGAINST CORPOR..\TIONS. 
1. lVbo may 111e and defend. 
B. Soliciton and attorueye. 
3. Penalty for malpractice. 
4. Death of attorney, etc. 
:S. lllf'anta, how to proeec•le and defend.
6, Attorney, etc., liable for neglect.
'7. Coetl filed before execution iuuecl.
8. Bill of paniculan delivered. 
9. Penalty for illegal charge& 
TITLE XXXIV. 
PRACTICE OF LAW. 
10. Limitatlcm of euitl for peultlee. 
CHAPTER 1. 
PRACTICE.
11. Copy tued coeta served before nit. 
19. Bond and warrant to be eepuaar. 
13. Copy produced and lled.
14. How Judgment entered &&er liela yean.
15. Wammta gl•en by penon.t ill cutodJ. 
16. Warrant not reYOC&ble.
17. ProceN how Effecl.
18. Bow eadnned. 
19. Returned, or lberlf'emerced. 
~. Whea ddmdal camWencl ill coart. 
~. How capiu executed. 
22.. Return of bail and bail bwd.
23. Special ball, when !lied. 
9'.. Remedy, if not perfected in time.
2:i. Of amercement for defective retura, etc.
26. Bod7 brought in ud commiUed.
Z'I. Who may put in apecial bail, 
28. Esception to, justilicatiou ot: 
29. Nelice required.
JO. \Vaen bail out of court, etc. 
3l. JwatUlcation after termexpired. 
32. Recegnizauce aod bail piece.
33. Juatitlcation by aft"'t in supreme court
34. In circuit court and pleae. 
~. Auipment ef bail bond. 
36. Proceeding. on, set aside or stayed. 
37. When plainiilfhu not lost trial. 
38. \Vbeu. he bu loet a trial. 
39. \Vhen not stayed. 
40. How put in after lachee. 
41. Affidavit taken u true. 
42. Render bl diaehargo of ball.
43. Wbell to be 111ado. 
44. 'Minute of render and commltlllentr 
45. Elloneretur to be entered,
46. Effect of retva oC C. C. C.
47. Amount for which bail liable. 
48. Limitation uf fc,rmer sheriff'• Uabfilty.
49. Until whenp plailltiff" not to declara. 
50. When declaradon to be filed.
5l. When other pleadings to be filed. 
52. No imparlance allowed.
53. or pleadings filed in time. 
54. Of pleadings not filed in lime.
M. And aubaequen& pleadingar whe• filed. 
56. Plalntill"a bill of partiouJan. 
57. Defendant's bill of particulan. 
58. Dcclaratiou by-the-bye.
59. Consolidating actions, striking out counr.- 
50. Proceu aga1D1t defendaat ia cuetody.
61. Amending pleadings. 
62. Jolnder fn demurrer. 
ro. Argument of demurrer. 
6~. Issue i11; law tint tried. 
65. \\"hen cauae tct be tried. 
66, Notice of trial.
ffl. Countermand. 
68.· Short notice.
69. Trial 1,y pro'liN.
'10. Clerk'• liat of causes. 
'IL Aaaeument,.
72. Notices In certain casee. 
73. And coats, if not pursued,
74. Security for coats.
'15. New trial and arrest of judgmenl. 
'16. i'leadinga ftled by clerk, 
'Tl. Proceeding, recorded, eee, 
78. To constitute record. 
79. No inspect.ion neceaeary. 
80. E•d.orsement on capiu. 
81. Proceedings against bail. 
82. How stayed oa writ of error. 
83. Applicatioa for stay. •
84. When aecGl'ld judgmenl etayed.
~- Coats on arrest of judgmeat. 
86. ,Vhen habeaa corpus not allowecf. 
87. Not after laaue joined. 
88. Nor afier cause once remanded.
89. When writ may be disregarded. 
90. SeCllrity required. 
91. When to be filed.
92. Exception and justification. ia 111ch cue: 
90. Proceedings on return ofbabeucorpU1,..
94. Special verdict, demurrer llo evidence. 
95. Ejectment, notice, etc.
96. Judgment agaiut cuual ejector.
97. Plaiotiff'11'8Bidence called for. 
98. Rule, if plabatiff' nonresident.
99. Security in action for meane prollc... 
100. .Ad~ignment of errors. 
101. Jolnder la error. 
102. Motion for argument. 
103. Who to procure return of writ.
104-. Se"ice of 19ire facias. 
105. Rule if defendantnonreeldem.. 
106. Limitation of certiorari.
U17. Rule11 ef"court. 
108. Limitation of act. 
An Ad to regulate thr praeiiee of tho eourt1 of law. 
Revision-Approved April 15, 1846. 
1. BE IT ENACTED lYy tke Senate 111id (}e.,.eral Aaamihly of tke
State of New Jersey, That e,very J>E"'l'BOD of full age and sound me-;::d.and 
m01-y may appear and prosecute or defend any action in any of the
courts of judicature of this state, in per10n or by bis solicitor in
chancery or attorney at law. 
2. And be it enacted, That no person, except in bis own case,.But
or in the case of an infant, shall be permitted to appear and pro&& 
• ' f .. t.. "d b h •
cute or defend any aenon m any o 1110 sa1 eourts, us sue 88 18 
a licensed solicitor or attorney at law, who ahaU be under the di-
rection of the- court in which he acts. 
3. .And be it enacted, That if any counsellor, solicitOI' or at- 
tomey at law shall be guilty of malpractice in any of tlae said 
courts, he shall be put out of the roU, and never after be permitted
to act or practice as a counsellor, solicitor or attorney at law.
unless he shall obtain a new license and be again enrolled in due 
form oflaw.
4. .A,ad he it enacted, That when any solicitor or attorney shall 
die or cease to act, or be put out of the rol1, the person for whom
b 1· . h 1 b d . h . 
e was so icuor or attorney s a l e warne to appomt anot er m
his stead, and if he tail to do so, the adverse party may proceed in 
the action.
5. And he it enacted, That if an infant be entitled to any action. 
his guardian or next friend shall he admitted to prosecute for him,
and if he be sued, a guardian shall be appointed to defend the suit 
for him; but in no case shall the parol demur or the proceedings
be deferred or stayed till the infant arrives at full age. 
6. And he it enacted, That if any solicitor or attorney at Jaw
shall neglect or mismanage any cause in which he shall be em- 
ployed, he shall be liable to make good all damages sustained by
his client, to be recovered by action of trespass ou the case, with 
costs.
7. And he ie enacted, That every attorney at law, before he issue 
execution, shall file the taxed bill of costs, or a copy thereof, in the
office of the clerk of the court out of which the same is to issue; 
and if he fail so to do, be shall forfeit ten dollars to the party 
aggrieved, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs.
8. .kid be it enacted, That when any solicitor or attorney at law 
f
shall receive the costs accruing on any suit, be shall, i required by 
the party at the time of payment, or at any time within six months
afterwards, draw up and deliver the bill of particulars, with a re­ 
ceipt, to the party paying or who shall have paid the same; and if
he fail so to do, he shall. forfeit ten dollars to the party aggrieved,
to be recovered by action of debt, with costs. 
9. And he it enacted, That if any solicitor or attorney at law
shall charge in his bill of costs for services not actually done, or
for services not allowed by law, or shall take any greater fee or
reward for any service by him done, than is or shall be allowed by 
law, he shall pay to the party aggrieved thirty dollars, to be re-
covered by action of debt, with costs. - 
10. Ana he it enacted, That the penalties mentioned in the three
preceding sections of this act shall be sued for within one year
after the offence committed, and not after. 
11. bcl he it f!IIQ,Cted, That no solicitor or attorney shall com-
mence or maintain any suit for the recovery of any fees, charges
or disbursements, in equity or at law, against his client or legal
representative, until after such solicitor or attorney shall have 
delivered to such client or bis representative, or left for him at his 
d
. 
we1lmg-house or last place of abode, a copy of the taxed bill of
such fees, charges and disbursements. 
12. And he it enacted, That every warrant of attorney for con-
fessing judgment which shall be included in the body of any bond, 
bill or other instrument for the payment of money, shall be void
and of none effect; and such bond, biU or other instrument shall
have the same force, and no other, as if the said warrant of attorney 
had not been incorporated therein.
13. And he i.t enacted, That every attorney who shall confess 
judgment in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession,
produce his warrant for making the same, to the court or judge 
before whom he makes the confession; and a copy of the said
warrant shall then be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment shall be entered. 
14. A11d he it enacted, That if judgment be not entered within
ten years after the date of the warrant of attorney, it shall not be~'::!~ 
done without leave of the court; and a motion lo enter such judg-yean.
ment shall be founded on an affidavit that the said warrant was 
duly executed, that the defendant is living, and that the debt, or 
part of it, is unsatisfied. 
lo. Altd be it enacted, That no warrant of attorney for confessing
• d d b • d 
8 JU gment, execute y any person m custo y upon mesne pro-,on,
cess, in a civil action, to a plaintiff at whose suit he is in custody, 
shall be of any force, unless some attorney, on behalf of such person 
in custody, and expressly named by him, be present as a witness,
and to inform him of the nature of such warrant. 
16. .And be it enacted, That a warrant of attorney to confess
judgment shall not be revocable by the party making the same. 
17. And be it enacted, That the first process to be made use of 
• 1 ' · f h f 1 f h · · 
m persona actions m any o t e courts o aw o t is state, m cases
where the plaintiff is not entitled to bail, shall be a summons, a
copy whereof shall be served on the defendant in person, at least
two entire days before its return, or left at his dwelling-house or
usual place o( abode at least six entire days before its return ; and
in cases where the plaintiff is entitled to bail, the first process shall 
be a capias ad respondendum, and shall be executed as hereafter
directed. 
18. .And be it enacted, That every summons, capias ad respon-
dendum and writ of execution shall, before the service or execution 
thereof, be subscribed or endorsed with the name of the attorney,
or party, and clerk by whom such summons, capias ad respondendum
or execution shall be sued forth and sealed. 
19. ha be it e1Wcted, That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or 
T~~l~· officer to whom any summons, capias ad respondendum or other
---process is directed, to return the same at the time and place therein 
mentioned, which shall be filed by the clerk of the court; and if
the said sheriff or officer fail to make such return, he shall be
amerced by the court in any sum not exceeding the plaintiff's debt
or demand, to and for the use of the said plaintiff. 
20. And he it macted, That when the said sheriff or other officer 
shall return such summons "served" or "summoned," the p,arty
shall be considered as being in court, and may be proceeded 
against accordingly. 
21. And he it enacted, That the sheriff or other officer shall ex·
ecute the said writ o( capias ad respondendum, by taking the body
of the defendant, and in such case shall return thereon, that he hath
taken the body, or that he hath taken the body into custody; the
first usually abbreviated and expressed thus, C. C., and the second
thus; C. C. C. 
22. And he it enacted, That the sheriff or other officer shall en­
dorse on the capias ad respondendum the names of the bail by him 
taken, and shall deliver a copy of the bail bond to the clerk o( the
court, at or before the return day of the same writ; which copy 
shall be safely kept by the said clerk in his office.
23. And he it enacted, That the special bail shall be filed on the 
return day of the capias ad respondendum, or on the day after.
24. A11d he it enacted, That if special bail be not put in and per­ 
fected in due time, the plaintiff may proceed on the bail bond, or
rule the sheriff to bring in the body of the defendant. 
25. And he it enacted, That if on a return that he hath taken the
body, or C. C., the sheriff or other officer shall not return bail and 
a copy of the bail bond, or if the plaintiff be dissatisfied with the
bail taken by such sheriff or officer, and the defendant shall fail to 
appear and give special bail within the time above prescribed, the
court shall rule such sheriff or officer to bring in the body of the 
defendant within that same term; and if he fail to do so, the said
sheriff or officer shall be amerced by the court in any sum not ex­ 
ceeding the plaintiff's debt or demand, with costs; which amerce­
ment shall have the force and effect of a judgment, whereupon an 
execution, in the name and for the use of the said plaintiff, may in­
stantly, on motion in open court, and without any further proceed­
ings, be awarded and issued against the goods and chattels, lands,
tenements, hereditaments and real estate of' the said sheriff or 
officer so amerced as aforesaid; povid~d neverthda1, if such sheriff
or other office!' shaU cause special bail to be put in and justified, if
justification be required, during the same term, he shall be excused
from bringiDg in the body, and no amercement shall be entered 
against him on the said ru1e; and provided further, that this sec·
tion shall extend to persons whose office is expired, as well as to---- 
sheriffs and officers for the ti me being. 
26. And be it enacted, That if the sheriff or officer, when ruled 
A. B. } . 
against In debt or case, or as the action may be. 
C. D. 
• • • 
to do so, shal1, on a cep1 corpus, brmg m the body of the defendant,
such defendant shall be committed, and upon the entry of such 
committitur, the plaintiff may proceed in the action, and declare
against the defendant as a prisoner, or being in custody. 
27. And be it enacted, That the sheriff or other officer, in order
to save himself, may put in special bail for the defendant, against:: 
his consent; and the bail to such sheriff or officer may do the same
for their indemnity. 
28. A.Jad be it enacted, That if special bail be filed during the
first or second day of tho term to which process is returnable, ex·
ception thereto shall be taken and entered in the clerk's book
during the said term, of which the defendant shall take notice at
his peril; and in such case the defendant shall procure bis bail to 
justi(y in eight days, exclusive, after such exception entered as
aforesaid, or shall add other bail, who shall justify within the said
eight days; and where bail is filed as aforesaid, an exception en·
tered after the expiration of the said time shall be of no validity. 
29. And be it enacted, That two days notice of justification ofKo.ttce 
bail, or of new or additional bail, and justification thereof, sha11 be
given by the defendant or his attorney, to the plaintiff or his at· 
toruey, exclusive of the day it is given, and if Sunday intervene,
three days notice shall be given, 
30. And he it enacted, That if the bail do not justify at the time
. 
appointed, they shall be out of court; and when they do justify,
and are allowed, an order of such allowance shall be drawn, and a 
copy thereof served on the plaintiff or his attorney.
31. And be it enacted, That without the consent of the plaintiff~::J:!~fl· 
or his attorney, in cases where the sheriff or other officer shaU be
ruled to bring in the body, justification of bail shall not be per-
mitted after the expiration of the term in which the said rule is 
entered.
32. And be it enacted, That the recognizance of special bail 
sha11 be to the effect following: 
New Jersey, --- county, to wit:
Be it remembered, that on the --- day of --- in the year 
of our Lord one thousand--- C. D., E. F. and G. H., of the
said county of --- personally appeared before me J. K. one of 
the justices of the supreme court of the state of New Jersey (or
one of the judges of the circuit court or court of common pleas in 
and for the said county of --- or one of the commissioners to
take bail, as the case may be,) and severally acknowledged tbem­
selves to owe unto A. B. the sum of --- (double the sum en­
dorsed on the writ) each to be levied upon their several goods and
chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate, upon con­
dition that if the defendant C. D. shall be condemned in this action
at the suit of A. B. the plaintiff, he shall pay the costs and con­
demnation of the court, or render himself into the custody of the
sheriff of the said county for the same, or if he fail so to do, that
the said E. F. and G. H. will pay the costs and condemnation for
him. 
Taken and acknowledged the day and }
year above written, before me J. K. 
And that on acknowledging the aforesaid recognizance, the bail
piece shall he to the effect ful1owing, to wit: 
New Jersey supreme court, (or --- circuit court or court of
common pleas.) 
Of the term of --- in the year of our Lord one thousand --­
C. D. of the county of--- is delivered to bail on a cepi corpus,
unto E. F. of the township of --- in the said county, yeoman,
and G. H. of the township of --- in the said county, yeoman, 
at the suit of A. B. in a plea of debt ( or of trespass on the case, or
as the action may be.) 
L. l\I. Attorney for the defendant.
33. And he it enacted, That in actions which are or shall be in­ 
stituted in the supreme court, special bail may justify by affidavit
in the said court, or before one of the judges thereof either in term
time or in vacation, or before one of the commissioners for taking
bail ; and that such affidavit shall set forth that the bail are free­
holders and residents in the state of New Jersey, and that they are
respectively worth so much (mentioning the sum they are bail for)
after all their debts are paid. 
34. And be it enacted, That in actions which are or shall be in­ 
stituted in any of the circuit courts or courts of common pleas,
special bail may justify by affidavit in the said court, or before one
of the judges thereof, either in term time or in vacation; which
affidavit shall set forth that the bail are freeholders and residents
in the county of ( naming the county for which the said court is
held) and that they are respectively worth so much (mentioning the
sum they are bail for) after all their debts are paid. 
35. And be it enacted, That if special bail be not put in and per­ 
fected in due time, the plaintiff, if he be satisfied with the bail taken 
by tne sheriff or officer, may take an assignment of the bail bond 
in the words or to the effect following : I, the within named A.
B. do hereby assign and set over the within bond to the within 
named C. D. the plaintiff, pursuant to the statute.
Witness my hand and seal, this --- day of--- in the year 
of our Lord one thousand --
Signed, sealed and delivered ~ 
in the presence of 
E.F.,G.H. 
And this shall be deemed a good assignment in law to ground an
action on such bail bond. 
36. And he it enacted, That the proceedings on the bail bond 
may he set aside, if irregular, or stayed, if regular, upon terms, in~=:,
order that a trial may be had in the original action. 
37. And be it enacted, That where the plaintiff bas not, in the
. . 1 . 
th f . 1 b 'I b . fil d · d ·
orrgma action, ror e want o spec1a ar emg e m ue time, 
11 
[L. s.]
A.B. 
lost a trial, the court or a judge may stay the proceedings on the 
bail bond, upon putting in and perfecting special bail, paying the
costs incurred by the assignment and prosecution of the bail bond, 
receiving a declaration in the original action, pleading issuably, and 
taking short notice of trial, so that the cause may be tried the same
term, if the plaintiff think fit. 
38. And be it enacted, That where the plaintiff has lost a trial in
the original action, for the want of special bail being filed in clue
timrv it shall be tho duty of the court, before proceedings be stayed 
on the bail bond; further to require that the bail consent that judg-
ment be entered against them on the bail bond, for the plaintift"'s 
security; and in such case, if the defendant fail in the original
action, the bail shall be liable to immediate execution, and shall not
discharge themselves by a render of the principal. 
39. And be it enacted, That if the plaintiff might have had judg-
ment in the original action, if bail had been filed in due time, then 
the proceedings shall not be stayed on the bail bond.
40. And he it enacted, That whenever the defendant is guilty of 
1
' · · ' l b '} · d ' b h' h h 
a neg ect m not putnng m spec1a ai 111 ue time, y w ic t e
· db 1.-L'.' d b · · h 
bail bon ecomes rorreue , t e notice, m case t e party means to 
put in special bail in order to stay proceedings upon the bail bond,
shall be, that be will put in and perfect special bail, in open court, 
on such a day, specifying the day; and in that case the plaintiff
may oppose the bail in court, without its being a waiver of the 
bail bond.
41. And he it enacted, That every court and judge shall take 
the fact as sworn to in the affidavit to bold the party to bail, with-
out going into the merits. 
42. And he it enacted, That subsequent to the return of the 
capias ad respondendum, the defendant may render himself, or be
rendered in discharge of his bail, either before or after judgment; 
provided, that such render be made at or before the appearance
<lay of the scire facias against the bail which shall have been served 
or published in the manner prescribed by law, and not after; but
in either case the special bail shall pay the costs of the said seire
facias, and judgment for the same shall be entered against them ac­
cordingly. 
43. A11-d he it enacted, That if the plaintiff proceed against the
bail by action of debt on the recognizance, the render of the prin- 
cipal shall be made during the term to which process against such
bail is returnable, and not after; but the bail shall pay the costs of 
the said action.
44. And he it enacted, That the court or judge before whom the 
render is made, shall make an entry or minute of such render and 
commitment; and thereupon the defendant shall be committed to
the custody of the sheriff or jailer attending the said court or judge. 
45. And be it enacted, That on such render and commitment
duly certified to the clerk of the court, if in vacation, or not done
in open court, it shaH be the duty of the said clerk to enter an
exoneretur on the bail piece, and thereupon the bail shall be dis­
charged: and further, that the said bail shall gfre immediate notice
of such render to the plaintiff or his attorney. 
46. And he it enacted, That where a sheriff or officer returns on 
' d d ., l h b 1 k 1 b d .
a cap1as a respon enuum, t rat e at 1 ta ·en t 10 o y into cus- 
tody or C. C. C., such return shall have the same effect es if the
sheriff, on a ru1e for that purpose, had brought the body of the de­
fendant into court, end the court had thereon committed such
defendant to the custody of the sheriff; upon which the plaintiff
shall declare against the said defendant as a prisoner or in custody. 
47. And be it enacted, That where the plaintiff in any action 
d "- 
shall eclare ror or recover a greater sum than is expressed in the
capias ad respondendum upon which he declares, the bail shall
not be discharged, but be liable for so much ns is sworn to, or
ordered by the court or a judge, and endorsed on the said process,
or for any Jess sum, which the plaintiff in such action shall recover,
together with the costs of the original action. 
48. And be it enacted, That no sheriff or officer shall be Ji able 
d 
to be calle upon to produce the bo ly of any defendant on a capias
ad respondendum, returned cepi corpus, unless he be required so
to do within six months after the expiration of his office; and if, 
on such rule, he shall not bring in the body, he may be proceeded
against by amercement, in the manner herein before mentioned. 
• 
49. hd be ·it enacted, That the plaintiff sha11 not, in any action 
mstituted by capias ad respondendum, be permitted to declare
until special bail be filed and perfected, if required, or the defend-~';;:!, 
be d
· d b h · . 
ant returne m custo y or roug t mto court, on a rule for that
purpose, and a committitur entered, unless the said plaintiff will 
waive his right, and enter such waiver on the minutes of the court;
and then if the sheriff or other officer hath returned on the said 
capias ad respondendum, that he hath taken the body, or that he
hath taken the body into custody, the defendant shall be considered
as in court, and may be proceeded against accordingly. 
50. And he it enacted, That the plaintiff' shall file his declaration
. b d c. d ' hi hl 1 ft b • d 
against t e eren ant W1t m t rrty , ays a er emg returne sum-
moned, or after the entering of special bail, and perfecting the
same, or his being returned in custody, or the entering of a com­
mittitur or waiver as aforesaid, or on failure thereof, 'Shall become 
nonprossed, unless the court, under special circumstances, shall
gTant the plaintiff further time ; snd in such case, the plaintiff shall 
declare within the time so granted, or become nouprossed.
51. And he it enacted, That the defendant shall file his plea 
ithi hi d _i, h . . f h . Ii . d dtobefiled. 
wit 10 t irty ays atter t e exp1rat1on o t e time mute or grante
for filing the declaration, or on failure thereof, judgment shall he
entered against him, unless the court under special circumstances
shall grant the defendant further time; and in such case the de- 
fendant shall plead within the time 80 grauted, or judgment he en-
tered against him; and if further pleadings shall be necessary,
they shall be filed within thirty days each after the other, or on 
failure thereof, the like judgment as aforesaid shall he enteretl
against the party so failing, unless the court under special circurn- 
stances shall graut further time as aforesaid.
52. And he it enacted, That the defendant shall plead within the 
time limited or granted as aforesaid without any imparlance.
53. Ancl he it enacted, That the party, whether plaintiff or de- 
fondant, shall take notice of the filing of the declaration or other
1 
di · h hi ·1 ' h · f
p ea mg in t e cause at rs pen , Wlt out service o · a copy or 
notice of the filing of such declaration or other pleading.
54. And be it enacted, That in case the party, plaintiff nr de- 
• • • 
fendant, shall not file his or her declaration, plea or other p1ea1lmg
in the cause, by the time required by law, and shall think propn to 
file the same after the expiration of such time, the party in -n ch
case shall furnish the adverse paity with notice in writing of the
time of filing such declaration, plea or other pleading, and the said 
adverse party shall not be bound to take notice of the same, until
such notice shall be received. 
55. And he it enacted, That in cases where any declaration, 
plea, or other pleading shall be filed after the time allowed by Jaw, 
no subsequent pleading shall in any case be required in a shorter 
, h hi d ~ h ' • r 'd bal
time t an t irty ays rrom t e time notice as atoresar en l be 
given of the time of filing such declaration, plea, or other plead- 
, 
mg.
56. A1td be it enacted, That the plaintiff or his attorney, if re- 
quired before plea be filed, shall deliver to the defendant or his at­
torney a copy of the account, or a bill of the particulars of the de-
mand, or a copy of the bill, bond, deed, bargain, contract, note, in­
strument or other writing whereon the declaration is founded. 
51. A1'tl be it enacted, That tbe defendant or his attorney, if
required, shall deliver to the plaintiff or hie attorney a copy of any
deed, instrument or writing, of which in his plea he shall make a
profert in court, or a copy of any bill, bond, deed, note, receipt, 
bargain, contract, instrument, or writing, or a bill of the particu­
lars of any account or demand, which, under the plea of payment,
he may by Jaw set off or discount against the plaintiff's action. 
58. A,ad be it enacted, That neither the plaintiff or any other
person shall be permitted to declare by-the-bye against the defend- 
ant in any action. 
59. And be it enacted, That the defendant at any time before
issue joined, may move the court to consolidate unnecessary ac- 
tions, or to strike out superfluous counts in the declaration.
60. And be it enacted, That if the defendant on a capias ad 
respondendum be returned in custody, or, when produced in court,
be committed by order of the court, the plaintiff, if he have other
cause of action, or any other person having cause of action against
the said defendant, shall issue process against such defendant, in
the same manner as if he was at large, and not in custody or in
prison ; and on such process, when served, the like proceedings
shall be had as in other cases. 
61. And he it enacted, That if the plaintiff amend his declara-
tion, the defendant shall have twenty days to alter his plea or to
plead anew; and if the defendant amend his plea, the plaintiff shall
have twenty days to alter his replication or to reply anew; and the
like time shall be allowed if any of the subsequent pleadings be
amended; but all amendments shall be made on such equitable
terms as the court shall direct. 
62. bd he it enacted, That if the plaintiff or defendant shall
not join in demun·er, in thirty days after the filing thereof, such
plaintiff shall be nonprossed, and such defendant shall have judg­
ment awarded against him. 
63. And he it enacted, That when the issue is upon matter of
law, either party may move the court for a day to be appointed for 
t.bc argument of the demurrer; but no demurrer books shall be
n1.ade up. 
6-4. And be it enacted, That where there are several issues in
law- and in fact, the issue in law shall be first determined before the 
issue in fact shall be tried.
65. A,id he it enacted, That e,·ery cause shall be tried at the 
uext court after issue joined, or on failure thereof, judgment shall
be awarded fur the defendant, as in case of a nonsuit, unless the 
court, upon just cause and reasonable terms, allow further time
£or the trial of said cause; and if the plaintiff neglect to try such 
cause within the time so allowed, then the said court shall proceed 
to give such ju<lgrnent as aforesaid, which shall be of the like ( and 
no other) force and effect as a judgment upon nonsuit; and the
t.lefendant shall, upon such judgment, be awarded his costs in any
action where he would upon nonsuit be entitled to the same, and 
in no other; promded, that there be, between the joining of the said
issue and the next term, sufficient time to give the requisite notice 
of trial, and if there be not, then the trial shall be had at the sub­
sequent term. 
66. And be it enacted, That notice of trial shall be in writing,
and given to the d-efendant, if he appear in person, or to his attor-
ney, or to the sheriff or keeper of the jail, if the defendant be in 
custody or in prison, at least twenty days before such intended
trial; and it shall be the duty of the said sheriff or jailer to deliver 
without delay \he said notice to the defendant therein named, and
in default thereof, the said sheriff or jailer shall be liable to the said
defendant for all damages occasioned thereby. 
67. And be it enacted, That every countermand of notice ofcouut.er·
trial shall be in writing, and given at least seven days before such 
intended trial ; and on failure thereof, costs shall be awarded in
like manner a, if notice of trial had not been countermanded. 
68. And be it enacted, That short notice of trial, when directed
by the court, shall be given five days before such trial. 
60. And be it enacted, That if the plaintiff do not bring on the
trial of the cause in due time after issue joined, the defendant, in- 
stead of taking judgment as in case of a nonsuit, may move the
court for a trial by proviso ; and of such trial, the defendant shall
give the like notice to the plaintiff as the plaintiff would have been
obliged to give to the defendant ; and if tho defendant do not pro- 
ceed to trial. according to notice, or countermand the same in due
time, the plaintiff shall he entitled to costs. · 
70. And be it enacted, That all notices of trial shall be filed
with the clerk at least two days before the term, whose duty it:!~~ 
shall be to furnish the judges, on the first day of every term, with 
a list of the causes to be tried and argued, in their course and order .
71. And be it enacted, That where interlocutory judgment in 
actions of assumpsit shall be entered by default against die defend­
ant, the court shall assess the damages and give final judgment.
unless the plaintiff or defendant shall request a writ of inquiry. 
72. And be it enacted, That the same notice shall be given of
executing writs of inquiry and of countermand as is required for 
the trial of issues in fact.
73. And be it enacted, That if the plaintiff shall not proceed to 
execute the writ of inquiry according to notice, or countermand
such notice in due time, the defendant shall be entitled to costs. 
7 4. And be it enacted, That if the plaintiff reside out of this
state he shall, if required before issue joined, gi,·e bond to the de-
fendant in one hundred dollars, with sufficient sureties, being free­
holders and residents in this state, with condition to prosecute his
action with effect, and to pay costs if he discontinue, be nonsuited 
Ol' a judgment pass against him ; which bond shall be filed in the
clerk's office of tse court in which such action is or shall be pend- 
~~ . 
75. And be it enacted, That the party against whom a verdict
hath been rendered may first move for a new trial ; and if it be
denied, may then move in arrest of judgment; but he shall not be 
permitted to morn for a new trial after he hath moved in arrest of 
judgment and failed.
76. And be it enacted, That the declaration, pleadings, and other 
pnpers relative to rwery cause shall be all filed together in the office
of the clerk of the court. 
77. And be it enacted, That when any civil cause, of whatever
nature it he, shall be finally determined, the clerk of the court shall
enter the warrants of attorney, declaration, pleadings, proceedings.
and judgment in such cause, so as to make a complete record thereof
in a separate book, to biv kept for that purpose, with a complete 
alphabetical index to the same ; which record shall be signed by
one of the judges of the said court, as of the day on which the
judgment was entered ; and the clerk for such service, shall be al­
lowed one dollar, and no more. 
78. And be it enacted, That no judgment roll shall he made up 
in any action in any of. the courts of this state ; but the entry in
manner aforesaid of the warrants of attorney, declaration, plead­ 
ings, proceedings and judgment shall constitute the record.
79. And he it enacted, That the inspection of judgment and pro- 
b d d ' 
cess shall not e eeme necessary m any c886. 
SO. And be it enacted; That the plaintiff shall endorse on every 
capias ad satisfaciendum, before the delivery thereof to the sheriff:
the real debt or damages due and claimed by such plaintiff, and the 
r
. . d l h 
costs o suit, m wor s at engt . 
81. And he it enacted, That after a capias ad satisfaciendum shall
have been returned non est invent us, by the sheriff or officer, the 
plaintiff may proceed against the special bail upon their recogni-
zance. 
82. A11d he it e,iacted, That on a scire facias or action of debt
. h • I b 'I h • • h • fwben 
agamst t e spec1a au, on t err recogmzance, w en a writ o
error is brought by the principal, and aJlowed, and the said bail 
apply within the time limited for surrendering the principal, the
court may stay the proceedings against such special bail, if they
enter into recognizance to the party for whom judgment is given,
in double the sum recovered, to pay the condemnation money, or
surrender the principal to the custody of the sheriff, within twenty
days next after the determination of the said writ of error, if it be 
in favour of the defendant in error.
83. A1td be it enacted, That the court shall not stay procee<lings 
• h · 1 b 'l .1• h · f b h · . .
against t e spec1a a1 penumg t e wnt o error, y t err pnnc1- 
pal, if they do not make application for that purpose till their
time to surrender the principal be expired. 
84. And he it enacted, That if the defendant bring a writ of
d h 
. "ff b . . h . d d
error, an t e plainti nng an action on t e JU gment, an reco- 
ver, he shall not sue out execution on the second judgment till the
writ of error be determined. 
85. And he it enacted, That where judgment is arrested, each 
party shall pay his own costs.
86. And he it enacted, That no suit which shall be commenced 
· ' · f l h 11 b d b
m any circuit court or court o common p eas s a e remove y 
writ of habeas corpus into the supreme court, unless the debt, da-
mages, matter or thing in controversy shall exceed two hundred 
dollars.
87. And he it enacted, That no writ of habeas corpus, for the 
f
h 11 b
, d b h . . 
removal o a cause, s a e receive y t e circuit court or court
of common pleas, to which it may be directed, nor shall any cause 
be removed by such writ, after issue joined upon matter o( law or
of fact. 
88. And be it enacted, That if any cause be removed or stayed
by writ of habeas corpus, and afterwards. be remanded or sent
back by writ of procedendo or other writ, the same cause shall
never again be removed or stayed by any writ of habeas corpus. 
89. A11d be it enacted, That if any writ of habeas corpus, for
b 
. d f th
the removal of a cause, shall e issue out o e supreme court, 
contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act, then the court 
to which such writ shall be directed or offered shall proceed in the 
• • d . d ~ red. 
said cause as though no such writ ha been issue or one
90. And be it enacted, That no cause shall be removed into the 
supreme court, by writ of habeas corpus or otherwise, unless the
defendant shall enter into recognizance to tho plaintiff, with two
sufficient sureties, in double the sum demanded, for the paymeut
of the condemnation money and costs, in case judgment shall pass 
against him.
91. And be it enacted, That the special bail, required by the pre- 
ceding section, shall be filed on the return day of the writ of
habeas turpus, or else a procedendo shall be awarded. 
92. And be it enacted, That exception to, and justification of,
special bail upon a habeas corpus, shall be taken and made within 
l . d , h h . b r. • bed . b
t ie time an in t e manner erem erore prescn m ot er easea; 
and if such bail, when excepted· to, shall not be perfected in due
time, the plaintiff shalt have a procedendo, 
93. And be it enacted, That upon the return of the balleas coe- 
• , 
pus, the plaintiff shall be deemed to be m court, and the declara­
tion and pleadings of the parties shall be filed within the time 
allowed or gnnted in other cases ; er else the plaiutiif shall be 
nonprossed, or judgment be awarded against the defendanL
94. A1td be it. enacted, That every special verdict and demurrer 
to evidence shall be entered on the minutes of the eourt, after
which either party may move the court to assign a day for argu- 
ment.
95. And he it enacted, That no plaintiff shall proceed in eject- 
ment tu recover any lands or tenements against a casual ejector,
without ten days previous notice being given to the tenant in pos­ 
session, if any there be, and making him or his landlord, or both,
or other proper person, with the tenant, defendant in the action, if 
such tenant or landlord, or other proper person, choose to be made
defendant. 
96. And be it enacted, That the plaintiff, on affidavit of the deli­
very of the declaration in ejectment, shall have judgment against 
the casual ejector, unless the tenant in possession or landlord, or
both, or other proper person with such tenant, shaJ) apply to be
made defendant, and enter into the common or consent rule within 
the term to which the said tenant had notice to appear.
97. Ancl be it enacted, That in ejectment, where the plaintiff or 
his lessor is unknown to the defendant, the latter may call for an
account of his residence or place of abode from the opposite at- 
torney; and if he refuse to give it, or give in a fictitious account of
a person who cannot be found, the court, if moved before issue 
joined, may stay the proceedings until security be given for the
payment of costs. 
98. And be it e,e.acted, That in ejectment where the lessor of the
I 
. iJf id f hi • . r: d d h 
p amt resi es out o t 18 state, or 1s an mtant, or ea , t e court,
if moved before issue joined, may stay proceedings until a real and 
substantial person- be named, or security be given for the payment 
of costs.
99. And be it enacted, That if an action for the mesne profits 
b
ll
b b
h
' h f h ' al l ' 'ff ' · 
s a e roug t 10 t e name o t e nomm p amn in ejectment,
the court, if moved before issue joined, may stay proceedings un-
til security be given for the payment of costs. 
100. A,id he it e,aacted, That the plaintiff in error shall assign
and file· errors, and serve a copy thereof on the defendant in error 
01· his attorney, in thirty days after the first day of the term to
which the writ is returnable, or be nonprossed, unless the court
shall grant further time ; and in such case the plaintiff shall assign
and file errors, and serve a copy of the same on the defendant or 
his attorney within the time so granted, or be nonprossed.
101. And he 'it enacted, That the defendant shall join in error 
within thirty days after the expiration of the time limited or granted 
for 88Signing, filing, and serving errors, or the errors shall be taken 
as confessed, and the cause be set down to be heard ex parte.
102. And he it enacted, That after joinder in error, either party 
may move the court to appoint a day for the argument of the cause;
but no paper books shall be necessary. 
103. A,c.d be it enacted, That the party prosecuting such writ of
error, shall procure the same to be returned to the day in term to 
which it is made returnable, or show good cause why it is not re-
turned, or on failure thereof, the said writ shall be null and void. 
104. And be it enacted, That whenever a writ of scire facias shaU
issue out of any of the courts of record in this state, the sheriff or 
other officer to whom the writ of scire facias shall be directed,
shall serve the same either personally on the defendant, or by leav-
ing a copy of the writ with some white person of the age of four-
teen years, at his or her usual place of abode, at least six entire
days before its return, or as directed in the next section of this act. 
105. Aftd be it enacted, That whenever a writ of scire facias
shall issue, and the defendant has removed out of the jurisdiction
of the court issuing such process, or cannot be found by the sheriff 
or other officer to whom the writ shall be directed, it shall and may 
be lawful for the plaintiff to proceed as though the said writ of
scire facias had been duly served in the manner prescribed in the 
next preceding section of thia act, provided the said plaintiff fint
'd . be blish d r. • ks . 
cause the 881 wnt to pu e ,our successive wee m one o 
the newspapers printed in this state, as near the last residence of 
the defendant as can be conveniently ascertained, or cause a copy
of the said writ to be served on the defendant, wherever found, 
either in this state or in any other place, at least twelve days before
the return thereof. 
106. And be it enacted, That no writ of certiorari shall be al- 
d • .1 • .1 d edi th h JI 
owe or issueu on any JUugmeut, or er, or proce mg at s a
have been entered or obtained in any court of record of this state,
or that shall hereafter be entered or obtained, unless the same be
issued in eighteen months after the entering or obtaining the same. 
107. A11d be it enacted, That the justices of the supreme court,
and the judges of the courts of common pleas in every county of
this state, shall make such rules and regulations for expediting and
conducting suits, and the management of business in their respec­
tive courts, as they shall from time to rime judge proper; prorid.d, 
the same be not contrary to this act ; which rules and regulations
shall be fairly printed for the ftse of the court. 
108. A1Ul be it enacted, That nothing in this act, nor any matter
or thing therein contained, shall he considered as applicable to or
in any way affect the court established in this state, by virtue or 
"An act constituting courts for the trial of small causes." 
JUD<i~F.NTS ON BO~ll5 WITH WARRANTS. 
1. Jiow judgment obtained. 
CHAPTER 2. 
2. Record nnd index.
3. :Sot reversed for defect of form,
4. Not entered otherwise. 
;;., AffldR,·it to be made. 
fi. Before whom. 
7. Fret allowed. 
Et. Penalty for taking greater. 
An Ad directing the mode of entering judgments on bonds with warrants
of attorne)' &o eonfm judgment.I. 
Uevieion-..Approved April JS, 1846. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Sntate and Ge7ieral Aucmhly of tM
State of New Jer,ey, That in all cases where a bond or other obli­ 
gation is given for the payment of money only, together with a 
warrant under hand and seal, directed to any attorney at law or
other person, to appear in any court of record to an action brought,
or to be brought on such bond or obligation, against the perBOn or
persons executing the same, and to confess a judgment against him,
her, or them, for the sum mentioned in such bond and warrant of
attorney, with costs of suit, or to the like effect, it shall and may be 
lawful for the obligee or obligees, his, her, or their executors, ad- 
A.B. ~ 
against In debt on bond and warrant of attorney. 
C.D. 
. 
ministrators or assigns, at any time after the day of payment men-----
tioned in said bond or obligation, to apply to any of the justices of
t:he supreme court, or to any one of the judges of the circuit court
or court of common pleas, in any of the counties of this state 
and on the production of such bond or obligation with the warrant
of attorney, it shall be the duty of such justice or judge, at the
request of the person applying as aforesaid, at the end of a fairprod1&ced. 
copy of such bond or obligation and warrant of attorney, to enter
or cause to be entered an appearance for the obligor or obligors to
an action of debt, as of the last precedent term of the court of
which the said justice or judge is a member, and a confession and 
judgment against him, her, or them, for the sum mentioned in the
said bond or obligation and warrant of attorney, signed by the said 
justice or judge in the following form, to wit :
Supreme court, ( or circuit court or court of common pleas, as the 
case may be,) of the term of --- 
The defendant's appearance to this action is entered, and judg­
ment confessed to the plaintiff for the sum mentioned in the above
obligation, by virtue of the warrant of attorney thereunto annexed,
and pursuant to the directions of an act entitled, "An act directing
the mode of entering judgments on bonds with warrants of attor­
ney to confess judgments," whereupon it is considered that the
said A. B. do recover against the said C. D. the sum of --­ 
debt, and four dollars, costs of suit. Judgment signed this ---
day of-· - E. F. 
2. And he it enacted, That the copy of the bond and warrant of at-
torney to confess judgment, with the entry of the judgment thereon,
as before directed, signed by the justice or judge, shall be delivered
to the cJerk of the court in which such judgment is to be entered;
and the clerk shall immediately file the same in his office, mark
thereon the time of filing the same, and enter the judgmeut in
the minutes of the court; and shall also enter all the proceedings
on which such judgment shall be founded as aforesaid, and the 
judgment itself, at large in the judgment book of said court, and
index the same, as in other cases of judgment. 
3. And he it enacted, That all judgments entered as before di·
rected, shall be as good and effectual in law, to all intents and pur-f::_erect 
poses whatsoever, as judgments entered by confession in the man·
ner heretofore practiced, and no such judgment shall be reversed
for error or misprison of the clerk in entering the same, or defect 
of form in the entry. thereof; and execution shall issue thereon as
in cases of judgments entered by confession in the manner here- 
.I!' • 
totore practiced.
4. And bt it enacted, That all judgments on bonds or obligations 
J!' h f . , f
ror t e payment o money only, m virtue o a warrant of attorney 
J.' • d h h ll b d • d b th fi
to conress JU gments t ereon, s a e entere as m an y e rst 
and second sections of this act is directed, and not otherwise.
5. .And be it enacted, That no judgment shall be entered in any 
court of record of this state, on a warrant of attorney to confess
such judgment, or by the defendant appearing in person in open
court and confessing the same, unless the plaintiff' or his attorney
shall produce, at the time of confessing such judgment, to the court,
judge or justice before whom the judgment shall he confessed, an
affidavit of the plaintiff, his attorney or agent, of the true conside­
ration of the bill, bond, deed, note, or other instrument of writing
or demand for which the said judgment shall be confessed; which
affidavit shall further set forth, that the debt or demand for which
the judgment is confessed is justly and honestly due and owing to
the person or persons to whom the judgment is confessed, and that
the said judgment is not confessed to answer any fraudulent intent
or purpose, or to protect the property of the defendant fi·om his 
other creditors.
6. An.d he it enacted, That the affidavit required by this act, 
may be made before any justice of the supreme court, judge of any
circuit court or court of common pleas, commissioner for takipg
affidavits, or justice of the peace of this state, or, if the plaintiff be
out of this state, before any court of judicature or notary public of
the state, kingdom, or nation in which the said plaintiff resides or
shall happen to be ; which affidavit, together with a copy of the
bill, bond, deed, note, contract, instrument of writing, account, or
particulars of the demand on or for which the judgment is con­
fessed, shall be filed with the other papers in the cause . 
. 7. And he it enacted, That the following, and no other fees shall
be allowed, viz: to the plaintiff for the copy of the bond or obliga­
tion and warrant of attorney, entering the proceedings thereon,
attending before the justice or judge to obtain the judgment, and
delivering the same, with the affidavit, to the clerk to he filed, two
dollars; to the justice or judge for inspecting the bond and warrant,
examining the copies, and entering and signing judgment, fifty
cents; to the clerk for marking and filing the proceedings and affi­
davit, and entering the judgment in the minutes of the court, fifty
cents, and for entering the proceeclings and judgment at large in
the book of judgments, one dollar; and when execution shall issue 
on any judgment, the following additional fees shall be allowed, 
and no other, to wit: to the plaintiff for drawing the execution,
fi h 1
k 
PERSONAL ACTIONS AGAINST CORPORATIONS. 
1. Ho• proceu served. 
:?. Return.
3. Order for publication. 
.\n Ad for the relier of mditors against eorporations. 
Reviaion .... Approved April 15, 1846. 
1. BE IT ENACTED bJJ the Senate and General A8iemhly of fh.e 
State. of New Jer,ey, That when nny personal action shall be com-
menced against a corporation in any of the courts of law of this 
state, the first proceBS to be made use of may be a summons, a
copy whereof shall be served on the president, or other head officer 
of the said corporation, or left at his dwelling-house or usual place
of abode, at least six entire days before its return; and in case the 
president or other head officer of the said corporation cannot be
found in this state, to be served with process as aforesaid, and has
no dwelling-house or usual place of abode within this state, then a
copy of the said summons shall be served on the clerk or secretary 
of the said corporation, if any there be, and if no clerk or secretary,
then on one of the directors of the corporation, or left at his dwell­
ing-house or usual place of abode, six entire days before its return. 
2. A11,l he it enacted, That when the sheriff or other officer shall
return such summons "served" or "summoned" the defendants 
8ba11
be considered as appearing in court, and may be proceeded 
against accordingly. 
s: 
1.
d d• b 
twenty- ve cents; to t e c er ror sea mg an recor mg t e exe-
cution, and entering and filing the execution and return of the
sheriff; seventy-five cents; which costs shall be endorsed on the
execution without taxation, and collected with the debt, but to be 
paid by the plaintiff as the duty is performed : and further, that the
sheriff shall be entitled to execution fees, BB in other cases. 
8. .Antl he it enacted, That in case any clerk shall take other or 
.I.". .I.". • d d hi h b thi
greater rees tor services one un er t 18 act, t an are y 18 act 
allowed, or shaJl take such fees without performing the services for
which such fees are allowed, he shall, for eve1·y such offence, forfeit 
and pay the sum of thirty dollars, to be sued for and recovered in
an action of debt, with costs of suit, in any court having cognizance
thereof: by any person who shall be aggrieved by the same. 
CHAPTER 3. 
4. Corporation not to alien lande,
5. Trusteee, on diuolution.
6. Their authority. 
3. And 'ht it enacted, That in case the sheriff or other officer 
shall return such summons "not served" or "not summoned," and
an affidavit shall be made to the satisfaction of the court, that pro- 
cess cannot be served as mentioned in the first section of this act, 
then the court shall make an order directing the defendants to cause 
their appearance to be entered to the said action, on or before the
first day of the next term of the said court, a copy of which order
shall, within twenty days, be inserted in one of the public news­
papers printed in this state, for at least six weeks, and a copy of
the same order shall also be posted up within the time aforesaid, in
three public places in this state, as shall be ordered by the said
court, for at least six weeks, and if the defendants shall not appear 
within the time limited by such order, or within such further time
as the court shall appoint, then on proof made of the due publica­
tion of such order, the court being satisfied of the truth thereof,
shall order the clerk to enter an appearance for the defendants,
and thereupon the action shall he further proceeded in, as if the
said defendants had caused their appearance to be entered to the
said action. 
4. And he it enacted, That it shall not be lawful for any corpora-
tion, against whom any order shall be made for publication, as
aforesaid, after the entry of the said order in the minutes of the
court, to grant, bargain, sell, alien or convey any lands, tenements
or real estate in this state, (in case the said summons issued out of
the supreme court,) or in the county in which the said summons
shall have been issued, (in case the said summons issued out of one
of the inferior courts of common pleas in this state,) of which such
corporation shall be seized or entitled to at the time of making
such order, until the plaintiff in the action shall be satisfied his legal
demand, or until judgment shall be entered for the defendants; and
the said action shall be and remain a lien on such lands, tenements
and real estate, from the time of entering the said order for publi­
cation in the minutes of the court. and the said lands, tenements
and real estate shall and may be sold on execution, 8.8 if no con­
veyance had been made by the said corporation. 
5. And he it enacted, That upon the dissolution of any corpora­
tion already erected, or which may hereafter be erected by any 
law of this state, the president and di rectors, or the managers of the 
affairs of the said corporation at the time n( its dissolution, by
whatever name they may be known in Jaw, shall he trustees of such
corporation, with full power to settle the affairs, collect the out­ 
standing debts, and divide the moneys and other property among
the stockholders, after paying the debts due and owing hy such 
corporation, at the time of its dissolution, as far as such moneys
and property shall enable them. 
f,. .And be it enacted, That the persons constituted trustees as
aforesaid, shall have authority to sue for and recover the aforesaid 
debts and property, by the name of the trustees of such corpora- 
tion, describing it by its corporate name, and shall be suable by the
same name, or in their O\'\'TI names and individual capacities, for
the debts owing by such corporation, at the time of its dissolution, 
and shall be jointly and severally responsible for such debts, to the
amount of the money9 and property of such corporation, at the
time of its dissolution, and which shall come to their hands or pos- 
session. 
SUITS BY CO!IIMON INFORMERS. 
1. Time of bringing action noted. 
2. Endorsement on process, 
3. Pl~ng and evidence.
,. Recovery by eovin no bar. 
CHAPTER 4. 
5. Not compounded l\'ithout leave,
6. When prosecutor to pay costs.
7. Limitation of provisions. 
!n !et relative to snits instituted by common informers. 
Paeeed February~ 1799. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Counr.il and General A81embl,'1 of tltu
state, and it is hereby enacted by the afltkority of tlte sam«, That
upon every action or information, which shall be instituted or ex-
hibited by any informer on a penal statute, a special note shall be
made of the very day, month, and year of its institution or exhibi-
tion, and that such action or information shall be of record from
that time, and not before: and farther, that no manner of ante- 
dating thereof shall be made or allowed.
2. And be it enacted, That upon every process which may he sued 
out on such action or information to compel the appearance of the
defendant, shall he endorsed the name of the party who prosecutes, 
and the title of the statute upon which the said action or informa-
tion is founded. And any clerk, issuing process contrary to this 
provision, shall forfeit to the party against whom such process is
awarded ten dollars for every offence, to be recovered by action 
of debt, with costs, in any court having cognizance of that sum.
3. And be it enacted, That if any action or information shall be 
brought 01· exhibited for an offence against any penal law, made or:!
to be made, it shall be lawful for the defendant in such action or iNu, 
information to plead the general issue, that he is not guilty, or that
he oweth nothing, and to give in evidence any special matter
which, if pleaded, would be a bar to the said action or information,
giving notice, with the same plea, of the matter so intended to he 
given in evidence.
4. And be it enacted, That no recovery, by verdict or otherwise, 
l • .1 1 . 1 • . . 1 h 11 b b
o xamed 1y covm or co lusion m an action popu ar, s a e a ar 
to any other action prosecuted with good faith.
5. And be it enacted, That if any prosecutor of an action or 
information, for the recovery of any penalty not who11y appropri- 
CHAPTER 5. 
BAIL lN CIVIL ACTI0~5. 
I. .\ffidRvit for bail.
2. Who may be apecial \Mill. 
. . 
ated to the use of such prosecutor, shall compound with the do- 
fen<lant, or direct such action or information to be discontinued,
unless it be by leave of the court in which the said action or in­ 
formation shall be depending, then such prosecutor shall be liable
for so much of the penalty to the state of New Jersey, or any
other, as the said state or other would have been entitled to, if the 
defendant had heen convicted.
6. A-Ml be it enacted, That every informer or prosecutor on a 
penal statute shall pay costs to the defendant, if lie discontinue or
be nonsuit, or if a verdict or judgment pass against him, for which
costs the said defendant shall have execution against the goods,
chattels, and person of such informer or prosecutor. 
7. And be it enacted, That this act shall not extend to any cer­
tain person, body politic or corporate, to whom or to whose use
any forfeiture, penalty, or suit is or shall be special1y limited or
granted by any statute ; but that every such certain person, body 
politic or corporate, may in such case sue, prosecute, or inform,
as he or they might have done if this act had not been made. 
:l. Who shall not be.
4. Judge's order, etc. 
An Act respeding bail In elrll actions. 
Passed Febrnnry z, !79':I. 
1. BE IT ENACTED bg the Council anl Gr.ncra/, Aunnbly of thi,
state, and it is liereby enacted by th« autlumty ef the same, That 
where bail shall be required in any civil action, an affidavit shall be
made and filed of the cause of such action, which affidavit may be
made before any judge or commisaioner authorized to take spe- 
ciul bail or any justice of the peace of this state, or, if the plaintiff
he out of tl,is state, before auy judge of any court of judicature 
or 11otary public of the state, kingdom, or nation in which he re-
sides or happens to be; and the sum specified in such affidavit shall 
h
d 
.1 h · I! · hi J d d 
e en orseu on t e writ or process, ror w re 1 sum, so en orsc - , 
the sheriff or other officer to whom such writ or proces~ shall be
directed shall take hail, and for no more; and if the party making
such affidavit swear to the best of his knowledge or belief, the 
same shall he deemed to be sufficient.
2. And be it enacted, That no person shall be permitted to be 
• 1 b 'I . } , h b f h Id <l • 
specia ai m any sue 1 action, unless- e e a ree o er an resi-
<lent in this state, and of sufficient property, if the writ or process
issue out of the supreme court, or if it issue out of any of the 
inferior courts of common pleas, unless he be a freeholder of suffi-
cient property and resident in the county where such court is
helcl. 
3. And be it enacted, That no attorney at Jaw, under-sheriff,
h "ff' d b '}'er } d . } , 
s en s eputy, ai 111, or ot ier person concerne in t ie execution
of process, shall be permitted to be special bail in any action. 
4. Prorlded al u:a.11s, and he it enacted, That uothing in this act
shall prevent any of the said courts, or any juclge thereof, from
ordering, as heretofore, the defendant in any action to be held to
special bail, in such sum as the said court or judge, under all the 
circumstances of the case, shall think proper to direct; which sum
shall be endorsed on the process, and the sheriff or officer shall
take bail for the same, and no more. 
CHAPTER G. 
FACII.ITATlO~ OF PLEADIXGS. 
1. f:cvernl pleas nllowed.
2. General issue and evidence. 
3. l\ot extended to court for trial 
of Hn11!1 CllUEC~. 
An Act to facilitate pleadings. 
Pusscd Fobrnary 1, 1799. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Council and General Assembly qf thu
d 
· · 1 b d b 1 1 • ,./' 1 Th
state, an it is nere y enacte .11 fae autkorits] '!! tne same, at 
it shall be lawful for the plaintiff in replevin, and for the defend-
ant or tenant in every other action, to plead, in any court of record, 
with leave of such court, as many several matters as he shall think
necessary for his defence ; but if on demurrer any such matter be 
adjudged to be insufficient, or if a verdict be found on any issue in
such action for the plaintiff, costs shall thereupon be awarded by 
the court.
2. And he it enacted, That it shall be lawful for the defendant 
in any action, except in cases of mutual dealings, to plead the ge- 
neral issue, and to give any special matter in evidence, which, if
pleaded, would be a bar to such action, giving notice, with the 
same plea, of the matter or matters so intended to be given in evi­
dence. 
3. And he it enacted, That this act shall not extend to the courts
constituted for the trial of small causes. 
I. When death not to abate suit, 
2. Case of several plaintiff", or defendaata.
3. When no abatement after lllbue. 
'- \Vben not to abate in ch•ncery. 
5. Deaah of one Qf several parties. 
" Proceedlaga te ceutinue 11uiL 
CHAPTER 7. 
REMEDY WHERE PARTIES DIE. 
6. Death of sole complainant. 
7. Death of sole defendnnL
8. When suit to he at an end.
9. Bill• of revivor,
10. Death between verdict and judgment.
11. Daya between teate and return. 
Al Art to prevent, in certain mes, the abatement of soita aad rerenal or 
judgments. 
Revision.....Approved April ~ 1848. 
l. BE IT ENACTED iy tl,.e Senate and Ge,ceral A11embly of tAe 
State of New Jersey, That in all actions depending or to be com­
menced in any court of record of 11his state, if any plaintiff happen
to <lie· after an interlocutory judgment, ud before a final judgment
obtained therein, the said action shall not abate by reason thereof
if such action might be origina11y prosecuted or maintained by the
executors or administrators of such plaintiff; and if the defendant
die after· such interlocutory judgment, and before final judgment
therein obtained, the sai~ action shall not abate; if such action
might be originally prosecuted or maintained against the execu­ 
tors or administrators of such defendant ; and the plaintiff, or i£ 
he or she be dead after such interlocutory judgment, his or her ex­
ecutors or administrators, shall and may have a scire facias against
the defendant, if living, after such interlocutory judgment, or il
he or she- died after, then against his or her executors or adminis­
trators, to show eause why damages in such action shoald not be 
assessed and recovered by him, her, or them; and if svch defend­ 
a.o.t, his or her executors, or a.dministrat.Ql'S, shall appear at the 
return of such writ, and not show or alleze any matter sufficient to 
o 
arrest the final judgment, or the said writ having been returned
served, or, if no service thereof can be made, having been published
as prescribed by law, shall make default, that thereupon an as­ 
sessment of damages shall be had, or a writ of inquiry of damages
shall be awarded, which assessment, being duly made, or writ of
inquiry, being duly executed and returned, judgment final shall be
given for the said plaintiff; his or her executors or administrators, 
prosecuting such writ or writs of scire facias against such defend-
ant, his or her executors or administrators, respectively. 
2. And he it enacted, That if in any action or suit there be two
1 
. '!'I' d r. I d f l l 11 a· 
or more p amtitts or erenc ants, an one or more o t rem s ia ie,
if the cause of such action shall survive to the surviving plaintiff or 
pfaintiffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ
or action shall not be thereby abated; but such death being sug- 
gested upon the record, the action shall proceed, at the suit of the
surviving plaintiff' or plaintiffs, against the surviving defendant or
defendants. 
3. And be it enacted, That in al1 actions depending or to be com·
mence<l in any court of record of this state, if any plaintiff die 
after issue joined, and before final judgment, the said action shall
not abate by reason thereof, if such action might be origina11y pro- 
secuted or maintained by the executors or administrators of such
plaintiff; and if the defendant die after issue joined, and before
final judgment, the· said action shall not abate, if such action might
be originally prosecuted or maintained against the executors or ad­
ministrators of such defendant ; but the death of such plaintiff or
defendant being suggested upon the record, and the names of the
executors or administrators of such deceased plaintiff or defendant
being entered upon the record, the action shall proceed to final 
judgment at the suit of the plaintiff: or, if he or she die after issue
joined, at the suit of his or her executors or administrators, against 
the defendant, or if he 01· she die after issue joined, against his or
her executors or administrators, respectively. 
4. And be it enacted, That if in any suit or action now depend-
. h .r. b b h . h f l h 
mg or ereatter to e roug t m t e court o c 1ancery, t ere are or
shall be two or more plaintiffs or defendants, and one or more of 
them die, if the cause of such suit or action survive to the sur-
viving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving defendant or 
defendants, stich suit or action shell not be thereby abated; but such
, death being suggested, and shown by affidavit or otherwise, to the 
satisfaction of the court, such suit or action shall proceed, at the
suit of the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, against the surviving 
defendant or defendants. 
5. .And be it enacted, That iD every suit or action in t}}e court
chancery, in which any bill is or shall be filed, and in which 
• • d 
there are or shall be two or more plaintiffs or defendants, au anv
f h di nd h ( . d h . b h ~ 
o t em re, a t e cause o action ot not survive, ut ot er
persons shall become parties in interest, in. right or l!.y the- death of 
such deceased party, such suit shall, by reason of such d'eatb, be
abated only with respect to such deceased party, and the surviving 
plaintiff or plaintiifs may proceed against ehe surviving defendant
or defendants, without revwing the suit against the representariees 
of the deceased party, or auy other who may become interested bj 
the death of such party ; but in such case such representatives, er
such person or pen1ons as shall become interested hr the death of 
such party, shall not be bound by any order 0£ decree in such cause-
to which they are not made parties. And if the plaintiff' or plain­
tiffs choose to make the representatives of the deceased party, or
others who may become interested by the death of such decedent,
parries to such suit, no bill of revivor- or subpcena ad revivendam
shall be necessary; but the court shell and· may, by rule or order..
as often as there shall be occasion fli>l· it, direct tle- suit to stanc\ 
revived, which rule or order shall be served on such person or per­
sons, and in such manner as the court may direct; and unless the­ 
representatives of such deceased party, or others who may become­
interested by the death of such party, sh_.l, within such time after·
such service us aforesaid as the court shall limit and appoint, 
appear and put in their answer or signify their disclaimer of the­
suit, and the matters in controversy therein, the plaintiff' or plain­
tiffd may cause their appearance- to be entered, and in such case
the answer of the deceased party, if any there be, shall he deemed 
for the answer of sueh representatives or other
person or persons interested by the death of such party. And if 
l · 'ff ] · 'ffs · · d di b _r, 
any p amn or p amti , m any smt now epen mg or erearter to
be brought, wherein the cause of action doth not survive as afore- 
said, happen to die pending such suit, the lawful representative or
representatives of such deceased plaintiff or plaintiffs, or any other
person or persons interested by the death of such plaintiff or plain­
tiffs, shall and may, upon affidavit thereof by him, her, or them, or
any other person or persons, and on motion made in court, be, by 
the rule or order of the court, inserted as a complainant or com­
plainants in the said suit, and be permitted to make such amend­ 
ment in the bill or bills of complaint, as his, her, or their title or
interest therein may require, to which amendment or amendments 
tbe defendant or defendants shall be compellable, by rule or order
of the said court, to answer, proceed to issue and examination of 
witnesses and production of proofs, and all other proceedings shall 
be had thereon, as in ordinary cases; and in case such person or
persons shall not, within such time after the death of such plaintiff---- 
}
• • ,r_ } h 11 1· . d . hi lf h 
or p amtrtts as t ie court s a nmt an appomt, cause imse , er-
self, or themselves to be entered as plaintiff or plaintiffs, in the 
room of such deceased plaintiff or plaintiffs, then, and in every such
case, the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs may insert the representa-
tive or representatives of such deceased plaintiff or plaintiffs, or
other person or persons interested, by his, her, or their death, as
defendant or defendants in such suit, and proceed in the manner 
herein before directed in cases where the lawful representative or
representatives of a deceased defendant or defendants may be
made party or parties. 
6. A,ed he it enacted, That in every suit or action in the court 
of chancery, in which any bill has been or shall be filed, and the
b d 
d _1 • hi h h . h ll be
su pcena retu rne serve , anu m w re t ere was, is, or s a 
but one plaintiff or one defendant, and the said plaintiff hath died
or shall die, the lawful representative or representatives of such
deceased plaintiff, or any other person or persons interested by the
death of such plaintiff, shall and may, upon affidavit thereof by him,
her, or them, or any other person or persons, and on motion made 
in court, be, by rule or order of the court, inserted as a complain-
ant or complainants in the said suit, and be permitted to make such 
amendment in the bill or bills of complaint, as his, her, or their
title or interest therein ma.y require, and upon such terms as the
court may direct, to which amendment or amendments the de­
fendant or defendants shall be compellable, by rule or order of the
said court, to answer, proceed to issue and examination of wit­ 
nesses and production of proofs, and all other proceedings shall be
had thereon as in ordinary cases. 
7. A1ed be it enacted, That if in any such suit iu which there
was, is, or shall be but one defendant, and the said defendant hath
died or shall die, and the plaintiff or plaintiffs choose to make the
representative or representatives of the deceased party, or others
who have or may become interested by the death of such decedent,
parties to such suit, no bill of revivor or subpoena ad revivendum
shall be necessary ; but the court shall and may, by rule or order, 
as often as there shall be occasion for it, direct the suit to stand re-
vived, which rule or order shall be served as the court may direct;
and unless the representative or representatives of such deceased
party, or others who may become interested by the death of such 
party, shall within such time after service as aforesaid, as the court
shall limit and appoint, appear and put in their answer, or signify 
. f h . d th . h .
their disclaimer o t e amt, an e matters m controversy t erem, 
the plaintiff or plaintiffs may cause his or their appearance to be 
entered, and in such case the answer of the deceased party, if anv 
be, shall be deemed and taken as and for the answer of such
representative or representatives, or other person or persons inter­
ested by the death of such party; and such further proceedings
may and shall be had in the said suit, as are according to equity
and the rules and practice of the said court. 
8. And he it enacted, That in case of the death of any_ sole plain­
tiff, if his lawful representative 01· representatives, or such other
person or persons as shall become interested by his death, shall not,
within such time as the court mey limit and appoint for that pur­
pose, cause himself: herself or themselves to be entered as com­
plainant or complainants in the said suit, in the room of such de­ 
ceased plaintiff, or in case of the death of any sole defendant, if
the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall not make the representative or repre­
sentatives of the deceased defendant, or others who may have be­
come interested by the death of such decedent, party or parties to 
such suit, and cause the said suit to stand revived within such time
as the court sliull limit and appoint for that purpose, then and in
every such case, the said suit shall be considered as at an end, and 
shall not be revived in the manner provided for by this act.
9. And he it enacted, That nothing in this act contained shall pre- 
vent the reviving of any such suit in the court of chancery, as be­
fore mentioned, by bill of reviver, when the plaintiff or his repre­
sentative or representatives, or others who may become interested
by the death of such plaintiff, may prefer that course of practice,
or when the court may deem it expedient to direct that course of
practice to be pursued. 
10. And he it enacted, That in all actions, real, personal, or mix­
ed, the death of either party between the verdict and tho judg­
ment shall not be alleged for error, so as such judgment be en­ 
tered within two terms after such verdict.
11. And be it enacted, That in all actions of debt, and all other 
personal actions whatsoever, and in a1l actions of ejectment for
lands and tenements now depending, or which at any time hereaf­
ter shall be depending by original writ, in any court of record,
after nny issue joined tlierciu, to be tried by a ·jury, and also after
any ju«lgment had or obtained, or to he had or obtained in any 
such court, in any such action as aforesaid, there shall not need to 
be fifteen days between the tcste day ond the day of the return of 
imy writ or writs of venire facias, habeas corpora juratorum, or
distringas juratores, or writs of fieri facias, or of capias ad satisfa­
ciendum; and the want of fifteen <lays between the teste day and
<lay of return of any such writ, shall not be, nor shall be assigned,
eaken, or adjudged to be any matter 01· cause of error, 
"' 
2. t'nlcu ttpeclaJly ordered. L Foreign publication unneceesary.
PUill,ICATJON OF NOTICES. 
An Ad eoncernin~ the publication of notices and orders of courts in eer-
tain eases. 
1. \Vho incompetent. 
2. Privilege of.
3. Penalty for disobeying process. 
CHAPTER 9. 
WITNESSES. 
4. Process runs throughout state,
~. On auita by officen. 
6. On indictment for forgery, etc. 
An Ad eoneerning witnesses. 
Passed February 24, 1830. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Council and General Assembly of tkis
etate, and it u hereby enacted by the autlwrity of the same, That:::~ce
so much of any and every act of the legislature of this state, as re-~;!~~~:. 
quires that advertisement, publication, or notice of any suit, order,
or proceeding in any court of this state, shall be made or given in 
any newspaper printed or published in any other state, and so
much of every act as requires any notice or copy of any order or
proceeding in any suit, in this state, to be served on persons re-
siding out of this state, be, and the same is hereby repealed. 
2. And he it enacted, That where, by any act of the legislature
of this state, now in force or hereafter to be enacted, advertise- 
ment, publication, or notice of any suit, order or proceeding, in
any court of this state, is required to be made or given in any news-
paper printed and published in this state, the court in which such
suit may be pending, or by which such order or proceeding may 
be made or taken, may, whenever the circumstances of the case
shall, in the opinion of the court, require a more extensive publi-
cation, order and direct such advertisement, publication or notice
to be made or given in one of the newspapers printed and pub-
lished in one of the other states of the U nited Stales, or in the
District of Columbia, at the discretion of the court, and for such
time as the court may deem proper. 
3. Obsolete. 
CHAPTER 8. 
Revi11lon .... Approved April 16, 1846. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Senate and General Assembly of the 
State of Neu, Jeraey, That no person who shall be convicted of blas- 
phemy, treason, murder, piracy, arson, rape, sodomy, or the in­
famous crime against nature, committed with mankind or witb 
beast, polygamy, robbery, conspiracy, forgery, or larceny of above
the value of six dollars, shall in any case be admitted as a witness.
unless he or she ho first pardoned; and no person who shall be 
convicted of perjury or of subornation of perjury, although par­ 
doned for the same, shall he admitted as a witness in any case.
2. And be it enacted, That every witness shall be protected and 
privileged from arrests in all civil actions, and no other, during his
necessary attendance at any court or other place where his attend­
ance shall have been required by subpoena previously and duly
executed, and in going to and returning from the same, allowing 
one day for every thirty miles from his place of residence. 
3. And be it enacted, That if any person on whom lawful pro-
cess shall have been duly served to testify, depose or gh·e evidence 
concerning nny cause or matter which is or shall be depending in
any court of this state, and to whom shall have been paid or ten­
dered, at the time of such service, fifty cents, if he is to attend in
the county, and one dollar, if he is to attend out of the county, shall
not appear according to the tenor of the saicl process, having no
lawful or reasonable let or impediment to the contrary, he shall, for
every offence, forfeit to the party aggrieved any sum not exceed­
ing fifty dollars, to be ascertained and adjudged by the court in
which he or she may be subpeenaed to attend, and shall also pay 
to the said party damages equivalent to the loss sustained by want
of' his evidence, to be recovered hy action of trespass on the case. 
with costs.
4. Antl be it enacted, That every circuit court, court of oyer and 
tcrminer and general jail delivery, court of common pleas, court of
general quarter sessions of the peace, and orphans' court, in and 
for the several counties of this state, is hereby authorized and di­
rected to issue process of subpmna requiring the attendance of a
witness, who resides in any part of this state out of the jurisdiction
of the said court, to testify, depose or give evidence in any cause
or matter which is or shall be depending in the said court; and
every person who shall be duly served with such subpcena, shall be
and hereby is required to attend at the time and place therein
mentioned, under the same penalties, and shall be liable to the same
action which he would have incurred or have been liable to in case
of nonattendance, if he had been within the jurisdiction of the said
court at the time of the service of the said subprena. 
5. An<l be it enacted, That in every action which hath been or 
h JI b • • d • f l • • th J 
s a e mstrtute m any court o t us state against e county co -
lector, the township collector, the sheriff, constable or other officer 
or person, of or in the said county or township, for taxes, imposi-
tions, fines or other public moneys by him received, and not ac- 
counted for and paid accor<ling to law, the inhabitants of such
county or township shall be admitted as competent witnesses, not­
withstanding their liability to taxation or being interested. 
6. And he it enacted, That upon the trial of any indictment for
"- I ] ki J • r. • _r. • • r , 
ra se y ma ung, a tenng, 1orgmg or counterteinng, or ror uttering or
b)
. hi d cl d h · , ·
pu is mg as true any recor , ee or ot er instrument or wntrng, 
1. Commlasion to issue.
" Jntcrrognrorice drawn nnd approved, 
2. How executed and returned.
3. Party mny receive it.
4. Return of foreign cornmlsslon.
5. \Vben cause to proceed without,
f. Deposition de bene esse.
7. How takennnd tiled, 
An let nnthorizing commissions nnd the tnking of depositions. 
Revleion .... Approved April 15, 18~6. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Senate and General Aa,emhly of tlte
State ol' Neio Jersey, That if a material witness in any action or 
:I 
d
' h d d d l · 
no person name m sue recor , ee or ot ier mstrument or
yvriting, or whose name, 01· any part of whose name, is or purports
to be written or signed therein or thereto, shall on that account be
deemed or taken to be an incompetent witness, any law, usage or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding. 
CHAPTER 10. 
C0)[:<1!~3IONS TO T.\KE DEP05ITIOX:;;. 
S. Oath in such cases, 
(I. Copies may be taken,
10. When to he evidence. 
l l. When, without filing.
12. Compensation of wirne=ses.
13. \Vitne~l' compelled to appear.
14. When process of subpoenu awarded,
15. How served, etc. 
suit in the court of chancery or in the supreme court, or in anynndhywhom
circuit court, court of common pleas or orphans' court, or in any
action or suit of a civil nature in any court of general quarter ses­
sions of the peace, reside out of this state, or, if in this state, be
ancient or very infirm, or be sick or bound on a voyage, or about
to go out of this state, it shall and may be lawful for the court in
which such action or suit is depending, on affidavit or proof thereof
to the satisfaction of the said court, and upon motion made by or
in behalf of either party in open court, and on such terms as the
court shall direct, to award and issue, under the seal.of the court,
a commission to such person or persons as the court may think fit,
authorizing such person or persons, or any two or more of such
persons, to examine de bene esse the said witness on oath or 
affirmation, upon the interrogatories annexed to the said commie­
sion, and to reduce such examination to writing, and to return the
same, annexed to the said writ, unto the said court, with all con­
venient speed; and the name of every witness to be examined by 
virtue of such commission shall be inserted in the said commission;
and the interrogatories fhr the examination of such witness shall be
drawn and signed by the parties or their counsel in the cause in
which the testimony is to be used, or such of them as shall request 
the said commission, and be approved of by the court, or one of the
judges thereof, and shall be annexed· to the same commission; and 
each party shall be at liberty, with the approbation of the said
court or judge, to insert in the said interrogatories such questions
as be or she may think proper or necessary. 
2. And he it enacted, That the commissioner or commissioners
appointed under and by virtue of this act, or under and by virtue 
• 
of the general power and authority of the court of chancery, or any
two of them, having first taken an oath or affirmation faithfully,
fairly and impartially to execute the said commission, which oath
or affirmation may be taken before any person lawfully authorized
to administer an oath or affirmation in the state, territory or king­
dom where the said commissioner or commissioners reside or may
be at the time, shall and may examine every witness named in the
said commission, or such as can be met with, upon the interroga­
tories annexed to the said commission, on oath or affirmation, to
be administered to each and every witness by the said commis­
sioner or commissioners, and cause the examination of each and
every such witness to be reduced to writing, and signed by such
witnoss ; and the saicl commissioner or commissioners shall also
sign the same, and annex such examination, and all exhibits pro­
duced to the said commissioners and proved by such witness, to the
said commission, and close the same up under the hand and seal of
the said commissioner, or under the hands and seals of the said
commissioners, or any two of them, and direct the same to the
chancellor or judges of the court out of which the same issued, at 
the place of holding the said court; and shall and may place the
same in any post office, certifying thereon the time when and the
post office in which the same may be so placed ; and the chancellor,
or any one of the judges of the court out c,{ which the said commis­
sion issued, or the clerk of the said court, may take the same out
of the post office in which it may be found in this state, and open
the same, and endorse thereon when and hon· he received it; and
the said chancellor, judge or clerk shall immediately file tbe said
commission and return in the office of the clerk of the court out of
whic!!_ the said commission issued, there to remain as a record. 
. 3. And be it enacted, That if it shall be more convenient for the 
party in the said commission, his attorney or agent, to receive the---­
said commission and return closed up and directed as aforesaid, 
from the hands of the said commissioner or commissioners, it shall
and may be lawful for him so to do, and he shall thereupon deliver 
the same to the chancellor, or one of the judges, or the clerk, of the
court out of which the same issued, making oath or affirmation that
he received the same sealed up from the hands of the said com·
missioner or commissioners, designating the time and place when
and where received, and tha.t the same has not been opened or
altered since he so received it; and the said chancellor, judge or
clerk shall thereupon endorse and file the said commission and re·
turn, and the said affidavit, as directed in tire preceding section of
this act. 
f 
4. And be it enacted, That where a commission issued by virtue 
hi l al] b d • I!' • • ki d
o t 18 act, s 1 e execute m any 1ore1gn state, nation or mg om, 
such commission, and the return thereto, dosed up and directed as
aforesaid, may be transmitted to the party on whose application
such commission issued, his agent or attorney in the United States;
and the person to whom the packet containisg the said commission
and return shall he transmitted as aforesaid, may deliver the same
to the chancellor, or one of the judges, or the clerk, of the court out
of which the commission issued, making oath or affirmation when
and how he received it, and that the same has not been opened or 
altered since he received it, and that he verily believes that it has
not been opened or altered since it was closed up and sealed as
aforesaid; and the said chancellor, judge or clerk, being satisfied
that it has not been opened or altered since it was closed up and
sealed as aforesaid, shall open the same, and endorse thereon when
and how he received it, and shall immediately file the said com-
mission and return, and the said affidavit, in the office of the clerk
of the court out of which the said commission issued, there to re· 
main as a record. 
5. And be it enacted, That if the commission be not returned
within such reasonable time, as the court shall from time to time
aJlow for that purpose, then the court may proceed in the said
action or suit, as if no such commission had been a warded or issued. 
6. And be it enacted, That if a material witueas in an action or
suit of a civil nature in any of the aforementioned courts, be in this 
state, but is ancient or very infirm, or is sick, or is bound on a voy-
age, or is about to go out of this state, then the deposition of such
witness may, at the option of either party, and in lieu of the com·
mission aforesaid, be taken de bene esse before any justice of the
supreme court, or any judge of the circuit court or court of com- 
4 II 
mon pleas, or any master in chancery ; prorided, that the ofti<:er
before whom the deposition is to be taken, shall cause notice to be 
given to the adverse party immediately, or at such short day as the
case, in the opinion of the said officer, may require, to attend and
be present at the taking thereof, and to put questions and to eroes­ 
examine, if he shall think fit.
7. A1ld be it enacted, That every person deposing as last afore- 
said, shall be sworn or affirmed to testify the whole truth, and shall
subscribe the testimony by him or her given, after the same shall
be reduced to writing, which shall be done only by the officer
taking the deposition, or by the deponent in his presence; and the
deposition so taken shall be retained by such officer until he de­
liver the same, together with a certificate of the reasons as afore­
said of its being taken, and of the notice, if any given, to the ad­
verse party, with his own hand, to a judge or the clerk of the court
for which it is taken; or the said deposition and certificate shall be
by the said officer sealed up, directed and transmitted to such judge
or clerk, who shall open and immediately file the. same in the office
of the said clerk, there to remain 88 a record. 
8. And be it enacted, That the person by whom such deposition
shall be transmitted to the judge or clerk, as authorized in the pre-
ceding section of this act, shall make oath or affirmation that he
received the same sealed up from the hands of the officer by whom
it was taken, designating the time and place when and where re­
ceived, and that the same has not been opened or altered since be
so received it. 
9. And be it enacted, That the parties in the action or suit in
which any deposition authorized by this act is taken, shall, at their
respective costs and charges, be entitled to copies of such deposi­
tion, 88 soon 88 the same is filed in the clerk's office as aforesaid. 
10. A1ld be it enacted, That every examination or deposition so
taken, returned, and filed, or a duly certified copy thereof, shall be 
read, used, and deemed as good and competent evidence in the
cause in which it shall be takon, as if such witness had been exa-
mined in open court on the hearing or trial thereof; proo-ickd, it
appear to the satisfaction of the said court that such witness reside
or is gone out of this state, orvis dead, or by reason of age, sick­
ness, or bodily infirmity, is unable to travel and attend the eaid
court, but not otherwise. 
11. And be it enacted, That depositions taken in this state by
virtue of this act, in any cause peuding in the supreme court, not
more than five days before the trial of such cause, if transmitted 
to or taken by the judge holding the circuit, may be read in evi- 
dence on such trial, before they are filed in the manner herein be- 
tore directed.
12. A.,ul be it enacted, That e,·ery witness who is in this state, 
d
h
. • 1 . . . k s: id h II b 
an w ose exammanon or < epos1uon is ta cen as aroresai , s a e
allowed, by way of compensation for his time and attendance 
therein, after the same rate as if ho had personally appeared and
given testimony in the cause before the court in which it is depend-
ing; and the party requiring such examination or deposition shall
be at the sole expense thereof, and shall not have any allowance 
for the same in the taxation of costs.
13. Antl be it enacted, That any material witness of the de- 
• . r. 'd b • • hi b 11 d
scripnon aroresai , emg m t 1s state, may e compe e to appear 
and be examined, and depose before any commissioner or commis-etc.
sioners as aforesaid, in this state, or any of the said officers, in the 
same manner and under the same penalties as to appear and testify
in the court wherein the said action or suit is depending. 
14. And be it enacted, That in case a commission issued out of
f 
. , cl' , f l U . d S 
any con rt o competent Jttris icnon o t ie mte , tates, or o
any state or territory in the U nitcd States, shall be directed to any 
person or persons in this state, authorizing such person or persons
to examine or take the deposition of any witness named in such 
commission, and the person to be examined under such commis-
sion shall refuse to attend and give his testimony before such com~
missioner or commissioners, it shall and may be lawful for any jus-
tice of the supreme court of this state, upon application made to 
him by or on behalf of such commissioner or commissioners, and
upon proof being made of such refusal, to make an order award-
ing process of subpcena out of the said court for such witness to 
appear and testify before such commissioner or commissioners;
and, upon filing such order in the clerk's office of the said supreme 
court, it shall be the duty of the said clerk to issue process of sub-
prena under the seal of the said court, requiring such witness to
appear and testify before such commissioner or commissioners. 
1£;. And be it enacted, That the process of subpoena authorized
in the last preceding section, shall be served in the same manner, 
and be of the same force and effect as like process in any other
case; and any person or persons attending in pursuance of such
snbpcena, shall be entitled to the same fees, and subject to the same
penalties for refusing to attend, as witnesses are by law entitled 01· 
subject to in other cases in the supreme court. 
• 
CHAPTER 12. 
DAMAGES IN REAL ACTIONS. 
Paued June 12. 1799. 
BE IT ENACTED /Jy tke Council a11d Gmtral A81em-hly of t1'11 
,tate, a11d it i, herehy macud by the autlwrity of tlte IOIM, That
in any prosecution, hereafter to be commenced in any of the courts 
of this state, for a Iibel, either against the government of this state,
or any of the officers thereof or against any other person, it shall 
be lawful lor the defendant, upon the trial of the cause, to give in
evidence, in his defence, the truth of the matter charged in the in­
dictment, any law, usage. or custom to the contrary notwithstand­ 
ing. 
CHAPTER 11. 
EVIDENCE IN LIBEL CASES. 
in Ad respeeti1g libels. 
!n A.ct for &he rteOf&ry or dama~ea in writs or u,ue and real atlion,. 
~uaed March 5, 179.5. 
BE rr ENACTED 'hy t'Ae Council and General A11emhly of fhi,
d · • J. b d b 1. 1. • ~I' J Th 
state, an it i, nere y enacte y ltte aut11or1ty o., tne same, at
in all assizes, irjudgment be given for the plaintiff, he or she shall 
recover his or her damages; and in all assizes of novel disseisiu
and writs of entry the demandants, if they recover the tenements
demanded, shall also recover their damages against the disseisors;
and if the disseisors alien the land, and have not whereof the da­
mages may be levied, they to whose hands such tenements shall
come shall be charged with the damages, so that every one shall
answer for his or her time: and further, that in all writs and actions
possessory, whereby lands or tenements are demanded, damages
shall be recovered as aforesaid. 
Revilion ... .ApproTed Aprll 17, li146. 
1. BE rr ENACTED by tke Senate and General Assembly of {he
State of Neso Jer,ey, That every venire facias for the trial of any 
, 
l. or the venire faclaa,
2. Qualifieationll of grand jurers,
3. Duty of foreman.
4. Vacancies supplied.
5. Bow summoned.
6. Fine for nonattendanee,
7. QualitkatiOII of petit jurors.
S. How summoned, fines,
9. Fines, bow collected, 
CHAPTER 13. 
J\JRIES AND VERDICTS. 
10. Whut words sufficient in writ.
11. Excusing service for reward, penal.
12. Precess for jury of view, ete.
13. Expeases of view, trial, esc,
U. Sheriff to preeure list.
1;3 Struck jury in civil cases.
16. Struck jury ia, criminal cases.
l i. Proceedings lo obtain eucb jury,
18. Fees paid by applicant.
19. How general panel seleeted.
20. Judge may ac1 for clerk. 
21. List to be laid before court.
22. None others te serve. 
23. How jury of trial eelect.ed. 
24. Right of peremptory challenge. 
2;;, Namca annexed to venire, etc.
26. Names replaced la box,
27. Ventre to coroners and ellsors. 
28. Unneceseary jurors discharged.
:.?9. Excepted casee,
30. Fees of jurors.
31. Titlefl, when awardetl. 
3:J. Not discharged except by order.
33. Issulng, service, and return of veulre, 
34. Challenge by the state.
35. Of the verdict,
36. Evidence of juror.
37. Papers in evidence.
38. Of bad counts.
39. Writ of inquiry in detinue. 
40. Verdict in detinue. 
An Act relative to juries and verdicts. 
issue in any action or suit, civil or criminal, in any court of this
state, shall be awarded of the body of the proper county in which 
h
· • • bl • • d d 
sue issue 1s tria re, except where a foreign Jury sha1l be eeme
neoeseary, and then the venire facias shall be awarded of the body~=~ 
of the county from which such foreign jury is directed to come.
2. And be it enacted, That every person who shall be summoned 
~ . , f hi h Il be •.
to serve as a granu JUror m any court o t 18 state, s a a citi- 
zen of this state and resident within the county, above the age of
twenty-one, and under the age of sixty-five years, and have a free- 
hold in lands, messuages, or tenements in the county for which he
shall be returned ; and if any person not so qualified shall be snrn-
moned to serve as a grand juror, it shall be a good cause of chal- 
lenge to such juror, who shall be discharged upon such challenge
being verified and substantiated according to law, or on his own
allegation and oath, or affirmation in support thereof. 
3. And be it enacted, That every person who 8ha11 be appointed
foreman of a grand jury, shall, from the time of his appointment 
'until his discharge, be empowered to administer the usual oath or
affirmation to such witnesses as shall come to giTe evidence to the
grand jury whereof he is foreman; and it shall be the duty of such
foreman, before he be discharged, to certify to the proper court,
under his hand, the names of such witnesses as shall have been by
him so sworn or affirmed as aforesaid, 
4. And be it enacted, That in case of the sickness, death, or
nonattendance of any grand juror or grand jurors, after he Qr they 
shall be sworn or affirmed, it shall be lawful for the court, at their
discretion, to cause another or others to be sworn or affirmed in 
bis or their stead.
5. And he it enacted, That every summons of any grand juror 
shall be made by the sheriff or his lawful deputy, either personally
to, or in writing under his hand, left at the dwelling-house of, such
grand juror, at least six days before the first day of the court. 
6. And be it enacted, That every person summoned to appear on
a grand jury as aforesaid, and failing to attend, not having a rea- 
sonable excuse, shall be fined by the court in any sum not exceed­
ing twenty dollars, to the use of the county where such offence
was committed. 
7. And be it enacted, That every petit juror who shall be re-
turned upon the trial of any indictment, presentment, or pleas of
the state, in any court thereof, and every juror who shall be re­
turned upon trials of issues in the supreme court, or in any court
of record of this state, shall be a citizen of this state and resident
within the county, above the age of twenty-one and under the age
of sixty-five years, and have a freehold in lands, messuages or ten·
ements in the county for which he shall be returned ; and if any
person who is not so qualified, shall be summoned as a juror on
the trial of any indictment, presentment, pleas of the state or issue,
in any of the courts in this section specified, it shall be a good
cause of challenge to such juror, who shall be discharged upon such 
challenge being verified and substantiated according to law, or on
his own allegation, and oath or affirmation in support thereof; pro·
vided, that no exception against any such juror on account of bis
citizenship, estate or age, or any other legal disability, shall be al­
lowed after he is sworn or affirmed. 
8. And be it enacted, That the summons of every juror de-
scribed in the section next preceding, shall be made by the sheriff
or his lawful deputy, either personally to, or in writing under bis
hand, left at the dwelling-house of such juror six days, at the least,
before the day on which such juror ought to make his appearance
at court; and such juror, in case of nonattendance, shall, if he does 
• bl be fi d b h .
not assign any reasona e excuse, ne y t e court in any sum 
not exceeding sixteen dollars, to the use of the county where such
offence was committed. 
9. Aad be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
court to deliver a certified list of the names of all defaulting jurors,
specifying the fine awardedagainst each of them, to the sheriff of
the county, who shall, by himself or his lawful deputy, either per- 
aonally or in writing, give notice to each defaulting juror of the
fine so awarded against him, at least six days before the next term----
or session of the said. court; which notice, if in writing, shall be
signed by the said sheriff or his deputy, and left at the dwelling-
house of the said juror; and if such fine shall not be paid to the
said sheriff by the second day of the next term or session as afore-
said, or be then remitted by the court, it shall be the duty of the
said court to issue process directed to the sheriff, commanding him
to levy and make the said fine, with costs, by distress and sale of
so much of the goods and chattels of such defaulting juror as shall
be sufficient to satisfy the same. And the sheriff for every such 
notice shaJl be allowed one dollar, to be paid by the juror so
making default, provided he shall have been summoned as such 
agreeably to law.
10. And he it enacted, That it shall be sufficient, in the manda- 
f
h
· f h b · di , 
tory part o t e wnt o a eas corpora juratorum or istnugas, to
insert the following words: "the bodies of the several persona 
named in the panel to this writ annexed," or words of the like
import, and to annex to the said writ a panel containing the same
names as were returned in the panel to the venire facias. 
11. And be it enacted, That no sheriff, coroner, or other officer,
or any deputy of such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall directly 
. di 1 k . h l
or m irect y ta e, accept or receive any money, or ot er rewarc 
or thing, to excuse any person from serving or being summoned or
returned to serve on any jury or inquest, or under that colour or
pretence, on pain of forfeiting one hundred and fifty dollars for 
every such offence, the one moiety to the state, and the other
moiety to any person who shall prosecute for the same, to be re-
covered, with costs, by action of debt, in any court of record having
cognizance of that sum. 
12. And he it enacted, That it shall be lawful for the supreme
. . f l . hi h 
court, or any circuit court or court o common peas, m w ic any
action is or shall be depending, and where it shall appear to the
court to be proper and necessary, that the jurors who are to try
the issue in the said action should have a view of the messuages,
lands or place in question, in order to their better understanding 
the evidence that will be given on the trial of such issue, to order a
special writ of venire facias, distringas, or habeas corpora juratorum,
to issue, by which the sheriff, or other officer to whom the same
shall be directed, shall be commanded to have six or more of the first
twelve of the jurors, named in the panel to such writ annexed, at the
place in question, not less than six Jays prior to the first day of the 
court, who then and there shall have the matters in question shown 
b
• h id • d be • l b 
to them y two persons m t e ear writ name , to appointee. y 
the court; and the sheriff or other officer who is to execute the
said writ, shall, by a special return on the same, certify under his 
hand. that the view hath been had according to the command of the
said writ. 
And he it enacted, That the expenses of taking the said
view shall be equally borne by both parties, and that no evidence
shall be given on either side at the time of taking thereof; pro­
vided alwaya, and he ·it enacted, that in case no view shall be had, or
if a view shall be had by any of the said jurors, whether they shall
happen to be any of the twelve jurors, who shall be first named in
the said writ or not, yet the said trial shall proceed ; and no objec­
tion shall be made on either side for want of a view, or that a
view wus not had by any of the twelve jurors first named, or for
that it was not had by any particular number of the jurors named
in the said writ, or for want of a proper return to the said writ. 
14. A1id Le it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the respec­
tive sherifls of the several counties in this state, at their own ex- 
pense, to procure yearly and every year, a list of the names of the
persons who, in their respective counties, are qualified to serve as
jurors on trials. 
15. And be it enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the
8upreme court, the circuit courts, the courts of common pleas, and
the courts of general quarter sessions of the peace, respectively, on
motion in behalf o( this state, or of any prosecutor or defendant in
any indictment or information in nature of a quo warranto, or on 
motion in behalf of this state, or of any plaintiff, demandant, avow­
ant, tenant, or defendant, in any action or suit, depending or to be
depending before them, and triable by a jury of twelve men, to
order a jury to be struck for the trial thereof; but this clause shall
not extend to any indictment for any offence where the party is 
entitled to challenge peremptorily, or without cause shown under
the act entitled, " An act regulating proceedings and trials in crimi- 
nal cases."
16. A11d be it c11acted, That it shall and. may be lawful for the 
court of oycr and terminer and general jail delivery, on motion in
behalf of the state or of any defendant, in any indictment or pre­ 
sentment depending or to be depending before them and triable by
a jury of twelve men, wherein the defendant is not by law entitled
to challenge peremptorily or without cause shown, as specified in
the preceding section, to order a jury to be struck for the trial
thereof; which jury shall be struck before one of the justices of
the supreme court, in the same manner and upon the same terms
as are or may be prescribed by law in other cases, and shall be 
convened by process of venire facias issued out of the said court 
of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery.
17. .And he it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the sheriff of 
the proper county, or other officer who ought to empannel the jury
in such case, to deliver at a certain day and place, to the judge of 
the court before whom the jury is' to be struck, a book containing 
the names of the several persons in his county qualified to serve
as jurors on such trial, with their places of abode; and the party 
applying for such struck jury, or his attorney, shall give six days
previous notice to the adverse party or his attorney, and to the 
judge, sheriff, or other officer aforesaid, of the time and place of
striking the said jury ; at which time and place the said judge 
shall, in the presence of the parties or their agents or attorneys, or
such of them as shall attend for that purpose, select and transcribe 
from the said books the names of iorty-eight such persons, with
their pJaces of abode, as he shall think most impartial and indiffer- 
ent between the parties, and best qualified as to talents, knowledge,
integrity, firmness and independence of sentiment, to try the said 
cause; and thereupon the party applying for such jury, his agent
or attorney, shall first strike out one of the said names, and then the
adverse party, his agent or attorney, shall strike out another, and
so on, alternately, until each shall have stricken out twelve; but if
the adverse party shall not attend such striking, nor any person in 
his behalf, then the said judge shall strike for him; and when each
shall have stricken out twelve, as aforesaid, the remaining twenty- 
• , 
four shall he the Jury to be returned. to try the said cause ; and the
said judge shall thereupon make a fair copy of the names of the re-:i;~~}~~ 
maining twenty-four persons, with their places of abode, and certify
the same under bis hand to be the list of jurors struck as aforesaid, 
for the trial of the said cause ; which list shall be delivered to the
sheriff or other officer, who ought to summon such jury, together 
with the venire facias, by the person applying for such struck jury,
his agent or attorney, at least ten days previous to the time appointed
for the trial of such cause, and such sheriff or other officer shall 
thereupon annex the same listto the said venire facias, and return
the same as the panel of the jury to try the said cause, and summon 
them according to the command of the said writ ; and in case of
neglect or refusal to deliver the list and venire as aforesaid, the cause 
shall be tried by a common jury of the county, (unless the court sha11
for some good cause determine otherwise) any thing in this act to
the contrary notwithstanding. 
18. And be it enacted, That the party applying for such struck
jury shall pay the fees for striking the same, and shall not have 
any allowance therefor upon the taxation of costs. 
, 
19. And be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of e,·ery she­
riff in this state, or in case of his death or disability, of the coro- 
• • 
ners of the respective counties, at least twenty days before the
f · · f d · 
commencement o eyery circuit court, court o oyer au te rmmer
and general jail delivery, common pleas, and quarter sessions of 
the peace, to be holden in such county, to repair to the office of
the clerk of the said county, and there, in the presence of the said
clerk, between the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon and four 
o'clock iu the afternoon, select from among the freeholders of the
county qualif d to rve as juror , the nam s of at lea t twice
many uch fr eholder as he or the aid coron r hall deem n - 
ary to be summ n d as juror at th th n next en uinrr term of
any of th afor ·aid court ; and the names o select d hall b
writt n on para piece of pap r; whi h piec s of paper halI
then b parat ly rolled up, con ealinz th name of each juror,
· nd put into a b x, and which, when o roll d up, hall b f the 
·am iz , col ur and rhape, as n arly as may be; aft r which th
·aid tu' hall b clo ed up and haken in uch a manner as to in­
terminzl the pie f paper o as afor aid roll d up and put
th r in · th box hall then be op ned, and the aid heriff, oro­
ner , or cl rk, r me per" n appointed by th m for that purpo c, 
hall, in an open and public me nner, in the pre ence of the aid
fficer and of uch other per on as may happ n or cboo e to be 
pre nt on the oc a ion, between th hour afor aid, draw out of
th aid b x a many pi ce of paper as the numb r of juror the 
aid heriff or coronet hall d. m nee ary to ummon as afore- 
aid ; and th who e name shall be found written 
said courts, deliver a list of the jurors by him summoned for ser-
vice at such term or session, certified by him to be a true list, to the
clerk of such court, who shall thereupon file the said list, and forth- 
with lay the same before the said court.
22. And he it enacted, That unless when a• tales de circumstan- 
ib · rd d h l . l . 
t1 us is o ere , no person s al serve as a Juror w rose name is not
contained in the general list to be returned by the sheriff, as pro-
vided in the preceding section of this act; but no exception shall
be taken or objection made on account of the provision contained
in this section, unless the same be taken or made before such 
person is sworn or affirmed as a juror.
23. And he it enacted, That the name of each and every person 
who shall be summoned and returned by any sheriff or coroners to~~
serve as petit jurors in any of the aforesaid courts, shall be written 
or printed on separate pieces of paper, of the same size, colour
and shape, as nearly as may bo ; which pieces of paper shall be 
severally rolled up by the sheriff, coroners or clerk, or by some
person employed by them for that purpose, and put into a box;
and whenever the trial of a cause, civil or criminal, shall be 
ordered on, and a jury for the trial thereof shall be required, the
said box shall be shaken so as to intermix the said papers ; and 
thereupon the sheriff or clerk, or some other person, by the di-
rection of the court, publicly and in open court, shall proceed to
draw such papers from the said box, one at a time, aud continue so 
to d<j> until twelve persons, whose names arc found written thereon,
shall appear; and if any of the twelve persons so appearing shall
be successfully challenged or be excused from serving un that jury,
the said drawing shall be continued until twelve persons not thus
challenged or excused shall appear; and such twelve, being seve-
rally sworn or affirmed, shall constitute a jury for the trial of the
said cause ; and in case it shall so happen that all the names in the 
said box shall he drawn out before twelve persons appenr and are
sworn or affirmed on the jury, then either party may pray for, and 
it shall be the duty of the court to award a tales de circumstantibus
whereupon the sheriff or other proper officer shall summon from 
among the bystanders, or others, such number of talesmen as may
be necessary to complete the said jury, and make return thereof 
immediately.
24. And be it enacted, That upon the trial of any issue in any 
civil suit or action in any court of this state, except in the courts
for the trial of small causes and other cases before justices of the 
peace, each party shall be entitled to challenge peremptorily, aR 
their names are drawn from the box, three of the general panel of
jurors summoned and returned hy the sheriff or other officer; and 
of any indictment where peremptory challenges are
not now allowed, the defendant or defendants shall be entitled to
challenge peremptorily, as their names are drawn from the box,
three of the general panel of jurors summoned and returned by the 
sheriff or other officer.
25. And be it enacted, That after the jury shall be selected and 
sworn or affirmed as aforesaid, the sheriff or other proper officer
shall annex their names to the venire in the cause, and certify and
return the same as the panel of jurors summoned therein; hut the
trial of the cause may forthwith proceed in the same manner as if 
such return had already been made.
26. And he it enacted, That after a jury shall have been empan- 
nelled and sworn or affirmed for the trial of any cause, the clerk,
sheriff or other proper officer shall forthwith, and before another
jury shall be drawn, replace in the said box all the papers which
may have been drawn therefrom, except those containing the
names of the jurors so empannel1ed and sworn or affirmed ; but as 
soon as they shall have rendered a verdict, or be discharged there­
from by the court, their names shall also be replaced in the said
box. 
27. And be it enacted, That whenever any writ or writs or 
• ~ • h 11 b di d h f
vemre racias s a e irecte to t e coroners o any county, or to 
elisors appointed by any court in this state, such writ or writs shall
be executed, and the juries thereby required shall be summoned by 
such coroners or elisors in the same manner as by law ·w88 re­
quired to be done in such cases before the ninth day of March, one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-six. 
28. And be it enacted, That if at any time the number of jurors 
h h 11 b . d h 11 , h • ' ( h 
t at s a e in atten · ance at any court s a in t e opm1on o t e
court be greater than is necessary for the business of the term, it 
shall and may be lawful for the court to discharge a specific num­
ber of such jurors from further attendance at that term ; in which
case the clerk or sheriff, or some person under the direction of the 
court, shall publicly and in open court draw from the said box
such number of the papers therein contained as the court shall di·
rect; and the jurors whose names shall be found written thereon
sha11 be discharged from further attendance at that term; pro1:idttl
however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to pre-
vent any court from excusing individual jurors from attending, if
upon application to the court to be so excused they aseign suffi·
cient reason therefor. 
29. And be it enacted, That nothing in the last ten preceding sec·
tions of this act contained shall operate on or in any manner inter·
fere with the present mode of empannelling, summoning or return- 
ibg special or struck juries, foreign juries, juries of view or grand 
juries, or with the summoning and empannelling of jurors, to serve
as such, in the courts of the borough of Elizabeth. 
· 30. And be it enacted, That every person summoned to serve as 
a petit juror in the supreme court, the circuit courts, the courts of 
oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, the courts of 'Common
pleas and the courts of general quarter sessions of the peace, shall
receive the sum of seventy-five cents fur every day's attendance at 
such courts, to be paid to him at the expiration of each term of
service, by the sheriff of the county from which the juror shall be 
summoned.
31. And be it enacted, That if by reason -of challenges, or the 
d fi
1
r
, L- • , , h f h , ~ , 
e au t o JUrors or otnerwise, m eit er o t e courts mentioned m
the last preceding section, a sufficient number cannot be had of the 
jurors on the original panel to "try the issue or cause, then the court 
in which such issue is to be tried, is hereby authorized and re­
quired to award a tales de circumstantibus of persons present at
the said court, and qualified according to lnw, to be joined to the
other jurors, till the number of twelve jurors be sworn; which 
talesmen shall be liable to the same challenges as the principal
jurors; and thereupon the said court is hereby authorieed to pro- 
ceed to the trial of the said issue or cause with such jury, which
shall be as valid and effectual as if the said issue or caase had been
tried by twelve of the jurors returned on the original panel; and 
if any talesman, when present, be called and shall not appear, or if
be appear, shall wilfully withdraw from the court, tlren it shall be
Jawfu) for the said court to set a reasonable fine upon him, to be
levied and made by distress and sale, in the manner prescribed by
this act. 
32. ,.A1td be it enacted, That no person summoned to serve as
a juror, shall be discharged from attendance, except by order of~!~;~~~·
the court in which his attendance may he required. 
33 . .A,ul be it enacted, That the issuing, serving and returning
f 
' f ' r. • ha]} · L 1 _,. d h
o wnts o venue racias s remain, as uy aw urrecte at t e 
time of passing this act.
34. And be it enacted, That if the attorney general or ahy other 
person prosecuting for this state, shall, in behalf of the state, chal-
lenge any juror, he shall immediately assign tho cause of such 
challenge, anti the truth thereof ehall be inquired into and decided
upon in the same manner as the challenges of other parties are by
law inquired into and decided upou. 
35. And be it enacted, That no Jury sh\111 in any case be com-
pe1led to give a general verdict, so that they find a special verdict 
and show the truth of the fact, and require the aid of the court; 
but if of their own will they give a general verdict, the same shaD
be received at their peril. 
36. And be it enacted, That jurors who know any thing relative
to the point in issue, shall, during trial, disclose the same in open 
court.
37. And he it enatled, That papers read in evidence, though not 
under seal, may be carried from the bar by the jury.
38. A,u/ be it enacted, That where there are in a declaration 
several counts, some of which are faulty or bad, and others not, and
entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good and effectual in
law; but the defendant may apply to the court to instruct the jury
to disregard such faulty or bad counts. 
39. And be it enacted, That if in cletinue the verdict shall omit 
. l h . d . f . .
pnce or va ue, t e court may at any time awar a wnt o mquuy 
to ascertain the same.
40. A"d he it enacted, That if on an issue concerning several 
things in one count in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them,
it shall not be error; but the plaintiff shall be barred of his title to 
the things omitted. 
1H
PTE 14. 
DO .K.E'rl.,·G J G. rs: rr . 
n A t to r mlate th mode of do kctin" [ud cnt of th cir nit ronrt.
in th upren ecurt, 
TED by th iate and ·11 ral 
J; r ey a follow : 
ny final judgment of ircuit 
ir uit 
a docket, in which hall be nt r d u
theret , all final jud ment r nd r d in
of an d bt, damag , co t , or th r um m n y. 
App 
• 3. pon u h r qu t bein made, and n paym n cf th
fi e How d for docketing uch judgm , and f r makin a d 
of f~ 
d k tetl 
sending transcripts of such docket, as hereinafter directed, the said
l
k
1 
, d .
-c er s iall enter m such ocket a statement of such Jtulgment, con- 
tainiug: first, the title of the court, the names at length of all the
parties lo such judgment, designating particularly against whom it 
is rendered, with their places of abode, description, titles, trades, or 
professions, if any such appear by the record ; second, the style of
action, and the amount of the debt, damages, or other sum o( mo-
ney recovered, with the costs ; third, the time of signing such judg-
ment, and docketing the same. 
SEc. 4. The clerk docketing such judgment shall immediately
transmit a certified transcript thereof, from the docket, to the clerk
of the supreme court, who shall forthwith, on the receipt thereof, 
and of the fees for that purpose hereinafter provided, file the same,
and enter such transcripts in a docket, to be by him provided and
kept for that purpose, and note therein the time of receiving and
of entering the same. 
SEc. 5. The clerks of the circuit courts and the clerk of the
supreme court shall make to their respective dockets a complete
alphabetical index; and said dockets shall be public records, to
which all persons desirous of examining the same shall· have ac-
cess. 
SEc. 6. Such judgment shall, from the time of such docketing
. 1 . d b . d . b 
m t re supreme court, operate as a JU gment o tame m t e su-
d 
' f · h f b · d · l
preme court, an sans actton t ereo may e entere m t ie mar- 
gin of the <locket, upon the same evidence, and in the same man-
ner, as is now provided by law in case of judgments rendered in 
the supreme court.
SEc. 7. After a judgment shall be docketed in the supreme court, 
. I 1) b . 1 l f h . .
no execution s ia c issuer upon t ie same, out o t e circuit court 
. hi h . b . .l d if . l l 11 b d k 1 . 
111 w re it was o tameu; an 1 any JU< gment s ia e oc cetec m
the supreme court, afier an execution shall have been issued there- 
on, out of the circuit court, then the supreme court may exercise
the same authority and control over such execution as if the same
bad issued out of the supreme court. 
SEC. 8. Every judgment docketed as herein directed, may be
• d b . fi • • h • h 
revive y scire acias m t e supreme court, 111 t e same manner,
in the like cases, and with the like effect, as i( such judgment had 
been obtained in that court. 
SEc. 9. If o.ny judgment recovered in any circuit court shall be
d
b 
· f h f d b .1 ,
remove y wnt o error to t e court o errors, an at m error 
shall be duly perfected thereon, and such judgment shall, either be- 
fore or after such removal, be docketed as herein provided, then
execution shall be stayed in the supreme court, in the same manner 
as in such circuit court. 
A judgment, docketed as herein provided, may be re-
moved to the supreme court by writ of error, in the same manner 
if h . d h d b d k d
as 1 sue JU gment a not een so oc ete . 
SEc. 11. If any judgment, docketed as herein provided, shall be
reversed on writ of error bv. the court of errors, and a transcript 
:t. F.xf'rntinn to is,ue. 
CHAPTER 15. 
2. Endorsement tequired.
:l. Bindiuc from time of dcli\"ery ..
4. fl11me, when 11g11lnt1t 11\ntls. 
a. When purchase before levy good.
6. ~loncy 111ny be levied on. 
ol' 
of' the judgment of reversal, duly certified, shall be delivered to 
the clerk of the supreme court, it shall be his duty to file the same
in his office, and enter in the margin of the docket, opposite the
entry of such judgment therein, the word "reversed," and the 
date of such reversal.
SEc. 12. The clerks. of the supreme court and circuit courts 
shall be entitled to receive, for tlocketing any judgment, fifty cents;
for certified transcripts of such docket, fifty cents ; and for filing
certificate of reversal, and entering the same in the docket, twelve 
ceats, 
SEc. 13. This act shall take effect immediately after it becomes a 
la W .. 
EXEC'C1TIO.M8. 
r 
I 
T. Ahn 11obe8, stock,, etc. 
8. cterlt or cuhier to give ccn.itieate.
9. Goods reserved to family. 
10. Good11 to be ad1't!rtilled.
11. Prcceedinga on claim of property.
12. Decision to protect aheriff'. 
An Act respecting mentions, and regnlatm.~ the sale of penonal estate 
by vlriue Ulereof. 
Rcvielon..-ApproT"ed April 16, 1846. 
1. BF. IT BNACTE.D. b.y the Senate and General .Auembly of tlte 
Suu» of New .Jersey, Tbe.t upon judgment obtained, or to be ob­
tained, for debt, damages, and. costs, or other sum of money, in the 
supreme court, OJ: in any circuit court or court of common pleas of
this state, the party obtaining the same may have an execution
against the body, or- against the- goods and chattels, or against the
goods and chattels, lands, tenements, bereditamaets, and real estate 
of the party agai08t whom such judgment is or· sball be awarded;
but no- exeoution shall be issued ag:ainst the proper goods and chat­ 
tels, lauds, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of any execu­
tor, administrator, heir or devisee, unless he- or she shall have made
bis or her estate liable for the money so recovered by fa.JsQ plead­
ing or otherwise, 
2 . .A.ftd be it enacted, That the party at whose instance any writ
of execution shall issue against the body, or against the goods and 
chattels, or against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, here·
ditaments, and real estate of any person, shall endorse on the said
writ, before it be sealed, the debt, damages, and costs, or sum of 
money really due and to be made.
3. And he ,·e enacted, That no writ of execution shall bind the 
f
h
d 
f h
. h h . . 
property o t e goo & o t e person aga.mst w om sue writ 18 
sued forth, but from the time that such writ shall be delivered to
the sheriff, under-sheriff coroner, or other officer, his deputy or
agent, to be executed; and for the better manifestation of the said
time, such sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or other officer, his deputy 
or agent, shall, upon the receipt of any such writ, endorse thereon,
without fee for so doing, the day of the month and year when he 
zeceived the same ; and if two or more writs of execution shall be
delivered against the goods of the same person on the same day, 
that which was first delivered shall be first executed and satisfied.
4. And be it enacted, That where sundry writs of execution 
shall be issued against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements,
hereditaments, and real estate of the same person, and sufficient 
cannot be found to satisfy all the sums commanded to be made,
then the like priority and preference shall be given in such cases 
as is given by the preceding section of this act in writs of execu-
tion against the goods only, and all disputes respecting the same 
shall be adjudged and determined accordingly ; and for that purpose
the like endorsement, as aforesaid, shall be made on the said writs, 
by the proper officer, of the time that he shall have respectively re-
ceived the same. 
5. And he it enacted, That if any person shall purchase, in good 
faith, of a defendant in execution, any goods or chattels, and pay 
for the same prior to the actual levy of such execution, and with-
out notice thereof, the title of such purchaser shall not be divested 
by the fact that such execution had been delivered before such pur-
chase was made. 
6. And be it enacted, That money belonging to a defendant in
execution may be levied on and returned, by virtue of such execu- 
tion, as so much money co11ected, without exposing the same to
sale. 
7. And be it enacted, That bank notes, bi11s, or other evidences
of debt, circulated as money, or any share or interest in any bank,
insurance company or other joint stock company, that is or may be 
incorporated under the authority of this state, belonging to a de-
fendant in execution, may be taken and sold, by virtue of such ex-
ecution, in the same manner as goods and chattels. 
8. And l,e -it e1taeted, That the clerk, cashier, or other officer o{
company, who has at the time the eustody of the books of the 
company, shall, upon exhibiting to him the writ of execution. be
bound to give to the officer having such writ a certificate of the 
number of sharee or amount of tb.e interest held \>y the defendant
in such company ; and if he shall neglect or refuse so to do, or if 
he shall wilfuUy give a. false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to 
the plaintiff for double the amount of all damages occasioned by
such neglect or false certificate, to be recovered iu. au. action on the
case against him. 
9. And be it enacted, That one cow. oae bed aed bedding, one
cradle, one stove, one half cord of fire wood, one half' ton of stone 
coal, one spinning wheel, one table, six. chairs, one hog, one bun·
dred weight of &>ur, one iron cooking pot, one doxen knives and 
forks, on.e doz.en plates, one dozen spoons, one half dozen bowls,
two pails, one barrel, one coffee pot, oae tub, one frying pan, the
necessary tools of a tradesman, not exceeding in value ten dollare, 
and all wearing apparel, the praperty of any debtor l1anng a fa· 
mily, shall be reserved for the use of the family against all credi­
tors, an.cl shall not be liable to be seized or taken by virtue of any
execution or civil process whatever, issued out of any court in this 
state.
10. And he it e.uactca. That no. sale of any goods or caattols 
shall be made by virtue of aoy execution, unless previous notice of
the time and place ot such intended sale shall hare been given by
the officer making the lel'y, by advertisements signed by: himself,
and put up in three or m.ore of the most public places in the town·
ship where they were taken, at least five days before the time ap·
pointed for sale. 
11. And be it enacted, That in all cases where any sheriff shall,
by "Virtue of any writ of execution issued out of any court in this 
state, levy on or take into his possession any goods or chattels,
which shall ho claimed by notice in writing delivered to said she­
riff, by any other person than the defendant, he shall, immediately
upon such elaim, delay his sale of the same for the space of ten
days, that the said claimant may, within the said term, apply to one
of the judges of the court of common pleas in the county where 
the goods and chattels were so seized, for a venire to summon a
jury of twelve men, to. try: the right of said claimant to said pro­
perty; and it shall be. lawful for such judge to issue the same, and
direct a retarn thereof to be to him made, and to proceed therein 
as in other cases of trial by jury; but the claimant shall, in all
cases, give at least eight days previous notice in writing to the 
plaintiff or his attorney, of the time and place of the said trial; and 
either party shall be entitled to process of su bpeena, out of the
court from which such execution issued, to compel the attendance---- 
of witnesses ; and the judge before whom such inquest may be
held shall have power to adjourn, upon the application of either
party, for a reasonable time, upon good cause shown for such ad- 
journment. .
12. And be it enacted, That the verdict of such jury shall be 
reduced to writing, and signed by the jury and judge before whom
the matter shall he tried, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk 
of the court out of which the said execution issued ; and the in­
quisition so taken sba11 protect the said sheriff from any action for
taking and seizing such property, or delivery thereof to the claim- 
ant; and if the said property shall be found to belong to the claim-
ant, the sheriff shall proceed no further with the same, but if it sha11
he found to belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose
thereof, as is directed in such process; and the costs attending such 
trial shall be taxed by the said judge as in other cases, and shall be
paid by the plaintiff at whose suit the said property was taken and 
seized, if the claimant obtain a verdict in his favour, and by such
claimant, if the verdict is found against him ; provided. that if the 
, . , d
plaintiff, upon notice bemg given to him as aforesaid, shall m em- 
nify the sheriff against the demand of the claimant, then he shall
suspend any further proceedings therein, and proceed to sell. 
CHAPTER 16. 
EXECUTIONS AGAINST CORPORATIOXS. 
An Ad to facilitate the eollect~o~ of claims and demands against t()Wil·
ships, cities, and boroughs. 
Approved Much 26, 19'5. 
BE IT ENACTED by {he Senate and GCMral Assembly of tltc State 
of New Jer,ey, ae folloios :
SEc. I. Whenever a writ of execution shall be issued against the 
. h bi f hi • "t.. ugh f hi
in a ttants o any towns tp, crty, or ooro o t is state, by any 
h
. d . h . h h d 
court aut onze to 188ue t e same, m case t ere s oul be no
property belonging to said township, city, or borough, sufficient to
satisfy the same, whereon to levy, then the officer authorized to 
execute said process shall serve a copy of the same on the collector
of said township, city, or borough, who is hereby required to pay
and satisfy the same out of the first moneys belonging to said town- 
ship, city, or borough, which shall come into his bands, 
CHAPTER 17. 
BlLLS OF EXCEPTIONS. 
An Act dimting bills of emptions to be sealed. 
BE IT ENACTED hy tlce Council and General &JJembly of tla.i6
state, and it ia hereby enacted by the autlwrity of the same, That
when any person, who is or shall be impleaded before any court, 
and in any cause where a writ of error lies to a higher court, shall
allege an exception, praying that the justice or justices will allow it,
and be or they will not allow it, if he who alleged the exception
instantly writes the same, and requires that the said justice or
justices will put thereto his or their seal or seals iu testimony
thereof, such justice or justices, or the greater part of them present,
shall so do; and if such higher court, upon the cause being re­
moved before them, do not find the same exception in the record,
and the plaintiff show t.he exception, written and sealed as afore­
said, the said justice or justices shall be commanded to appear at a
certain day, either to confess or deny his or their seal or seals; and
if such justice or justices cannot deny his or their seal or seals, the 
id . h 1 d . d di h
sat higher court s a I procee to JU gment accor mg to t e same 
. • h b 11 d di 11 d
exception, as it oug t to e a owe or isa owe . 
CHAPTER 18. 
"'RlT F ERROR. 
An Act r peetlng i rit of rrnr. 
Passed March 7, 17!r.. 
Ren ion .. " pprov d 
l. E t'l' TED by tlie t te a d Genera A
tat of N to Jersey, Tha erro h pp ning in pr m 
court shall e h ard, re tifi d and d t rmin d be cour of rr
and app a . 
2. d be it nact d That it hall and ma b lawful for tl at-
torn y g neral, in b half f thi tat , or for any part 
1 
bis lecal 
representative, or other person who may be damnified or aggrieved
by any judgment rendered or to be rendered in the supreme court, 
to sue forth a writ of error, to be directed to the justices of the
said supreme court, commanding them to cause the :lecord of such 
judgment, and all things concerning the same, to be brought before 
the court of errors and appeals.
3. And he it enacted, That the party prosecuting such writ of 
error shall, without delay, cause a transcript of the said record to
be made, and the said justices to whom the said writ of error may
be directed, or any one of them, shall annex the said transcript to, 
and endorse a proper return on, the said writ, and return the same
under his or their signature and sea). 
4. And be it eitacted, That all errors happening in any circuit
court, shall be heard, rectified and determined, either by the su- 
preme court or by the court of errors and appeals, at the option of
the party prosecuting such writ of error. 
5. And be it enacted, That all errors happening in any court of
common pleas, shall be heard, rectified and determined by the SU· 
preme court, which is hereby declared to have jurisdiction of the
same, and out of which a. writ for that purpose shall be issued at
the instance of the state, or of any party, his legal representative, 
or other person who may be damnified or aggrieved by any judg-
ment rendered or to be rendered in any of the said courts of com- 
mon pleas.
6. And be it enacted, That no execution shall be stayed or de- 
.
layed by any wnt of error or supersedeas thereon, for the reversalonerror,af· 
,. . d . . f d bt " d d . . d 
01 JU gment m any action o e roun e upon a pnor JU gment,
or upon any single or penal bill for the payment of money only, or 
upon any obligation with condition for the payment of money only,
or upon any action of debt or upon the case for rent, or upon any con-
tract sued in the supreme court or any other eourt of record, unless
the plaintiff in such writ of error, or other responsible person in his
behalf, with two sufficient sureties, to be approved and allowed, shall
first become bound to the party for whom such judgment is given
by recognizance, as hereinafter directed, in double the sum adjudged 
d b
l
id . d b id . 
to be recovere y t ie sai JU gment, to prosecute t e sai wnt
of error with effect, and also to pay and satisfy, if the said judg­ 
ment be affirmed, all the debt or debts, damages and costs, ad­ 
judged on the former judgment, and all costs and damages to be
awarded for the delay of execution. 
7. And he it enacted, That no execution shall be stayed or de-Which
layed in any of the courts mentioned in the section next preceding, 
by any writ of error or supersedeas thereon, after verdict and
judgment on such verdict in any personal action whatsoever, unless 
such recognizance, as is prescribed in the preceding section, shall
be first acknowledged, 88 hereinafter directed. 
8. And. be it enacted, That no execution eha11 be stayed or de- 
, , • 
layed by writ of error, to be brought upon Judgment after verdict
in dower or in ejectment, unless the plaintiff in such writ of error. 
or other responsible person in his behalf, with two sufficienr.
sureties as aforesaid, shall first become bound by recognizance to 
th 1 . 'ff • h • f d • f . . b 
e p amn m t e wnt o ower or action o ejectment, m sue
reasonable sum as the court to which the writ of error is directed
shall think fit, with condition, that if judgment be affirmed on the
said writ of error, or if the said writ of error be discontinued by
default of the plaintiff therein, or if the said plaintiff be nonsuit in
the said writ of error, that then the said plaintiff shall pay such
costs, damages and sum or sums of money as shall be awarded
upon or after such judgment affirmed, discontinuance or nonsuit.
Ancl to the end that the same damages and sum or sums of money 
b . d h h • • h b"'
may e ascertame , t e court w erem execution oug t to e 
granted shall, upon such affirmation, discontinuance or nonsuit,
issue a writ to inquire, as well of the mesne profits as of the
damages by any waste committed after the first judgment in dower
or in ejectment; and upon return thereof, judgment sha11 be gi,·en
and execution awarded for such mesne profits and damages, and
also for the costs of suit. 
9. And be 1"t enacted, That the recognizance mentioned in the
sixth and seventh sections of this act may be acknowledged, and the
sureties therein may be approved and allowed, either by the COt}Tt 
in which judgment is given, in open court, or by any justice or
judge thereof; or in case the said judgment be rendered in the su­ 
preme court or circuit court, before any one of the commissioners
appointed by the supreme court to take recognizances of bail, and 
the recognizance so taken shall be filed in the court in which judg­
ment is given. 
10. And bl! ?°t enacted, That the recognizance mentioned in the 
• l 1 • f hi b k led d b I.", f
e1g it 1 section o t is act may e ac now ge erore any one o 
the justices or judges of the court to which the writ of error is di­
rected, at his chambers, in such reasonable sum 88 such justice or
judge shall think fit; and such recognizance, when so acknowledged 
88 aforesaid, and filed in the said court, shall be as good and ef­ 
fectual in law 88 if the some had been acknowledged in open court.
11. And be it enacted, That when a writ of error shall be issued, 
pursuant to the laws of this state, directed to the supreme court or
to any circuit court or court of common pleas, and presented to the 
court, such writ of error shall stay execution] prov-ukd, the plaintiff'
in error shall, within fifteen days from the time the said writ of 
error shall be so presented, file in the court wherein the judgment
shall be rendered such recognizance of bail, duly taken, as by law 
is or shall be required; but such recognizance shall not stay exe-
cution, as aforesaid, unless the same shall be presented in the term
in which such judgment shall be rendered, or within fifteen days
thereafter, to one of the justices or judges of the court in which the 
said judgment shall be rendered.
12. .A.1id he it enacted, That where it is apparent to the court 
h
. f , b l . od J:'. • h l' h 
t at a writ o error is roug u agamst go tait or ror t e mere
purpose of delay, or it is returnable of a term previous to the entry
of final judgment, or special hail, when requisite, is not put in and
perfected in due time, it shall not be a supersedeae or stay of exe- 
cution.
13. Provi.ded always, and be it enacted, That the sixth, seventh 
d
. h l • f hi h 11 d . f 
an eig t 1 sections o t 1s acts a not exten to any writ o error
to be brought by any executor or administrator, nor to any action
popular, or action on any penal statute, nor to any indictment, pre­ 
sentment, inquisition or information.
14. And be it enacted, That a writ of error shall not be granted 
. d · ·1 fi l · d b d d
or issue m any case, unn na JU gment e ren ere · . 
15. And be it enacted, That no writ of error shall be brought or
allowed on any judgment that shall have been, or hereafter may be 
entered or obtained, unless the same shall be had and done within
three years after the judgment rendered; provided, that in cases 
where the person entitled to such writ of error be an infant, ferne
covert or insane, he or she shall have three years to bring such
writ of error after such disability shall be removed. 
6. To be delivered In open court.
1. Removal of inJictment.t. 
:!. How qrnnted in vacation.
J. Recognizance neceaeary. 
CHAPTER 19. 
CERTIORARI, 
•· To ju8tice1 and sessions,
5. Void, unless signed. 
An Iet to regulate, in certain mes, the issuing of writs or eertiorari to
the courts of generlll quarter smions nod justices of' the peace. 
P111111etl February 6, li!l~. 
1. BE IT ENACTED hy the Council and General As8emhly ofthu:
state, and it i.t hereby enacted by the autlumty of the same, That 
the supreme court of this state, at the instance of the party indicted
or presented, may on motion and by rule award a writ of certio- 
rari to remove into the said court any indictment or presentment,
before trial, from any o.f the courts of general quarter sessions of 
the peace, upon the following, and no other terms, that is to say:
that the party indicted or presented, and prosecuting such certio­ 
rari, shall, before the allowance thereof, with two sufficient sure­
ties, enter into recognizance to the state of New Jersey, in such
sum as the said supreme court shall direct, with condition, that the
party so indicted or presented, and prosecuting the certiorari, shall
at its return appear and plead to the said indictment or present­ 
ment in the said supreme court, and, at bis, her, or their own costs
and charges, cause and procure the issue that shall be joined upon
the said indictment or presentment, or any 'plea relating thereto, to
be tried at the next circuit court to be held for the county wherein
the said indictment or presentment was found, after such certiorari
shall be returnable, if the said supreme court shall not appoint any 
other time for the trial thereof, and if any other time be so ap­ 
pointed, then at such other time, and sha11 not depart the said su­
preme court until discharged by the same, and shall pay costs, if
convicted of the offence charged in the said indictment or present­ 
ment.
2. A11d be it enacted, That a writ of certiorari for the removal 
of au indictment or presentment, before trial, from any of the said
courts of general quarter sessions of the peace into the said su­
preme court, may, in vacation and at the instance of the party so
indicted or presented, be granted by any of the justices of the said
supreme court, upon the foUowing, and no other terms, that is to 
say: that the party indicted or presented, and prosecuting such
certiorari, shall, before the allowance thereof, with two sufficient
sureties, enter into recognizance to the state of New Jersey, be­
fore such justice, in such sum as the said justice shall direct, and
with such condition as is specified in the preceding section of this
act. 
3. And be it enacted, That every recognizance taken by virtue 
f • h f b di . d . d
o ett er o t e prece mg sections, shall be ehvere to the court 
bi h h ' ' ' di d th ' h th id ' d
tow IC t e certiorari is irecte , toge er wit e sai writ; an 
the recognizance so taken, shall be certified into the said supreme
court, with the said certiorari and indictment or presentment, and
there filed ; and i( such recognizance be not tlelivered, together 
with the certiorari, to the court, as directed, then it shall be the
duty of the said court to proceed to the trial of the said indictment 
:j:!: or presentment, in the same manner es if uo such certiorari had
been allowed or presented. 
,. A1ed be it enacted, That no writ of certiorari shall be al-
lowed to remove into the supreme court of this stf1te any judgment 
OT order, given or made by any justice or justices of the peace or
f 1 
. f b } h
court o genera quarter sessrons o t e peace, un ess t e party 
prosecuting such certiorari, or some responsible person in his be- 
ha1£. shall, before the allowance thereof, with two sufficient sure-
ties. enter iuto recognizance to the state of New Jersey, before the 
supreme court, if in term time, or before one of the justices of
the said supreme court, if in vacation, in the sum of one hundred 
and fifty dollars, with condition that the party obtaining such cer-
tiorari shall prosecute the same to effect without delay, and shall
perform such judgment or order as the said supreme court shall 
give or make thereon, with costs, if costs be awarded: and further,
that every recognizance to be taken by virtue of this section shall
be delivered, together with the writ of certiorari, to the justice or 
justices or court to which such writ shall be directed, and the said
recognizance shall be certified into the said supreme court, with 
the said certiorari, and the judgment or order removed thereby,
and there filed; and if such recognizance be not so delivered with
the certiorari, then it shall be the duty of the said justice or jus-
tices, or court of general quarter sessions of the peace, to proceed 
on such judgment or order in the same manner as if no certiorari 
had been allowed or presented ; prooided alicay«; that this section
shall not extend to orders or judgments in actions for debts or
demands between party and party, made cognizable before any jus- 
. f h . db th . 1 d A . .
tree o t e peace in an y e act entit e , " 11 act consutuung 
courts for the trial of small causes."
5. And be it enacted, That no writ of certiorari shall be granted 
• .1 • · • .1 _1 
to remove any muictrneut, presentment, JUugment, oruer, process,
or other proceedings, unless it be signed by one of the justices of~~~~mo 
the supreme court, and for want thereof, such writ shall be abso-
lutely void and of no effect. 
6. And be it enacted, That every writ of certiorari for the re- 
1 f
• .1· • .1 d fj 
mova o any mdictment, presentment, juugment, or or er rom any
court of general quarter sessions of the peace, shall be delivered to
the same, in open court. 
1. Mistakes in process, etc, amended.
2. Judgmeuts not reversed for rasures, etc. 
3. Mieprieioiu of clerks amended,
4. Aod Yariance between record, etc. 
5. Miaprisioos of ethers amendable.
6. No prejudice by ancient terms, etc.
7. Records not to be altered. 
8. No reversal for mispleading, etc,
9. Nor for want of form. 
10. Nor for certain varlances. 
CHAPTER 20. 
AMENDMENTS AND JEOFAILS. 
11. Nor for want of pledges, etc.
12. \\-1111t judgment on demurrer.
" Defects in pleading amendable.
13. Not extended to judgments eonfeeeed.
14. Variance in writ of error amended.
15. No reTer1111l for fonn of writ, etc.
16. How far 11et extended, etc.
l'i. Proceedings to be in English.
Hl. Constructioe of thil! act.
l!J. To what act nor extended. 
An Act respeetlng amendments nnd jeof&ils. 
Passed November 21, 1794. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by tl,e Council and General Aaaemhly of thi1
state, a11-d it i<Y hereby enacted hy tlte authority qf the same, That, 
by the misprision of a clerk, no process shall be annulled or discon-
tinued by mistaking in writing a syllable or a letter too much or
too little; but as soon as such misprision is perceived, by challenge
of the party or in other manner, it shall be instantly amended in
due form, without giving advantage to the party chal1enging the
same. And the court before whom such plea or record is made or
shall be depending, as well by adjournment as by way of error,
shall have full power, both after and before judgment given therein, to 
amend such record or process, as long as the same is before them.
2. And be it enacted by the authorit!/ ajorllaid, That for error 
assigned or to be assigned in any record, process, warrant of at­
torncy, writ, original or judicial, panel or return, because there are 
any rasures or interlincations, or any addition, subtraction or dimi­
nution of words, letters or titles, or parcel of Ietters, in any such
record.lprocess, warrant of attorney, writ, panel or return, no judg­
ment or record shall be reversed or annulled. 
3. And be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the court
in which any record, process, declaration, count, plea, warrant o( 
attorney, writ, panel, or return, is or may be, shall, while the same
remains before them, have power to examine such record, process,
declaration, count, plea, warrant of attorney, writ, panel, or return,
by them and their clerks, and to rectify and amend, in affirmance
of the judgment of such record or process, whatever to them in
their discretion shall seem to be the misprision of the clerks, in 
such record, process, declaration, count, plea, WBJTant of attorney,
writ, panel, or return, so that by such misprision of the clerk no 
udgment shall be reversed or annulled.
4. And be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, That if any re- 
cord, process, declaration, count, plea,' warrant of attorney, writ, 
panel, or return, be certified defective, otherwise than according to
h 
' . . h h f • . h ffi 
t e wntmg, whic t ereo remains in t e o ce, court, or place----
from whence the same is certified, the parties, in affirmance of the 
judgment of such record or process, may allege that the same
writing is variant from the said certificate, and that being found and
certified, the said variance shall be by the said court rectified and
amended accorcling to the first writing. 
5. .And he it enacted by the autltority aforesaid, That the court
before whom any misprision or default is or shall be found in any
record or process which now is or hereafter shall be depending be-
fore them, as well by w~y of error as otherwise, or in the returns 
of the same, made or to be made by sheriffs, coroners, 01· any other,
by misprision of the clerk of such court, or by misprision of the
sheriffs, under-sheriffs, coroners, or their clerks, or other officers, 
clerks, or other ministers whatsoever, in writing a letter or syllable
too much or too little, shall have power to amend such defaults and
misprisions, according to their discretion, and by examination 
thereof by the said court, to be taken where they shall think ne­
cessary; and that all such amendments may be made, as welJ after
a judgment given upon verdict, confession, nihil <licit, or non sum 
informatus, as upon matter of law pleaded.
6~ .And he it enacted by the authority aforesaid, That by the 
ancient terms and forms of pleaders, no person shall be prejudiced,
so that the matter of the action be fully showed in the writ, declara-
tion and pleadings. 
7 . .And he it enacted. by the aut/1,ority aforesaid, That the record
of pleas, real, personal or mixed, whereof judgment is or shall be:
given and enrolJed, or things touching such pleas, shall not be
ameuded or impaired by new entering of the clerk, or by the
record or matter certified, in any term subsequent to that in which
such judgment in any such plea is or shall be given and enro11ed. 
8. And he it enacted by the a"'{lwrity aforesaid, That if any issue
bath been or shall be tried by the oath or affirmation of twelve
men, or more, for the party plaintiff or demand ant, or for the party 
tenant or defendant, bailiff in assize, vouchee, prayee in aid, or
tenant by receipt, in any action, suit, bill, plaint, or demand, in any
court of record, then the court by whom judgment thereof ought
to be given shall proceed and give judgment in the same, notwith-
standing any mispleading, lack of colour, insufficient pleading, or 
jeofail, any miscontinuance, discontinuance, or misconceiving of
process, misjoining of the issue, lack of warrant of attorney of the 
party against whom the issue shall be tried, or any other default or
negligence of any of the parties, their counsellors or attorneys;
and the judgments thereof, so had and given, or to be had and 
given, sha11 stand in fuH strength and force, to aU intents and pur­
poses, according to the said verdict, without any reversal or un­ 
doing of the same by writ of error or otherwise, in like form as
thougk uo such default or negligence had ever been had or com­ 
mitted.
9. And be it enacted by tlte autlwrity af<Nuaid, That if any 
verdict of twelve men, or more, hath been or shall be given in any
action, suit, bill, plaint, or demand, in any court of record, the
judgment thereupon shall not be stayed or reversed by reason of
any default in form, or Jack of form, touching false English, or va­
riance from the register, or other defaults in form, in any writ,
original or judicial, count, declaration, plaint, bi11, suit, or demand,
or for want of any writ, original or judicial, or ~ reason of any
imperfect or insufficient return of any sheriff or other officer, or for
want of any warrant of attorney, or by reason of any manner or 
default in process upon or after any aid prayer or voucher; nor
shall any such record or judgment, after verdict, be reversed for 
any of the defects or causes aforesaid.
10. And be it enacted by the n:1Jtkority oforesaid, That if any ver- 
• • 
diet of twelve men, or more, bath been or shall be given for the
1 • 'ff d d .r. h d I. d b "J!a:" • 
p amti or ernan ant, or ror t e eren ant or tenant, at lll m 
• h • id b · · '
assize, vouc ee, prayee in at , or tenant y receipt, m any acnon, 
• b')] ] . d l • f d h . d
suit, 1 , P amt, or ernanr , m any court o recor , t e JU gment 
thereupon shall not be stayed or reversed for any variance, in form
only, between the original writ or bill and the declaration, plaint, 
or demand, or for lack of averment of any Jife or lives of any per­
son or persons, so as upon examination the said person be proved
to be in life, or by reason that the venire facias, habeas corpo~ or
distringas, is or shall be awarded to a wrong officer upon any insuf­
ficient suggestion, or by reason that any of the jury which tried
the said issue is or shall be misnamed, in the cbristian name, sur­
name, or addition, in any of the said writs, or in nny return upon
nny of the said writs, so as upon examination it be proved to be
the same man who was meant to be returned, or by reason that
there is or shall be no return upon any of the said writs, so as a
panel of the names of the jurors be returned and annexed to the
said writ or writs, or for that the name of the sheriff, or other offi­
cer having the return thereof, is not set to the return of any such
writ, BO as upon examination it be proved that the said writ W88 
returned by the sheriff or under-sheriff, or any such other officer, or
by reason that the plaintiff in any action of ejectment, or in any 
personal action or suit (being an infant under the age of twenty­
one years), did or shall appear by attorney therein, and the verdict
pass in favour of such plaintiff. 
11. An.<l be it enacted by tke autkarity aforesaid, That if anv 
~· • 
verdict of twelve men hath been or shall be given in any action,
. bi'll l , d d • f d h . d 
surt, 1 . , p amt, or eman m any court o recor , t e JU gment
thereupon shall not be stayed or reversed for default in form, or 
lack of form, or by reason that there are no pledges, or but one 
pledge, to prosecute, returned upon the original writ, or because
the name of the sheriff is not returned upon such original writ, or
for default of entering pledges upon any bill or declaration, or for 
default of alleging the bringing into court any bond, bil1, indenture,
or other deed whatsoever, mentioned in the declaration or other 
pleading, or for default of alleging the bringing into court letters
testamentary or letters of administration, or by reason of the omis- 
sion of the words, "with force and arms," or, "against the peace,"
or for or by reason of the mistaking of the christian name or sur-
name of the plaintiff or defendant, demandant or tenant, sum or 
sums of money, day, month, or year, by the clerk, in any bill, de­
claration, or pleading, where the right christian name, surname, sum, 
clay, month, or year, in any writ, plaint, roll, or record preceding,
or in the same roll or record where the mistake is committed, is or 
are truly and rightly alleged, and to which the party might have
demurred, and showed the same for cause, nor for want of the 
averment or words, "and this he is ready to verify," or, "and this
be is ready to verify by the record," or for not alleging, " as ap- 
pears by the record," or for that there is no right venue, so as the
cause was tried by a jury of the proper county or place where the
action is laid; nor shall any judgment, after verdict, be reversed 
for want of entering, that the person against whom such judgment 
is given, "be in mercy," or, "be taken," or by reason that the
words, "be taken," are entered for, '' be in mercy," or the words,
"be in mercy," are entered for," be taken," nor for that, in the judg- 
ment, the words, "it is granted," are entered for, "it is considered,"
nor for that the increase of costs, after a verdict in any action 01· 
upon a nonsuit in replevin, are not entered to be at the request of
the party for whom the judgment is given, nor by reason that the 
costs, in any judgment whatsoever, are not entered to be by con-
sent of the plaintiff; but that all such omissions, variances, defects,
and all other matters of like nature, not being against the right of 
the matter of the· suit, nor whereby the issue or trial is altered, 
shall be amended by the court where such judgments are or shall
be given, or to which the record is or shall be removed by writ of
error. 
12. And be it enacted hy tke au-tkority aforesaid, That where
d 
h b
h 11 b
. . d d ~1 , 
any emurrer hat een or s a e Jome an entered m any
. . , f d f hi h h 
action or suit in any court o recor o t is state, t e court s a
4 o• 
proceed and zive judgment, according as the very right of the 
o- 
cause and matter in law shall appear unto them, without regarding 
, I.". , • • d I'. f I.". - ' 
any 1mper,ect1on, ormsston, erect, or want o rorm m any wnt, re-
l · d l · h l di f 
turn, P amt, ec arauon, or ot er p ea mg, process, or course o pro-
ceeding whatsoever, except those only which the party demurring 
shall specially and particularly set down and express, together with
his demurrer, as causes of the same, notwithstanding that such im­
perfection, omission, or defect might have heretofore been taken to
be matter 
00£ 
substance, so as sufficient matter appear in the plead­
ings, upon which the court may give judgment according to the
very right of the cause ; and therefore no advantage or exception
shall he taken of or for an immaterial traverse, or of or for the 
default of entering pledges upon any bill or declaration, or of or
for the default of alleging the bringing into court any bond, bilJ,
indenture, or other deed whatsoever, mentioned in the decJaration
or other pleading, or of or for the default of a11eging the bringing
into court letters testamentary or letters of administration, or of or
for the omission of the words, "with force and arms," or, "against
the peace," or either of them, or of or for want of the averment
or words, "and this he is ready to verify," or, "and this he is ready
to verify by the record," or of or fur not alleging, "as appears by
the record;" hut the court shall give judgment according to the
very right of the cause as aforesaid, without regarding any such
imperfections, omissions, or defects, or any other matter of Jike
nature, except the same shall be specially and particularly set down
and shown for cause of demurrer; and that no judgment shall be 
reversed by any writ of error for any such imperfection, omission, 
defect, or want of form as aforesaid, except such only as are before
excepted ; and every court of record of this state shall and may, 
by virtue of this act, from time to time amend all and every such
imperfections, defects, and wants of form as are before mentioned,
other than those only which the party demurring shall specially 
and particularly express and set down, together with his demurrer.
as aforesaid, and may at any rime permit either of the parties 
to amend any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such terms
and conditions as the said court shall in their discretion direct and
prescribe. 
13. A11d be it enacted by the avilwrity oforesaid, That this act 
shall extend to all judgments which have been or shall be entered 
11
• ihil d' . ·. r. • 
upon conressron, m 1 icit, or non sum mtormatus, many court of
record ; and no such judgment shall be reversed, nor 'any judg­
ment upon any assessment or writ of inquiry of damages made
or executed thereon, be stayed or reversed for or by reason of any 
imperfection, omission, defect, matter, or thing whatsoever, which 
would have been aided and cured by this net, in case a verdict of
twelve men had been given in the said action or suit, so as there be---­ 
an original writ or bill duly filed according to law.
14. And be it enacted by tlte autlwrity aforesaid, Tha.t all writs 
f
h
· l h I b · ti h · · 1 
o error, w erem t iere s al e any variance rom t e orrgma re-
cord or other defect, may and shall be amended and made agree- 
bl
h
d
b
h
. h h . 
a e to sue recor y t e respective courts w ere sue writ or
writs of error shall be made returnable. 
15. And be it enacted by tlie authority aforesaid, That where any
di h } be h 11 b • • • • b"l) ] • 
ver ict at 1 en or s a e given m any action, suit, 1 , p amt,
d d 
· of d h · d h h l
or eman , m any court recor , t e JU gment t ereupon s a] 
b
d d 
J.'. d J.'. J.'.. • • 
not e staye or reverse ror any erect or fault, either in form Ol'in 
substance, in any bill, writ, original or judicial, or for any variance
in such writ from the declaration or other proceedings. 
16. And he it enacted hy tke authority aforesaid, That this act
h 
-1} d 11 • • f d J.'.. h ftt>nd 
s a exten to a suits, m any court o recor , tor t e recovery o
d 
b
d hi 11. d d 
any e t ue to t 18 state.ior ror any ebt, uty, or revenue belong-
iog to the same and also, to all writs of mandamus, and informa- 
tions in nature of quo warranto, and proceedings thereon.
17. And be it enacted by tlw authority aforesaid, Tbat all pro- 
di h . f} I . . hi 
cee mgs w atsoever, in every court o aw am equity mt ts state,
b
1 b 
· h E · h 11 d •
s al e m t e nghs tongue am anguage, an m no other tongue 
l
d 
h 11 b
. . ) . d l . 
or anguage, an s a e written or pnnter m a goo , .strong, egi-
ble hand or character, and in words at length, and not abbreviated,
except such abbreviations as are commonly used in the ·English 
language; provided nevertheless, that it shall and may be lawful to
express numbers by figures, in like manner as bath been hereto-
fore, or is now commonly used in the said courts respectively, and 
to express the proper and known names of writs or other process,
or technical •words, in such language as hath been commonly used,
so as the same be written or printed in a common legible hand or 
character.
18. Anrl be it enacted by the autltority aforesaid, That this acL~ct 
d
d
. ll f . . . h 
shall be taken an construe , m a courts o Justice, m t e moststrued.
ample, beneficial, and liberal manner, for the ease and benefit of 
the parties, and to prevent frivolous and vexatious delays.
19. Pronided always, and be it further enacted by tlw autlwrity 
. • • • 
aforesaid, That no part of this act, except that which directs pro-
ceedings to be in the English language, shall extend to any indict- 
ment or presentment for any criminal matter, or process upon the
same, nor to any writ, hill, action, or information upon any popular
or penal statute, nor to any outlawry, or process thereupon, or in 
order thereunto. 
1. \Vho not to try cause.
~ Wbo aouo 1trllte jlll'y. 
CHAPTER 21. 
F.XCEPTIONi, TO Jt!OGES. 
J. Chnllcn!{c11 made and tried. 
,4, Judge ofplcu not to be clerk.etc. 
An Act the better to promote the impartial admioiatration of jo1litt, 
Paued February 2-1, l~ 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Council a1'fl Geural As,emhl!/ efthi1 
state, and it i, hereby enacted hy tl,e authority of the same, That
no justice or judge of any court of record in this state, who shall 
be related in the third degree to either of the parties in any cause
depending in such court, or be interested in the event of any such
cause, or shall have been attorney on record or counsel for either
party in any such cause, or shall have given his opinion upon the
matter in question in any such cause, shall sit in judgment upon
tho trial or argument of any point in controversy in any such cause;
and that rho degrees of kindred, in such case, shall be calculated
according to the common law manner of computation; prorided
nerertheless, that any matter or thing herein contained shall not be
construed to prevent any justice or judge from sitting on the trial
or argument of any point in controversy in such cause, merely be­ 
cause be may have given his opinion in any other cause where the
same matter in controversy shall have come in question, nor from
his having given his opinion on any question in controversy in the
same cause, in the course of the previous proceedings therein. 
2. And be it enacted, That no justice or judge of any court of
record in this state, who sba11 be related in the third degree, as 
aforesaid, to either of the parties in any cause depeuding in such
court, or shall be interested in the event of any such cause, or shall 
have given his opinion in either of the said relations upoo the matter
in question in said cause, shall nominate or strike the jury in any 
such cause.
3. And he it enacted, That all challenges to a justice or judge, 
for the causes aforesaid, shall be made previous to the trial or ar­
gumeut, and the court may try such challeuges, or appoint three
indifferent persons triors for that purpose, at the discretion of the
court, and that the finding of a majority of such triors shall be re­ 
ceived as the determination of such triers,
4. And be it enacted, That no judge of any court of common 
pleas in this state shall act as clerk of the court of which he is a 
d t 1 11 • • th'
gc, nor as attorney a aw or counse or m any court m 1s state, 
• · • 1 h
any license to practice aw, custom or usage to t e contrary not- 
withstanding.
5. Repealer. 
SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS. 
1. flpace left for entry of record.
2. ~Ati~fnrtion, how entered. 
:J. \\·aJTant to enter.
•• Fom1 and acknowledgment. 
CHAPTER 22. 
4. Court mny order satisfaction. 
5. Fees for services. 
6. Act extends to representativea.
7. Party may proceed as heretofore. 
An .\rt te facilitate rntries of satisfaction on the records of judgments. 
Passed June 10, 1820. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Council and General Assembly of tkia
state, and it is l1ercby enacted by the autlwrity ef the same, That 
it shall be, and it hereby is made the <luty of the clerk of the su-
preme court, and of every inferior court o( common pleas in this 
state, in recording judgments, to leave at the foot or bottom of the
record of each and every judgment, in the book of judgments, a
sufficient space for entering satisfaction of said judgment on the 
record, and that all satisfactions of judgments hereafter entered,
whether by the directions of this act or by the order of the court,
shall be entered at the foot or bottom of the record of such judg-
ments, or in the margin thereof, in cases where there is not suffi-
cient space left at the foot or bottom of such judgment for enter- 
ing thereof.
2. And he it enacted, That whenever any party, in whose favour 
. d . d d . h f h . r. • 
a JU gment is ren ere m t e supreme court or any o t e mrerior
f
1 
' hi h 11 h · d · c: 
courts o common p eas m t is state, s a ave receive sanstac-
tion of such judgment, it shall be, and is hereby made the duty of 
said party, either by himself or his attorney, forthwith to enter an
acknowledgment of satisfaction upon the record of said judgment,
or in case the judgment shall not have been made up and recorded,
then such acknowledgment shall be entered in the minutes of the 
court where such judgment shall have been rendered; and it shalt
thereupon become the duty of the clerk of such court, as soon as
the record of such judgment is entered in the juclgmcut book, to
make the entry of satisfaction in the manner prescribed in the fore­
going section, and in the following form : 
Satisfaction of this judgment has been duly acknowledged by
A. B. (or bis attorney, as the case may be,) in the minutes of this
court, of the term of -- in the year -- agreeably to the act of 
the legislature in such case made and provided.
3. And be it enacted, That whenever any party shall receive full 
satis(action as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for the said
party to sign, seal, and deliver to the party so making satisfaction
as aforesaid, or his attorney, a warrant or authority, directed to
the clerk of the court wherein such judgment shall be rendered, 
to enter satisfaction as aforesaid, which said warrant may be as
fo1lows: 
To the clerk of the supr"me court of the state of New Jersey7 or
to the clerk of the inferior court of common pleas of the county
of-- in the state of New Jersey, (as the case may be).
Whereas I, A. B. heretofore, to wit, in the term of-- obtained 
final judgment in the supreme court of the state of New Jersey
( or in the inferior court of common pleas of tht, county of-- in
the state of New Jersey, as the case may be,) against C. D. for 
-- debt, and -- costs, (or for damages and costs, or for costs,
as the case may be,) as by the record thereof may appear; and 
whereas I have received satisfaction for the same, these are there­
fore to desire and authorize you to enter an acknowledgment of 
satisfaction-upon the record of the said judgment,. and for your so
doing this shall be your sufficient warrant and discharge in that
behalf. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed 
my seal, the -- day of -- eighteen hundred and --
Signed, sealed, and delivered } B l ] 
. l f A. . SE • .\L.
in t 10 preseuce o 
Whicb said warrant or authority, being acknowledged or proved
before any judge or other officer having authority to take the ac­
knowledgment or proof of deeds for the conveyance of land in 
this state, or in case the party shall reside out of this state, the
same being acknowledged or proved before any judge or justice
of any supreme or superior court, or before any judge of any court 
of common pleas or master in chancery of the kingdom, state. or
territory wherein he shall reside, and, after such proof or acknow­
ledgment, such warrant or authority being delivered to the clerk
to whom the same shall be directed, it shall be the duty of the said
clerk forthwith to enter satisfaction on the record of said judgment,
as herein before directed, in the words following, or as nearly in
conformity thereto as can be conveniently done: 
I, E. F. clerk of the supl'eme court of the state of New Jersey,
(or inferior court of common pleas of the county of -- in the
state of New Jersey, as the case may be,) in virtue of a special
warrant of attorney (duly acknowledged or proved, as the case
may be,) from A. B. in the foregoing record named, and to me
directed, do hereby acknowledge that the said A. n. is satisfied of
the debt and costs ( or damages and costs, or costs, as the case may 
be). Dated this-- day of -- eighteen hundred and -- 
E. F. Clerk. 
And it shall be the duty of the said clerk forthwith, after enter-
ing said satisfaction, to file the said warrant or authority, with the
declaration, pleadings, and other papers in the cause in which said 
judgment shall have been obtained. 
4. And be it enacted, That in case any party, having received
Full satisfaction for any judgment obtained in either of the courts 
- .r. id 11 1 h d •
aroreeai , sha refuse or neg ect, w en requeste , to enter satrs- 
.I:!. ' 1:. id ' ] d d 1' 1 1
racnon as aroresai , or to sign, sea , an e iver a warrant, < u y 
k
I
d d
~ 'd · ~ • ~ , , } 
ac now e ge as aroresai , to enter sanstactron as atoresaiu, t ie 
party eo making satisfaction may, on due ~otice given, apply to the
court to have satisfaction entered as aforesaid, and the said 'court 
ma.y order the same to be done, and for the party so having re­
ceived satisfaction to pay the costs of the said application, which 
costs may be recovered by a writ of fieri facias or capias ad satis­
faciendum. 
5. And he it enacted, That the judge or other officer who shall
f 
take the acknowledgment or proo of any warrant or authonty to
enter satisfaction on the record as aforesaid, shall be entitled to re­ 
ceive twenty-five cents, and no more, for each acknowledgment or
proof taken or had before him ; and that the clerk, for entering sa­
tisfaction on the record, and filing the warrant or authority for so 
doing, shall be entitled to receive the sum of twenty-five cents, and
no more. 
6. And he it enacted, That when the original parties to the ac-
• ' h f h d d b I! • ~ • , J 
tion, or eit er o t em, are ea , erore satistaction is entere on
the record, the provisions of this act, and the like remedy, shall 
apply as between the survivor or survivors or the lawful represent-~~edpar
atives of any deceased party and a surviving party; and the war- 
rant to the clerk, mentioned in the third section of this act, and
other proceedings under the same, shall be in such form, as near as 
may be, as is required in the case of the original parties to the suit.
7. And he it enacted, That nothing in this act contained shall be 
d
ki , ~ . l:' id 
construe to prevent any party, ma mg sanstacnon as aroresai
from proceeding, according to the course of the respective courts, 
to enforce the entering satisfaction on the record of judgments, as
heretofore, nor to deprive any attorney at law from any lien which 
be may have on any judgment for bis costs. 
CHAPTER 23. 
11.\IJEAS CORPVS EXTENDED, 
An let ettendlng the rc~ier by hahees corpus to persons in conflnfmrnt 
undet elrll proms. 
Revlsion .... Approved April 16, 18.tr. 
BE 11' EN.\CTED by tlte Senate and General Assembl!J of tlc«
State of New Jcney, That any person who may be arrested orcuea. 
. 
imprisoned by virtue of any civil process issued out of any court ol 
law or equity in this state, in any action of debt or other actiou
founded upon contract, express or implied, shall be entitled to 
apply for the writ of habeas corpus, and shall have all the rights 
and privi1eges granted to persons confined in prison by the act en- 
titled, "An act for preventing the injury of illegal confinement and 
better securing the liberty of the people," passed the eleventh of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five, any thing in 
the eighth section of said act notwithstanding. 
3, Damages recovered, a bar. 
4. Court may grant time.
1. Return to fll'lt writ. 
2. Proceedinga after return. 
CHAPTER 24. 
MANDAMUS. 
!n !et for the better re~olation of proceedings upon writs of mandamus. 
Passed December 2. l'i9f. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by the Council and General Auemhly qf tku,
state, and it u hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That 
where any writ of mandamus shall issue out of the supreme court,
directed and delivered to any person or persons, who by law is or 
are required to make a return to such writ, such person or persons 
shall make his or their return to the first writ of mandamus.
2. And he it enacted by the autlwri.ty aforeeaid, That from and 
after the passing of this act, as often as any writ of mandamus shall
issue out of the said supreme court, and a return shall be made 
thereunto, it shall and may be lawful to and for the person or per-
sons suing or prosecuting such writ of mandamus, to plead to or 
traverse all or any the material facts contained within the said re­ 
turn, to which the person or persons making such return shall
reply, take issue, or demur; and such further proceedings, and in
such manner, shall be had therein, for the determination thereof, as 
might have been had if the person or persons suing such writ had
brought his or their action on the case for a false return; and if 
any issue shall be joined on such proceedings, the person or per­
sons suing such writ shall and may try the same in such place as
o.n issue joined in such action on the case should or might have
been tried; and in case a verdict shall be found for the person or
persons suing such writ, or judgment given for him or them UPon 
demurrer, or by nil dicit, or for want of a replication or other 
pleading, he or they shall recover his or their damages and costs, in
such manner as be or they might have <lone in such action on the---­ 
case as aforesaid; and such damages and costs shall and may be
levied by 6eri facias or capias ad satisfaciendurn, as in other cases;
and a peremptory writ of mandamus shall be granted without de- 
lay for him or them for whom judgment shall be given, as might
have been if such return had been adjudged insufficient: and in 
case judgment shall be given for the person or persons making
such return to such writ, he or they shall recover his or their costs
of suit, to be levied in manner aforesaid. 
3. Provided alway8, and he it furtlter enacted hy tlse authority 
aforesaid, That if any damages shall be recovered by virtue of this 
act against any such person or persons making such return to such
writ as aforesaid, he or they shall not be liable to be sued in any
other action or suit for the making such return. 
4. .And be it enacted by the author it !J afiJreaaid, That it shall and 
CHAPTER 25. 
l. How exhibited &!;ain~t intruder.
" Several right1 m117 be determined. 
• 
may be lawful to and for the said supreme court to allow to such
, ] h , f d 
person or persons, respective y, to w om any writ o man amus
shall be directed, or to the person or persons who shall sue or pro- 
secute the same, such convenient time, respectively, to make a re-
turn, plead, reply, rejoin or demur, as to the said court shall seem 
just and reasonable. 
1 
QUO wxunxxro. 
!?. Of the judgment RDd costs.
3. Time to plead, 
h .\ct for rendering the procredings upon information~ in the nature or
a quo warrnnto more 5pcrdy ond cffeetuul, 
1. BE IT ENAC"fED hy the Council and General .A&aemhly of tltia 
. 
Passed March 17, li95. 
state, and it ia hereby enacted hy the autlt0r1t,11 ef the same, That 
· h 11 ' 1 • 1 
in case any person or penons s a usurp, mtrui e mto or un aw-
ti 11
h
ffi ti 
hi . } , hi ,
u y old or execute any o ce or ranc tse wit 11n t 1s state, it 
shall and may be lawful to and for the attorney general, witb the!:;;;~!~
leave of the supreme court, to exhibit one or more information or
informations in the nature of a quo warranto, at the relation of any
person or persons desiring to sue or prosecute the same, who shall 
be mentioned in such information or informations to be the relator
or relators against such person or persons, for usurping, intruding 
into, or unlawfully holding and executing any such office or fhm.
chise, and to proceed therein in such manner as is usual in cases
of informations in the nature of a quo warranto; and if it shall ap- 
id h h 1 . h f di 
pear to the sai supreme court t at t e severs ng ts o rvers 
persons to the same office or franchise may properly be determined
on one information, it shall and may be lawful for the said court to
give leave to exhibit one such information against several persons,
in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise;
and such person or persons against whom such information or
informations in nature of a -quo warranto shall be sued or prosecu­
ted, shall appear and plead as of the same term in which the said
information or informations shalJ be filed, unless the said court shall
give further time to such person or persons against whom such in­
formation or informations shall be exhibited to plead, and such
person or persons as shall sue or prosecute such information or in­ 
formations in nature of a quo warranto, shall proceed thereupon
with the most convenient speed that may be. 
2. Ancl be it enacted hy th« autlwrif.1/ aforesaid, That in case any 
, h . ~ . . r. • , 
person or persons agamst w om any mtormanon or mtormanons in
h f h ll • f l id be 
t e nature o a quo warranto s a m any o t 10 sai cases ex-
hibited in the said supreme court, shall be found or adjudged 
guilty of an usurpation or intrusion into, or unlawfully holding ancl
executing any such office or franchise, it sha11 and may be Iawful 
to and for the said court, as well to give judgment of ouster against
such person or persons of and from such office or franchise, as to
fine such person or persons, respectively, for his or their usurping, 
intruding into, or unlawfully holding and executing any such office
or franchise; and also, it shall and may be lawful to and for the
said supreme court to give judgment, that the relater or relators in
such information named shall recover his or their costs of such pro- 
secution; and if judgment shall be given for the defendant or de­
fondants in such information, he or they for whom such judgment
shall be given shall recover his or their costs therein expended 
. 
against such relator or relators, such costs to be levied hy fieri
facias or capias ad satisfaciendam, as in other cases. 
3. And be it enacted hy tlte. authority afuresa;d, That it shall and 
. • 
may be lawful to and for the said supreme court to a11ow to such 
, l , h , l'. • • 
person or person~. respective y, agamst w om any mrormanon in
the nature of a quo warranto in any of the cases aforesaid shall be 
sued or prosecuted, or to the person or persons who shall sue or
prosecute the same, such convenient time, respectively, to plead,
reply, rejoin, or demur, as to the said court shall seem just and rea­ 
sonable . 
1.."0f eseoins, protections, and w&ger of law. 
11 •... 0f fines and common recoveries. 
I .... !n Ad for prmntiog delays by essoins and protections, and for abol-
ishiog trials by wager ot law. 
1. BE IT ENACTED by lite Council and General Assembly of tku 
_1 • • 1. h d
1 7
1. • ,,,/' 1. 'Th
state, a1tu, it is nere y enacte uy tue aut1tortty '!I tne same, at 
no essoin or protection shall hereafter be allowed in any suit what-
soever. 
2 . .Aitd be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, That trials by
wager of law shall be and hereby are abolished in all cases, except 
in the case of nonsummons, and that no person shall hereafter be
permitted to wage his or her law in any case, except that of non­ 
summons in real actions. 
CHAPTER 26. 
REMEDIES ABOLISHED. 
11 .... h Act to abolish fines and common recoveries. 
· BE IT ENACTED hy the Council and General As.,embly of tkis
state, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That~~~:'::~: 
. • 
no fine or common recovery, to be entered, made, had, or suffered
in any court of record of this state, shall operate or be construed
to he a conveyance or assurance of fonds, tenements, or heredita­
ments, or in any way to bar the issue in tail, or the reversioner or 
remainderman of their lawful claims and entries, any usage or cus-
tom to the contrary in anywise notwithstanding. 
CHAPTER 2i. 
lNDICTMENTS, ETC., AGAIN.ST CORPORATIONS.
1. Town11hip summoned. I 4. Execution returned not 1mtisfied. 
2. Proceedings if returned ••sened." I 5. To be paid by county collector. 
3. Proceedings if returned .. not served." 6. And added to township's next tas. 
An !et to compel the appearance of corporations to indictment& and
formations. 
Revieion. ... Approved April 15, 1846. 
1. Bi: IT ENACTED by the Senate and General A8'embly of tke
S
h 
. di 
Peased .March 5, 1795. 
Passed June 12, 1799. 
late of New Jcr,ey, That w en any m ictment shall be found, or 
in- 
information filed by the attorney general, agaiost any corporation
or township, in any of the courts of law of this state, it shall and 
may be lawful for the attorney general or prosecuting attorney for
the state to cause a summons or notice to be directed to the said
corporation or township, in its corporate name, commanding or
notifying the said corporation or township to appear at the next
term of the said court, to answer to such indictment or information,
a copy of which summons or notice shall be served on the presi­
dent, or other head officer of the said corporation, or clerk of said
township, or left at his dwelling-house or usual place of abode, at
least six entire days before the commencement of the term to which
the said corporation are by said summons or notice required to ap­
pear; and in case the president or other head officer of the corpo­
ration cannot be found in the county in which such indictment shall
have been presented or information filed, to be served with a copy 
of said summons or notice as aforesaid, and has no dwening-house
or usual place of abode within the said county, then a copy of said
summons or notice may be served on the clerk, cashier or secre­
tary of the said corporation or township, if any there be in the said
county in which the said indictment shall have been found or in­ 
formation filed, and if there be no clerk, cashier or secretary of
said corporation or township found in said county, then on one of the
directors of the said corporation, or left at bis usual place of abode
six entire days before the commencement of the said term to which
the said su mrnuns or notice shall be returnable. 
2. A,ul be it enacted, That when the sheriff or other officer
shall return such summons or notice "summoned" or "served,''
the said corporation or township shall be considered as in court,
and as appearing to said indictment or information; and the court
shall order the clerk to enter an appearance for said corporation
or township, and endorse the plea of not guilty on said indictment
or information, and further proceedings may then be had thereon,
in the same manner as if the said corporation or township had ap­
peared and pleaded not guilty thereto ; and if the said corporation
or township shall be convicted on said indictment or information.
the said court may proceed to pass judgment thereon, and cause
process of execution to be issued to the sheriff of the county against
the goods and chattels or lands and tenements of the said corpora­
tion or township, for the amount of the fine and costs which may
be awarded against them, in the same manner as on a judgment in
a civil action ; and the said sheriff shall proceed to sell the goods 
and chattels or lands and tenements of the said corporation or town­
ship on the said execution, in the same manner aa en an execution 
issuing against a corporation in a civil suit.. 
3. hd be it enacted, That, in case the sheriff or other officer
shall return such summons or notice "not summoned" or "not 
served," and an affidavit shall be made to the satisfaction of the
court, that the same could not be served, as mentioned in the first
section of this act, or in case the sheriff or other officer shall make 
affidavit that he hath made diligent inquiry, and cannot ascertain
the name of any president, secretary, or director of said corpora- 
tion, resident in the county in which the said indictment shall have
been found or information filed, then the court shall make an order 
d
• • h id · h · b 
irectmg t e aar corporation to cause t eir appearance to e en-
tered, and to plead to said indictment or information on or before
the first day of the next term of the said court, a copy of which 
order shall, within twenty days, be inserted in such one of the pub-
Iic newspapers printed in this state, 88 the court may direct, for at
least six weeks; and if the said corporation shall not appear within 
the time limited by such order, or within such further time as the
court shall appoint, then on proof made of the publication of such 
order, in manner aforesaid, the court being satisfied of the truth
thereof, shall order the clerk to enter an appearance for said corpo- 
ration, and endorse a plea of not guilty on said indictment or in­
formation; and thereupon further proceedings may be had on the 
said indictment or information, in the same manner as if the said
corporation had appeared and pleaded not guilty thereto ; and in
case of conviction, execution may be issued against the said corpo- 
ration, and proceedings had thereon, as in the preceding section
mentioned. 
4. And be it enacted, That when any execution, issued against 
, . 
any township for the amount of any fine and costs, 88 provided by
the second section of this act, shall be returned by the sheriff or 
other proper officer unsatisfied for want of goo<ls and chattels, or
for want of lands and tenements of the township against which 
said execution issued, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
out of which the same issued, to make a copy thereof, with the en­
dorsements thereon, and the return of the sheriff' or other proper
officer thereto, having first added to the costs endorsed thereon one 
dollar, the fee of the said c1erk for said copy, and a certificate
thereof, and two dollars, the fee of the sheriff for the services herein-
after required of him, and to certify the same under his hand and 
seal of office, and deliver the same to the sheriff or other proper
officer. 
5, And be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or
h
ffi 
. . h if d f h
ot er propero cer, upon rece1vmg sue cern e copy o t e ex- 
ecution and return, to present the same to the county collector, who
shall pay to the sheriff of said county or other proper officer the 
amount of the costs endorsed, together with the interest due there­ 
on, taking the receipt of the sheriff or other proper officer there-
upon, which certified copy and receipt shall be a sufficient voucher 
for the payment thereof, in the settlement of the accounts of the
said collector. 
6. And be it enacted, That the said collector having paid the
said costs, shall thereupon charge -the same, together with the 
amount of said fine, to the township against which such execution
was issued, adding thereto interest up to the twenty-second day of 
December next ensuing the next annual meeting of the board of
assessors of said county, and shall lay the same before the said 
board of assessors at their next annual meeting, which sum shall
be added to the proportion or quota of the tax next to be levied
and collected in such township; and shall be eseeesed, levied, col­
lected, and paid over, in the same manner and under the same pe­
nalties as the said proportion or quota of tax is by law directed to 
be assesaed, levied, collected, and paid over. 