com: or CIVIL PROCEDURE.
ARTICLE 1.

OF‘ THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS AND THE PARTIES THERETO.

§ 2685. SUB-SECTION 1. There shall be in this territory
but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of
private rights, and the redress or prevention of private
wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action, and the
party thereto complaining shall be known as the plaintiff, and
the adverse party as the defendant.

SUB-SEC. :2. Every action shall be presented in the name
of the real party in interest. except as otherwise provided in
the next succeeding section.

SUB-SEC. 2-5. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
ma _v sue in his own name without joining with him the person
for whose benetit the suit is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose name acoutract is made for the benefit. of another.

SUB-SEC. 4. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this article.

SUB-SEC. 5. Any ‘person may be a defendant who has, or
claims an interest, in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff,
or who is a necessar_v party to a complete determination or
settlement of the question involved therein.

SUB-SEC. 6. Parties who are united in interest may be
joined as plaintiffs or defendants, but if the consent of any
one who should be joined as plaintilf cannot be obtained, he
may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the complaint.

SUB-SEC. 7. Every person who shall have a cause of action against several persons, including parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and who shall be entitled by
law to one satisfaction therefor, may bring suit thereon jointly against all or as many of the persons liable as he may think
proper, and he may, at his option, join any executor or administrator or other person liable in a representative character with others originally liable.

SUB-SEC. 8. A married woman shall sue and be sued as if
she were unmarried.

ARTICLE II.
or PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST INFANTS.

SUB-SEC. SJ. Suits by infants may be commenced and
prosecuted, either: First, by the guardian, or: second, by a
next friend.

SUB-SEC. 1(). When commenced by a next friend, the
court may dismiss the cause if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or substitute the guardian or any other person as next
friend.

SUB-SEC. 11. Any person who acts as next friend for an
infant in any suit to recover any personal property, debt or
damages, shall, if required by the court, execute a bond to
such infant in double the amount claimed in such suit, with
such sureties as shall be approved by the court, conditioned
that su(-h next friend shall account to such infant for all
money or property which may be recovered in such suit.
Such bond shall be delivered to and filed in the office of the
clerk of the court in which said suit is pending.

SUB-SEC. 1:2. The guardian or next friend of any infant
who commences or prosecutes a suit shall be responsible for
the costs thereof, unless such infant be permitted by the
court to sue as a poor person, as provided by law. V

SUB-SEC. 13. After the commencement of a suit against
an infant defendant, and the service of process upon him,
the suit shall not be prosecuted any further until a guardian
for such infant be appointed.

SUB-SEC. 14. Such appointment shall be made by the
court in which the suit is pending, or by the judge thereof in
vacation, upon the written request of the infant defendant, if
of the age of fourteen years or more, or, if said infant is under the age of fourteen, on the written request of a relative
or friend of the infant, or on the written consen t of any competent person proposed as guardian, and such request and
consent shall be filed in the otiice of the clerk of the court before any answers by such infant shall be tiled.

SUB-SEC. 15. If such infant defendant, or a relative or
friend of an infant under the age of fourteen, neglect for
twenty days to procure the appointment of a guardian to defend the suit, the court shall appoint some competent person
to be the guardian for such infant in the defense of such suit.

SUB-SEC. 16. No person appoint.ed guardian for an infant
for t-he purpose of defending a suit against such infant shall
be liable for the cos ts of such suit, unless especially charged
by the court for some personal misconduct in such cause.

ARTICLE III.

01*‘ THE l\‘IA.\'l\'ER OF COMMEN(,‘IN(} CIVIL A(J'I‘lOl\'S.

SUB-SEC. 17. -Civil actions in the courts of the territory
are commenced by filing a complaint.

SUB-SEC. 18. The clerk must indorse on the complaint the
day, month and year that it is died, and at any time within
one year thereafter the plaintiff may have a summons issued,
but at any time within the year after the complaint is filed, the
defendant may, in writing or by appearing and answering or
demurring, waive the issuing of summons. If the action be
brought against two or more defendants and one of them has
been served, the other or others may be served or appear at
any time before trial.

SUB-SEC. 19. The summons must be directed to the defendant, signed by the clerk and issued under the seal of the
court, and must contain:

First. The names of the parties t.o the action, the court in
which it is brought, and the county in which the complaint is
filed.

Second. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
the complaint within twenty days after service of the summons, if defendant is served in any county in the district in
which he is sued, otherwise within thirty days after service.

Third. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defendant so
appears and answers. the p1ainti1T will take judgment for the
sum demanded in the complaint (stating it).

Fourth. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant
so appears and answers, the plaintiff will apply to the court
for the relief demanded in the complaint. The name and address of the plaintiff's attorney must be indorsetf on every
summons, and service of answer or notice of appearance or
other notices in the action must be made by the defendant on
such attorney at such address.

SUB-SEC. :20. A copy of the complaint need not be served
with the summons. If the defendant, within the time stated
in the summons, demands in writing a copy of the complaint,
specifying a place Within the territory where it may be
served, a copy thereof must, within twenty days thereafter,
be served accordingly, "and after such service the defendant
has twenty days to answer, but only one copy need be served
on the same attorney. When a copy of the complaint is not
served with the summons, 3. statement of the nature of the
action in general terms, shall be indorsed on the back of the
summons, but such statement shall not be considered as
jurisdictional.

SUB-S1230. 21. In the case of a defendant against whom no
personal claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant, or his attorne_v, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff,
or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the action,
a brief description of the property affected by it, if it affects
specific, real or personal property, and that no personal claim
is made against said defendant, in which case no copy of the
complaint need be served on Such defendant, unless within
the time for answering, he shall, in writing, demand the
same. If a defendant on whom such notice is served, unreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the
plaintiff.

SUB-SEC. 2;’. The summons may be served by the sheriff
of the county where the defendant may be found. The service shall be made and the summons returned with proof of
the service to the clerk of the court issuing the summons,
with all reasonable diligence.

SUB-SEC. :32-. The summons shall be served in the manner
now provided by law for the service of process in actions at
common law. When the summons is served by the sheriff
it must be returned with his certificate of service, and of the
service of any copy of the complaint or notice where such
copy is served, to the otiice of the clerk from which it is issued. When it is served by any other person it must be returned to the same place. with the atiidavit of such person of
its service. and of the service of a copy of the complaint or
notice where such copy is served.

SUB-SEC. 24. When any plaintiff, his agent or attorney in
any civil suit pending or hereafter commenced in any court
of record, shall file a sworn pleading or affidavit showing that
any defendant resides or has gone out of the territory, or has
concealed himself within, has avoided service of process upon
him, or is in any other manner so situated that process cannot be served upon him, or his or their names or places of
residence are unknown, or his or their whereabouts cannot be
discovered, in such case it shall be the duty of the clerk of
said court to publish a notice of the pendency of the said
cause in some newspaper published in the said county where
the cause may be pending, and if there be no newspaper
published in said county, then in some newspaper published
in the territory: said notice shall contain the names of the
parties to the cause, the court in which it is pending and a
statement of the general objects of the action, shall be signed
by the clerk of the court. and shall show the name of the
plaintiff's attorney, with his post-office or business address,
and shall notify the defendant that unless he enters his appearance in said cause on or before the day named therein,
judgment will be rendered in said cause against him by default. Said notice shall be signed by‘ the clerk and shall be
published for at least once a week for four consecutive weeks,
the last publication of which shall be at least twenty days before the day on or before which the defendant is notified to
appear. The publication of said notice shall be proved by
the affidavit of such publisher, manager or agent of said
newspaper, and the same shall be taken and considered as

suiiicient notice of summons and valid in law, and the plaintiff
thereupon may prosecute his said cause to a final judgment
under the same.

SUB-SEC. :25. When the residence of the defendant in the
cases mentioned‘ in the preceding section is known to the
atliant, the same shall be stated in the affidavit, and if such
residence is not known, that fact shall be stated. When the
residence of the defendant is known, the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney shall forthwith deposit acopy of the summons
and complaint in the post-otlice, postage prepaid, directed to
the defendant at his place of residence.

SUB-SEC. :26. Personal service of a copy of the summons
and complaint out of the t-erritory shall be equivalent to
publication and deposit in the post-office. In either case the
service of the su mmons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed for publication.

SUB-SEC. 27. When personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint is made out of the territory, or service
by publication is made as provided in the preceding section,
the defendant is required to appear Within twenty days after
the completion thereof, in the same manner and under the
same penalties as if he had been personally served with a
summons within the county in which the suit is pending.

SUB-SEC. 28. When any process has not been returned, or
has been returned Without service, or has been improperly
served, it shall be the duty of the clerk, upon the application
of any party to the suit, to issue other process to the same or
any other county, as the party applying may direct.

ARTICLE IV.
PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

SUB-SEC. :39. The pleadings are the formal allegations by
the parties of their respective claims and defenses..

SUB—SEC. 30. The forms of pleading in civil actions in
courts of record and the rules by which the sufficiency of the
pleadings are to be determined are, except as otherwise specially provided by law, prescribed by this chapter.

SUB-SEC. 31. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, is the complaint. ' '

SUB-SEC. 3:2. The complaint must contain:

First. The title of the action, the name of the court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action.

Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, in ordinary and concise language.

Third. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims.
If the recovery of money or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof must be stated.

SUB-SEC. 33. The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint
several causes of action, whether they be such as have been
heretofore denoniinated legal or equitable, or both, where they
all arise out of:

First. The same transaction or transactions connected with
the same subject of action: or

Second. Contract, express or implied: or

Third. ~Injuries with or without force, to person and property, or either: or

Fourth. Injuries to character: or

Fifth. Claims to recover real property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same: or

Sixth. Claims to recover personal property, with or without. damages for the withholding thereof: or

Seventh. Claims by or against a party in some representative or fiduciary capacity, by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law. But the causes of action so united must all
belong to one of these classes and must affect all the parties
to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must
be separately stated, with the relief sought for each cause of
action, in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SUB-SEC. 34. The only pleading on the part of the defendant- is either a demurrer or answer.

SUB-SEC. 35. The defendant may demur to the complaint,
when it shall appear upon the face thereof, either:

First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant or the subject of the action: or

Second. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or

Third. That there is another action pending between the
same parties, for the same cause, in this territory: or

Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or de
fendant: or

Fifth. . That several causes of action have been improperly
united: or

Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action: or

Seventh. That a party, plaintiff or defendant, is not necessary or proper party to complete determination of the action.

SUB-SEC. 36. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
grounds of objection to the pleadings: unless it does so, it
may be disregarded.

SUB-SEC. 37. The defendant may demur to the whole
complaint, or to any one or more of the alleged causes of
action stated therein, and answer the residue.

SUB-SEC. 38. After a demurrer the plaintiff may amend,
of course, and with or without costs as the court may order.
Upon the decision of the demurrer, the plaintiff may amend,
or the defendant withdraw his demurrer and answer. The
amended complaint, answer or reply shall be filed within such
time as the court may prescribe.

SUB-SEC. 39. When any of the matters enumerated in subsection thirty-five of this act, do not appear upon the face of
the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. If no
such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the
subject matter of the action, and excepting the objection that
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.

SUB-SEC. 40. The answer of the defendant must contain:

First. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of t-he complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any
knowledge or information thereof suiiicient to form a belief.

Second. A statement of any new matter constitutingade
fense or counter claim, in ordinary and concise language.
withou t repetition.

SUB-SEC. «ll. The counter claim mentioned in the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against
a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action:

First. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim, or connected with t-he subject of the action.

Second. In an action arising on contract, any other cause
of action arising also on contract and existing at the commencement of the action.

The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses
and counter claims as he may have, whether they be such as
have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both.
They must each be separately stated, and refer to the causes
of action which they are intended to answer, in such manner
that they may be intelligibl y distinguished.

The defendant may recover judgment on his counter claim.
if proved, for any excess thereof over the plaintiff's demand
as proved. .

SUB-SEC. 42.’. Two or more defendants making the same
defense may answer jointly. Dit‘t'e'rent consistent defenses
may be separately stated in the same answer.

SUB-SEC. 42-}. When the answer contains new matter, the
plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such new matter,
denying generally, or speciticall y, each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient
to form a belief: and he may allege, in ordinary and concise
language, without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new
matter in the answer, and the plaintiff may, in all cases, demur to the answer containing new matter, where upon its face
it does not constitute a counter claim or defense: and the
plaintiff may demur to one or more of such defenses or counter clain1s,.and reply to the residue of the counter claims.

SUB-SEC. 44. ‘If the answer contain a statement of new
matter, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur thereto within
the time prescribed by law, the defendant shall have such
judgment as he is entitled to upon such statement, and if the
case require it, damages shall be assessed by a jury.

SUB-SEC. 45. The reply shall be governed by the rules
prescribed in relation to answers: and demurrers to answer
or reply shall be governed by those prescribed in relation to
demurrers to complaints where they apply, and when a reply
is filed, the cause shall be deemed at issue.

SUB-SEC. 46. Every pleading subsequent to the complaint
shall be filed and served within twenty days after service of
the pleading to which it is an answer, demurrer or reply.

SUB-SEC. 47. Every pleading must be subscribed by the
party making the same, or his attorney, and when any pleading is verified, every subsequent pleading. except a demurrer, must be verified also.

SUB-SEC. 48. The verification must be to the effect that
the same is true, to the knowledge of the person making it,
except as to those matters stated on information and belief,

and as to those matters. he believes them to be true, and must‘

be by the aflidavit of the party, or if there be several parties
united in interest and pleading together, by one at least, of
such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be Within the county where the attorney resides and capable of making the affidavit. In other cases the aftidavit may also be
made by the agent or attorney. When the pleading is veritied
by any other person than the party, he shall set forth in the
aliidavit the reasons why it is not made by the. party. When
a corporation is a party the verification may be made by an
agent or attorney thereof: and when the territory, or any othcer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be
made by any person. The verification may be omitted when
the admission of the truth of the allegation might subject the
party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used
in a criminal prosecution against the party as proof of the
fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.

ARTICLE V.
(}lCNEl{AL RULES or PLEADINH.

SUB-SEC. 49. No allegation shall be made in a pleading
which the law does not require to be proved, and only the
substantive facts necessary to constitute the cause of action
or defense, shall be stated.

SUB-SEC. 530. A frivolous demurrer, answer or reply may
be stricken out on motion of the adverse party. ~.

SUB-SEC. 231. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of the
adverse party; and when the allegations or denials of a
pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature
of the charge or denial is not apparent, and when they fail in
any other respect to conform to the requirements of law, the
court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain, or otherwise to conform to the law by amendment.

SUB—SEC.  Duplicity is a substantial objection to the
complaint or other pleading, and such objection shall be
available on motion to strike out.

SUB-SEC. 53. The court shall have power to tax t-he party
offending for any violation of the rules of pleading in the
particulars specitied in the last three sections, the sum of
five dollars, as costs, in favor of the adverse party.

SUB-SEC. 54. No party shall be required to state evidence
in his pleadings, or to disclose therein the means by which he
intends to prove his case.

SUB-SEC. 5:"). Demurrers and motions shall be considered
and determined without delay, and if sustained in whole or
in part, the adverse party shall pay costs: if overruled, the

party demurring or making the motion shall pay costs: but
the court may in such cases, in its discretion, remit the costs.

SUB-SEC. £36. The courts, upon good cause shown, and for
the furtherance of justice, may extend the time prescribed by
law for filing or serving any pleading or motion upon such
terms as shall be just.

SUB-SEC. 57. An answer or reply may allege facts which
have occurred since the institution of the suit-.

SUB-SEC. 58. Every complaint or other pleading and motion shall be signed by the party or his attorney, with his

oiiice address, and the clerk shall indorse thereon the day
upon which it is filed and shall make an entry thereof.

SUB-SEC. 59. The name of the county stated in the complaint shall be taken to be the venue intended by the plaintiff,
and it shall not be necessary to state a venue in the body of
the complaint or in any subsequent pleading.

SUB-SEC. 60. When a complaint, answer or reply shall be
adjudged insufficient in whole or in part upon demurrer, or
the Whole or some part thereof stricken out-, on motion the
proper party may file a further like pleading within such time
as the court shall direct, and in default thereof, the court shall
proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no such
original pleading had been tiled.

SUB-SEC. 61. If such second complaint, answer or reply
be filed,’ and in like manner be adjudged insufficient, or the
whole or some part thereof in like manner stricken out, the
party filing such second pleading shall pay double costs and
file a like pleading instanter, or, in default thereof, the court
shall proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no second pleading had been tiled.

SUB-SEC. 62. If a third complaint, answer or reply be
filed and adjudged insufficient as above, or the whole or some
part thereof be stricken out, the party filing such pleadings
shall pay treble costs, and no further complaint, answer or
reply shall be tiled, but judgment shall be rendered.

SUB-SEC. 63. In all actions founded on contract and instituted against several defendants, the plaintiff shall not be
non-suited by reason of his failure to prove that all of the defendants are parties to the contract, but may have judgment
z crainst such of them as he shall prove to be parties thereto.

SUB-SEC. 64. A pleading of any kind, or a motion to
strike out, shall be deemed responsive to the adverse pleading, or so much thereof as t-he pleading or motion is intended
to apply to, until otherwise determined by the court, nor can
several pleadings be applied to the same part of a pleading at
the same time.

SUB-SEC. 65. Either party may allege any fact or title
alternatively, declaring his belief of one alternative or the
other, and his ignorance whether it be the one or the other.

SUB-SEC. 66. When the pleading shall set up the statute
of limitations, or the statute of frauds or any other legal bar.
the party shall not be deprived of the benefits of such defense
by reason of his not denying the facts set forth in the adverse pleading.

SUB-SEC. 67. Every material allegation of the complaint
not controversed by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter contained in the answer not controverted
by the reply shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true, but the allegation of new matter in the reply shall be
deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct
denial or avoidance.

SUB-SEC. 6H. In the construction of a pleading for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed with a view to substantial justice between
the parties. SUB-SEC. 69. It is not necessary for a party to set forth
in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he
must deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after the
demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or judge
thereof may order a further account when the one delivered
is too general, or is defective in any particular.

SUB-SEC. 70. Neither presumption of law nor matter of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in pleading.

SUB-SEC. 71. In pleading a private statute or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute
by its title and the (lay of its passage, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SUB-SEC. 7:2. It shall not be necessary in any pleading to
set forth any statute, public or private, or any special matter
thereof, but it shall be sufficient for the party to allege therein that the act was done by authority of such statute, or contrary to the provisions thereof, naming the subject matter of
such statute, or referring thereto in some general term with
convenient certainty. SUB-SEC. 72-}. In pleading the performance of a condition
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his
part, and in pleading a judgment or other determination of a
court or oiiicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given
or made; if such allegations be controverted the party pleading shall be bound to establish on trial the facts showing such
performance or conferring such jurisdiction as the case may
require.

SUB-SEC. 74. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose, but it
shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff, and if such allegations be not controverted in the answer, it shall not be necessary, to prove it on the trial: in other cases it shall be necessary. '

SUB-SEC. T5. In the actions mentioned in the last preceding section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of the matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances admissible in evidence, to reduce the
amount of damages, and whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give mitigating circumstances in evidence.

SUB-SEC. 76. All motions shallbeaccompanied byawritteu
specification of the reason upon which they are founded, and
no reason not so specified shall be urged in support of the
motion.

SUB-SEC. 77. An action or defense may be maintained on
any instrument. of writing, notwithstanding it may be lost or
destroyed, and in every such action or defense it shall be
sutlicient for the party to allege. the loss or destruction thereof as a reason for the failure to file or produce the same.

ARTICLE VI.
AMENDMENTS AND VARIANCES.

WSUB-SEC. 78. No variance between the allegation in the

pleading and the proof shall be deemed material unless it has
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. When it shall
be alleged that a party has been so misled, the facts shall be
proved to the satisfaction of the court, showing in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the court may order
the pleading to be amended upon such terms as shall be just.

SUB-SEC. 79. When the variance between the allegation
and the pleading and the proof is not material, the court may
direct the facts to be found according to the evidence, or may
order an immediate amendment without costs.

, SUB-SEC. 80. Where, however, the allegation of the cause
of action or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its
entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of
variance within the last two sections, buta failure of proof.

. SUB-SEC. 81. Any pleading may be once amended by the
party, of course, without costs, and wi.thout prejudice to the
proceedings already had, at any time within twenty days after
it is served, or at any time before the period for answering it
expires, or it can be so amended at any time, within twenty
days after the service of the answer or demurrer to such
pleading, unless it be made to appear to the court that it was
done for the purpose of delaying, and the plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a term for which the cause
is or may be placed on the jury trial docket, and if it appears
to the court that such amendment was made for such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms imposed
as to the court may seem just. In all cases a copy of the
amended pleading must be served on the adverse party.
After the decision of a demurrer the court shall allow the
party to plead over upon such terms as may be just. If the
demurrer be allowed for the reason that causes of action have
been improperly united, the court may i11 its discretion, and
upon such terms as may be just, order the action to be divided into as many actions as may be necessary to the proper
determination of the causes of action therein mentioned.

SUB-SEC. H2. The court may, at any time before t1'naljudgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, amend any record, pleading, process, entry, return,
or other proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations, material to the case, or, when the amendment. does
not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming
the pleading or proceetling to the facts proved.

SUB-SEC. 82-}. When a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties,
the court may order them to be brought in by an amendment
of the complaint or by a supplementary complaint and a new
summons.

SUB-SEC. H4. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the
name of the defendant, such defendant may be designated in
any pleading or proceeding by any name or description, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. The plaintiff in such case
must state in his complaint that he could not ascertain the
true name, and the summons must contain the words, Real
name unknown.

SUB-SEC. H5. The court shall, in every stage of the action,
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not effect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and nojudgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect. SUB-SEC. H6. After final judgment rendered in any cause,
the court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms
as may be just, amend in aflirmance of such judgment, any
record, pleading, process, entry, return or other proceedings
in such cause, by adding or striking out the name of a party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect, or by rectifying defects or imperfections in matters of form; and such judgment shall not
be reversed or annulled therefor.

SUB-SEC. 87. A party may be allowed, on motion, to make
a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the cause, or praying for any other or different
relief, order or judgment.

SUB-SEC. 88. The plaintiff, at any time before the jury is
sworn, or the trial submitted to the court, may, on motion,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, strike out any
part of his complaint. Upon such motion, no objection shall
be valid that would not be valid after a finding of the issue
for the plaintiff.

SUB-SEC. 89. In every complaint, answer or reply,amenda—
tory or supplemental, the party shall set forth in one entire
pleading all matters which, by the rules of pleading, may be
set forth in such pleading, and which may be necessary to the
proper determination of the action or defense.

SUB-SEC. 90. The last sub-section shall not be construed to
require an amendatory or supplemental pleading to be made
where the amendment desired may be made by striking from
the pleading portions thereof, or by adding or striking out

the name of a party, or dates, or adding or filing of an ailidavit, or by correcting the name of a party or obvious errors.

SUB-SEC. 91. If any amendment be made to any pleading,
the adverse party shall be allowed an opportunity, according
to the course and practice of the court, to answer, demur or
reply to the leading so amended.

SUB-SEC. 2. Any variance in the record from any process,
pleading or proceeding had in such cause shall be amended
and certified according to such original process, pleading or
proceeding.

SUB-SEC. 93-}. All returns made by any person or other
officer, or by any court or subordinate tribunal to any court,
may be amended in matters of form by the court to which
such return shall be made, in its discretion, as well before as
after judgment.

SUB-SEC. 94. All omissions, imperfections, defects and
variances, not being 2 gainst the right and justice of the matter of the action, and not altering the issue between the parties
on the trial, shall be supplied and amended by the court Where
the judgment shall be given, or by the court into which such
judgment shall be removed by writ of error or appeal.

SUB-SEC.  The provisions of this act relating to amendments and variances shall extend to all actions and to all suits
for the recovery of any debt due to this territory, or for any
debt, duty or revenue belonging to this territory: and also to
all actions for penalties, to all writs of mandamus and prohibition, to information in the nature of ([110 u'¢z:'1'r1nfo, towrits
of .s-¢-ire frm'u,.s-, and to the proceedings thereon; but shall not
extend to indictments or information for any criminal matter.
or to the proceedings thereon. »

SUB-SEC. 96. It shall be the duty of the courts, so to construe the provisions of law relating to pleading, and amending the same, and so to adapt the practice thereunder, as to
discourage, as far as possible, negligence and deceit, to prevent delay, to secure parties from being misled, to place the
party not at fault as nearly as possible in the same condition
in which he would have been if no mistake had been made, to
distinguish between form and substance, and to afford known,
fixed and certain requirements in place of the discretion of
the court or the judge thereof.

ARTICLE VII.
MOTIONS, ORDERS AND SERVICE.

SUB-SEC. 97. Every direction of a court or judge made or
entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

SUB-SEC. 98. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it
must be served five days before the time appointed for the
hearing, but the court or judge may, by an order to show
cause, prescribe a shorter time.

SUB-SEC. 99. When notice of a motion is given, or an order
to show cause is returnable before a judge or court, and at
the time fixed for the motion the judge is absent or unable to

hear it, t-he motion may be heard without further notice as
soon as it can be heard by the judge.

SUB-SEC. 100. The time within which any proceeding in
an action must be had after its commencement, except the
time Within which an appeal must be taken, or writ of error
sued out. may be enlarged, on motion. proper cause being
shown therefor, and the judge may dispense with the notice
in his discretion.

SUB-SEC. 101. All service of papers, when the party to be
notified has appeared by attorney, shall be made upon the attorney. On pleadings and papers to be filed or served, the
attorney shall indorse his name and place of business. Service of papers upon an attorney shall be made either by
delivering the paper to him personally, or by leaving it at his
oiiice between the hours of nine a. m. and four p. 111. with some
person in charge thereof, or by depositing it in the post-office,
securely enveloped, with postage thereon paid, addressed
to the attorney at his place of business. Where the party
appears in person the service may be made in like manner on
the party himself.

SUB-SEC. 102. Whenever any proceeding is to be had
prior to service of summons or appearance, at least five days‘
notice thereof shall be given, unless otherwise ordered by
the court, and it shall be served on the party himself, and
proof thereof made in the manner provided for service and
return of summons.

ARTICLE VIII.
TRIAL A.\'l) JUDGMl-INT IN CIVIL AC'1‘IONS.

SUB-SEC. 103. Any judgment, or decree, except in cases
where trial by jury is necessary, may be rendered by the
judge of the district court at any place Where he may be in
his district, or when in attendance upon the supreme court,
and the district counts, except for jury trials, are declared to
be at all times in session for all purposes, including naturalization of aliens. Interlocutory orders may be made by such
judge Wherever he may be in the territory, upon notice, if
outside of his district, in cases where notice is required, for
such time as the court shall deem proper, in addition to the
time otherwise prescribed. In the absence from the territory of the judge of the district in Which the suit is pending,
any other judge may render such judgment, order or decree.

SUB-Slszc. 104. Any hearing of any kind, whether interlocutory or final, unless trial by jury is necessary, may be
had in any case out of regular term time upon five days’ notice, in writing, to the opposite party, or his attorney or solicitor. Such hearing may be had during the term of court
at any time in the discretion of the court.

SUB-SEC. 105'). When an action is against two or more defendants jointly or severally liable on a contract, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the
plaintiff may proceed against the defendants served in the
same manner as if they were the only defendants, but the
action shall not abate as to other defendants, and shall proceed to final judgment against any or all of such other defendants, and when necessary more than one judgment may be
rendered in the same action. SUB—SEC. 106. Judgment may be had if the defendant. fail
to answer the complaint as notified by the summons as follows:

First. In case of default adjudged against a party for nonappearance or for failure to plead or amend his pleadings, as
required by law or the rules of the court, when the action is
for a money demand, and the amount of the proper judgment
is a mere matter of computation. the clerk shall ascertain the
amount. When long accounts are to be examined, the court
may refer the matter. In other cases the court shall assess
the damages, unless a jury be demanded by the party not in
default. The proper amount having been ascertained by
either of the above methods, judgment shall be rendered
therefor.

Second. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with
the clerk of the court wit-hin the time specified in the summons or such further time as may have been granted, the
court or judge, upon application of the plaintiff, must enter
the default of the defendant and render judgment. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact is necessary to
enable the court to give judgment or to carry the judgment
into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof,
or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in whole
or in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed
by a jury in term time, or, if to determine the amount of damages the examination of a long account be involved, by reference. as herein provided.

Third. In actions where the service of the summons is by
publication, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for
answering, may, upon proof of the publication and that no
answer has been filed, apply for judgment, and the court must
thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned
in the complaint, and, if the defendant be not a resident of the
territory, may require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made
to the plaintiff or to any one for his use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is
entitled to recover.

SUB-SEC. 107. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and
cont1'0Ve1‘ted by the other. They are of two kinds:

First. Of law; and

Second. Of fact.

An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint.
answer or reply, or to some part thereof.

An issue of fact arises upon a material allegation in the
complaint controverted by the answer: or upon new matter in
the answer controverted by the reply‘ or upon new matter in
the reply, unless an issue of law is joined thereon.

SUB-SEC. JUH. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In

such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless the
court otherwise directs.

SUB-SEC. 109. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of
fact.

SUB-SEC. 110. An issue of law must be tried by the court,
unless it be referred as provided in sub-sections one hundred
and thirty-eight and one hundred and thirty-nine of this
act. An issue of fact in an action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real or personal property, where the right
of trial by jury existed at common law, must be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial be waived or a reference be ordered.
But this shall not be construed to limit the power of the court
to administer all remedies and grant equitable relief which it
could heretofore do under its general chaucery jurisdiction.

SUB-SEC. 111. Every other issue is triable by the court,
which however, may order the whole issue, or any specific
question or fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury; or
may refer it as provided in sub-sections one hundred and
thirty-eight and one hundred and thirty-nine of this act.

SUB-SEC. 112. At any time after issue, and at least twenty
days before the regular term of court, either party may give
notice of trial of any cause requiring trial by jury. The party
giving the notice shall also furnish the clerk, at least eight
days before the term of court, with a notice to put said cause
upon the jury trial docket for trial. It shall be the (luty of
the clerk to put all causes, of which he has received notice of
trial, upon the docket in the order of the filing of the last
pleading in such cause.

All causes in which damages are to be assessed or other
facts to be determined by a jury, where the issues are not
made up upon the pleadings, may, at the instance of the
court or either of the parties, upon notice, be placed upon the
jury trial docket. Whenever the issues in a cause are made
up during a regular term of court, or within twenty days
prior thereto, the court may, upon application of either party,
place such cause on the trial docket in it-s proper order for
trial. and the same may be tried at that term of the court,
unless it is made to appear that such trial will work a prejudice to the opposite party.

SUB-SEC. 113. Either party to a suit placed upon the trial
docket may bring the same to trial, and in the absence of the
adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with the case, and take a dismissal of the
complaint or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.
A separate trial between a plaintitf and any of the several defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever in its opinion
justice will thereby be promoted.

SUB-SEC. 114. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in
an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant
when a set-off for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintiff's claim as established, the
jury must also assess the amount of the recovery: they may
also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount of
the recovery when the court gives judgment for the plaintil’r'

on the answer. If a set-off established at the trial exceed the
plaintiiT’s demand as established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment
must be given acc.ordi11gl_v.

SUB-SEC. 11:"). When a tender of money is alleged in any
pleading, it shall not be necessary to deposit the money in
court when the pleading is tiled. but it shall be suiiicient if
the money is deposited in court at the trial, or when ordered
by the court.

SUB-SEC. 116. If an original pleading be lost or withheld
by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.

SUB-SEC. 117. When actions of a like nature or relative tothe same question are pending, the court or judge may make
such orders and rules concerning proceedings therein as may
be conformable to the usages of the courts for avoiding unnecessary delay in the administration of justice, and on motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show
cause why the same shall not be consolidated, and if no cause
be shown such actions shall be consolidated.

SUB-SEC. 118. The defendant may, at any time before the
trial or verdict, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property or to the effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer and give notice thereof in writing within
two days, he may file the offer with notice of acceptance, and
the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If
the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn and cannot be given in evidence, and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover
costs from the time of the offer.

SUB-SEC. 119. Whenever a ruling is made upon objections
to the admission or rejection of testimony, or in the’ case of
any other ruling or acts during the progress of a trial before
a court or referee, or any ruling or decision at any time during the progress of a cause, it shall not be necessary to take
any exception, but a review thereof may be had as if such exception had been taken and noted: and it shall not be necessary to object or except to the giving or refusal to give instructions to a jury in order to secure a review of the same
on writ of error or appeal, but such instructions shall be reviewed in the same manner as if such instructions had been
specitically excepted to at the time of giving or refusal to give
the same.

SUB-SEC. J20. The court before which an action is pending, or the judge thereof, may, in his discretion and upon due
notice, order either party to give to the other, within a
specified time, an inspection and a copy or permission to take
a copy of a paper in his possession or under his control containing evidence relating to the merits of the action. If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion, I113-.Y
exclude the paper from being given in evidence or punish the
party refusing as for a contempt, or both.

SUB-91-X‘. 121. If the party neglect to obey such order for
the production of books, papers and documents within such
time as the court or judge may prescribe for that purpose,
the court may non-suit him or strike out any answer, or debar him from any particular defense in relation to which such
books, papers and documents were required to be produced,
or may punish him’ as for a contempt. .

SUB-SEC. 122. Every such order may be vacated by the
court or otticer granting the same:

First. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have
been granted.

Second. Upon the party required to produce the books.
papers and documents denying, on oath, the possession or
control thereof.

SUB-SEC. 1:33. Either party’ may exhibit to the other, at
any time before the trial, any paper material to the action,
and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If
the adverse party fail to give the admission within two days
after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be

afterwards put to expense in order to prove its gcnuineness,

and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such
expense shall be paid by the party failing to make the admission, unless it shall appear, to the satisfaction of the court,
that there were good reasons for the failure: P2-mritlcci, That
this sub-section shall not atfectsections two thousand nine hun—
dred and thirty-one, two thousand nine hundred and eightythree and two thousand nine hundred and eighty-four.

SUB-SEC. 124. Whenever a party to a suit shall have been
permitted to prove the loss of an instrument in order to admit other proof of the contents thereof, the adverse party
may disprove such loss and account for such instrument.

SUB-SEC. 1:25. If, in any suit founded upon any negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, or in which such bill or
note, if produced, might be allowed in the defense of any
suit. it appear on the trial that such note or bill was lost or
destroyed while it belonged to the party claiming the amount
due thereon, parol or other evidence of the contents thereof
may be given on such trial, and such party shall be entitled
to recover the amount due thereon as if such note or bill had
been produced.

SUB-SEC. 126. To entitle a party to such recovery, he, or
some responsible party for him, shall execute a bond to the
adverse party in a penalty at least double the amount of such
note or bill, and with two suflicient securities, tobe approved
by the court in which the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party against all claims by any other
person on account of such note or bill and against all costs
and expense by reason of such claims.

SUB-SEC. 1:27. The preceding‘ two sub-sections shall not be
construed to authorize any instrument of writing to be received in evidence without proof of its execution in any suit
against an executor or administrator or any other person representing the person charged to have executed such instrument.

SUB-SEC. 128. When the evidence is concluded, and before the cause is argued or submitted to the jury or to the
court sitting as a jury, either party may move the court to
give instructions on any point of law arising in the cause,
which shall be in writing and shall be given or refused. The
court may, of its own motion, give like instructionsin writing,
and all instructions shall be given by the court before argument and shall be carried by the jury to their room for their
guidance to a correct verdict according to the law and the
evidence.

SUB-SEC. 129. When any plaintiff shall bring in the same
court several suits against the same defendant that may be
joined, and whenever any plaintiffs shall bring in the same
court several suits against several defendants that may be
joined, the plaintiff shall recover only the costs of one action,
and the costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against
him unless sufficient reason appear to the court for bringing
several actions.

SUB-SEC. 130. No action shall abate by the marriage or
conviction of crime of a party, if the cause of action survive
or continue, but the court may order the same to proceed, and
an action may be brought or prosecuted to final judgmentagainst any person in prison for crime, regardless of such imprisonment.

SUB-SEC. 131. Any interlocutory judgment, or default,
may, for good cause shown, be set aside at any time before
the damages are assessed or final judgment rendered upon
such terms as shall be just.

SUB-SEC. 13:‘. Upon the rendition of any verdict, or the
making of findings in a case tried by the court, judgment
shall be immediately rendered thereon, unless notice is given
at the time of the intention of the party to make a motion for
a new trial. SUB-SEC. 133. All motions for new trials in cases tried by
juries shall be filed during the term of the court at which the
case is tried, and Within five days after the rendition of the
verdict or findings.

Every such motion shall be argued or submitted and decided during the term at which the case is tried, unless the
court shall for good cause expressly continue it, and no general order of continuance of pending causes, motions and proceedings shall be held a continuance of such a motion. A
failure by the court to pass on or continue such a motion during the same term at which _the case has been tried shall be
considered as a denial of the same, and no continuance of such
a motion shall be for a longer period than thirty days after
the expiration of the term.

SUB-SEC. 134. No motion to set aside any finding or judgment rendered out of term time shall be entertained unless
it shall be filed and a copy thereof served upon the opposite
party within ten days after the entry of such finding or judgment.

SUB-SEC. 13?». Judgment shall be entered and execution
may be issued thereon unless a motion for a new trial is made

within the time hereinbefore provided and granted or continued during the term at which the case is tried. ,

SUB-SEC. 136. Upon any hearing before the judge of a
court, wherein the judgment of the court upon such hearing
shall not be rendered at the time of such hearing, but shall
be taken under advisement by the judge, no judgment or
order relative to the matters pertaining to such hearing shall
be entered until notice of the same shall have been given to
the attorneys for the respective parties in the action.

SUB-SEC. 137. Judgments may be set aside for irregularity, on motion filed at any time within one year after the
rendition thereof.

ARTICLE IX.
REFERENCES.

SUB-SEC. 138. All orany of theissues in theaction, whether
of fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the Written
consent of the parties.

SUB-SEC. 139. Where the parties do not so consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases:

First. Where the trial of issues of facts shall require the
examination of a long account on either side, in which case
referees may be directed to hear and decide t-he Whole issue,
or to report upon any specific question of fact involved therein: or

Second. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court before judgment, or for
carrying a judgment or order into effect: or

Third. When a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action.

SUB-SEC. 140. In all cases of references, the parties, except when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three, and upon tiling
such agreement the reference shall be ordered accordingly.
If the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint a referee,
who shall be free from all exception.

SUB-SEC. 141. The referee or referees appointed in pursuance of any order of reference shall proceed with diligence

to hear and determine the matter in controversy.

SUB-SEC. 1-1;’. No person shall be appointed referee Who
is of kin to either party or is interested in the event of the
action.

SUB-SEC. 1-13. In case of death or removal from the territory of a referee, another shall, if necessary and proper, be
appointed to fill the vacancy.

SUB-SEC. 144. Before proceeding to hear any testimony in
the cause they shall take and subscribe an oath, before some
officer, duly authorized to administer the same, faithfully and
fairly to hear and examine the cause and‘ to make a just, impartial and true report, according to the best of their understanding, which oath shall be filed and returned with the report.

SUB-SEC. 145. They shall appoint a time and place for the
hearing. and give ten days‘ notice thereof, in Writing, to all
the parties: and if either party, being notified, sha.ll fail toappear, they shall proceed 0.1‘-pm'f(*, and shall adjourn the hearing from time to time as may be necessary, but shall complete the hearing within three months, unless otherwise ordered, or the time be extended by the court for good cause
shown. - .

SUB-SEC. 146. Referees shall have power to issue subpcenas for witnesses and the production of books, papers and
other documents, and to administer oaths. If any witness
shall refuse to obey a subpoena or give evidence, they shall
certify such refusal to the court or judge, and they shall likewise certify contempts committed in their presence during
the hearing of the cause, and the court or judge may thereupon proceed to punish such witness or person as for a contempt of court.

SUB-SEC. 147. Depositions of witnesses or parties regularly taken in the cause may be read in evidence before the
referee as in cases of trial before the court.

SUB-SEC. 1-1H. If more than one referee be appointed all
the referees must meet together and hear all the proofs and
allegations of the parties, but a report made and every other
act done by a majority of them shall be valid.

SUB-SEC. 1-19. Referees may be compelled by the order of
the court, in which a cause is pending, to proceed to the hearing and make report, and the court may require them to report their decision in admitting or rejecting any witness, or
the deposition of any witnesses or other testimony, in allowing or overruling any question to any Witness or answer
thereto, and all proceedings by them, together with the testimony before them, and their reasons for allowing or disallowing any claim of either party.

SUB-SEC. 150. They shall have power, as courts of record
have, to examine the parties on oath, to be administered by
the referees, or either of them, and to require the production
of all books, papers and documents in the custody or under
the control of either party.

SUB-SEC. 15]. If any party shall neglect or refuse to account, pursuant to proper notice, or to produce any books,

papers or documents required by the referees, the referees

may report such neglect or refusal to the court, which shall
proceed against the party for his disobedience, and imprison
him until he submits to account or produce such books.
papers and documents; or the referees may receive a statement of the account from the adverse party and the witnesses that he may produce on oath in relation thereto, and
report such sum to be due as they, on such examination, shall
iind due. V

SUB-SEC. 15:2. Referees shall have power to rule upon
objections to testimony, and upon the rejection of any testimony it shall not be taken. All testimony taken before
referees shall be reduced to writing, and if either party shall
except to the competency of witnesses or the admission or
ext-liision of evidence, or any other matter to which exceptions may be taken, the referees, if required, shall state the
particulars of the exceptions in their report.

SUB-SEC. 153. Referees shall in all cases report as speedily as possible, reciting the order of the court, the notice to
the parties, the time and place of stating the account or taking the testimony and all other proceedings had, and return
the same, together with the testimony taken, to the court.

SUB-SEC. 1;’:-1. Referees, as soon as a report is ready, shall
tile the same in the clerk's otlice and notify the parties, or
their attorneys, of the fact, and furnish a copy thereof to any
attorney of record, who shall apply for the same, and the day
of the tiling shall be entered by the clerk on the docket. The
parties shall have twenty days from the time of filing the report to tile exceptions thereto, and if no exceptions are within that period tiled by either party, either party may have an
order, as, of course, that the report be confirmed. If exceptions are filed, they shall stand for hearing upon the usual notice.

SUB-SEC.  If exceptions are allowed the matter may
again be referred with instructions, if necessary: but if the
report is confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered
thereon. The same effect shall be given to findings of facts
by referees as was heretofore given by law to such findings
by masters in Chancery under a general reference of a cause.

SUB-SEC. 156. When causes are referred by consent of
parties, the order of reference may provide that the referees
may hear and determine both the issues of law and of facts, and
that the decision, when rendered, shall be final and judgment
be rendered thereon without submission of the same to the
court for confirmation. Such judgment shall be subject to
review on appeal or error, as in other cases.

SUB—SEC. 157. All notices required to be given by referees
or others in the progress of the cause, shall be in writing and
served in the same manner as provided for the service of notices generally. And subpoenas issued by referees may be
served by any person who is a competent witness, and the
affidavit of such person shall be received as evidence of the
facts stated relating to the service.

SUB-SEC. 158. Referees, in the absence of a special agreement, shall receive for their services compensation at the
rate of ten dollars per day for time actually employed in
hearing and determining the cause, and six hours shall be
considered a day, and for fractions of a day he shall receive a
proportional amount, but for every sitting he shall receive at
least two dollars. The time consumed in hearing the witnesses and counsel and that in making up the report shall be
separately certified by the referee, to be taxed as costs in the
(3339.

ARTICLE X.
ARREST 01-‘ .lUI)(%.VlENT, APPEALS AND warrs 01-‘ ERROR.

SUB-SEC. 159. When a judgment shall be arrested, the
court shall, upon terms, allow the proceeding in which the
error was to be amended in all cases when the same amendment might have been made before trial, and the cause shall
again proceed according to the practice of the court.

SUB-SEC. 160. Whenever a plaintiff takes a non-suit in
consequence of an adverse ruling of the court, if the ends of
justice will be promoted thereby, the court shall, upon motion, set aside the non-suit and reinstate the cause. The refusal of the court to set aside a non-suit shall be reviewable
by the supreme court of the territory upon Writ of error or
appeal.

SUB—SEC. 161. Any person aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of any district court in any civil cause. may.
at his election, take an appeal or sue out a Writ of error to the
supreme court of the territory at any time within twelve
months after entry of the same, and have a supersedeas in
the same manner as now provided by law in cases of appeals
and Writs of error.

SUB-SEC. 16:2. If there be several parties entitled to sue
out a writ of error or to take an appeal, and any of them shall
have separate interests in the judgment: or if the judgment.
though joint in form, is substantially against one; or if some
of the parties in the court below have no interest in reversing or maintaining the judgment: or if upon notice and request to join in such writ of error or appeal, they shall fail or
refuse to do so, it shall not be necessary to join such parties
in such writ of error or appeal, and the supreme court may,
upon aiiidavits. or from the record, determine whether or not
the parties omitted should have been joined therein.

SUB-SEC. 168. If any person named in such notice do not
appear by the time therein specified and join in such Writ of
error or appeal, upon filing due proof of the service of such
notice, he shall thereby be forever precluded from bringing
any writ of error or appeal on the same judgment, and the
cause shall proceed in the same manner as if such person had
been named in such Writ and in the proceedings thereon.

SUB-SEC. 164. When the name of any person out of this
territory, or incapable of giving consent to the bringing of a
writ of error, shall be omitted in such writ and the cause
shall proceed without such name. the rights of such person
shall not be impaired by the judgment on such writ, but. he
may bring his writ of error or appeal in the same manner.
separately, as if no such former writ or appeal had been
brought. »

SUB-SEC. 165. Any person who ought to join in a Writ of
error or appeal may be permitted to do so, on his application.
on such terms as the court shall impose, and the Writ and
proceedings shall be amended by inserting his name, and
shall ‘proceed as in other cases.

SUB—SEC. 166. If a judgment shall be rendered against
several persons, and one or more of them die, a writ of error
or appeal may be brought thereon by the survivors.

SUB-SEC. 167. If there be several appellants or plaintiffs
in error, and one or more of them die before errors are assigned, such death shall be suggested by the surviving plaintiffs and the errors shall be assigned by them: and if one or
more of several defendants die before joinder in error, such

death shall in like manner be suggested by the survivors, and
they shall plead to the assignment of errors.

SUB-SEC. 162*. If there be several appellants and plaiiit-itfs
in error, and one or more of them die after errors assigned,
or if there be several appellees or defendants in error, one or
more of Whom shall die after errors assigned, the appeal or
writ of error shall not thereby abate, but in either of such
cases such death shall be suggested on the record, and the
cause shall proceed at the suit of a surviving appellant or
plaintiff in error or against the surviving appellee or defendant in error, as the case may be.

SUB-SEC. 169. If all the appellants or plaintiffs in error
die after the appeal taken or writ of error brought and before judgment rendered thereon, the executors or administrators of the last surviving plaintiff or appellant, or the heirs
and devisees of the plaintiif or appellant, in cases where they
would be entitled to appeal or bring writ of error, may be
substituted for such plaiiititfs, and the cause shall proceed at
their suit.

SUB-SEC. 170. If the appellees. or a sole appellee, or if all
the defendants, or a sole defendant, in a writ of error die
after the appeal taken, or writ of error brought, and before
judgment thereon, the executors and administrators or heirs
and devisees of such appellees or defendants may be compelled to become parties and join in error in like manner as in
an original suit.

SUB-SEC. 17]. Persons may be substituted as parties or
compelled to become parties in cases pending in the supreme
court in like time and manner with like effect, as provided for
in original suits in district courts.

SUB SEC. 172. In all cases tried by the court, either with
or Without the intervention of a jury, the testimony and all
rulings of the court shall be taken down by the court stenographer, unless waived by the parties to the action. After
such trial any party to the action may require the court stenographer to transcribe the whole or any part of his stenographic notes. When such notes are transcribed and the correctness of the same is certified to by the court stenographer,
the same shall become and be a part of the record in such action. In all actions the testimony taken by a referee, the
transcribed notes of the stenographer, and all motions, orders or decisions made or entered in the progress of the trial
of any action shall become and be a part of the record for the
purpose of having the cause reviewed by the supreme court
of the territory upon appeal or writ of error, and it shall not
be necessary to prepare or have settled, signed or sealed any
bill of exceptions in order to make any of such matters a part
of the record in such action. When the stenographer shall
have transcribed his stenographic notes he shall file the same
in the office of the clerk of the court in which such action has
been tried. and shall give notice to the attorneys of the parties to the action of the tiling of said transcript, and either
party to said action may, at any time within ten days after the
service of said notice, tile objections to such transcripts, and
such objections shall be heard by the judge of such court upon

the notice provided for by this act for hearings upon motions,
and upon such hearing the judge shall determine and settle
such objections, and if the transcript is determined to be incorrect the judge shall require such stenographer to correct
the same according to the facts. If for any reason it shall be
impracticable to make the testimony taken upon any trial a
part of the record in the manner above provided, it may be
made part of said record upon bill of exceptions, as heretofore
provided by law. The court stenographer shall be compensated for taking down such testimony, in the same manner as
now provided by law for such services rendered during a
term of court. Said stenographer shall also receive for transcribing such testimony the compensation now allowed by
law, which shall be paid by the party having such notes transcribed.

SUB-SEC. 173. All writs of error and appeals shall be returnable on the iirst day of the next regular term of the supreme court, beginning not less than thirty days after the
issuance of such writ or the allowance of such appeal, and all

bills of exceptions shall be settled and signed, and all records

in causes in which appeals are granted, or writs of error sued
out, shall be perfected in the district courts at least thirty
days before the beginning of the term of the supreme court
to which such appeals and writs of error are returnable.

SUB-SEC. 174. The court stenographer, whenever he transcribes his notes, as provided for in the preceding sub-sections, shall make as many copies thereof as may he demanded,
and he shall certify and file the same with the clerk of the
court in the same manner as the original. Such copies, or
any portion thereof, may be used by an appellant or plaintilf
in error for the purpose of making up the record to be taken
to the supreme court, and the clerk of the court shall receive
compensation for certifying, but not for transcribing the
same. The court may by rule, where not otherwise fixed by
statute, fix the compensation of stenographers for such extra
copies so filed with said clerk, which shall be paid for in advance, if demanded, by the party ordering the same, and the
amount so paid for the original, and one copy of such transcript by the party ordering the same shall be taxed up as
costs in the cause as well as the necessary cost of printing
the transcript.

ARTICLE XI.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SUB-SEC. 17:’). This act shall not apply to, or in anywise
affect proceeding for /IaI)ea.s° ('m']n(.S', mandamus, prohibition or
(fun warrnnfo, and shall not affect actions of replevin or writs
of attachment, except as to the form of the action.

SUB-SEC. 176. All executions, writs of attachment and
writs of replevin shall be returned within sixty days from
the date of the delivery thereof to the sheriff or other oiiicer
or person whose duty it is, or who may be designated to serve
the same, and the procedure under the same shall be the same
as now provided by law.

ATTACHMENTS. '

§ 2686. Creditors whose demands amount to one hundred
dollars or more, may sue their debtors in the district court,
by attachment, in the following cases to-wit:

First. When the debtor is not a resident of, nor resides in
this territory.

Second. When the debtor has concealed himself, or absconded, or absented himself from his usual place of abode in
this territory, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be
passed upon him.

Third. When the debtor is about to remove his property
or ehfects out of this territory, or has fraudulently concealed
or disposed of his property or effects so as to defraud, hinder
or delay his creditors.

Fourth. When the debtor is about fraudulently to convey

or assign, conceal or dispose of his property or effects, so as
to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors.
" Fifth. When the debt was contracted out of this territory,
and the debtor has absconded or secretly removed his property or effects into the territory, with the intent to hinder,
delay or defraud his creditors.

Sixth. Where the defendant is a corporation whose principal oflice or place of business is out of this territory, unless
such corporation shall have a designated agent in the territory, upon whom service of process may be made in suits
against the corporation.

Seventh. Where the defendant fraudulently contracted
the debt or incurred the obligation respecting which the
suit is brought or obtained credit from the plaintiff by false
pretenses. An attachment may issue on a demand not yet
due in any case Where an attachment is authorized, in the.

same manner as upon demands already due.
Spiegelberg vs. Hirsch 8:. Co.. vol. 4. page 129. W. (1. Rep.

Waldo vs. Beckwith. vol. 1. page 97. N. M. Rep.

§ 2687. In all cases commenced by attachment issued on
a demand or demands not yet due, it shall be sufficient for the
plaintiff to file in the office of the clerk of the district court anaffidavit and bond, as now required by law, but he shall not
file in such office his petition or declaration until after said
demand or demands shall become due. If such demand or
demands become dueduring a term of the court from which the
attachment issued, said plaintiff shall file his declaration within such reasonable time thereafter as may be fixed by the
court: and if said demand or demands become due at any time
when the court, from Which the attachment issued, is not in
session, said plaintiff shall file his declaration within twenty
days after the last of such demands shall become due, unless
the judge of said court shall, for good cause shown, enlarge
said time, and after the declaration is filed, as hereinbefore
provided, the suit shall proceed the same as in ordinary
cases.

9’ 2688. At the term to which any writ of attachment issued upon a demand not yet due, shall be made returnable,
the defendant shall be required to appear generally in the case,

and he may put in his answer, without oath,'denying the truth
of any material fact contained in the affidavit to which the
plaintiff may reply, and thereupon a trial of the truth of the
affidavit shall be had in the manner now provided by law. If
upon such trial the issue is found in favor of the defendant,
the attachment shall be dissolved, but such dissolution shall
not abate the suit, and the defendant shall be held to be in
court so that he may be ruled to plead to the plaintiff ‘s declaration when the same is filed in the manner, and within the

time hereinbefore provided.
Staal» vs. Hirsch. vol. 2, page 4:35. W. (3. Rep.

§ 2689. Wherever an attachment may issue against the
property of any person upon any debt or other action founded
upon a writ of contract for the same causes, the attachment
may also issue upon any action founded upon a tort or other
action cu--«I:-/ic-Io, this law shall apply to actions which have
heretofore or may hereafter accrue.

§ 2690. A creditor wishing to sue his debtor by attachment, may place in the clerk's office of the district court of
any county in this territory a petition, or other lawful statement of his cause of action, and shall also file an affidavit and
bond: and thereupon such creditors may sue out an original
attachment against the lands, tenements, goods, moneys, effects and credits of the debtor in whosesoever hands they

may be.
Bennett et al. vs. Zuhrfskf. vol. '1. page N. N. M. Rep.

§ 269]. The affidavit shall be made by the plaintiff, or
some person for him, and shall state that the defendant is
justly indebted to the plaintiff, after allowing all just credits
and off-sets, in a sum (to be specified in the affidavit), and on
what account, and shall also state that the affiant has good
reason to believe, and does believe, the existence of one or
more of the causes which, according to the provision of section two thousand six hundred and eighty-six will entitle the

plaintiff t-o sue by attachment.
Bennett vs. Zabrfski. vol. :2. page ms. N. M. Rep.

§ 2692. The bond shall be executed by the plaintiff or
some responsible person as principal, and two or more securities, residents of the territory, in a sum at least double the
amount sworn to, payable to this territory, conditioned that
the plaintiff shall prosecute his action without delay, and with
effect, and refund all sums of money that may be adjudged to
be refunded to the defendant, and pay all damages that may
accrue to any defendant or garnishee by reason of this attachment or any process of judgment thereon.

§ 2693. The securities on attachment bonds shall be residents of this territory, and shall acknowledge the execution
of such bond by them in the manner and before such officer
as may be prescribed by law for the acknowledgment of
conveyances of real estate.

§ 2694. The clerk shall judge of the sufficiency of the
penalty and the security in the bond: if they be approved, he
shall indorse his approval thereon, and the same, together with
the affidavits and petition or other lawful statement of the

cause of action, shall be filed before an attachment shall be
issued.

§ 2695. The bond given by the plaintiff or other person
in a suit by attachment may be sued on by any party injured
in the name of the territory, and shall proceed as in ordinary
suits, and shall recover such damages as he may sustain.

Holzman vs. Martinez. vol. 2. pat-re 27!. N. M. Rep.

§ 2696. Originalwrits of attachment shall be directed to
the sheriff of the proper county, commanding him to attach
the defendant, by all and singular, his lands and tenements,
goods, moneys, effects and credits, in whosesoever hands the
same may be found, with a clause of the nature and tothe
effect of an ordinary citation to answer the action of the
plaintiff.

§ 2697. Original writs of attachment shall be issued and
returned in like manner as ordinary writs of citation; and
when the defendant is cited to answer the action, the like proceedings shall be had between him and the plaintiff as in ordinary actions on contracts, and a general judgment may be
rendered for or against the defendant.

Splegelberg vs. Sullivan, vol. 1. page 573. N. M. Rep.

§ 2698. The manner of serving writs of attachment shall
be as follows: i

First. The writ or other lawful statement of the cause of
action, shall be served on the defendant as an ordinary citation.

Second. Garnishees shall be summoned by the sheriff, declaring to them that he summons them to appear at the return
term of the writ to answer the interrogatories which may be
exhibited by the plaintiff, and by reading the Writ to them if
required. . ,

Third. When lands or tenements are to be attached, the
officer shall briefly describe the same in his return, and state
that be attached all the right, title and interest of the defendant to the same, and shall moreover give notice to the actual
tenants, if any there be.

Fourth. When goods and chattels, moneys, effects, or evidences of debt are to be attached, the officer shall seize the
same and keep them in his custody, if accessible, and if not
accessible, he shall summon the person in whose hands they
may be as garnishee.

Fifth. When the credits of the defendant are to be attached, tho officer shall declare to the debtor of the defendant
that he attached in his hands all debts due from him to the
defendant, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy
the debt, interest and costs, and summon such person as garnishee.

Smith vs. Montoya, vol. I. page 152, W. C. Rep.

.6 2699. All persons shall be summoned as garnishees who
are named as such in the writ, and such others as the officers
shall find in the possession ofgoods, money or effects of the
defendant not actually seized by the officer and creditors of
the defendant, and also such as the plaintiff or his agent shall
direct.

§ 2700. Notice of garnishment shall have the effect of attaching all personal property, money, rights, credits, bonds,
bills, notes, drafts, checks or other choses in action, due or
to become due, from the garnishee to the defendant, or belonging to the defendant and in the garnishee‘s possession or
charge, or under his control at the time of the service of the
garnishment, or which may come into his possession or
charge, or under his control, or for, or on account of which
he may become indebted to the defendant, between that time
and the time of tiling his answer; but he shall not be liable to
a judgment in money on account of such bonds, bills, notes,
drafts, checks or other choses in action, unless the same shall
have been converted into money since the garnishment, or
he fail in such time as the court may prescribe to deliver
them into court, or to the sheriff, or other person designated
by the court. Any debt or legacy, due or to become due, by
an executor or administrator, and any goods, effects or credits in the hands of an executor or administrator as such, may
be attached in his hands by process of garnishment, and in
like manner money, effects and credits, due or belonging, or
to become due to an executor or administrator as such, may
be attached in the hands of the debtor or person holding the
same.

*9; 270]. When the defendant cannot be cited, and his
property or effects shall be attached, if he do not appear and
answer to the action at the return term of the writ, within
the first two days thereof; the court shall order a publication
to be made, stating the nature and amount of the plaintiff's
demand, and notifying the defendant that his property has
been attached, and that unless he appears at the next term,
judgment will be rendered against him, and his property sold
to satisfy the same: which notice shall be published four
weeks successively in some newspaper printed in this territory, the last insertion to be not less than two weeks before
the first day of the next term: but if there should be no newspaper printed in this territory, said notice shall be published
by not less than six hand bills put up at six different public
places in the county, at least six weeks before the first day
of the next term.

:5 2702. The law of this territory in regard to attachments
is so amended, that where the defendant cannot be served
personally with the process, and shall have no place of residence in this territory, and the property of the defendant
shall have been attached in time to make the necessary publication as now required by law, the officer executing the said
process, or the agent or attorney of the plaintiff in said case,
is hereby authorized to make publication of notice to the defendant in such attachment in the manner now prescribed by
law, which shall have the same force and effect to compel the
appearance of the defendant in any such suit in attachment,
as if such publication of notice had been in conformity to an
order of court as heretofore required; and upon satisfactory
proof being made to the court of the publication of said notice,
the plaintiff may proceed in said case as if the process had
been served personally upon the said defendant.

§ 2703. When the defendant shall be notified, by publication as aforesaid, and shall not appear and answer the action,
judgment by default may be entered, which may be proceeded on to final judgment as in ordinary actions, but such
judgment shall only bind the property attached, and shall be
no evidence of indebtedness against the defendant in any
subsequent suit. __

 2704. When property of the defendant found in his possession, or in the hands of any other person, shall be attached,
the defendant or such other person may retain possession
thereof by giving bond and security to the satisfaction of the
officer executing the writ, to the officer or his successor in
double the value of the property attached, conditioned that
the same shall be forthcoming when and where the court shall

direct, and shall abide the judgment of the court.
Holzmun vs. Martinez vol. 2. page 271. N. M. Rep

Wagner et ul. vs. Romero. Sheriff et al.. vol. :2. page 7569, VV. C. Rep.

§ 2705. The officer executing the writ of attachment shall
return, with the writ, all bonds taken by him in virtue thereof, a schedule of all property and effects attached, and the
names of all the garnishees, the times and places when and
where respectively summoned.

 2706.i If the ofiicer willfully fail to return a good and
sufficient bond in any case where bond is required by this
law, he shall be held and considered as security for the performance of all acts and the payment of all money to secure
the performance of which such bond ought to have been
taken.

§ 2707. In all cases when property or effects shall be at.tached, the defendant may, at the court to which the writ is
returnable, put in his answer, without oath, denying the
truth of any material fact contained in the affidavit, to which
the plaintiff may reply; a trial of the truth of the affidavit
shall be had at the same term, and on such trial the plaintiff
shall be held to prove the existence of the facts set forth in
the affidavit  the ground of the attachment, and if the issue
shall be found for him the cause shall proceed, but if it be
found for the defendant the cause shall be dismissed at the
costs of the plaintiff.

§ 2708. The plaintiff may exhibit in the cause, written allegations and interrogatories at the return term of the writ,
and not afterwards, touching the property, effects and credits
attached in the hands of any garnishee. The garnishee shall
exhibit and file his answer thereto, on oath, during such term,
unless the court, for good cause shown, shall order otherwise.
In default of such answer, or of a sufficient answer, the plaintiff may take judgment by default against him, or the court
may, upon motion, compel him to answer by attachment of his

body.

§ 2709. Such judgment by default may be proceeded on
to final judgment in like manner, as in cases of the defendant
in actions upon contracts, but no final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee until there shall be final jut gment against the defendant.

§ 2710. The plaintiff may deny the answer of the garnishee in whole or in part, and the issue shall be tried as ordinary issues between plaintiffs. If on such trial the property or effects of the defendant be found in the hands of the
garnishee, the value thereof shall be assessed and judgment
shall be rendered for the proper amount of money. If the
answer of the garnishee be not excepted to or denied at the
same term at which it is filed, it shall be taken to be true and
suhicient.

§ 2711. If, by the answer not excepted to nor denied. ‘it
shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or
edects of the defendant, or is indebted to the defendant, the
value of the property or effects, or of the debt, being ascertained, judgment may be rendered against the garnishee.

§ 2712. In all cases of controversy between the plaintiff
and garnishee, the parties may be adjudged to pay or recover
costs as in ordinary cases between plaintiff and defendant.

§ 2713. Any person wishing to sue his debtor by attachment, where the debt or sum claimed exceeds the sum of one
hundred dollars, may do so by first filing with the clerk of
the district court of the county in which the debtor lives, or
before the clerk of the probate court of the county in which
the suit is brought, an affidavit and bond, as now required to
be done before the clerk of the district court, which shall
authorize the clerk before whom said aiiidavit and bond shall
be filed to issue writs of attachment, the same as clerks of
the district court, which attachment, together with the ailidavit and bond, when issued by clerks of the probate court,
shall be by them made returnable to the next term of the district court for the proper county. and shall be by them returned to said district court on or before the first day of said
term.

Wzuzner et al. vs. Romero. sheriff. et al.. vol. :2. page 269. W. (3. Rep.

§ 2714. The form of said atiidavit Shall be as follows, toWit:
Territory of New Mexico, I
1 —' SS.
County of~—-—— -----~-- —~ \

This day personally appeared before me, the undersigned
clerk of the (district court or probate court, as the case may
be). A. B. (or C. D., agent for A. B., as the case may be), and,
being duly sworn, says that E. F. is justly indebted to the said
A. B. in the sum of- - ~dollars, after allowing all just off-sets,
and that the said E. F‘. is (setting forth one of the causes of
attachment). A. B.
or C. D., agent for A. B.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this-—-—day of---—A.
D.-——. '
——~———-~—- -Clerk.

§ 2715. The form of said bond shall be as follows, to-Wit:
Know all mm by flmsc prc.s°cnfs, That We (A. B., principal, or
C. D., agent for A. B., principal, as the case may be) and N.
N. and M. M., his securities, are held and firmly bound unto
the Territory of New Mexico in the sum of »— -- dollars, for
the payment of which, well and truly to be made, we bind

ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, firmly
by these presents, sealed with our seals and dated this ——
day of ———, A. D. .

The, condition of the above obligation is such that-, whereas
the above named A. B. has this day sued out an attachment
before J. J., clerk of the (district court or probate court, as

the case may be), against E. F., for the sum of ——— dollars,
returnable to the next  term of the district court for the
County of ——-—.

Now, if the said A. B. shall prosecute his said action without delay, and with effect, and refund all sums of money that
may be adjudged to be refunded to the defendant, and pay
all damages that may accrue to any defendant or garnishee
by reason of said attachment, or any process of judgment
thereon, then this obligation to be null and void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect.

A. B. [L. s.
N. N. [L. s.
M. M. [L. s.

3' 2716. In all suits in the district courts by attachments,
when the property attached shall be of a perishable nature
and liable to be lost or diminished in value before the final adjudication of the case, and the defendant shall not give bond
to retain the possession of the same, the plaintiff or defendant may make out a petition in writing setting forth the kind,
nature and condition of the property, and present said petition to the judge of the district in vacation; and if he shall
find it suflicient in form and conditions, he may hear the testimony of witnesses as to the property, and if he shall believe that the interests of both plaintiff and defendant will be
promoted by the sale of the property, may order such sale to
be made, and direct the manner thereof.

9' 2717. In such case the judge may appoint some one to
make such sale, and require such bond and security to be
given for the faithful performance of the same and the accounting for the proceeds and paying the same over, as the
nature of the case may demand.

§ 2718. The judge may, if he shall find the safety of the
property or the security of the proceeds shall require it, appoint a special receiver to take possession of the same, after
giving such bond and security as the judge shall approve.

' § 2719. All such proceeds of sale of property shall be delivered to such person as the judge or court shall determine
entitled to the same upon the final disposition of the suit.

§ 2720. The judge or court may allow to the receiver or

person making said sale a reasonable compensation for his

services, and the necessary costs for keeping and preserving
the property.

,5 2721. Hereafter in any civil suit pending, or which may
hereafter be brought, when the summons against the defendant has been returned, Executed, the plaintiff, his agent, or
attorney, may, at any time before judgment, file an aiiidavit
with the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, and
give bond with security as in cases of original attachments;

and thereupon the clerk must issue an attachment, returnable
as in other cases of original attachments.

§ 2722. In all cases when attachments are sued out ancillary to the original suit, the suit must thereafter proceed in
all respects as if it had been commenced originally by attachment. " *

§ 2723. In all cases heI‘e:‘.fteI' commenced by attachment,
in which the truth of the aliidavit for attachment, or of any
material allegation therein contained shall be denied, and the
issue thus formed shall, upon the trial be found for the defendant, the attachment shall be dismissed and all property,
rights, effects and credits held or affected thereby, or thereunder, shall be released and discharged from the operation
thereof; but such dismissal of the attachment shall not abate
the suit, but the same shall proceed as in ordinary cases.

§ 2724. When the processof attachmentshall issue against
a party, who shall have or own any interest or amount of
shares in any company doing business in, or corporation incorporated under the laws of this territory, or any foreign
corporation doing business in this territory, the same may be
attached in the following manner: The oflicer in whose hands
the attachment is placed shall indorse an entry thereon of
his levy on the corporate shares or interest of the defendant,
and shall forthwith serve a copy of the attachment so indorsed, upon the president of the company or corporation, at
the office of the company, or by levying the same at the usual
and most notorious place of doing business of such company
or corporation in this territory, which entry and service shall
amount to and be considered a seizure of said corporate interest or shares, to all intents and purposes, and under an execution issued on such attaelnnent, may be sold as in other
cases of ordinary execution. _

§ 2725. Any transfer by the defendant of the stock or interest so attached after the levy of such attachment shall be
void, and when an execution is issued, the said stock or interest shall be sold by the sheriff, or his deputy, according to
the existing provisions of law in this territory in regard to
the sale of personal property under attachment.

§ 2726. Certificates of purchase shall be granted by the
officer selling, Which. on presentation to the proper officer of
the company or corporation, shall authorize a transfer of the
stock to the purchaser, and it shall be his duty to make such
transfer on the proper books of the corporation or company,
if necessary, and afford the purchaser such evidence of title
to the stock purchased as is usual and necessary with other
stockholders.

§ 2727. From the time of the issuing of the order of attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all subsequent proceedings in
relation thereto: and if after the issuing of the order, the defendant being a person, should die, or a corporation, and its
charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture or otherwise,
the proceedings shall be carried on, but in all such cases
other than where the defendant was a foreign corporation, his
legal representatives shall be made parties to the action.

§ 2728. Any person, plaintiff or defendant, in any attachment or replevin suits pending in any court in this territory,
may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to
the person by whom any bond has been given in any such suit,
move the court for additional security on the part of any such
principal in such bond, and if, on such motion,- the court is
satisfied that any surety on such bond has removed from the
territory, or that for any other reason such bond is not sumcient security for the amount thereof, it may direct a new
and sufficient bond to be given within a reasonable time, to
be fixed by the court, and in default thereof, may make such
order disposing of the property, the possession of which is
held by virtue of such bond as the failure to give such additional security may require, and such orders may be madein
vacation, as Well as in term time.

‘Q’ ‘2729. Any person interested in any bond by virtue of
the attachment and replevin laws, may maintain suit thereon
without any assignment by the officer to Whom the same is

given.

§ 2730. Any creditor Whose demand amounts to fifty dollars or more may sue out a writ of capias in the district court
by filing an affidavit stating that the defendant is justly indebted to him after allowing all off-sets, in a sum specified in
the affidavit, and on what account; that the afliant has reason
to believe and does believe, that, the defendant is about to abscond from the territory, so as to endanger the collection of
his debt, and by also filing a bond as is required in attachments.

§ 2731. Creditors whose demands amount to less than
fifty dollars may sue their debtors before justices of the
peace, by writ of capias, subject to the same rules as are prescribed in the preceding section concerning such writs.

 2732. A writ of capias shall be served by taking the
body of the defendant and retaining the same in custody until discharged by due course of law, but the defendant shall
be discharged at any time by giving bond and security to the
sheriff or constable that he will render himself in custody to
abide the judgment, order or decree of the court.

§ 2733. The defendant may, at the return term of the
writ, deny the truth of the affidavit by answer without oath,
and the same proceeding shall be had thereon as in case of
attachments.

§ 2734. If the petition and writ shall be served ten days
before the first day of the next term of said court, the defendant shall, on or before the second day of said term, file
his legal exceptions to said petition, if any he have, which
exceptions shall be determined by the judge in a summary
manner.

9' 2735. If the exceptions be overruled, the defendant
shall forthwith file his answer under oath, fully admitting or
denying or confessing or avoiding every material part of said
petition.

§ 2736. If no such exceptions be filed, the defendant shall
file such answer on or before the second day of said term.

REPLE VIN.

§ 2738. Any person having a right to the immediate possession of any goods or chattels, wrongfully taken or wrongfully detained, may bring an action of replevin for the recovery thereof andfor damages sustained by reason of the unjust caption or detention thereof.

Rune vs. Abreu. vol. I. page 247, N. M. Rep.
Ward vs. Broadwell. vol. 1. page 75. N. M. Rep.
Abreu vs. Brown. vol. 2. page II. N. M. Rep.

§ 2739. No cross replevin or replevin for property in the
hands of an officer shall be brought.

§ 2740. That hereafter in this territory, Whenever the
goods or chattels of any person or persons not a party to the
record, are wrongfully seized by any oflicer under or by virtue of any writ of execution, mesne or other process from
any court, except under a writ of replevin, such person or
persons may maintain a suit in replevin for the possession of
the same against such officer, by proceeding in the usual
manner as now provided by law for bringing suits in replevin
and making an additional affidavit that such goods and chattels have not been seized under any process, execution or attachment against the property of the plaintiff, and that the
defendant or defendants in the original process by virtue of
which the same were so wrongfully seized by the officer, have
no interest, right or title and had no interest, right or title in
the said chattels at the time of such wrongful seizure and
that said plaintiff is entitled to the possession thereof or is
the owner of the same: Prm.-iclml, That in any action of replevin, any third person claiming an interest in property replevied or the right to the possession of the same may intervene in such suit as in other suits of intervention: And, prorideLl_fm‘tlcm', That nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any third person in such suits from giving a forthcoming bond and retaining possession of the goods as now provided by law.

§ 2741. Suits of replevin may be commenced and carried
to a conclusion against any incorporated company in this territory in all cases that may be begun and carried against any
ordinary defendants.

§ 2742. Before the writ of replevin be issued, the plaintiff, or some creditable person in his stead, shall file in the oflice of the clerk of the district court an affidavit alleging that
theplaintitf is lawfully entitled to the possession of the property mentioned in the declaration, that the same was Wrongfully taken, or wrongfully detained by the defendant, and that
the right of action accrued within one year.

Martinez vs. Martinez. vol. 2. page 464. N. M. Rep.
Lamy vs. Remuzon, vol. 2. page 245. N. M. Rep.
Barruel vs. Irwin. vol. 2, page 223, N. M. Rep.
§ 2743. The plaintiff, or some responsible person shall,
before the execution of the writ, enter into bond with suiiicient securities, to the officer to whom the Writ is directed, in
double the value’ of the property, conditioned for the prosecution of the suit with effect, and without delay make return of
the property, if a return is adjudged, keep harmless the otlicer
and pay all costs that may accrue.

§ 2744. Any person, plaintiff or defendant in any attachment or replevin suits pending in any court in this territory,
may. at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to
the person by Whom any bond has been given in any such
suit, move the court for additional security on the part of any
such principal in such bond, and if, on such motion, the court
is satisfied that any surety on such bond has removed from
the territory, or that for any other reason such bond is not
sufficient security for the amount thereof, it may direct anew
and suliicient bond to be given Within a reasonable time, to be
fixed by the court, and in default t-hereof may make such order disposing of the property, the possession of which is held
by virtue of such bond, as the failure to give such additional
security may require, and such orders may be made in vacation as well as in term time.

§ 2745. W'l1enever any suit in replevin shall be filed
agaist the sheriff of any county in this territory, the clerk of
the district court shall designate some person to serve the
process on the defendant, but before issuing such process the
clerk shall require the bond provided for by section two
thousand seven hundred and forty-three. to be filed with him,
and the sufficiency of the sureties thereon shall be approved
by the clerk. ' '

§ 2746. Any person interested in any bond by virtue of
the attachment and replevin laws, may maintain suit thereon
without any assignment by the officer to Whom the same is
given.

§ 2747. The writ shall be executed by delivering the
goods and chattels in the declaration mentioned, to the plaintiff, and by summoning the defendant to appear on the return
of the Writ. to answer the action of the plaintiff.

§ 2748. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of
the premises charged against him, and this plea will put in ‘
issue, not only the rightful ownership of the property mentioned in the declaration, but also the wrongful taking and

detention thereof.

§ 2749. In case the plaintiff fails to prosecute his suit ,
with effect and without delay, judgment shall be given for
the defendant and shall be entered against the plaintiff and
his securities for the value of the property taken, and double
damages for the use of the same from the time of delivery,
and it shall be in the option of the defendant to take back
such property or the assessed value thereof.

 2750. If such property be not returned and accepted .
within thirty days after the judgment, the sheriff shall collect- the assessed value thereof from the plaintiff and his securities as on other executions.

§ 2751. Any officer damnified by the execution ofa writ of ,

replevin, may maintain an action therefor on the bond by him
taken.

:5 2752. The defendant may, for any violation of the bond, ;

bring an action thereon in the name of the oiiicer for his use.

§ 2753. The sheriff for failing to take bond, or for taking
insufficient bond from the plaintiff, shall be responsible on
his onicial bond for all damages sustained thereby, recoverable by action of debt in the name of the party injured.
Archlbeque vs. Mlera. vol. I. page M9, N. M. Rep.

§ 2754. The clerks of the various probate courts in this .

territory are hereby authorized to issue Writs of replevin for
the recovery of any goods or chattels unlawfully seized or
held by any person or persons, subject to the same rules and
restrictions as the clerks of the district courts in this territory.
Holzman vs. Martinez. vol. 2, page 27!. N. M. Rep.

§ 2755. Any person desiring to bring‘an action of replevin ,

before the clerk of the probate court of any county in this
territory, for the recovery of any goods or chattels unlawfully detained or taken from their possession by any person
or persons, shall file in the oiiice of the clerk of the probate
court of the county in which the action of replevin is brought,
an affidavit and bond in the following form and tenor, to-wit:

AFFIDAVIT IN REPLEVJN.

Territory of New Mexico, 1‘ Affidavit

County of——— ~ ----——— 8
Before me, the undersigned, clerk of the probate court in
and for the County of- ~—, and territory above mentioned, on

this the———day of , A. D. 18- , personally appeared A. B.
(here the name of the person applying for the writ), who being
duly sworn, declares and says, that he has the legal right to
the possession of (here the property to be replevied is described); that the said property is unlawfully withheld from
him (or was illegally seized, as the case may be) by C. D.
(here the name or names of the person or persons complained against), and that the right of action originated within one year.

(Signed) A. B.,
. Complainant.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this the———day of ,
A. D. 18Olerk of the Probate Court.

BOND IN REPLEVIN.

I\'1mu' all nwn by (lm.~:r>/):'¢*.s'e1:f.s', That We, A. B., as principal,
and , as his sureties, are held and firmly bound unto C.
D. (here the name of the officer to whom the writ is directed),
in the sum of -- — dollars, for the payment of which sum well
and truly we hold ourselves and our heirs, executors and administrators firmly by these presents, signed with our hands
and seals and dated this, the -—-- day of ‘—-, A. D. 18--.
The condition of the above obligation is such that Whereas
the above mentioned A. B. has applied for a Writ of replevin
from the clerk of the probate court of the County of - —-,
which writ is directed to (here the name of the officer to
whom the writ is directed), returnable to the next term of
the district court to be begun and held a.t the Town of ,
in and for the County of --—-, the (here the day on which the
term of the district court commences). Now if the said A. B.
shall prosecute his said action Without delay and with effect,
and shall deliver the property replevied to C. D. in the event.
of the restitution being so adjudged by the said court, shall
keep harmless the said (here the name of the officer), and shall
pay all the costs which may arise from the said replevin, then
this obligation shall be null and of no value, otherwise the
same shall remain in full force and effect.

(Here the principal and his sureties sign).

§ 2756. The clerks of the probate court shall, upon the
filing in their offices of the affidavit and bond in conformity
with the forms prescribed in the foregoing section. issue
writs of replevin applied for by the complainant directed to
the sheriff of the county or his deputy, commanding him to
replevy the property described in the atlidavit of the complainant.

§ 2757. Hereafter in suits in replevin,when the writ shall
be issued by a clerk of a probate court, it shall not be necessary or requisite for the defendant to file any protest: but the
clerk issuing the Writ shall forward all the papers filed with
him in the cause to the clerk of the district court at the next
regular term of the district court within or for the county,
who shall docket the cause, and thereupon said cause shall
proceed as if it had been commenced in said district court before the clerk thereof.

§ 2758. The defendant, either in person or by his agent or
attorney, at any time within five days after the service of a
writ of replevin on him, and the replevin of the property
thereunder, may require the return of the property replevied
upon giving to the sheriff a bond with two or more sufiicienf
sureties in double the value of the property as sworn min the

 

 2763. The writ is either alternative or peremptory.
The alternative writ shall state concisely the facts showing
the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it. and command him, that immediately
after the receipt of the writ, or at some other-specified time,
he do the act required to be performed, or show cause before the court out of which the writ issued, at a specified
time and place, why he has not done so: and that he then and
there return the writ with his certificate of having done as
he is commanded. The peremptory writ shall be ina similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show
cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be omitted.

§ 2764. When the right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be
given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be
allowed in the first instance; in all other cases the alternative
writ shall be first issued.

.5 2765. The court or judge, by an indorsement on the
writ, shall allow the same, designate the return day thereof
and direct the manner of service.

§ 2766. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such
further day as the court allows, the party on whom the writ
is served may show cause by answer, made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in civil action.

Branford vs. E1-ant. vol. 1. page 579. N. M. Rep.

§ 2767. If no answer is made a peremptory mandamus
shall be allowed against the defendant: if an answer is made
containing new matter, the plaintiff may, on the trial or other
proceedings. avail himself of any valid objection to its sufficiency, or may countervail it by evidence either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

 2768. No other pleading or written allegation is allowed
than the writ a11d answer. They shall be construed and
amended in the same manner as pleadings in a civil action,
and the issues thereby joined shall be tried and further proceedings had in the same manner as in a civil action.

§ 2769. If judgment is given for the plaintiff, he shall recover the damages which he has sustained, together with
costs and disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall
be awarded without delay.

§ 2770. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to
a public otlicer, body or board, commanding the performance
of any public duty specially enjoined- by law, if it appears to
the court that such oliicer or any member of such body 01'
board, without just excuse, refuses or neglects to perform

‘the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars upon every such oiiicer or
member of such body or board: such ‘fine, when collected, shall
be paid into the territorial treasury, and the payment ofsuch
fine is a bar to an action for any penalty incurred by such
otiicer or member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

§ 2771. The district court has exclusive original jurisdiction in all cases of mandamus, except where such writ is to
he directed to a district court or a judge thereof in his official

capacity, in which case the supreme court has exclusive
original jurisdiction, and in such case the supreme court or a
judge thereof shall tirst make a rule, returnable in term, that
such district court or judge thereof, show cause before the
court why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue,
and upon the return day of such rule such district court or
judge may show cause against the rule by affidavit or record
evidence, and upon the hearing thereof, the supreme court
shall award a peremptory wri t, or dismiss the rule. In case
of emergency, a judge of the supreme court, at the time of
making the rule to show cause, may also appoint a special
term of the court for hearing the motion, and at which the
rule shall be made returnable.

§ 2772. An appeal lies in the supreme court from the district court in mandamus as in civil actions.

§ 2773. ' That in all cases’ of proceedings by mandamus in
any district court of this territory, the final judgment of the
court thereon shall be reviewable by appeal or Writ of error
in the same manner as now provided by law in other civil
cases, except that such appeal or writ of error shall not operate as a supersedeas of any judgment of the district court.

§ 2774. For the purpose of hearing application for, and
issuing writs of mandamus, the district courts shall be regarded as open at all times, wherever the judge of such court may
be Within the territory.

I’l{0HIBITIOl\'.

§ 2775. Writs of prohibition shall only be issued out of
the supreme court, and shall be applied for upon aflidavit, by
motion to the court, or a judge thereof in vacation, and if the
cause shown appears to the court or judge to be sufficient, a
Writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall command the
court and party, or ofticer to whom it is directed, to desist
and refrain from any other proceedings in the action or matter specified therein, until the next term of said supreme
court, or the further order of the court thereon; and to show
cause at the next term of said court, or some day to be named
in the same term, at the option of the court, if issued in term
time, Why they should not be absolutely restrained from any .
further proceedings in such action or matter.

§ 2776. Such writ shall be served upon the court and
party or officer to Whom it is directed, in the same manner as
a Writ of mandamus, and a return shall be made thereto by
such court or officer, which may be enforced by attachment.

§ 2777. If the party to whom such writ is directed shall,
by an instrument in Writing, to be signed by him and annexed
to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the
matters therein contained as sufficient cause why such court
should not be restrained, as mentioned in said Writ, such
party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such proceeding, and the person prosecuting such writ may take issue or demur to the matters so relied upon by such defendant.

§ 2778. If the party to whom such writ is directed shall
not adopt such return, the party prosecuting such writ shall

tribunal or by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or decree: but no order of commitment for any alleged
contempt, or upon proceedings as for contempt, to enforce
the rights or remedies of any party shall be deemed a judgment, conviction or decree within the meaning of this section:
nor shall any attachment or other process issued upon any
such order be deemed an execution within the meaning of
this section.

:3 2783. Application for such writ. shall be made by petition to any judge of the supreme court, signed and verified
either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some
person in his behalf, as follows: To the supreme or district
court or to any judge thereof, being within the district where
the prisoner is detained: or if there is no such officer within
such district, or if he be absent or from any cause is incapable of acting, or has refused togrant such writ, then to some
officer having such authority residing in any other district.

§ 2784. Whenever application for any such writ is made
to any oiiicer not residing within the district where the prisoner is detained, he shall require proof by the oath of the
party applying, or by other sufficient evidence, that there is
no officer in such district authorized to grant the writ: or if
there is one, that he is absent or has refused to grant such
writ: or for some cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable
of acting, and if such proof is not produced, the application
shall be denied. .

§ 278?). The petition shall state in substance:

First. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied
for is imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the oiiicer or
person by whom he is so confined or restrained, and the place

where, naming both parties, if their names are known, or describing them if they are not.

Second. That such person is not committed or detained by
virtue of any process, judgment, decree, or execution, specitied in section two thousand seven hundred and eighty-two.

Third. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint, according to the knowledge or belief of the party verifying the petition.

Fourth. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any
warrant, or order, or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be averred that by reason of such prisoner
being removed or concealed before application, a demand of
such copy could not be made, or that such demand was made,
and the legal fees therefor tendered to the officer or person
having such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was
refused.

Fifth. If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the petition shall state in what the illegality consists.

§ 2786. Every writ of lmbcus «-or;m.- issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be substantially in the following form:

The T€I'I'iIm'_?/ of l\'cI'I‘ .lI('.I'i¢-o to flu’ H/z('I'I:[7'¢g7', elm, or In A. H..'

You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by
you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with the
time and cause of such imprisonment and detention, by

whatever name the said C. D. shall be called or charged, before E. F., judge of the district court, as etc. (or immediately
after the receipt of this writ), to do, and receive What shall
then and there be considered concerning the said C. D., and
have you then and there this writ.
Witness, etc.

§ 2787. Such writ of /zrlbcws (‘m'}m.s' shall not be disobeyed
for any defect of form. It is suiiicient:

First. If the person having the custody of the prisoner is
designated either by his name or office, if he has any, or by
his own name, or if both such names are unknown or uncertain, he may be described by any assumed appellation, and
any one who may be served with the Writ, shall be deemed
to be the person to whom it is directed, although it is directed
to him by a wrong name or description, or to another person.

Second. If the person who is directed to be produced is
designated by name, or if his name is uncertain or unknown,
he may be described in any other way so as to designate the
person intended. '

§.2788. If any officer herein ‘authorized to grant writs of
Imlmrs ('m'}ms willfully refuses to grant such writ when legally applied for, he shall forfeit for any such offense, to the
party aggrieved, one thousand dollars.

9' 2789. The person upon whom such Writ is duly served
shall state in his return plainly and unequivocally:

First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody,
or control, or under his restraint, and, if he has not, whether
he has had the party in his custody, or under his control or
restraint, at any and What time prior or subsequent t-o the
date of the writ.

Second. If he has the party in his custody or control, or
under his restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting forth the same at large.

Third. If the party is detained by virtue of any Writ, warrant or other Written authority, ‘a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return, and the original shall be produced and
exhibited on the return of the writ to the officer before Whom
the same is returnable.

Fourth. If the person upon Whom such writ is served has
had the party in his control or custody, or under his restraint.
at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but
has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at What time, for What
cause, and by what authority such transfer took place. The
return shall be signed by the person making the same, and
except Where such person is a sworn public officer and makes
his return in his official capacity, it shall be verified by oath.

§ 2790. The person or oiiicer on whom the Writ is served
shall bring the body of the person in his custody, according
to the command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.

§ 279]. If the person upon whom such Writ is duly served
refuses or neglects to obey the same, by producing the party
named in such writ, and making a full and explicit return to

every such writ within the time required by the provisions of
this chapter, and no sufficient excuse is shown for such refusal or neglect, the officer before whom such writ is returnable, upon due proof of the service thereof, shall forthwith
issue an attachment against such person, directed to the sher'iff of any county in this territory, and commanding him forth‘ with to apprehend such person and to bring him immediately
before such officer, and on such person being so brought he
shall be committed to close custody in the jail of the county
in which such officer is, until he makes return to such writand complies with any order that may be made by such officer
in relation to the person for whose relief such writ was issued.

§ 2792. If a sheriff neglects to return such writ the attachment may be directed to any coroner or other person
designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the
same, and such sheriff upon being brought up may be committed to the jail of any county other than his own.

§ 2793. The officer by whom any such attachment is issued may also at the same time or afterward issue a precept
to the sheriff, or other person to whom such attachment was
directed, commanding him to bring forthwith before such
officers the party for whose benefit such writ was allowed,
who shall thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or
person until he is discharged, bailed or remanded, as such
officer directs.

§ 2794. ,The officer before whom such party is brought on
such writ shall immediately after the return thereof, proceed
to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into
the cause of the confinement» or restraint of such party,
whether the same was before commitment for any criminal
charge or not.

:3 2795. If no legal cause is shown for such imprisonment
or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, such officer shall
discharge such party from the custody or restraint under

which he is held.

§ 2796. The officer shall forthwith remand such party, if
it appears that he is detained in custody: either

First. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge
of the United States in a case where such court or judge has
exclusive jurisdiction; or

Second. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of any
competent court, or of any execution issued upon such judgment or decree: or

Third. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in
the commitment by some court, officer or body having authority to commit for the contempt so charged: and '

Fourth. That the time during which such party may be
legally detained has not expired.

§ 2797. If it appears on the return that the prisoner is in
custody by virtue of civil process of any court legally constituted, or issued by an oflicer in the course of judicial proceedings before him, authorized by law, such prisoner can only be
discharged in one of the following cases:

First-. When the jurisdiction of such court or officer has
been exceeded either as to matter, place, sum or person.

Second. Where, though the original imprisonment was
lawful, yet by some act, omission or event which has taken
place afterward, the party is entitled to be discharged.

Third. Where the process is defective in some matter of ‘

substance required by law rendering such process void.

Fourth. Where the process, though in proper form, has
been issued in a case not allowed by law.

Fifth. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under such process is not the person empowered by law
to detain him: or

Sixth. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment, order or decree of any court, nor by any provision of
law.

§ 2798. But no officer on the return of any /mbcus ('nI'[nI.scan inquire into the legality or justice of any judgment, decree or execution specified in section two thousand seven
hundred and eighty-two.

§ 2799. If it appears that the party has been legally committed for any criminal offense, or if he appears, by the testimony offered with the return upon the hearing thereof, to be
guilty of such an offense, although the commitment is irregular, the officer before whom such party is brought shall
proceed to let such party to bail, if the case be bailable and
good bail is offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such
party.

:5 2800. In other cases the party shall be placed in custody
of the person legally entitled thereto, or if no one is so entitled, he shall be discharged.

§ 2801. Until judgment is given upon the action, the ofiicer before whom such party is brought may either commit
such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which
such officer is, or place him in such care or under such custody as his age and other circumstances require.

§ 2802. In criminal cases, notice of the time and place at
which the writ is made returnable shall be given to the district or county attorney, if he is within the county: in other
cases like notice shall be given to any person interested in
continuing the custody or restraint of the party seeking the
aid of said writ.

§ 2808. Hereafter all persons to whom bail has been denied or who are confined for failure to give bail, may have the
benefit of a writ of Imbcus cm‘/ms for the purpose of being admitted to bail or having the bail reduced, and the court or
judge shall, upon Im/1(’us «-m-/ms, review the proceedings or
action of a committing magistrate.

‘ § 2804. When an application is made before any authority
authorized by law to issue such writs of /HI(I(‘(I.s' (°m']ms it shall
be the duty of such officers to issue a writ of ¢'crfim'rIri
commanding the committing magistrate to forthwith to send
to said ofiicers a full and complete transcript of all his
proceedings had thereof, and the said otlicer upon the return of such writ shall proceed to examine the case tlr mm»
and either commit t.o jail, discharge or recognize such person

to appear before the district court as the case may require.

§ 28{l5. The party brought before any such officer on the
return of any writ of Imhcus cm‘/ms, may deny any of the material facts set forth in the return, or allege any fact to show,
either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that
he is entitled to his discharge, which allegations or denials
shall be on oath: and thereupon such officer shall proceed iii
a summary way to hear such allegations and proofs as are legally produced in support of such imprisonment or detention
or against the same, and to dispose of such party as justice
requires.

3‘; 2806. VVhenever from the sickness or infirmity of the
person directed to be produced by any writ of Im.l)cr1.s cor7m.ssuch person cannot, Without danger, be brought before the
officer before whom the suit is made returnable, the party in
whose custody be is may state the fact in his return to the
Writ, verifying the same by his oath: and if such officer is sat-—
isfied of the truth of such allegation and the return is otherwise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return
and to dispose of the matter: and if it appears that the person
detained is illegally imprisoned, confined or restrained of his
liberty, the officer shall order those having such person in
their custody to discharge him forthwith: and if it appears
that such person is legally detained, imprisoned and confined,
and is not entitled to be bailed, such officer shall dismiss the
proceedings.

.5 2807. Obedience to any order for the discharge of any
prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
may be enforced by the otiicer issuing such writ or granting
such order, by attachment, in the same manner as herein provided for a neglect to make a return to a writ. of Imhcus cm‘pus, and theperson guilty of such disobedience shall forfeit
to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars in addition to
any special damages such party may have sustained.

§ 2808. No person who has been discharged upon a’ /ulhcrls
cm‘/MIN shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the same
cause, unless indicted therefor, convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail by some court of record having jurisdiction of the cause: or unless after a discharge for a defect
of proof or for some material defect in the commitment in a
criminal case, he is again arrested on sufficient proof and
committed by legal process.

:5 2809. If any one, who has in his custody, or under his
control, a person entitled to a writ of /HI/was cm’/His, vvhgt,he1'
a writ has been issued or not, -transfers such prisoner to the
custody, or places him under the power or control of another
person, or conceals him, or changes the place of his confinement, with intent to elude the service of such Writ, or to
avoid the effect thereof. the person so offending shall forfeit
to the party aggrieved thereby the sum of four hundred dollars, to be recovered in a civil action.

,5 2810. Any officer, or other person, refusing to deliver a’

copy of any order, warrant, process, or other authority, by
which he detains any person, to any one who demands such

copy and tenders the fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred
dollars to the person so detained.

§ 231 l. Every writ of Imbcns (-m-/um may be made returnable at a day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require,
and shall be under the seal of the court.

§ 2812. It can only be served by an elector of this territory, and the service thereof shall not- be deemed complete
unless the party serving the same tenders to the person in
whose custody the prisoner is, if such person is a sheriff,
coroner, constable or marshal, the fees allowed by law for
bringing up such prisoner. The otlicer granting the‘ writ
may, in his discretion, require a bond in a penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars, with sutlicient sureties, conditioned that the obligators will pay all costs and expenses of
the proceeding, and the reasonable charges of restoring the
prisoner to the person from whose custody he was taken, if
he is remanded. i Such bond shall run to the sheriff of the
county and be filed in the office of the clerk of the court from
which the writ issues.

9‘ 2813. Every writ of /I(Ib(’us ('(n'/ms issued pursuant to
this chapter may be served by delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed. It he cannot be found, it may be
served by being left at the jail or other place in which the
prisoner is confined, with any under oiiicer or other person
of proper age having charge for the time of such prisoner.

§ 2314. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served,
conceals himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting to serve the same, it may be served by afiixing the same
in some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling house or of the place where the party is confined.

§ 2815. If the writ is returnable at a certain day, such return shall be made, and such prisoner produced at the time
and place specified therein; if he is returnable forthwith, and
the place is within twenty miles of the place of service, such
return° shall be made and such prisoner produced within
twenty-four hours, and the like time shall be allowed for
every additional twenty miles.

§ 2816. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of
lmbm.s- «-m°pu.s- when necessary to bring before them any
prisoner for trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in
the same court, or to bring any prisoner to be examined as a
witness in any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such court, when they think the personal attendance
and examination of the witness necessary for the attainment
of justice. _

‘§ 2817. The sheriif or person who shall be required to
bring up a person on Imlmm ('m‘]m.s', if the person be held by
virtue of any legal process directed to such person as an officer, shall be entitled to the same fees and allowances as are
allowed to sheriifs for removing prisoners in other cases.

is legally lodged for record or the delivery of the property or
effects trasferred.

§ 2820. Any number of persons interested may unite as
complainants in the bill of (complaint: but it shall not be necessary to make any persons defendants, except the debtor and
transferee: such bill of complaint sl1alJ state the amount of the.
debts of the defendant debtor, so far as known to the complainant, and in such action the court shall make an order for
such of the creditors of the defendant debtor as are not joined
as defendants in the bill of complaint, to appear before a master to be appointed by the court and prove their claims before a certain day to be named in the order, notice of which
shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper: or if none
be published in the county, then by such other mode as the
'court may judge best calculated to give such creditors actual
notice of the order: and in addition to the advertisement in a
newspaper, the court may direct publication in other modes.
A creditor appearing before the master and presenting his
claim shall thereby become a party to the action and be concluded by the Iinal judgment of the court allowing or rejecting his claim. Any creditor who shall fail to appear and prove
his claim agreeable to such order, shall be precluded from
participation in the distribution of the assets of the debtor
hereinafter provided for.

§ 2821. The court or judge may at any time, pending the
action, and upon such terms as it shall be deemed proper,
compel the transferee to surrender to a receiver of the court,
all property and effects in his possession, or under his control: and it may make such orders respecting the property as
courts of law are now allowed to make concerning attached
property. And when it is decided that a sale, mortgage or
assignment was made in contemplation of insolvency and with
the design to prefer one or more creditors to the exclusion in
whole or in part, of others, the court shall compel the debtor
to surrender to such receiver all property and effects in his
possession or under his control, except such property as is
exempt from executions, to disclose the amount of his debts,
the names and residence of his creditors, all off-sets and defenses to any claims against him, or any other matter which
shall be deemed proper; and the court shall also compel every
person who shall acquire by purchase, assignment or otherwise, any property or effects from such debtor, after the suit
contemplated by this act shall have been instituted, to surrender the same to such receiver.

9' 2822. The court may make distribution of the assets on
hand from time to time, and the decision of the court at the
time of any distribution, allowing or disallowing any claim,
shall be held final judgment, and may be appealed from as
other iinal judgment.

§ 2823. The court or judge may grant against such debtor, a writ of m’ «arm! or attachment in chancery, as for contempt, when it shall be made to appear, by affidavit, that such
writ or attachment is neccessary to secure the surrender or
disclosures provided for herein.

§ 2824. The claims of creditors shall be verified by the
oath of the creditor, his agent or attorney, before any portion
of the assets shall be received thereon.

§ 2825. In case of any voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors, such assignment shall not become operative
and the assignee shall not enter into the possession of the
property assigned until he shall have executed agood and
sufficient bond to the Territory of New Mexico in a sum to be
tixed by the judge of the district court of the county of the
assignor°s residence, which sum shall not be less than double
the value of the property assigned: which value shall be ascertained by proof satisfactory to such district judge before
the approval of the bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of all his duties as such assignee, and for the payment to the parties entitled thereto, promptly and without
delay, of all sums of money which may come into his hands as
such assignee. And any person aggrieved may maintain an
action upon the said bond in his own name, or in the name of
the territory, on his relation, in any district court of this territory having jurisdiction.

.5 2826. In case of any voluntary assignment, referred to
in section two thousand eight hundred and twenty-tive, if the
assignee shall fail, within twelve months to settle up the estate of his assignor and distribute the proceeds thereof among
the creditors entitled thereto, any creditor aggrieved may file
a bill of complaint in any district court having jurisdiction of
the subject matter and the parties to compel such settlement
and distribution and thereupon such suit shall proceed in the
manner prescribed by this act for the proving of claims and
the distribution of assets in cases of involuntary assignment.

 2827. That hereafter every voluntary assignment of
lands, tenements, goods, chattels, effects and credits, made
by a debtor to any person in trust for the benefit of his creditors, shall be for the benefit of all the creditors of the assignor in proportion to their respective claims, except as
hereinafter provided: and every such assignment? shall be
proved or acknowledged and certified and recorded in the
same manner as is prescribed by law in cases wherein real estate is conveyed.

§ 2828. It shall be the duty of the assignee, within ten
days after the execution and delivery of the deed of assignment, to tile in the otlice of the clerk of the district court of
the county in which the assignor, or if there be more than
one, in which any of them shall reside, unless longer time be
allowed by the judge of the court for good cause shown, an
inventory of the property, effects and things assigned.

§ 2829. The inventory shall be accompanied with an affidavit by the assignee that the same is a full and complete inventory of all such property, effects and things as far as the
same has come to his knowledge.

§ 2830. It shall be the duty of'the district court, or the
judge thereof in vacation, in whose clerk's office such inventory may be tiled, to appoint two or more disinterested and
competent persons to appraise the property, effects and
things so inventoried.

§ 2831. The appraisers, having first taken an oath or
atii rmation before some person having authority to administer
oaths, to discharge their duties with fidelity, shall forthwith
proceed to make such appraisement.

§ 2832. The appraisers shall tile the appraisement and
their oath of otiice in the oiiice of the clerk of the district
court, Within live days after they shall have completed the
same.

55 2833. The appraisers shall receive four dollars per day
for their necessary attendance and services.

§ 2834. If, after making the first inventory, any other
property, eifects or things conveyed by the deed of assignment, shall come to the possession or knowledge of the assignee, his duty in relation thereto, and the duty of the court
or judge and the appraisers shall be the same as required of
them by the preceding section of this act.

§ 2835. The assignee, his agent or attorney, at the time
of the execution and delivery of t-he deed of assignment, shall
make a statement in writing, verified by aiiidavit, setting
forth the general nature and full value of the estate and effects
assigned, which statement shall be tiled with the deed of assignment for record, and the assignee shall, Within tive days
after the tiling of such statement. give bond with at least two
good and suliicient securities to be approved by the court. or
judge or clerk thereof in vacation, in double the amount of
the estate and effects assigned, and if the appraised value of
such estate and effects, when appraised, shall be greater than
the value given in such statement, or if the securities in such
should in any way become impaired or insufficient, the assignee shall, at the time of filing the appraisement, give another
bond with at least two good and sufficient securities to be approved in like manner, in double the value of the estate and
effects assigned.

:5 2836. The bond shall be taken in the name of the Territory of New Mexico, and the conditions shall be as follows:
The conditions of this obligation are such that if the above
bound assignee of - shall, in all things, discharge his duty
as assignee of aforesaid, and faithfully execute the trust
contided to him, then the above obligation to be void, otherWise to remain in full force.

:5 2837. The bond shall be filed in the otlice of the clerk of
the court in which the inventory is tiled and shall be by the
clerk recorded in a book kept by him for such purpose, and
labeled, Assignments, and presented, if taken by him in vacation, to the district court at its next regular term. A certitied copy of such bond, deed of assignment, statement and inventory shall also be tiled for record in the office of the probate clerk and ex-officio recorder of the same coiinty, as soon
as such certified copies can be obtained from the clerk of the
district court.

91 2838. The district court or judge shall approve or reject
the bonds taken by the clerk in vacation. and the district
clerk shall enter the approval or rejection on the record.

§ 2839. If the bond be rejected the district court or judge
thereof shall order the assignee to give another bond, with

sufficient security to be approved by the court, and if he fail
to give such bond within such time as the court or judge
thereof shall direct, not exceeding twenty days, his authority
further to act as assignee shall be deemed revoked.

§ 2840. Such bond shall be valid until such new bond be
given and approved, notwithstanding its rejection by the
court, and such new bond, when approved, shall relate back
and operate from the date of assignment.

§ 2841. Any person, injured by a breach of the condition
of the bond, may sue thereon in the name of the territory for
his use, and the damages shall be assessed as on bonds with
collateral conditions.

:5 2842. Every assignee shall exhibit on oath a statement
of the accounts of the trust, with proper vouchers, to the district court at the tirst regular term after the execution of the
assignment unless for good cause postponed, and shall file a

like statement at least every three months thereafter for the’

inspection of the judge, and if by the judge found correct and
proper, to be by him approved: such statements to be so
made until assigned estate is fully settled. And if such assignee shall fail to make such settlement as herein provided
for within the time mentioned, then on the application of any
person interested, the court or judge thereof shall order a
citation to issue to such assignee requiring him to appear before him at his chambers within a time named therein and
exhibit on oath a statement of his accounts, and if said assignee shall neglect and fail to exhibit such accounts within
the time named in said citation, the judge shall, on motion,
unless for good cause shown, dismiss said assignee from his
trust, and enter an order that he pay all costs of the proceedings.

§ 2843. The court or judge thereof shall, by such order
as the circumstances of the case may require, direct the
clerk to give notice of the exhibition and tiling of such accounts, for such time and in some newspaper of general circulation within the county wherein such assignment is made
and recorded, and that such accounts will be allowed by the
court or judge thereof in vacation, at a certain time, to be
stated in such notice, unless good cause to the contrary is
shown. .

§ 2844. The expense of advertising shall be paid by the
assignee at the time of exhibiting his account, and shall be
passed to his credit in such account. .

§ 2845. The assignee shall appoint a day, within three

—months after the date of the assignment, and a place. which

shall be the county seat of the county where the inventory is
filed, or such other place in said county most convenient to
all the parties in interest where any court of record may be
lawfully held, when and where he will proceed publicly to adjust and allow demands against the estate and effects of the
assignor.

§ 2846. The assignee shall give notice of the time and
place of adjusting and allowing demands against the estate of
his assignor, by advertisement published in some newspaper
printed in the county, or if there be none, in the one nearest

the place where the inventory is filed, for four weeks successively, the last insertion to be at least one week before the appointed day, and also, whenever the residence of any of the
creditors is known to him, by letters addressed to such creditors. at their known or usual place of abode, at least four
weeks before the appointed day. The assignee shall attend
at the place designated in said notice, in person, on said day,
and shall remain in attendance at said place on said day, and
during two consecutive days thereafter, and shall commence
the adjustment and allowance of demands against the trust
fund at nine o'clock a. m. and continue the same until tive
o'clock p. in. of each of said three days: and all creditors who,
after being notitied as aforesaid, shall not attend at the place
designated during the said term, and lay before the assignee
the nature and amount of their demands, shall be precluded
of any benetit of said estate, but the hearing on any demand
‘presented at the time may be continued, for good cause
shown, to such time as is deemed right: I’rm'i¢Ic(I, That any
creditor who shall fail to lay his claim before said assignee
during the said term on account of sickness, absence from
the territory, or any other good cause, may, at. any time before the declaration of the tinal dividend, file and prove up his
claim, and the same may be allowed, and the remaining dividends paid thereon as in the case of other allowed claims.

§ 2847. The assignee shall have power to administer all
necessary oaths to debtors, creditors and witnesses, and may
examine them on oath, touching any claim exhibited to him
for allowance. .

§ 2848. Should the assignee reject any claim or demand
against the estate, he shall indorse on the back of said claim
or demand the ‘word, Rejected, giving the date of said rejection and sign his name as such assignee thereto.

§ 2849. If, within thirty days after the same is rejected.
the party owning said claim does not prosecute his action
against the assignee in a court of competent jurisdiction, a
recovery upon said claim or demand shall be forever barred.
If the plaintiffs cause of action be dismissed at the instance
of the defendant other than on its merits, the plaintiff shall
have thirty days_ from the date of such dismissal to bring a
new suit.

§ 2851,). All judgments rendered in favor of’ any claimant
in the district court. by virtue of the provisions of this act.
shall be certiiied by the clerk thereof to the assignee, who
shall allow the same and class it as a valid claim against the
estate.

§ 285]. If the assignee shall have a demand against the
assignor which he desires to have allowed, he may present a
petition to the district court or to the judge thereof in vacation, stating the particulars of his demand and the amount
thereof, verified by afridavit, and thereupon such court, or the
judge thereof in vacation, shall appoint some suitable person
to act temporarily as assignee of such estate for the purpose
of hearing and passing upon such demand. The assigneo appointed shall take an oath that he will faithfully discharge the
trust contided to him, and shall proceed toexamine the claim.

and if the same be found to be correct in whole or in part, he
shall allow the amount found to be due, and report his action
in the premises to the proper court at the next term thereof,
or to the judge of said court in vacation: and the court or judge,
as the case may be, shall make an order directing the sum allowed to be paid to the claimant as other allowances are paid:
and in case such demand or demands shall have been rejected
by the temporary assignee, such proceedings may be had as
designated in sections two thousand eight hundred and fortyeight, two thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, and two
thousand eight hundred and fifty. ~

§ 2852. Whenever it shall be made to appear to the court
having jurisdiction, or the judge of the proper district court
in vacation, that any assignee has neglected and refused,
when required by law, to tile a full and true inventory or to
give a bond as required by this act, the court, or judge thereof in vacation, shall issue a citation to said assignee to appear
before said judge at a time and place within his judicial district therein specified, to show cause why he should not be
dismissed from his trust.

§ 2853. On the return of the citation, the court, or judge
thereof, may require the assignee to file an inventory and
to give a bond, with good and sufficient security, at any time,
as he may deem reasonable, or may proceed at once to dismiss such assignee from his trust.

§ 2354. The like proceedings as are prescribed in the last
two preceding sections may be had whenever it shall appear
to the court or judge that any person who shall have become
security for any assignee in any bond given for due execution of his trust, has or is likely to become insolvent, or has
removed or is about to remove from the territory.

§ 2855. The court, or judge thereof, shall have power to
appoint an assignee in all cases of dismissal of an assignee
from his trust, and like bond and security shall be required
and given by the assignee so appointed as are required and
given -by an assignee appointed by an assignor.

§ 2856. When any assignee shall be dismissed from his
trust, the court or judge shall order all the books, papers, effects, moneys and evidences of debt to be forthwith delivered
to his successor in trust, or to such other persons as the court
or judge shall appoint to receive the same for the time being.

§ 2857. The district court, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall make an order for the sale of all the real and personal estate conveyed by any deed of assignment, either for
cash in hand or upon reasonable credit, and upon such other
terms and notice as shall appear to the court or judge to be
most advantageous to all the parties in interest, and shall by
order, direct the nature of the security to be taken at sales
made by assignees under this act. Before any sale of such
real estate shall be made, the assignee shall give bond with
at least two good securities, to be approved by the court, or
judge thereof in vacation. in an amount equal to the value of
the real estate to be sold, conditioned that the said assignee
will faithfully make the same under such order, and duly account for the proceeds thereof under the provisions contained
in this act.

§ 2858. As soon as practicable and not exceeding thirty
days after a time for allowance of demands had under this
act, provided sufficient money shall have then come into his
hands, the assignee or assignees shall pay upon the demands
allowed, according to their right, as much as the means on
hand will permit after reserving enough for proper fees,
costs, expenses and demands, including expenses of litigation then pending, and as often thereafter as a dividend of
five per centum can be paid upon the demands allowed as
aforesaid, the assignee or assignees shall give notice thereof
by publication for one week in the same newspaper in which
was published the notice for allowance of demands, or in such
other newspaper as the court or judge thereof may direct;
and if such assignee or assignees shall neglect or refuse to
make payment out of such trust fund, as in this section required, for more than three days after the same have become
due and have been demanded by the person entitled thereto,
his agent or attorney, or if he or they shall in any way neglect
or refuse to comply with the provisions of this section, he or
they shall for every such neglect or refusal, forfeit and pay
to the person or persons aggrieved, five per centu in per month
interest on such sum as such person or persons were entitled
to at the time of such demand, t.o be recovered by motion in
the court having jurisdiction of said assignment: and any
judgment rendered by said court on the hearing of said motion shall be against said assignee or assignees and his or
their securities on their trust provided for in this act, and
such assignee or assignees shall, in addition to such forfeiture, be subject to be dismissed from his or their trust by
said court for such neglect and refusal and on motion and
citation for that purpose.

§ 2859. Every assignee, upon the reasonable request of
any person entitledto any demand allowed, or of his agent,
shall exhibit to such person or agent the condition of the assets of the assign meut and give him all reasonable information conccrning the same. i

9' 2860. Upon petition in behalf of any such person to the
district court, or judge thereof in vacation, showing good
cause therefor, verified by affidavit, such court- or judge shall
cause any assignee to be cited to appear before the court or
judge at such time as may be designated, to answer the allegation of such petition and to do and abide such order as shall
be made by such court or judge in the premises, and for the
purpose of preventing multiplicity of petitions or other proceedings, two or more may join in seeking the relief demanded by each, verifying their respective causes of complaint: I’rm.~idml, The relief sought by each are not antagonistic to each other, and upon the hearing the court or judge
shall make such order as shall be deemed fit and lawful in
t-he premises for enforcing the provisions of this act.

§ 2861. All property, both real and personal, exempt
from execution under the laws of this territory shall not be
<-.ouveye(l by the deed of assignment, and if enumerated

therein shall not pass to the assignee, but shall be reserved
for the benefit of the assignor, or his family, to be set offand
appraised by the appraiser mentioned in the first part of this
act.

§ 2862. That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to deprive any person of the benefit of any lien that
may have attached to any of the assignor's property, either
‘at law or in equity, prior to assignment.

§ 2863. No process by attachment shall issue on behalfof
any creditor of the assignor after such assignment has been
duly made, as in this act contemplated, until a court. of competent jurisdiction shall have first pronounced the assignment void, uh inifio by proper suit or action brought by one
or more creditors for that purpose, in which case, after the
bill is filed and proper service had, the court. or judge in
vacation, shall fix the time for making up the issues, and render a final decree as soon as practicable.

§ 2364. Should any preference be made in favor of any
creditor, other than in this act provided, such preference
shall inure to the benefit of all creditors alike.

§ 2865. When any assignee becomes satisfied that it is no
longer advantageous to the creditors of his assignor to keep
the assignment open, he may apply to the district court for a
discharge from his trust, upon a notice of his intention to
make such application, stating the time thereof, which notice
shall be published in the newspaper aforesaid, for at least
four weeks next before such time, at which time he may file
his petition in said court for such discharge: which petition,
verified by his affidavit. shall set forth the disposition made
of the assets of the assignment to him: what port-ion of them
remains on hand, and their condition; the amount realized
from the assets; the particular disposition of such amount:
the demands allowed particularly, with their respective
amounts, and owners‘ names, and the sums paid on each,
with an offer to deliver into the charge of the court what remains of the assets, and the evidence thereof, and accom' panied by all vouchers t.herewitl1 connected. _

§ 2866. If any person interested shall, within one Week
after tiling such petition, file written objections to such discharge, accompanied by specific: reasons, the court may refer
the application to some competent and reliable person to examine the merits of the application and report to the court,
with all convenient speed thereon: and, upon the filing of such
report, the court shall make such further order in the premises as it shall adjudge right. or the court or judge thereof
may hear and determine such application without reference,
and may discharge said assignee from all further duty or obligation under the assignment: and thereupon, shall order
such assignee to deliver into the charge and custody of the
court such portion of the assets and evidences thereof as remain in his hands, where they shall be kept with all papers
connect-ed with such assignment, subject to the future control and disposition of the court. .

 2867. Appeals may be taken from the final judgment of

the court, in the same manner as now provided by law, for
appeals or writ-s of error in ordinary cases.

§ 2868. Whenever it may appear to the best interest of
the estate assigned, the court, or judge thereof in vacation,
may make an order directing the assignee to sell, compound
or compromise all bad or doubtful debts upon such terms
and conditions as appear proper and most beneficial to the
estate: and in like manner the court, or judge thereof in vacation, may make an order directing the assignee to release
and discharge any vested, contingent or possible right or interest in or to any estate or effects assigned, upon such terms
and conditions as the cou rt," or judge thereof in vacation, may
deem proper and just for the best interest of the estate. The
assignee shall report his proceedings under this section to
the court, or judge in vacation; and if in vacation, he shall
notify the creditors by publication in the newspaper aforesaid for at least two weeks, the last insertion to be not less
than ten days prior to the time of the hearing on said report,
which notice shall state the object of said report and when
and where the same will be heard, and upon a hearing thereof, the court, or judge in vacation, may approve or disapprove the same as the facts and circumstances may warrant:
And 1)7’ovidcd, That any creditor may file his objections to
said report on or before the date fixed by the notice, and
such objection shall be heard and determined without delay,
and nothing in this section authorized to be done by the assignee shall be final until the approval of the court as herein
provided. '

§ 2869. The fees and commissions to which the assignee
may be entitled for services performed by him in the execution of his trust shall be fixed and allowed by the court, or
judge thereof in vacation, for such amount, at such times and
in such manner as the court or judge may direct, to be applied out of the trust funds in the hands of the assignee. In
like manner the court shall allow counsel for the assignee
reasonable compensation for professional services necessarily performed for and on behalf of the assignee in the execution of his trust. .

§ 2870. In case the assignee should be an attorney-at-law,
in active practice, and performs the duties of assignee and
counsel in the protection and execution of the trust, he shall
be allowed by the court such compensation, in his capacity as
such counsel, together with a reasonable allowance as assignee, at such times, in such manner and in such amounts
as the court under all the circumstances may deem just and
reasonable.

G EN ERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 2871. In all the courts in this territory the common law
as recognized in the United States of America, shall be the
rule of practice and decision.

Leitensdorfer vs. Webb. vol. 1. page 34. N. M. Rep.
Montoya vs. Donohoe. vol. 2. page ‘.214, N. M. Rep.
Territory vs. Maxwell. vol. 2, page 250. N. M. Rep.

§ 2872. The style of all Writs and processes issued by
authority of said territory shall be: The Territory of New
Mexico.

§ 2873. The records of the court of each preceding day of
the term shall be read and corrected in open court on the
morning of the succeeding day, except on the last day of the
term, on which the proceedings of the same day shall be read,
and the record of the term at the end thereof, be signed by
the judge presiding.

§ 2374. In case the presiding judge shall die before signing the record of any term, or shall from any cause be disabled from doing so, a certificate by the clerk at the end of
such record, of the facts, shall be sufficient to authenticate
such record, and make,it of full force.

.5 2875. Hereafter the district courts held in the several
counties of this territory, shall be at all times in session, and
open at any place in the district where the judge thereof may
be, for the purpose ‘of hearing and determining motions, demurrers and petitions, granting rules and orders and interlocutory decrees, perfecting pleadings and putting causes at
issue in all causes in law and equity, and rendering final decrees in equity, as Well as for granting all extraordinary
Writs, and issuing every kind and class of process that could
or might be issued by said courts at a regular term.

§ 2876. The district court shall have power tohear and
determine all motions when three days’ notice shall have been

given against the adverse party, against sherilfs or other ofticers for money received on execution, or other process or
order of the court which shall not be paid to the party, his
agent or attorneys, failing or refusing to pay over money received for t-heir clients, and to render judgment as in other
cases.

§ 2877. The justices of the supreme court, and until they
act as judges of the district courts respectively, may make
such rules as may be applicable to proceedings under this
act.

,5 2878. It shall be the duty of the judge of any court to
cause judgment, sentence or decree of the court to be carried
into effect, according to law.

§ 2879. The venue in all cases,‘ both civil and criminal,
shall be changed to some county free from exception, whenever the judge is interested in the result of such case: and
may be changed in any case in which it shall appear that
either party cannot have justice done him at a trial in the
county in which such case is then pending, or for any other
proper cause, satisfactory to the judge before whom the motion is made.

Geek vs. Shepherd. vol. 1. page 346. N. M. Rep.

§ 2880. A second change of venue shall not be allowed in
any civil or criminal case, as a matter of right, but shall be
within the discretion of the court.

§ 2881. The venue in all civil and criminal cases shall be
changed whenever the judge is interested in the result, or is
related to, or has been counsel for either party, or when the
party moving for a change shall tile in the case an affidavit of
himself, his agent or attorney, stating that he believes such
party cannot obtain a fair trial in the county wherein the
cause is then pending, either because the adverse party has
an undue influence over the minds of the inhabitants of such
county, or the inhabitants of such county are prejudiced
against such party, or because by reason of public excitement or local prejudice in such county in regard to the case
or the questions involved therein, an impartial jury cannot be
obtained in such county to try the same. Such aliidavit must
be supported by the oaths of two disinterested persons that
they believe the facts therein stated are true.

§ 2882. The order granting such change of venue shall be
made upon motion supported by such atlidavit as aforesaid,
either in term time or by the judge of_ the court in vacation.
at any time after the service of process in the cause. If made
in vacation, tive days’ notice of the time and place of presenting the motion must be given to the opposite party or his attorney. °

§ 2883. In all cases where a change of venue is granted
upon any ground other than those relating to the judge, the
cause shall be removed either to some other county free from
exception within the same judicial district, or to the district
court of such judicial district sitting for the trial of cases
arising under the constitution and laws of the United States.
which court is hereby given jurisdiction to try and determine
all cases so removed. If the change ot' venue  ordered upon

any of the grounds relating to the judge, the case shall be
removed to the next nearest district or some county thereof.

.5 2884. No change of venue shall be allowed after the first
term at which the party might have been heard, unless the
causes upon which the motion is founded have intervened subsequent to such term. But in all pending cases the right toa
change of venue, as hereinbefore provided, shall exist until
the end of the term of court next succeeding the passage of
this act, in the county wherein the case is pending.

.5 2885. It shall be the duty of the clerk, when any paper
is tiled in his office, immediately to enter on the back thereof
his certificate of the day on which it was filed, in the words:
Filed in my office this ~-—— day of ——-, 18%, and sign his
name as clerk to the same. But in case he should at any
time neglect to do so, it may, at the discretion of the court,
guided by the justice Of the case, be entered N-ll-IN‘ pro him’.
In like manner shall all other matters be performed mmr pro
hIm' when the ends of justice may require it.

Secou vs. Leroux. vol. I. paate 381*. N. M. Rep.

§ 2886. In all cases in which papers, being private -property, have been filed for any purpose whatever, it shall be
the duty of the clerk to give the same out to the proper owner,
by order of the court, at any time he may want them, retaining certified copies thereof in the office.

,5 2887. The clerk shall keep a motion (locket, in which he
shall enter all motions, which motions shall be disposed of at

each term or continued.
Watts vs. Santa Fe County. vol. I. page ‘:86. N. M. Rep.

§ 2888. The clerk shall make out such other dockets and
in such form as the supreme court shall require by rule.

,5 2889. On calling the docket, all cases shall be tried, set i

for trial or continued.

92 2890. All applications for a continuance shall be sup- .
ported by oath unless the facts be within the knowledge of I

the court, in which case it shall be so stated on the record.

§ 2891. Motions for new trials, and in arrest of judgment, .

shall be entertained: appeal shall also be allowed in a manner
to be rovided by law.

,5 2 92. In all cases the plaintiff, on motion of any person
interested in the suit. or costs, may be ruled -to give security
for costs, and in case he shall fail so to do on or before the
first day of the next term after such rule, the case shall abate.

§ 2893. If any person wishing to institute a suit, or hav- ,

ing done so, Shall make oath that he is too poor to pay the
costs, he shall have all and any process of the court free of
costs.

.5 2894. All contracts. which,by the common law, are joint I

only, shall be construed to be joint and several.

§ 289?). In all cases of joint obligations, and joint assumptions of co-partners. and others, suits may be brought and
prosecuted against any one. or more, of those who are so liable.

,5 2896. All causes shall be tried at the next return term
of the writ, unless continued for good cause. Every cause

may be continued by a court upon application of either party.
verified by affidavit. showing good cause for such continuance. ,
Dold vs. Dold. vol. I. page 397. N. M. Rep.

Thomas vs. McCormick. vol. 1. page 389. N. M. Rep.

§ 2897. All appeals from inferior tribunals to the district
courts shall be tried anew in said courts on their merits, as if
no trial had been had below.

:5 2898. The courts may, from time to time, appoint interpreters and translators to interpret the testimony of Witnesses, and to translate any writing necessary to be translated in such courts or causes therein.
Territory vs. Romlne. vol. 2 page 114. N. M. Rep.

§ 2899. Every plaintiff or defendant shall be entitled to be
heard before the jury by an attorney, and if there be but one
plaintiff or defendant, by two, and when there are several defendants having the same or separate defenses and appearing
by the same or different attorneys, the court shall, before
argument, arrange their order.

§ 2900. In the construction of statutes, the following
rules shall be observed. unless such constrpction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the legislature or repugnant to the context of the statute:

First. Words and phrases shall be construed according to
the context and the approved usage of the language: but
technical Words and phrases, and such others as may have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, shall be
construed according to such meaning.

. Second. Words importing the singular number may be
extended to several persons or things, and words importing
the plural number may be applied to one person or thing, and
words importing the masculine gender only may be extended
to females.

Third. Words giving a joint authority to three or more
public ptiicers or other persons shall be construed as giving
such authority to a majority of them, unless it be otherwise
expressed in the act giving them authority.

Fourth. The Word, Oath, includes atiirmation in all cases
where an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
like cases the word, Swear. includes, Aflirm.

Fifth. The word, Person, may be extended to bodies corporate. _

Sixth. The words, Written, and, In writing, may include
printing, engraving or any other mode of representing words
and letters, excepting those cases where the written signature or mark of any person is required.

Seventh. In computing time the first day shall be excluded and the last included, unless the last falls on Sunday. in
which Case the time prescribed shall be extended so as to include the whole of the following Monday.

,5 2901. When any justice of the supreme court shall be
absent from his district, or shall be in any manner incapacitatcd from acting or performing any of his duties of judge or
chancellor in his district, or from holding court therein, any
other justice of the supreme court may perform all such

duties, hear and determine all petitions, motions, demurrers,
grant all rules and interlocutory orders and decrees, as also
all extraordinary writs in said district.

)6 2902. In all actions in the district courts of this territory, affecting the title to real estate in this territory, the
plaintiff, at the time of filing his petition, or complaint. or at
any time thereafter, before judgment or decree, may file with
the clerk of the probate court of each county in which the
property may be situate, a notice of the pendency of the suit
containing the names of the parties thereto, the object of the
action, and the description of the property so atfected and
concerned: and if the action is for a foreclosure of a mortgage
such notice shall contain in addition, the date of the mortgage,
the parties thereto, and the time and place of recording, and
must he died five days before judgment: and the pendence of
such action shall be only from the time of tiling such notice,
and shall be constructive notice to a purchaser, or encumbrancer of the property concerned: and any person Whose
conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently executed, or
subsequently registered shall be considered a subsequent
purchaser or encumbrancer: and shall be bound by all the
proceedings, taken after the filing of such notice, to the same
extent as if he was made a party to the said action.

§ 2903. For the purpose of this act, it is considered that
an action is pending from the time of filing such notice: Proriclml, fm-rim-, That such notice shall be of no value, unless it
is followed by the service of such citations or process of citation, or by_notice by publication to the defendant, as provided
by law, until sixty days after such tiling. And the court in
which said action was commenced, may in its discretion, at
any time after the action shall be settled, discontinue or revoke on application of any person injured, and for good cause
shown, and under such notice as may be directedor approved
by the court, order the notice authorized by this act to be canceled by the probate clerk of any county in whose office the
same may have been tiled, and such cancellation shall be made
by an indorsement to that effect upon the tiled notice which
shall refer to the order.

§ 2904. In actions of replevin and attachment the declaration, aiiidavit, bond and other necessary papers may be
tiled in the office of the clerk of the probate court of the county
in which the suit is brought, and such clerk shall issue in the
name of the court in which the suit is brought, a11d underhis
own hand and the seal of the probate court, which for this
purpose only is hereby declared to be equivalent to the seal
of the district court, the proper writ and summons with the
properindorsement thereon, as required by law, andsuch Wri t
and summons shall have the same force and etfect as if issued
by the clerk of the district court wherein the suit is brought.
The probate clerk shall indorse upon the papers in such case
the fact and date of filing, and at once transmit them to the
clerk of the district court wherein the suit is brought, and
the cause shall stand in all respects as if commenced by filing
the papers with the clerk of the district court.

§ 2905. The attorney general and district attorneys of
this territory in their respective districts, when any civil
proceedings may be pending in their respective districts, in
the district court, in which the territory or any county may
be a party, whether the same be an ordinary suit, .s-('iI‘('f(lc'I'II.%'
proceedings, proceedings growing out of any criminal prosecution, or otherwise, shall have power to compromise or settle said suit or proceedings, or grant a release or enter satisfaction in whole or in part, of any claim or judgment in the
name of the territory or county, or dismiss the same, or take
any other steps or proceedings therein which to him may appear proper and right; and all such civil suits and proceedings shall be entirely under the management and control of
the said attorney general or district attorneys, and all compromises, releases and satisfactions heretofore made or entered into by said officers are hereby confirmed and ratified.

§-2906. The plaintitf, in any suit pending in the district
court, may, at any time in the vacation of said court, file in
the clerksoflice of said court, a written dismissal of his suit.
and said cause, from that date, shall be considered as dismissed at the cost of said plaintiff, and judgment shall be entered accordingly at the ensuing term of the district court.

§ 2907. In all causes appealed, or in any other manner
brought from any inferior court to any superior court, t-he
party appealing, or so bringing said suit into the superior
court, may, in like manner, dismiss his appeal in the same
manner as in the preceding section provided: and when said
cause is dismissed, as aforesaid, the judgment in the inferior
court shall remain and be in all things as valid, as if said
cause had never been removed from said inferior court.

,5 2908. Any cause pending in any court of this territory
may be dismissed by the plaintiff in said cause, at his costs,
at any time before. the same is submitted to the jury in causes
tried by the jury, or before judgment has been rendered in
causes tried by the court.

3 2909. That suits in equity may be begun, injunctions
granted, or receivers appointed, in aid of any suit-at-law
whether the same has been prosecuted to a judgment or not,
provided, that such suit-at-law has been begun at the time any
such equitable relief is sought.

§ 2910. Any resident of this territory of full age may,
upon petition to the district court of the district in which the
petitioner resides, and upon filing the notice hereinafter rec nired with proof of publication thereof, if not suiiicient cause
ge shown to the contrary, have his name changed or established by order of said court: such order shall be entered at
length upon the record of said court, and a copy thereof, duly
certified shall be filed in the oflice of the probate clerk of the
county in which such person resides. The said probate clerk
shall record the same in a record book to be kept by him for
that purpose, and for recording any such order the said clerk
shall be allowed the sum of two dollars, to be paid by said
petitioner.

§ 2911. Before making application to the court for changing or establishing a name as above provided, the applicant

Q

must cause a notice thereof, stating therein the nature of the
application, the time and place, when and where the same will
be made, to be published in the county where such application is to be made, and where said applicant resides, said
notice to be published at least once each week for two consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in said county,
and if there be no newspaper published in the county where
said applicant resides, then said notice shall be published in
a newspaper printed in a county nearest to the residence of
said person, and having a circulation in the county where
such person resides.

§ 2912. That the hearing and determination of all proceedings instituted under the provisions of this act, and the
final order of the court therein, shall be had and made at some
regular term of the district court sitting within and for the
county wherein said petitioner resides.

§ 2912a. Whenever any surety upon any attachment, replevin or other bond required in civil actions by the statutes
of this territory shall have reason to believe himself in danger
from remaining the1'eon, and desires to be relieved therefrom, he may present a petition for that purpose to the judge
of the district court in which the action wherein the said bond
is given, is pending, either in vacation or term time, setting
forth such reasons and verify the same by his oath. Whereupon said judge is authorized to hear the same in a summary
manner and grant an order relieving the petitioner from such
bond if in his judgment the petitioner is entitled to such relief and upon such terms as shall be prescribed in order to
secure the right of all parties interested in the cause: Pmritlml, That a copy of such petition shall be served upon the
principal on the bond together with the notice of the time and
place where the same will be presented, at least ten days before the hearing: 1’i'ol'iI/('11, That no surety on any replevin
or attachment bond shall be relieved from his liability on such
bond until a new bond shall have been given and approved, or
until the property, the return or forthcoming of which such
original bond was intended to secure, shall have been placed
in the custody of the court.

TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

§ 2913. The following suits or actions may be brought
within the time hereinafter limited, respectively, after their
causes accrue, and not afterwards, except when otherwise
specially provided.

§ 2914. Actions founded upon any judgment of any court
of the Territory of New Mexico may be brought within seven
years from and after the rendition of such judgment, and not
afterward, and actions founded upon any judgment of any
court of record of any other territory or state of the United
States, or of the federal courts, may be brought within seven
years from and after the rendition of such judgment, and not
afterward: Provirlvd, That actions may be brought upon any
existing judgment which, but- for this proviso, would be barred
within one year from and after the passage of this act, and
not afterward: and all actions upon such judgments not com
menced within the time limited by this act shall be forever
barred.

'§ 2915. Those founded upon any bond, promissory note,
bill of exchange or other contract ‘in writing, or upon any
judgment of any court not of record, within six years.

§ 2916. Those founded upon accounts and unwritten contracts; those brought for injuries to property or for the conversion of personal property or for relief upon the ground of
fraud, and all other actions not herein otherwise provided for
and specified, within four years.

Laszuna vs. A coma. vol. 1. page 220. N. M. Rep.

§ 2917. Those against sureties upon official bonds and
those brought against sheriffs and other public oiiicers for or
on account of any liability incurred by the doing of any act. in
an oflicial capacity, or by the omission of any oiiicial duty, and
for the injuries to the person or reputation, within two years.

§ 2918. In actions for relief, on the ground of fraud or
mistake, and in actions for injuries to, or conversion of property, the cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued
until the fraud, mistake, injury or conversion complained of,
shall have been discovered by the party aggrieved. And no
action or suit shall be brought to call in question any privilege or franchise granted by any municipal corporation, unless
the same shall be brought within six years after the same
shall have been granted, or claimed to have been granted_.and
any such privilege or franchise heretofore granted by any
municipal corporation shall, after six years from the date of

the granting of the same, or within six years after the same
shall have been claimed to have been granted, shall be deemed
valid in all respects: I’I'o1?i(I('(I, /um‘t'('('r, That suits may be
brought to vacate or annul any such privilege or franchise
within six months after the passage of this act.

91 2919. When there is an open, current account the cause
of action shall be deemed to have accrued upon the date of the
last item therein, as proved on the trial.

35. 2920. The filing in the proper clerk's ofiice of the petition, declaration, bill or aiiidavit, upon the filing of which process is authorized by law to be issued, with intent that pro_cess shall issue immediately thereupon, which intent shall be

presumed, unless the contrary appear, shall be deemed a
commencement of the action.

§ 292]. If, after a cause of action accrues, a defendant removes from the territory, the time during which. he shall be
a non-resident of the territory shall not be included in computing any of the periods of limitation above provided.

§ 2922. The times limited for the bringing of actions herein shall, in favor of minors and persons insane or under any
legal disability, be extended so that they shall have one year
from and after the termination of such disability within which
to commence said actions.

§ 2923. If the person entitled to a cause of action die
within one year next previous to the expiration of the limitation above provided, the representatives of such persons shall
have one year after such death within which to commence
said action, and any person having or being entitled to a cause
of action accrued and existing at the time of the passage of
this act, may commence suit therefor within two years from
the passage of this act.

:5 2924. The period of two years specified in section two
thousand nine hundred and twenty-three as the time within
which any person, who had, or was, entitled to a cause of 
tion accrued and existing at the time of passage of said section might commence suit therefor, is hereby extended for
the period of two years from date of this act, so that any person who had, or was, entitled to a cause of action accrued and
existing at the time of the passage of the act, of which this is
an amendment, may commence suit therefor, within two years
from the date of the passage of this act.

 2925. If, after the commencement of an action, the
plaintiff fail therein for any cause, except negligence in its
prosecution, and a new suit be commenced within six months
thereafter, the second suit shall, for the purposes herein contemplated, be deemed a continuation of the first.

§ 2926. Causes of actibn founded upon contract shall be
revived by an admission that the debt is unpaid, as well as by
a new promise to pay the same: but such admission or new
promise must be in writing, signed by the party to be charged
therewith.

§ 2927. A set-otf or counter claim may be pleaded as a defense to any cause of action, notwithstanding such set-off or
counter claim may be barred by the provisions of this act,
if such set-off or counter claim so pleaded was the property or right of the party pleading -the same at the time it
became barred and at the time of the commencement of the
action, and the same was not barred at the time the cause of
action sued for accrued or originated: but no judgment for
any excess of such set-off or counter claim over the demand
of the plaintiff as proved shall be rendered in favor of the defendant. ‘

L’ S. vs. Howland. vol. 1. page .356. N. M. Rep.
Staab et al. vs. Ortiz. vol. 1. page 516, W. C. Rep.

§ 2928. When the commencement of any action shall be
stayed or prevented by injunction order or other lawful proceeding, the time such injunction order or proceeding shall
continue in force shall not be counted in computing the period
of limitation.

§ 2929. None of the provisions of this act shall apply to
any action or suit Which, by any particular statute of this
territory, is limited to be commenced within a different
time, nor shall this act be construed to repeal any existing
statute of the territory which provides a limitation of any
action: but in such cases the limitation shall be as provided
by existing statutes.

 2930. None of the provisions of this act shall run against
causes of actions originating in or arising out of trusts, when
the defendant has fraudulently concealed the cause of action,
or the existence thereof from the party entitled or having the
right thereto.

§ 2931. Accounts duly verified by the oath of the party
claiming the same, or his agent, and promissory notes and
other instruments in Writing, not barred by the provisions of
this act, shall be sufficient evidence in any suit to enable the
plaintiff to recover judgment for the amount thereof, unless
the defendant, or his agent, shall deny the same under oath.

 2932. The above limitations and provisions shall not apply to evidences of debt intended to circulate as money: but
shall, in other respects, be applicable in all other actions
brought by or 2 {rainst all bodies corporate or politic, except
when otherwise expressly declared.

§ 2933. The district courts in this territory, in any suit
or proceeding brought upon a promissory note, d11e bill, bill
of exchange, draft, check or open account, or in any action on
the money or common counts in assumpsit, or in an action of
debt, except where property has been attached, suiiicient to
secure the plaintiff in his debt, claim or demand, shall, upon
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, making a good, suiiicient
and proper showing by ailidavit, or otherwise, that he verily
believes the defendant has no good or sufficient defense upon
the merits to the same, or any part thereof, and that such
plaintiff is in great danger of losing his debt, claim or demand, or some portion thereof, unless he can have a speedy
trial, advance the same upon the court docket, and set the
same peremptorily for trial at an early day: I’rol'i(Ic(I, lmu-cw’/', That if the defendant, his agent or attorney shall make
an affidavit, within three days after the filing of such atiidavit
by the plaintiff, or within such time as the court, in its discretion, ltnay give them. that such defendant has fully explained his defense to his attorney, and that after such statement, so made, he is advised and verily believes that he has
a good and meritorious defense to said suit, or some part
thereof, then the case shall take its regular course.

:5 2934. That all verified accounts filed in any court of this
territory as evidence upon which to obtain judgment for the
amount thereof. shall be filed by the plaintiff at the time of
the commencement of the action, but the court in its discretion shall allow such verification to be made at any time not
later than ten days before the date at which the cause is set
for trial. If the court in the exercise of such discretion, shall
allow such verification to be made after the commencement
of the action. and by reason thereof it shall become necessary to continue the action, such continuance, if made by reason of the verification, shall be at the cost of the plaintiff.

The defendant, his agent or attorney, shall file a denial
under oath at the time he files his answer, but the court may,
in it-s discretion, permit the defendant at any time not later
than ten days before the day said cause stands for trial, to
file such denial under oath. If the allowance of such filing
by the court makes it necessary for plaintiff to continue the
action, such continuance shall be at defendant's cost in cases
where the plaintiff files his affidavit at the commencement of
the action.

at 2935. If the plaintiff‘ at any action at law, arising on any
contract, either express or implied, shall file with his declaration, or shall file at any time before the return day in such
cause, an affidavit setting forth a brief statement of the cause
of action and showing therein in such affidavit, the amount
due and owing to the plaintiff by the defendant, after deducting all just credits and set-offs and shall serve a copy of such
affidavit on such defendant, or on his attorney of record, then
the said defendant shall within ten days after the service of
a copy of such affidavit on him, or on his attorney, file in the
clerk's office, Where the declaration is filed, an affidavit denying that he is indebted to the plaintiff, as stated in the plaintiff ‘s affidavit and also exhibiting briefly the facts which constitute his defense to the plaintiff action and showing either,
that he is not in debt to the plaintiff in any gum whatever, or
if he is indebted to the plaintiff in a part only of the sum
named by the plaintiff in his affidavit, then the defendant shall
show the amount that he is so indebted, and shall deny the
remainder of the plaintiff's claim. Defendant shall cause to
be served within said ten days, a copy of the said affidavit on
the plaintiff or his attorney. At the expiration of ten days
allowed the defendant by this act to file and serve copies of
his affidavit, if it shall appear from the affidavit filed, or from
the failure of the defendant to file and serve his affidavit as
herein required, the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
on account of the matters sued on, in any sum whatever, the
court shall summarily render judgment against defendant for
such amount: but if’ it shall appear-from such affidavits that the
defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in part only of the sum
sued for and that there is a bum: _/irlv dispute between the
parties as to a part of the amount claimed by the plaintiff,

then in such case the court shall render judgment summarily.
for the amount not disputed, and the remainder of the
claim which is denied by the defendant in his affidavit, shall
stand for pleading and trial under the ordinary rules and
practice of the court, or if it shall appear from such aiiidavit
that there is a bowl _/We dispute between the parties, as to the
whole of the plaintiff's claim, the amount so in dispute shall
stand for hearing and be governed by the ordinary rules of
practice, in cases of law. This act shall apply to all regular
terms and the monthly return terms of the district court:
I’-roriderl, /mu'c('cI', That this act shall not apply to any suit now

pending. .

§ 2936. The provisions of this act shall apply to justices
of the peace as far as the same shall be made applicable, as
well as to the district courts.

.5 2937. In all cases Where any person or persons, their
children, heirs or assigns, shall at the passing of this act or
at any time after, having had posssession for ten years of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments which have been granted
by the governments of Spain, Mexico or the United States,
or by whatsoever authority empowered by said governments
to make grants to lands, holding or claiming the same by
virtue of a deed or deeds of conveyance, devise, grant or other
assurance purporting to convey an estate in fee simple. and
no claim by suit in law or equity effectually prosecuted shall
have been set up or made to the said lands, tenements or
hereditaments, within the aforesaid time of ten years, then
and in that case, the person or persons, their children, heirs
or assigns, so holding possession as aforesaid, shall be entitled to keep and hold in possession such quantity of lands
as shall be specified and described in his, her or their deed of
conveyance, devise, grant or other assurance as aforesaid. in
preference to all, and against all, and all manner of person or
persons whatsoever: and any person or persons, their children or their heirs or assigns, who shall neglect or who have
neglected for the said term of ten years, to avail themselves
ot' the beuetit of any title, legal or equitable, which he, she or
they may have to any lands, tenements or hereditaments,
within this territory, by suit of law or equity effectually prosecuted against the person or persons so as aforesaid in possession, shall be forever barred, and the person or persons.
their children, heirs or assigns so holding or keeping possession as aforesaid by the term of ten years, shall have a good
and indefeasible title in fee simple to such lands, tenements
or hereditaments: 1’;-nritlwl, That if any person or persons
that have been, are, or shall be entitled to commence and
prosecute such suit in law or equity, shall have been, he.
or shall be, at the time of said right or title first descended,
or accrued, come or fallen within the age of twenty-one years,

_/‘mm’ r-orcrf, mm (-ompos mcnfis, imprisoned, 01' beyond the limits of the United States a-nd the territories thereof, that then
such person or persons, his. her or their children, heirs or
assigns shall or may, notwithstanding the ten years be expired. bring his or her legal or equitable action, as he, she or
they might have done ‘before the passage of this act. so as

such person or persons, or his, her or their children, heirs
or assigns, shall within three years next after his, her or
their full age, discoverture, coming of sound mind, enlargemen t- out of prison, coming into the United States or the territories thereof, or death, take benefit of and commence such
suit, and at no time after the said three years: P:-ovitlecl, (I/su,
That in the construction of this saving provision, no cumulative disability shall prevent the bar aforesaid, but shall only
apply to that or those disabilities which existed when tl1e
right to sue first accrued, and no other: And 1n‘(r(‘i¢lmI, (I./so,
That such suit so commenced shall be a suit prosecuted with
effect, and no other.

§ 2938. No person or persons, nor their children or heirs,
shall have, sue or maintain any action or suit, either in law or
equity, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments but Within ten years next after his, her or their right to commence,
have or maintain such suit shall have come, fallen or accrued,
and that all suits, either in law or equity, for the recovery of

— any lands, tenements or hereditaments shall be had and sued

within ten years next after the title or cause of action or
suits accrued or fallen. and at no time after the ten years shall
have passed: I’mri«Iml, That if any person or persons that is
or shall be entitled to commence and prosecute such suit or
action in law or equity be or shall be, at the time of said right
or title first accrued, come or fallen within the age of twentyone years, ftww (-oI‘('t'f, mm (-mnpus mmmzs-, imprisoned or beyond the limits of the United States and the territories thereof, that then such person or persons, his, her or their children, heirs or assigns, shall and may, notwithstanding the
said ten years be expired, bring his or her suit or action, as he,
she or they might have done before the passage of this act,
so as such person or persons, his, her or their children, heirs
or assigns, shall within three years next after his, her or
their full age, discovertu re, coming of sound mind, enlargement out of prison, coming into the United States or the territories thereof, or death, take benefit of and commence such
suit, at no time after the said three years: 1’;-oviclmi, nlsu,
That in the construction of this saving exception, no cumulative disability shall prevent this bar, but shall only apply to
that or those disabilities which existed at the time when the
right to sue first accrued, and to no other. l’mm'dml, furf./om‘,
That such action so com men(-ed shall be an action prosecuted
with effect, and no other.

P.-\R'l‘IES.

§ 2939. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as provided in the next section.

,5 2940.. An executor or administrator, a guardian, a
trustee of an expressed trust, a party with whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benefit of another or party
expressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name
Without joining with him the party for whose benefit the suit
is prosecuted.

§ 294]. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiffs, except when it is otherwise provided by

law.
Chavez vs. McKnight. voL 1. page I-1?. N. M. Rep.

Best égal. vs. Maxwell Land (lrant and Railway Uonipany. vol. 3. page 8. W.
. p.

§ 2942. Where two or more persons are bound by contract or by judgment, decree or statute, whether jointly only,
or jointly or severally, or severally only, and including the
parties to negotiable paper, common orders and checks, and
sureties on the same, or separate instruments, or by any liability growing out of the same. the action thereon may, at the
option of the plaintiff, be brought against any or all of them:
when any of these so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against any or all of the survivors with any or all of
the representatives of the decedents, or against any or all
such representatives. An action or judgment against any
one or more of several parties jointly bound, shall not be a bar
to proceedings against the others.

§ 2943. Suits may be brought by or against a partnership
as such, or against all or either of the individual members
thereof; and a judgment against the firm as such may be enforced against the partnership’s property. or that of such
members as have appeared or been served with summons:
but a new action may be brought against the other members
in the original cause of action. When the action is against
the partnership as such, service of summons on one of the
members, personally, shall be suflicient service on the firm.

§ 2944. When the precise name of any defendant cannot
be ascertained, he may be described as accurately as practicable, and when the name is ascertained. it shall be substituted in the proceedings.

§ 2945. When an action is founded upon a written instrument, suit may be brought by or against any of the parties
thereto by the same name and description as those by which
they are designated in such instrument.

§ 2946. All contracts, which by the common law are joint
only, shall be held and construed to be joint and several: and
in all cases of joint obligations or assumptions by partners
and others. suit may be brought a11d prosecuted against any

process shall be returnable, and if brought in any judicial
district other than that in which the defendant or either of
them resides, process shall be served on such defendant or
defendants not less than thirty days before the first day of
the term to which said process may be made returnable.

Second. When the defendant has rendered himself liable
to acivil action by any criminal act, suit may be instituted
a vainst such defendant in the county in which the offense was
committed, or in which the defendant may be found, or in the
county Where the plaintiff resides.

Third. When suit is brought for the recovery of personal
property other than money, it may be brought as above provided, or in the county where the property may be found.

Fourth. When lands or any interest in lands are the object
of any suit. in whole or in part, such suit shall be brought in
the county Where the land or any portion thereof is situate.

Fifth. Suits for trespass on land shall be brought as provided in the first paragraph, or in the county where the land
or any portion thereof is situate.

Sixth. Suits may be brought against transient persons or
non-residents in any county of this territory.

Geek vs. Shepherd. vol. I. page M15. N. M. Rep.

§ 2951. Hereafter civil suits before a justice of the peace
may be broight and prosecuted in the precinct where the
plaintiff or defendant or some one of them resides, or in the
precinct Where the contract was made, or is to be performed,
or where the cause of action originated.

No justice of the peace shall sit in any cause Where he may
be interested or Who. may be related to either party within
the second degree of consanguinity or afrinity.

During the period of a vacancy in the office of justiceof the
peace in any precinct, or Where such justice shall be absent
from his precinct for a period of two days, or whenever such
justice shall be unable or unwilling to perform the duties of
his office, or whenever such justice shall be disqualified to act
by reason of the sub-section next preceding, in either of these
events it shall be lawful to commence and prosecute civil
action to final judgment and recovery before a justice of the
peace in some precinct adjoining that precinct in which actions are required to be brought by the first sub-section of
this act: l’mri¢I¢-(I, That. if the justice shall be absent from
his precinct three hours, and at such time it becomes necessary to immediately sue out an attachment or writ of replevin
in order to secure a debt or other demand or personal
property which is about to be removed from the county, it
shall be lawful for the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, in such
suit to file his affidavit, setting forth such necessity for immediate action, before a justice of the peace in some adjoining precinct of the county and there commence and prosecute his action to final judgment and recovery.

PROCESS, SERVICE OF.

92 2952. When the declaration or bill shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court, such clerk shall at
once make out a summons or subpoena to the defendant or
defendants, and indorse thereon a brief statement of the nature of the action and the amount of damages claimed.

§ 2953. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the district
court, whenever a petition is tiled, to make out a true, certitied copy of the original writ, which he shall deliver to the
sheriff of the county, whose duty it shall be to serve the same
on the defendant by delivering to him the said copy at least
five full days before the first day of term of court, exclusive
of the day on which service is made and the said first day of

the term.
(mllegos vs. Pino. vol. I, page 410. N. M. Rep.

§ 2954. That hereafter whenever any writ or process issued out of the district courts shall be served within a less
time before the return day thereof than is required by law,
it shall not be necessary to sue out alias or subsequent
process, and have the same served: but the process so
served shall be held returnable to the next succeeding term
of the court out of which the same issued; and the party
against Whom such process runs, shall be held to enter his
appearance at the next succeeding term, and default upon
failure so to appear, may be entered and prosecuted to final
judgment, as in other cases.

§ 2955. The first Monday in each month is designated as
a return day for process issued from the district courts in
civil actions to bring defendants into court, and each defendant must enter his appearance in .the clerk's oilice on or before the day upon which such process is made returnable, if
service has been made on him as hereinafter provided, or
judgment by default or decree pm r'on_f¢'.s'.s'n may be entered
against him.

9' 2956. Such process shall be served in the manner now
provided by law, and shall be returnable on the first return
day occurring not less than twenty days after service, if defendant is sued in any county within the district in which he ’

lives, and on the first return day occurring not less than
thirty days after service, if defendant is sued in any county

outside of the district in which he lives. Such process may
also be served by publication as provided by law in cases returnable to the regular term of the court, and such publication shall be made for four consecutive Weeks, the last
publication thereof being at least two weeks before the return day to which the process is returnable, and the notice
shall specify said return day. All service of such process
heretofore made by publication for the time and as provided
in the preceding section, shall be deemed as valid as if said
section had been enacted prior to the publication of the same.

§ 2957. Process may also, at the option of plaintiff, be
made returnable to the first day of a term of the district
court, in which case it shall be served in the manner and at
the times heretofore provided by law.

is‘ 2958. _Within ten days after defendant's appearance is
entered, plaintiff or his attorney or solicitor shall deliver to
defendant or his attorney or solicitor a copy of the declaration or bill of complaint: and each successive pleading thereafter shall be tiled with the clerk, and a copy served on the
opposite party or his attorney or solicitor Within ten days of
the filing and service of the next preceding pleading. Any
failure to tile and serve a pleading within the required time
shall entitle the opposite party, if plaintiff, to a judgment nil
(Iicif or decree pro r'oII_f('.s.so, and, if defendant, to a judgment
or decree of dismissal: l’rm‘irIc(l, Such judgment or decree
is obtained before the pleading is filed and served. Any
judgment or decree for lack of appearance or failure in pleading may be rendered by the judge of the district at any place
where he may be in his district, and the district courts are
declared to be at all times in session for the purposes of this
act. Final judgments or decrees may be in like manner entered by the court out of regular term time, Whenever a trial
by jury is not necessary.

§ 2959.‘ All service of notices or other papers, if made by
an attorney or solicitor, sheriff or marshal, shall be proved by
his certificate, and if made by any other person, shall be
proved by affidavit. Motions shall be served in the same
manner as pleadings.

§ 2960. The clerks of the district courtsshall keep, for
each county, a judgment docket, a civil docket, a criminal
docket, and a record or journal of the proceedings of the
court. In counties where the amount of business makes it
desirable or convenient to do so. they may keep two records
or journals, one for criminal, and the other for civil business.
No other books or records shall be required. The civil and
criminal dockets shall show in convenient form the names of
the parties in each case, the names of their attorneys or solicitors, the nature of the. case, the filing of each paper, the appearance of parties. a brief statement of every return, motion.
rule, order, judgment, or other proceeding. with references to
pages of the journal or record where each entry made can be
found, the costs taxed for each item, all costs received, with
columns for clerks and sheritf costs and for witnesses’ fees.
so that said dockets will show in brief, an outline of the Whole
case from its beginning. and serve as an index to the journal.

and as a fee book. Such dockets are records of the court.
The journal or record of the court shall show all proceedings
of the court, but it shall not be necessary nor allowable to
enter therein any record of proceedings which are the mere
acts of the parties to a case, such as the filing of papers.

§ 2961. All filing and serving of papers shall be by the
parties, without the necessity of calling on the court for any
action relative thereto, except in.those instances Where leave
to file is requisite. .5 2962. All original process from any of the courts in this
territory shall be executed by the proper oiiicer as follows:

First. By reading the original process to the defendant,
and delivering a c.opy thereof if required.

Second. By delivering a copy of the original process to
the defendant.

Third. If the defendant be absent, by delivering a copy of
the original process to some person residing at the usual
place of abode of the defendant, over fifteen years of age.

Fourth. If no such person be found Willing to accept a copy

pf the process as above provided for, then by posting the

same in the most public part of the defendants premises:
I’rm'i(lc4I, u/mtg/.s-, That the clerk or oiiicer issuing such process’ shall be required t.o indorse thereon, the nature of the
suit, the amount of damages claimed, and for What demand
the suit is brought: 1’rum'cIml,furtlu-r, That if any such defendant shall refuse to hear the process read or to accept a
copy thereof from the proper oflicer, it shall be deemed good
service in law.

§ 2963. Whenever in any suit or proceeding in any court
of the territory, either in law or equity, it becomes necessary to serve any process, notice or writing .upon any railroad company, foreign or domestic, operating its road in this
territory, it shall be sufficient to serve the same upon any station agent at any station or depot along the line ‘within any
county in this territory. and when there are no such stations or agents in the county, then it may be served upon
any conductor ofa passenger or freight train of cars of such
company.

§ 2964. When any- plaintiff or complainant, his agent or
attorney, in any civil cause pending, or hereafter commenced
in any court of record in this territory shall file in the oilice
of the clerk of said court, a sworn petition, bill of complaint,
or aiiidavit, showing that the defendant, or any one or more
of them in said cause, resides, or has gone out of the territory,
has concealed himself Within it, has avoided service of process on‘ him, or is in any other man,ner so situated that process cannot be served upon him or them, or that his or their
names, or place of residence is unknown, or that his or their
whereabouts cannot be discovered; in such case it shall be the
duty of the said clerk to publish a notice of the pendency of
said cause, to said defendant or defendants, in some newspaper published in the county where the cause may be pending, and if there be no newspaper published in said county,
then in some newspaper published in the territory, or by not
less than six hand bills put up in six public. places in said

county: PI'¢)t'i(I(’(I, That no publisher of any newspaper shall
be authorized or allowed to charge more than one dollar and
tWenty—iive cents for every fifty Words of said notice, for each
insertion thereof, unless by special agreement: and should
there be no newspaper found in said county willing to insert
said notice on the terms aforesaid, then the same may be
published in any other newspaper published in the territory.

or by hand bills as aforesaid.

I Splegelberg vs. Sullivan. vol. 1. page  N. M. Rep.
Smith vs. Montoya. vol. 1. page I52. W. C. Rep.

§ 2965. The notice provided for in the previous section
shall conform as far as practicable, in form, time and substance, to the laws governing publication in causes of attachment: and the proof of publication shall be made in the same
manner as in causes of attachment, except when the said
publication shall be by hand bills, in which case the aiiidavit
of the person putting up the hand bills shall be required instead of that of the publisher of the newspaper, and said publication, when made in the following form, shall be deemed
and held sutlicient in law, to-wit:

A. B. ’ IN THE DISTRICT COURT,
vs. ss.
C. D. l ' County of .

The said defendant, 0. D., is hereby notified that a suit in
has been commenced against him in the district court for
the County of , Territory of New Mexico, by said plaintiff
(or complainant) A. B., damages claimed —— dollars, (or the
nature of the relief prayed for, if in chancery) that unless you
enter your appearance in said suit on or before the first day
of the next ————- term of said court, commencing on the

 

 

day of , 1H——, judgment by default (or decree pm r'm4fc.~°.~'u)
therein will be rendered against you.
X. Y.
Clerk.

.5 2966. The publication of the notice being made, and the
fact proved, and return made of the same according to, and
as prescribed in the foregoing sections, the same shall be
considered and taken as sufficient notice, or summons, and
valid in law: and the plaintiff or complainant thereupon may
prosecute his said cause to a conclusion under the same.

:5 2967. Whenever any sheriff shall return that the defendant is not to be found in his county, or that he secretes
himself, or absconds, so that. he cannot make service upon
himin the ordinary Way, the plaintiff may sue out a Writ of
attachment, to be governed by the laws and rules regulating
other attachments. '

§ 2968. Until a vacancy shall be filled by the election and
qualification of a sheriff, or when the sheriff shall be a party
to the suit, or otherwise disqualified from serving the process-, the court or officer issuing the process shall have the
power to issue such process in all cases directed to some
proper person, who is hereby fully authorized to serve such
process and return the same properly served. under oath.
and such service shall have the same force and effect as if it
had been made by any regular sheritf of the territory.

PLEA DI l\'( #5‘.

§ 2969. All suits at law in the district courts shall be commenced by filing a declaration in the office of the clerk of the
court, and the pleadings and practice shall be according to the
forms and rules of the common law‘ and all suits in equity
shall be commenced by filing a bill in tile office of the clerk of
the court.

9' 2970. When any matter is pleaded by either party, at any
stage of the cause, within the time of pleading, it shall be the
duty of the court, before the same is submitted to the jury, to
consider and determine upon the sufficiency of the matter,
whether excepted or not.

:5 2971. No want of form shall be suliicient cause for abating any matter pleaded, provided the court. can see in it suiticient matter upon which to base a decree or judgment; and
when legal exceptions are sustained, the opposite party shall
have leave to amend.

Selistman vs. Armljo. vol. 1. page 4.39. N. M. Rep.

§ 2972. Each party, by leave of the court, shall have leave
to amend, upon such terms as the court may think proper, at
any time before verdict, judgment or dec.1'ee.

Beall vs. Territory. vol. I. page 307. N. M. Rep.

§ 2973. All pleas in abatement, except pleas to the jurisdiction as to the subject, shall be under oath.

Geek vs. Shepherd. vol. I. pmte 316. N. M. Rep.

§ 2974. Hereafter, whenever any judgment may be rendered in any of the courts of this territory on any plea in
abatement, and such judgment shall be against the said plea
or the matters therein pleaded, or such plea shall be amended
or not sustained, the judgment of the court shall give the
party interposing such plea in abatement leave to plead over
and set up any further matter of defense which might have
been pleaded or set up if such plea in abatement had not been
interposed.

§ 2975. The order of pleading shall be as follows, that is
to say: First, legal exceptions: second, pleas in abatement:
1st, to the jurisdiction as to the subject matter: 2nd, as to
local jurisdictions: ialrd, as to the disability or misnomer of the

person, either the plaintiff or the defendant: third, answer in

bar of the action.
Donalson vs. San Miguel County. vol. 1. page 363. N. M. Rep.
Overland Dispatch (.‘o. vs. Wedeles. vol. 1. page 322*. N. M. Rep.
§ 2976. When any party to a suit. either as principal or
security, or indorser, founded on any written contract, covenant or agreement whatsoever, shall deny his signature, he
shall do the same under oath.
§ 2977. In all cases where a suit has been instituted upon
any writing obligatory, or may be so instituted. the execution
of the instrument shall be regarded as proved, and the plea
of mm c.s-f'_fm'I‘IlIu shall be regarded as unavailing, until the
person filing such plea shall have made oath that he never
executed the said instrument, nor authorized any person to
execute it for him.
Luna et al. vs. Mohr. vol. 1. page 673. W. C. Rep.
Sta-ab et al. vs. Jaramillo. vol. 1. page 57. W’. C. Rep.
._ § 2978. Each party may plead as many matters as he may
thinkproper, provided that they are pertinent to the cause.

§n2$_l79. Upon good cause, supported by oath, the court
niayextend the time of pleading.

§ 2980. Each party may plead any matter arising out of
the same transaction in reconvention and set-otf.

§ 2981. In case of the assignment of a thing in action, the

.-action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off,

counter claim or other cause of action or defense, Whether
matured or not, if matured when pleaded, existing in favor of

‘the defendant z Uainst the as-signor, before notice of the assignment: but this shall not apply to negotiable instruments

transferred in good faith, and upon valuable consideration
before maturity.

§ 2982. A defendant may plead as a set-off or counter
claim, any of the following matters, and may recover judgment thereon if proved, for any excess thereof over the
plainti1f's demand as proved:

First. When the action is founded on contract, a cause of
action also arising on contract, or ascertained by the decision
of a court; or
- '.Second. A cause of action in favor of the defendants, or
some of them against the plaiiititfs, or some one of them,
arising out of the contracts or transactions set forth in the

-declaration or connected with the subject of the action.

L’. S. vs. Howland. vol. I. page 550. N. M. Rep.
Stunt) et :11. vs. Orti’/.. vol. 1. pusle 314'». H’. C. Rep.

.5 2983. When any instrument of Writing upon which the
action or defense is founded is referred to in the pleadings.
the original or a copy thereof shall be filed with the pleading,
if within the power or control of the party Wishing to use the
same, and if such original or a copy thereof be not filed as
herein required, or a sufricient reason given for failure to do
so, such instrument of writing shall not be admitted in evidence upon the trial.

s 2984. When a written instrument is referred to in a
pleading. and the same or a copy thereof is incorporated in.

conclusions, the affiant believes the witness will prove, and
that the afliant believes them to be true, and that he knows of
no other witness by whom such facts can be fully proved.
Thomas vs. McCormick, vol. 1, page 369, N. M. Rep.
Dold vs. Dold. vol. I. page 397. N. M. Rep.
Waldo vs. Beckwith. vol. 1. page 182. N. M. Rep.

§ 2987. If the application for continuance is insuliicient it
shall be overruled; if held sufficient the cause shall be continued, unless t-he opposite party will admit that the witness.
if present, would testify to the facts therein stated, in which
event the cause shall not be continued, but the party may read
as evidence of such witness the facts held by the court to be
properly stated.

92 2988. The motion for continuance must be filed on the
second day of the term, if it is then certain that it will have
to be made before the trial, and as soon thereafter as it becomes certain that it will so need to be made, and shall not be
allowed to be made when the cause is called for trial, except
for cause which could not, by reasonable diligence, have been
before that time discovered: and if made after the second day
of the term, the anidavit must state facts constituting an excuse for the delay in making it. If time is taken when the
case is called to make such motion. the motion shall be made
and determined as soon -as the court opens after the next ordinary adjournment.

§ 2989. The application for continuance shall be amended
but once, except to supply a clerical error, by permission.
The adverse party may at once, or within such reasonable
time as the court shall allow, tile written objections to such
motion, stating wherein he claims that the same is insulticient. If the continuance is gran ted the party applying therefor shall pay the costs of the term.

§ 2990. In trials by jury, when the jury has been sworn,
the court shall proceed in the following order:

First. The party on whom rests the burden of proof may
state his claim and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it, and shall then produce his evidence.

Second. The other party may then state his defense and
the evidence by which he expects to sustain it, and must then
produce his evidence.

Third. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of
justice. permits them to oifel‘ evidence in their original case.

Fourth. But one counsel on each side shall examine the
same witness and open interlocutory questions. The party
moving the court or objecting to testimony shall be heard
first: the respondent may then reply and the mover rejoin.
confining his remarks to the points first stated and a pertinent answer to respondent’s argument. Debate on the question shall then be closed unless the court request further
argument.

Fifth. The parties may then either submit or argue the
case to the jury. In the argument the party having the burden
of the issue shall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose in the opening all the points relied on in the cause, and

if in the close he should refer to any new material point or
fact not relied upon in the opening, the adverse party shall
have the right to reply thereto, which reply shall close the
argument in the case.

Sixth. If the party holding the affirmative Waive the
opening, he shall be limited in the close simply to a reply to
his adversary's argument, otherwise the other party shall
have the concluding argument.

Ncrr1=;—Chapter tour. section seven. of the laws of 1882, makes the above
applicable as well in criminal as in clvll cases.

,5 299]. Any hearing of any kind, Whether interlocutory
or final, unless trial by jury is necessary, may be had in any
case out of regular term time, upon fiye days’ notice in writing to the opposite party or his attorney or solicitor. Such
hearing may be had during a term of court, at any time Within the discretion of the court. § 2992. Upon the trial of any case either civil or criminal
in the district courts held within and for the various counties
of the territory, all instructions to the jury asked by either
party, Whether given or refused, shall be in Writing, and all

. instructions given by the court at the request of either party

or upon its own motion, shall be in Writing; and it is hereby
made the duty of the court in all cases, whether civil or criminal, to instruct the jury as to the law of the case, and a failure
or refusal so to do shall be sulficient ground for a reversal of
the judgment by the supreme court upon appeal or Writ of
error: I’:-ozriclerl, lumw-m-, That the parties to the suitor their
attorneys may waive upon the record the instructions in
writing.

.5 2993. In all trials by jury in the district courts, the
court shall at the request of the parties, or either of them, or
their counsel, in addition to the general verdict, direct the
jury to find upon particular questions or fact, to be stated in
Writing by the party or parties requesting the same. When
the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general
verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.

9' 2994. Before the argument is concluded either party
may request instructions to the jury on points of law, which
shall be given or refused by the court. All instructions
asked and the charge of the court shall be in Writing. The
court shall instruct the jury as to the law of the case, but

shall not comment upon the Weight of the evidence.

Herrera vs. Chavez et al. vol. 2, page 86. N. M. Rep.
D. 8:. R. G. R. H. vs. Harris. vol. 1. page 8-36. W. C. Rep.

§ 2995. If the court refuse a Written instruction, as demanded, but gives the same with a modification, which the
court may do, such modification shall not be by interlineation
or erasure, but shall be well defined, and shall follow some
such characterizing Words as, Changed thus, which Words
shall themselves indicate that the same was refused as demanded.

§ 2996. The court must read to the jury all the instructions it intends to give and none others, and must announce
them as given, and shall announce  refused, without reading

to the jury, all those which are refused, and must write the
words, Given, or, Refused, as the case may be, on the margin
of each instruction.

§ 2997. If the giving or refusal be excepted to, the same
may be without any stated reason therefor, and all instructions demanded must be tiled, and shall become a part of the
record.

§ 2998. After argument the court may also, of its own
motion, charge the jury. Such charge shall be in writing in
consecutively numbered paragraphs, and no oral explanation
thereof shall be allowed: and the provisions of this section
shall also apply to the instructions asked by the parties.

Leitensdorfer vs. Webb, vol. 1, page 34. N. M. Rep.

91 2999. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to any issue of fact, in the following manner:
First. By suffering default, or by failing to appear at the
trial. Second. By written consent, in person or by attorney,
filed with the clerk.

Third. By oral consent in open court, entered in the record.

Upon the trial of any question of fact by the court, its decision must be given in writing and filed with the clerk in the
cause, and in such decision the court shall find the facts and
give its conclusions of law pertinent to the case, which must
be stated separately, but the finding of facts and the giving
of conclusions of law may be waived by the several parties to
the issue, by suffering default or by failing to appear at the
trial. or by consent in Writing, or by oral consent in open
court, entered in the record. And upon the trial of any cause
by the court, without a jury in common law cases, each party
shall have the right to make all objections and take all exceptions that he might have made or taken, as if the trial had
been before a jury: and upon a review, by writ of error, in
the supreme court, or by appeal, the said supreme court
shall hear and determine the said cause in the same manner
and with the same effect as if it had been tried before a jury.

§ 3000. In case of default adjudged against a party for
non-appearance or for failure to plead or amend his pleadings.
as required by law or the rules of the court, when the action
is for a money demand, and the amount of the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation, the clerk shall ascertain the amount. When long accounts are to be examined
the court may refer the matter. In other cases the court
shall assess the damages unless a jury be demanded by the
party not in default. The proper amount having been ascertained by either of the above methods, judgment shall be
rendered therefor.

§ 300]. Default may be set aside on motion on such terms
as the court may deem just, among which must be that of
pleading issuably and forthwith, but not unless an affidavit of
merits be filed, and a reasonable excuse shown for having
made such default, nor unless application be made therefor
at the term in which such default and judgment thereon was
entered.

§ 3002. When the jury retires to consider its verdict it
shall be allowed to take the pleadings in the cause, the instructions of the court, and any instruments of writing admitted as evidence, except depositions.

§ 3003. In all cases in which an answer has been tiled, or
in which the sum is uncertain or unliquidated, or in which
damages are theobject of the suit, the same shall stand for
trial in the order in which they are docketed: [’roI‘i(Icrl, That
all suits shall be docketed as they are filed. '

§ 3004. The court may restrict the time of any attorney
in any argument to itself.

.5 300?). The courts of this territory shall have power to
limit the time of counsel in arguments to the jury, to one hour
each, but such time may be extended when, in the opinion of
the judge, it is necessary in furtherance of justice.

Al{Bl'I‘l{A'I‘I()NS.

§ 3006. All litigants in the Territory of New Mexico shall
have by this act the right, whenever they shall so desire, to
terminate their suits, in whatever condition they may be, in
any court of this territory, by means of arbitrators, in the
following manner:

.5 3007. Each party may appoint one person to serve on
his part in the suit or difficulty, but such appointment shall
be made by means of an instrument in writing, mutually,
which shall express the persons selected: the cause submitted
to their arbitration: the power given to them in regard to the
manner, place and time at which they shall proceed in the
business submitted to them: the agreement to abide by their
decision and amicable settlement. Also, the parties may
empower the arbitrators, in case it be necessary, to select an
umpire, who shall form his opinion as shall appear to him most
just and right between the arbitrators.

§ 3008. The persons appointed as arbitrators to decide
and settle any matters submitted to them, amicably and in
good faith, shall consider in the most serious manner the
matter in question: but, before they shall act as such, they
shall take an oath, as well the arbitrators as the umpire, that
neither for hatred, enmity, affection, fear, gifts, promises nor
for any other cause, will they fail to comply faithfully with
their function according to the best of their knowledge and
abilities: which oath shall be taken before some justice of the
peace, judge of probate or district judge, and the judge before whom it is taken, shall file the same.

§ 3009. The form of the instrument of writing which the
parties shall execute shall be  follows, to-wit:

We, A. and B., having a suit pending in (here name the
court), on a demand which the said A. commenced against B.
(here state the cause of demand), taking into consideration the
doubtfulness of its termination, and that great costs may accrue, with delays and vexations: to avoid these, we have determined to compromise, by these presents, our claims and
demands in C. and D., whom we appoint as arbitrators and
amicable adjusters, conferring upon them  full power and
jurisdiction as they may require, within—-—~ , toexamine into,

determine and adjust tinally our said suit, in View of truth
and good faith, taking into consideration, not only the principal matter submitted, but also all things incidental to the
same, until the whole cause shall be completely adjusted.
And in case the said arbitrators, or amicable auditors, shall
not agree in their decision, that they select an umpire, who
shall vote in favor of the opinion that he may think most just
and right for the said arbitrators, to which decision or amicable settlement we obligate ourselves to abide, and that for
no reason whatever. although it might otherwise be admissible, shall we ask for reduction, exception, hr appeal, nor make
other claim for the whole or any part thereof: therefore, by
these presents we do now approve in all its parts, renouncing
the aid of the laws: and we desire, and it is our will, that it be
executed without any delay.

In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
seals, in the Precinct of , County of —-, this day of
, of the year .

§ 3010. When the contending parties shall have drawn
up awriting in the manner and form specified in the foregoing section of this act, the same shall be signed before some
competent magistrate, who shall sign, as made and executed
in his presence.

55 30]]. Any question or difiiculty that might result iua
suit, may be submitted for decision and amicable settlement
in the manner prescribed by this act, before an action shall
be brought thereon.

§ 3012. The arbitrators shall proceed, in the exercise of
the powers given to them in the submission of the cause, in
hearing and receiving the proofs and arguments of each of
the. parties, and render sentence as the majority of the arbitrators may decide.

.4‘: 3013. The sentence or amicable award of the arbitrators
upon the matter submitted to their inspection shall be carried into full and faithful execution, and any court of this territory to which application shall be made for such execution.
shall order the same to be satisiied, inasmuch as by the submission made by the parties litigants it has been so agreed
upon.

   

EVIDENCE, GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 3014. Noperson offered as a witness shall hereinafter
be excluded by reason of any alleged incapacity from interest, from giving evidence, either in person or by deposition,
according to the practice of the court, on the. trial of any issue
joined, or of any matter in question or on any inquiry arising
in any civil suit, action or proceeding in any court, or before
any judge, coroner, justice of the peace. officer or person having, by law or by consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence in this territory. _

§ 3015. Every person so offered shall be admitted to give
evidence on oath or solemn affirmation in those cases wherein aiiirmation is by law receivable: notwithstanding that
such person has an interest in the matter in question, or in
the event of the trial of any issue, matter, question or inquiry
or of the suit, action or proceeding in which he is offered as a
witness. '

§ 3016. Hereafter in the courts of this territory no person offered as a witness shall he disqualitied to give evidence
on account of any disqualitication known to the common law,
but allsuch common law disqualitications may be shown for
the purpose of affecting the credibility of any such Witness
and for no other purpose: 1’rori«ImI, lmurcccr, That the presiding judge, in his discretion, may refuse to permit a child
of tender years to be sworn, if, in the opinion of the judge,
such child has not sufficient mental capacity to understand
the nature and obligation of an oath.

§ 3017. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter
or question, or oil any inquiry arising in any civil suit, action
or other pI'o(-ec(liI1g in any court of law or equity in this territory, or before a11y person having, by law or by consent of
parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, the
parties to such proceedings, and the persons in whose behalf
any such suit, action or other proceeding is brought or instituted, or opposed or defended, shall, except as hereinafter
excepted, be competent and compellable to give evidence,
either rim (?m'(' or by deposition, according to the practice of
the court, on behalf of themselves or of either of the parties
to the suit, action or proceeding: and the husbands and wives
of such parties and persons shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be competent to give evidence, either riva row» or by
deposition, according to the practice of the court, on behalf of
either or any of the parties to the said suit, action or proceeding.

§ 3018. Nothing herein contained shall render any person
compellable to answer any question to criminate himself or
to subject him to prosecution for any penalty or crime.

1:; 3019. Nothing herein contained shall apply to the trial,
in any action, suit or other civil proceeding, of the question
of the adultery of any party, or the husband or wife -of any
party to such action, suit or other proceeding.

§ 3020. No husband shall be compelled to disclose any
communication made by his wife during the marriage, and no
Wife shall be compelled to disclose any communication made
to her by her husband during the marriage. '

§ 302]. In a suit byor against the heirs, executors, administrators or assigns of a deceased person, an opposite or
interested party to the suit shall not obtain a verdict, judgment or decision therein, on his ow11 evidence, in respect of
any matter occurring before the death of the deceased person, unless such evidence is corroborated by some other material evidence.

§ 3022. Whenever any party in any civil suit desires to
call the opposite party as a witness at the hearing or trial, he
shallsubpoena him as another witness in the cause, and if
such party does not attend on such subpama and testify, if
called on by the adverse party, ‘such non-attendance or such
refusal to testify Shall be taken as an admission pro (‘(m_f(“8-90
against him in any such suit or action, unless otherwise
ordered by the court or judge in which or before whom such
examination is pending, and a general finding or judgment
may be had against the party thereon, or the plaintiff may be
non-suited, or the proceedings in the action or suit may be
postponed by the court or judge on such terms as the court
or judge sees fit to impose.

§ 3023. Upon the trial of any cause a witness may be
cross examined as to previous statements made by him in
writing or reduced into writing, relative to the subject matter of the cause without such writing being shown to him.
but if it is intended to contradict the witness by the writing.
his attention must, before such contradictory proof can be
given, be called to those parts of the writing which are to be
used for the purpose of so contradicting him.

§ 3024. If a witness, upon cross examination as to a
forinor statement made by him relative to the subject matter

of the cause, and inconsistent with his present testimony,
does not distinctly admit that lie did make such statement,
proof may be given that he did in fact make it, but before
such proof can be given the circumstances of the supposed
statement, sufficient to designate the particular occasion,
must be mentioned to the witness, and he must be asked
whether or not he did make such statement.

§ 3025. A witness may be questioned as to whether he
has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor, and upon
being so questioned, if he either denies the fact or refuses to
answer, the opposite party may prove such conviction: and a
certificate, the substance and ef’fectonly, omitting the formal
part, of the indictment and conviction for such offense, purporting to be signed by the clerk of the court. or other officer
having the custody of the records of the court at which the
offender was convicted, or b_y the deputy of such clerk or officer under the seal of said court, shall, upon proof of the
identity of the witness, as such convict, be sufficient evidence
of his conviction.

§ 3026. The credit of a witness may be impeached by general evidence of bad moral character not restricted to his
reputation for truth and veracity: but a party producing a
witness shall not be allowed to impeach his credit by general
evidence of bad moralcharacter, but in case the witness, in
the opinion of the judge, proves adverse, such party may
prove that the witness made at other times a statement inconsistent with his present testimony; but before such last
mentioned proof can be given the circumstances of the supposed statement, sufiicient to designate the particular occasion, mnst be mentioned to the witness, and he must be asked
whether or not he did make such statement.

§ 3027. Wheneverit shall be necessary to use any of the
archives. records, files, or official maps, or plats in the offices
of the surveyor general, or secretary of this territory, as evidence in any of the courts of this territory, it shall be competent, instead of the originals in said oiiices, to use a transcript copy, or tracing thereof, or of such part of the same as
may be required, duly certified to be true and correct, as
taken from the said original archives, records, files, plats or
maps, in said oiiicez and when taken from the originals in the
office of the secretary, signed by him and authenticated under
his seal of office: and when taken from the originals in the
otiice of the su1‘vey(n' general, signed by him, and his signature certified to by the secretary of the territory under his
said seal.

§ 3028. Such transcripts, copy or tracing, as provided for
in the foregoing section, shall be received, taken, and allowed
the same force and effect in evidence, as would be allowed to
the originals, should they be used: 1’mm'dml, lmu~cvcxr, That
for good cause shown. the court may require the production
of the originals of such transcript, copy or tracing.

§ 3029. That in all civil causes in the courts of this territory a transcript, copy or tracing of any record, plat, map,
document or other writing which shall have been certified by
the United States su1'\'e_vo1‘ general for the Territory of New

Mexico to be a true copy from the records in his oiiice, or to
be a true copy of any plat, map, document or other Writing
on tile in his ofiice, shall be received in evidence in all cases
in which the original of said record, duly proved, for said
record, plat, map, document or other writing would be. re
ceived, and with the same force and effect, but subject to rebuttal, and all legal objections may be made to the same that
might be made to the introduction of the original as evidence.

§ 3030. Hereafter all church records purporting to show
the date of the birth and baptism, marriage or death of any
person shall be received as /n'iImIfu('i¢' evidence of such facts
so shown thereby, in all the courts of this territory: Prunicletl, That such records shall be: First, more than thirty
years old: second, shall come from the proper custody: and
third, shall be examined and inspected by the court, and
upon such examination and inspection shall be found by the
court to be free from all suspicion of fabrication, alteration
or fraud of any kind: And ,n-o-virlmi,fm-flmr, That evidence
shall be admitted or allowed in rebuttal thereof.

§ 3031. Hereafter in the trial of civil causes in the courts
of this territory, the books of account of any merchant, shopkeeper, physician, blacksmith or other person doing a regular
business and keeping daily entries thereof, may be admitted
in evidence as proof of such accounts upon the following conditions:

First. That he kept no clerk, or else the clerk is dead or
inaccessible.

Second. Upon proof, the party oath being sufficient, thatthe book tendered is the book of original entries.

Third. Upon proof, by his customers, that he usually kept
correct books.

Fourth. Upon inspection by the court to see if the books
are free from any suspicion of fraud.

. -, Staub et al. vs. Jaramillo, vol. I. page 57. W. (3. Rep.

55 3032. In all cases Where witnesses are required in any
cause pending in any court having aclerk, such clerk, and in
all other cases the person holding the court, shall issue asubpuena for such witnesses, stating the day and place, when and
where the witnesses are to appear.

§ 3033. Such subpoena shall contain the names of all witnesses for Whom a summons is required by the same party,
at the same time, in the same cause, and who reside in the
same county, and may be served in any county in this territory, in the same manner as a citation or a summons for a
defendant.

§ -3034. A witness summoned in any cause pending in any
court, and failing to attend, may be compelled to appear by
Writ of attachment against his body, Which may be served in
any county in this territory.

§ 3035.“ When either party to any suit in any court within
said territory may wish to avail himself of the testimony of
the adverse party, he shall annex the interrogations which he
Wishes answered to his petition or answer, as the case may
he, and serve the opposite party or his attorney with a copy
thereof: but no party shall be bound to answcrthe same, unless the party tiling them, or his attorney, shall swear that he
believes the same are material to his cause or defense: Proricled, raluwys, That the party shall have a reasonable timeto
tile his answer as may seem-just, and that such answer shall
in like manner he made under oath.

DEPOSITIONS.

§ 3036. Depositions of witnesses to be used in any court
in this territory, in all civil cases and proceedings, may be
taken in the following cases: First. When, by reason of age, infirmity, sickness or official duty, it is probable that the witness will be unable to
attend the court.

Second. When the witness resides_ without the territory
or the county in which the suit is pending.

Third. .W hen the witness has left, or is about to leave the
territory or county in which the suit or proceedings is pending, and will probably not be present at the trial.

,5 3037. The party wishing to take the deposition of a witncss in any suit or proceeding pending in any court of this
territory shall tile with the clerk of such court, or with the
justice of the peace, if it be before a justice of the peace, a
notice of his intention to apply for a commission to take the
answers of the witness to interrogatories attached to such
notice. The notice shall state the name and residence of the
witness, or the place where he, or she, is to be found, and the
suit or proceeding in which the depositions are to be used,
and a copy thereof and of the attached interrogatories shall
be served upon the adverse party or his attorney of record
five days before the issuance of a commission.

:5 3038. In suits where service has been made by publication, and the defendant has not appeared or pleaded within
the time prescribed by law, service of notice of filing interrogatories may be made at any time after the day when the
defendant is by law required to plead or answer, by filing
such notice with the clerk of the court in which said suit is
pending, or with the justice of the peace before whom the
suit or proceeding is pending, at least twenty days before the
issuance of a commission.

55 3039. Whenever one party may file interrogatories for
the purpose of taking the deposition of a witness, the opposite party may tile cross interrogatories at any time before the
commission issues. and a copy of the same shall acccompany
the direct interrogatories, and shall be answered and returned therewith.

§ 3040. The style of the commission shall be, The Territory of New Mexico, and it shall be dated and tested as other
process; it shall be addressed to the several officers named in
the succeeding section, and shall authorize and require them,
or either of them, to summon the witness before the officer
taking the deposition forthwith, and to take his answers
under oath to the direct interrogatories and cross interrogatories, if any, a copy of which shall be attached to such commission, and to return without delay the commission, interrogatories and answers of the witness thereto, to the officer
issuing the commission.

§ 304]. The commission shall be addressed to the following officers. either of whom tnay execute and return the
same: _ v

First. If the witness be alleged to reside or be within the
Territory of New Mexico, to any district judge, clerk of district. court, clerk of probate court, probate judge, or any notary public of the county in which the witness is alleged to
be. Second. If the witness is alleged to reside or be without the
Territory of New Mexico. and within the United States, to
any clerk of a court of record having a seal, to any notary
public, or to any commissioner of deeds duly appointed under
the laws of this ‘territory, and residing within the state or
territory within which the witness is alleged to be or reside.

Third. If the witness is alleged to be or reside without
the United States, to any notary public or any minister, commissioner or z-Imrgu cl‘ u.{fru':-¢-s of the United States residing
in and accredited to the country where the deposition may be
taken, or any consul general, consul, vice consul. commercial
agent, deputy consul or consular agent of the United States
resident in such country.

.5 3042. Upon the receipt of such commission by any onicer to whom it is addressed, residing in this territory, if the
witness does not voluntarily appear, he shall issue a subpazna
to the sheriff, or any constable of his county, requiring him
to summon the witness to appear and answer the said interrogatories at a time and place named in the subptena.

§ 3043. Upon the appearance of the witness, the officer
to whom the commission is directed shall proceed to take his
answers to the interrogatories. The answers shall be reduced
to writing, and shall be signed and sworn to by the witness.
The ohicer shall certify that the answers were signed and
sworn to by the witness before him. and shall seal them up in
an envelope. together with the commission and interrogatories and cross interrogatories, if any, and shall write his
name across the seal, and shall direct the package to the clerk
of the court of the. justice of the peace issuing the commission.

§ 3044. The otiicer executing such commission shall have
the authority, when he shall deem it expedient. to summon
and swear an interpreter to facilitate the taking of the depositions.

§ 3045. Depositions may be returned to the court, either
by mail, by a party interested in taking the same or by any
other person. If sent by mail, the postmaster or his deputy
mailing the same shall indorse thereon that he received them
from the hands of the oliicer taking the same, and the clerk
or justice taking them from the post-otiice shall indorse thereon that he received the same from the post-office and signed
his name thereto. If sent otherwise than by mail, the person
delivering them into court shall make aflidavit, which shall be
indorsed o11 the envelope, before the clerk or justice that he
rcceivetl them from the hands of the officer before whom they

were taken, that they have not been out of his possession
since, and that they have undergone no alteration.

§ 3046. Depositions after being filed may be opened by
the clerk or justice at the request of either party or his counsel, and the clerk or justice shall indorse on such depositions
upon what day and at whose request they were opened, signing his name thereto, and they shall remain on tile, subject to
the inspection of either party. When a deposition has been
taken by any party, the adverse party has the right to use the
same on trial.

§ 3047. When any depositions shall have been on tile in
the court at least one entire day before the day on which the
trial commences, no objection to the form thereof, or to the
manner of taking the same, shall be heard unless the objections are in writing and notice thereof is given to the opposite
counsel before the trial commences.

§ 3048. Depositions may be read in evidence upon the
trial of any suit or proceeding in which they are taken, subject to all legal exceptions which might be made to the interrogatories and answers, were the witness personally present
before the court giving evidence. If any depositions shall
contain any testimony not pertinent to the direct and cross
interrogatories propounded, such matter shall be deemed
surplusage, and may be stricken out by the court upon objection thereto. In every case the oflicer taking and certifying
the deposition of any witness shall certify that he personally
knows the witness to be the person such witness purports to
be, if the witness is personally known to the officer: but if such
witness is not personally known to the ofh'cer, he shall then
require the witness to be identitied by at least two responsible persons well known to the otiicer, and he shall certify to
the fact of the identification of the witness.

I’ERPE'l‘UA'I‘IN(} TESTIMONY.

§ 3049. Depositions of witnesses to perpetuate testimony
may be taken, whether the person desiring the taking of the
same is a party or expects to be a party to a suit pending or
about to be commenced, or not, in any court of this territory,
and the object is to perpetuate the contents of any lost deed
or any other instrument of writing, or the remembrance of
any fact, matter or thing necessary to recovery, security or
defense of any estate or property, real or personal, or any
interest therein, or any other personal right.

§ 3050. A commission shall be granted to take such depositions, by any chief justice or associate justice of the court,
on the presentation of a petition in writing, of-one or more
parties, supported by his or their affidavit or the atlidavit of
some credible person, setting forth the nature of his or their
interest, right or claim, the facts intended to be proved, the
names of the individuals whose testimony is desired, and the
place or places of their residence.

§ 305]. The commission shall be issued by the clerk of
the district court in which the judge granting the same presides, and being witnessed by the clerk and the seal of the
court, shall be directed to any judge, justice of the peace,

notary public: or clerk of any court of record or any other
responsible person named by the judge being in the judicial
district where such testimony is to be taken, requiring such
judge, justice, notary, clerk or other person to take the depositions of the witnesses therein named, or in case the witness
or witnesses whose testimony is desired, reside out of this
territory, such commission may be directed to and executed
by, any clerk or judge of a court of record or notary public in
any of the United States.

§ 3052. The party applying for the commission shall give
notice, in writing, of the time and place of taking such depositions to every person who may be known to be interested, or
his or their agent or attorney, at least thirty days before the
taking of the same, and a copy of the petition and aiiidavit
upon which the com mission was granted shall accompany the
notice.

§ 3053. In case the person interested be a married woman
the notice shall be served on her and her husband if they are
living together: if a minor, on the guardian of such minor, and
on such minor if over the age of fourteen years and residing
within this territory. A guardian ml Iitmu may be appointed
by the judge granting the petition when there is no guardian.

§ 3054. The publication of this notice in some newspaper
printed in this territory at least three weeks consecutively,
the last insertion to be twenty days before the day of taking

the depositions, shall be sufficient notice to all persons residing without the territory and to unknown persons living in
the territory.

§ 3055. Parties applying for commissions shall, in addition to the notice required in the last three preceding sections,
give a general notice in the nearest newspaper to the place
where the depositions are to be taken for four consecutive
weeks, of the time and place of taking the depositions. and
the object thereof. When depositions are to be taken in two
or more places in the same case, then notice to be published
in some newspaper published nearest to some one of the
places, and only one publication shall be required.

§ 3056. The officer or person named in the commission
may issue a subpoena to such witnesses, requiring them to appear and testify at a time and place therein named and may
enforce obedience thereto by attachment.

§ 3057. Such oiiicer shall attend at the time and place for
taking such depositions.

§ 3058. If it shall appear to such judge, justice, clerk or
person named that notice has been given as required by this
act. such oflicer shall then and there reduce to writing all the
questions put to witnesses by the party desiring such depositions, and also all the questions put by all and every person
attending who shall feel interested, who shall be at liberty to
examine and cross examine all the witnesses.

§ 3059. Such oliicer shall also reduce to writing all the
answers of the witnesses to such questions, and all such answers and questions shall be written in the English or Spanish languages, and being (listinctly read to such witnesses.
shall be svmrii to and sul)s('1'ibv(l by them.

§ 3000. The otlicer shall have power to adjourn from day
to day the taking of such depositions when the same shall be
necessary.

§ 3061. The otlicer taking such depositions shall attach
thereto his certificate stating the time and place, when and
where such depositions were taken, that the witnesses were

duly sworn as to the truth of their depositions, and-that they subscribed the same, and shall inclose them together with
the commission and the evidence of notice, and the whole
being carefully scaled up, shall be delivered by the officer to
the recorder of the county in which the suit is pending or in
which the property or matter is situate or belongs to which
such depositions relate.

§ 3002. If the oliicer taking such depositions resides at
such distance from the recorders office where such depositions properly belong as to prevent an immediate delivery
thereof, then it shall be lawful to send the same by mail or
other safe conveyance.

§ 3063. The recorder of the county where such depositions properly belong shall, on receiving the same, indorse
the manner of their transmission to_ him, and immediately

record the depositions with the accompanying papers in as

book to be kept by him for that purpose, and shall be known
as the Book of Depositions, and his certiticate as to the manner
of their transmission, and shall make his certificate on the
back of the depositions, that the same, together with the
accompanying papers, naming them, were by him duly recorded, and deliver the original depositions and accompanying papers to the party on whose petition the commission
issued.

§ 3064. Depositions taken and certified in conformity to
the preceding provisions, or duly certitied copies of the
record of such depositions, may be used and read as evidence
in any cause or judicial proceeding to which they relate in
favor of any parties thereto, or any or either of them, or their
executors or administrators, heirs or assigns, or their legal
representatives: First, if the deponent is dead; second, if
he be unable to give testimony by reason of insanity or imbecility of mind: third, if he be rendered incompetent by judgment of law; fourth, if he be removed out of the territory so
that his testimony cannot be obtained.

§ 3005. All legal exceptions may be taken and allowed to
the reading of such depositions in any trial in which the same
may be otfered in evidence.

§ 3066. The costs and expenses of taking the depositions
shall be audited and allowed by the oflicer taking the same,
and such costs and expenses, together with the fees of recording and copying the same, shall be taxed in favor of the
party or parties paying the same, and collected as other costs
in the suit or suits in which such depositions, or any part
thereof, may be used.

:5 3067. The fees of the probate clerk and ex-oilicio recorder for recording said depositions and certifying the

same, shall be the same as are now allowed by law for recordmg and certifying deeds: and the fees of witness shall be the

JUDGMENTS.

§ 3068. On the third day of the term, if no answer be tiled,
and if the demand be for a sum certain, or liquidated, the
plaintiff may take his judgment final: 1’m¢'i<ie«I, That the defendant shall have the right to tile his answer at any time be»

r fore judgment is entered.

Stewart vs. Maxwell. vol. 1. page 563. N. M. Rep.

§ 3069. Any money judgment rendered in the supreme
or district court shall be docketed by the clerk of the court in
a book kept for the purpose, and shall be a lien on the real
estate of the judgment debtor from the date of the filing of a
transcript of the docket of such judgment in such book in the
ottice of the recorder of the county in which such real estate
is situate.

§ 3070. The recorder of each county shall record said
transcript in a book kept for the purpose in his otlice, which
book shall be in form like the aforesaid books to be kept by the
clerks of the supreme and district courts, With additional
columns to show the dates of filing and recording.

,8 307 l. The books to be kept by the clerks of the supreme
and district courts shall show the names of the parties, the
number and nature of the case, the court in which judgment
was rendered, the date of judgment, amount of damages,
amount of costs, total amount of judgment, date of docket,
attorney for creditor. issuance and return of executions if
any. and satisfaction of judgment when paid.

,5 3072. Any judgment rendered in any district court in
any county wherecourt is held for the trial of causes arising
under the laws of the United States, shall be a lien on the real
estate of the judgment debtor in such county from the date of
its rendition: I'rnL'i(I(’(1, The transcript hereinbefore mentioned shall be tiled in the office of the recorder of said county

within sixty days after said date of rendition: but such judgment may be made a lien on the property of the judgment
debtor at any time by a compliance with the provisions of the
first section of this act.

§ 3073. The clerk of the district court shall receive tifty
cents for making and certifying each of said transcripts, and
the county recorder shall receive tifty cents for filing and recording each of said transcripts.

§ 3074. If either party to any suit shall die between verdict and judgment, the judgment shall be entered as if both
parties were living.

§ 307;’). When any execution issued by a justice of the
peace is returned nu//n (mm: the judgment sought to be e11forced thereby may, upon the application of the judgment
creditor, or his agent, be docketed by the clerk of the district
court for the county within which the justice is holding oiiice,
and acting as such justice, in the same manner in which
judgments of the district court are docketed in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding four sections, and thereupon the clerk of said district court may issue execution on
said judgment in the same way and with the same force and
effect as though said judgment had been recorded in said district court: 1’:'n('iIlcII, That the judgment creditor making such
application, as aforesaid, shall file with the clerk of the district court a duly ce.1'tii'icd transcript of the judgment, and
also a duly certitied copy of the execution issued by the justice and of the return thereon.

§ 3076. All provisions of sections three thousand and
sixty-nine to three thousand and seventy-three, relative to
judgments of the district courts, shall be held to apply
equally to judgments of justices of the peace, which may be
docketed in the manner provided in the next preceding sec.tion.

:4‘ 3077. Judgment by confession, without action may be
entered by the clerk of the district courts in this territory in
term time or in vacation, in the manner hereinafter prescribed.

53‘ 3078. Such confession can be only for money due, or to
become due, or to secure a person : vainst contingent liabilities on behalf of the defendant, and must be for a specified
sum.

§ 3079. A statement in writing must be made and signed
by the defendant and verified by his oath to the following
effect, and filed with the clerk:

First. If for money due, or to become due, it must state
fully and concisely the facts out of which the indebtedness
arose, and that the sum confessed therefor is justly due, or
to become due, as the case may be.

Second. If for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state fully but concisely the
facts constituting such liability. and must show that the sum
confessed therefor does not exceed the same.

9; 3030. The clerk shall thereupon record the same in his
court record for such county. and shall make an entry of
judgment thereon, for the amount thus confessed and costs,

and shall docket the same in its proper alphabetical places
upon the judgment docket of said court for said county, with
a reference to the book and page of the court record, where
the same is recorded at length as aforesaid, and shall issue
execution thereon as in other cases, or as may be stipulated
between the parties as in the next section provided.

§ 3081. Any defendant so confessing judgment, may attach such condition or conditions thereto as to stay of execution, not to exceed one year, as the beneficiary may agree to
by signing the same.

§ 3082. Such judgment, when so tiled, recorded and
docketed, shall have all the binding force and effect that judgments obtained in the regular manner now, or may hereafter,
have by law in said courts, as to being liens upon real estate
of such defendant, and otherwise. And the beneficiary, under

such judgment, shall have the same right to file transcriptsthereof in other counties to be a lien upon the real estate of
such defendant, as any plaintiff now has, or may hereafter
have, under the law by in like manner, filing acertified transcript thereof in the office of the ex-oificio recorder of such
other county or counties.

§ 3083. The clerks of such district courts, shall receive
from the person applying to tile any such confession of judgment, a fee of one dollar, for tiling and docketing the same,
and fifteen cents for each folio of one hundred words for recording the same, and a like per folio for all transcripts furnished, with an additional fee of fifty cents for certifying to
the latter. The clerks of the probate courts or ex-otiicio recorders shall receive a fee of fifty cents for filing such certified transcript or copy, and upon the filing thereof they shall
immediately note the same upon their reception book and
properly index the same in the indices of their oiiices.

§ 3084. No such confession of judgment shall be filed with
the clerks of said district courts, unless the defendant or
debtor shall attach to and make as a part of the statement required in section three thousand and seventy-nine, an anidavit setting forth that the same is made in good faith to secure such beneticiary in debt or contingent liability justly due
in the sum thus confessed or necessarily entered into, and
not with the intention of defrauding any of such defendants
creditors.

§ 3085. That hereafter it shall not be necessary to bring
proceedings in any court to revive a judgment having been
already obtained before a court of competent jurisdiction in
this territory, except in cases Where such judgment had been
rendered for a period of five years or more next preceding
the issue of final process for the enforcement of the same.

9‘ 3086. An execution may issue at any time, on behalf of
any one interested in such judgment referred to in the above
section, Within five years after the rendition thereof, and
without the necessity of bringing an action to revive the same.

\

ABATE M EXT A ND l{E\'l\'()l{..

§ 3087. In addition to the causes of action which survive
at common law, causes of action for Ilwxlw profits, or for an
injury to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud,
shall also survive. and the action may be brought, notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the
same.

§ 3088. No action pending in any court shall abate by the
death of either, or both, the parties thereto, except an action
for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault
and battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the peace
for misconduct in office, which shall abate by the death of
the defendant.

$5 3089. Where there are several plaintitfs or defendants
in an action. and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the right of action survives to
or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the
death of the party or the cessation of his powers being stated
on the record.
§ 3090. Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause
of action do not admit of survivorship, and the court is of
opinion that the merits of the controversy can be properly
determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully
settled, it may proceed to try the same as between the remaining parties, but the judgment shall not prejudice any
who were not parties at the time of the trial.

§ 3091. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of or against his
represent-ativeor successor, the action may be revived and
proceed in their names.

§ 3092. The revivor shall be by a conditional order of the
court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof if in vacation,
that the action be revived in the names of the representatives
or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
and roceed in favor of or against them.

:3 $093. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers cease, suggesting his death,
or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names and

capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated
1n the order. § 3094. If the order is made by consent of the parties.
the action shall forthwith stand revived: and if not made by
consent, the order shall be served in the same manner, and
returned within the same time as a summons upon the party
adverse to the one making the motion, and if sufficient cause
be not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand revived.

§ 3095. When the plaintiff shall make an affidavit that the
representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose
name the action may be ordered to be revived, are non-residents of the territory, or have left the same to avoid the
service of the order, or so concealed themselves that the order cannot be served upon them, or that the names and residence of the heirs or devisees of the person against Whom
the action may be ordered to be revived, or some of them are
unknown to the. atiiant, a notice may be published for four
consecutive weeks in some newspaper published in the cou11ty, notifying them to appear on a day therein named and
show cause why the action should not be revived against
them, and if sufficient cause be not shown to the contrar_v.
the action shall stand revived.

§ 3096. Upon the death of the plaintiif in an action, it may
be revived in the names of his representatives to whom his
rights have passed; where his right has passed to his personal representatives the revivor shall be in his name: where
it has passed to his heirs or devisees who could support the
action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.

§ 3097. Upon the death of a defendant in an action, wherein the. right of any part thereof survives again his personal
representatives, the revivor shall be against him, and it may

also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both.

when the right of action or any part thereof survives against
them. '

§ 3098. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for
the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his
rights or claims to such property, the action may be revived
against his heirs or devisees, or both: and an order therefor
may be forthwith made, in the manner directed in the preceding sections.

§ 3099. An order to re.vive an action against the representatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be made
without the consent of such representative or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been first made.

.5 3100. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives or successor of a plaintiff may be made forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant, after the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been tirst made: but where the defendant
shall also have died, or his power have ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in the
period limited in the last section.

§ 3101. When it appears to the court by affidavit that
either party .to an action has been dead, or where a party

 3107. When any execution shall be placed in the hands
of any officer for collection, he shall call upon the defendant
for payment thereof, or to show him sufficient goods, chattels,

‘effects and lands, whereof tl1e same may be satisfied: and if

the officer fail to find property sufficient to make the same he
shall notify all persons who may be indebted to said defendant not to pay said defendant, but to appear before the court,
out of which said execution issued, and make true answers.
on oath, concerning his indebtedness, and the like proceedings shall be had in cases of garnishees, summoned in suits
originating by attachments. If the officer shall not find sufficient goods, chattels, effects, lands or debts to satisfy the
execution, he shall arrest the body of the defendant, and in
default of payment, commit him to jail.

§ 3108. Any defendant so committed to jail may, at the
expiration of five days from the day of his commitment, be
discharged upon rendering a schedule, under oath, of all his
property, money and effects, and delivering the same to the
sheriff of the county; the sheriff shall have power to administer the oath aforesaid to said defendant.

§ 3109. The truth of such scliedule may be tried on the
return of the execution before the tribunal which issued the
same, and if it be found untrue the body of the defendant may
be retaken and committed to jail to await his trial for perjury.

§ 3110. The person whose goods are taken on execution.
may retain possession t-hereof until the day of sale, by giving
bond in favor of the plaintiff with sufficient security to be approved by the ofiicer in double the value of such property,
conditioned for the delivery of the property to the officer at
the time and place of sale, to be named in such condition, which
bond shall be returned with the execution.

§ 3111. Upon the failure of the officer to return such
bond, or in caseof its insufficiency, the officer shall be subjected to the same liability as is provided in the case of similar bonds in suits commenced by attachment.

.5 3112. No goods and chattels. or other personal effects
taken by virtue. of a11 execution, shall be sold until the officer
having charge of the writ shall have given ten days’ notice. of
the time and place of sale, and of the property to be sold, by
at least three advertisements put up at public. places in the
county in which the sale is to be made.

§ 3113. That no lands, tenements, goods or chattels shall
be sold by virtue of any execution or other process, including chattel or real estate mortgages, unless such sale be at
public vendue, between the hours of nine in the morning and
the setting of the sun of the same day, nor unless the time
and place of holding such sale and full description of property
to be sold shall have previously been published for fourweeks
preceding said sale in English or Spanish, as the officer conducting said sale in his judgment may deem will give the
most extensive notice in the county in which said property is
situate, or, if there be no newspaper printed in said county.
then in the newspaper chosen as the official paper for said
county, and also by posting six such notices printed or written or partly printed or written in six of the most public
places in said county.

 3114. If any sheriff or other person shall sell any lands.
tenements, goods or chattels by virtue of any process otherwise than in the manner aforesaid or without such previous
notice, the sheriff or other person sooffending shall for every
oEense, forfeit and pay the sum of tifty dollars with costs of
suit in any district court in this territory, to be recovered by
the person whose lands are sold.

§ 3] 14:1. All legal process against non-residents, unknown or absent parties, notices of sales of real estate under
foreclosure of mortgages or executions. trespass warnings,
and other documents, the publication of which is now or may
hereafter be required by law to be made by posting written
or printed notices in public places, may be published instead
of being posted up, in English and Spanish, in some newspaper published in the county, if there be one, if not, then in
some newspaper published in some other county of the territory for the same length of time it may be required to be
posted, and when so published it shall not be necessary to
post such notices in public places: I’rovi¢lmI, That the person who may have to pay for such publication shall have the
right to designate the newspaper in which the same may be
published: And }n'm’iIIwl, furfhcl‘, That no newspaper Shall
be allowed to charge more than the price now tixed by law
to be charged for legal advertisements.

§ 3115. All notices of sale by sheriffs under execution,
order or decree of any district court in this territory shall
contain as briefly as possible the style or title of the cause in
which said judgment, order or decree was obtained, the nature
of the action, the date of the rendition of said judgment, or
the making of said order or decree, the amount thereof, with
interest to date of sale, and the description of the property
to be sold, sufficient for the complete. identification thereof,
together with a statement of the date, hour and conditions of
said sale.

§ 3116. All executions issued by justices of the peace shall
be returnable in thirty days from their date.

§ 3117. All the executions taken out of said district courts
shall be returned within sixty days from the date of the delivery thereof, to the sheriff or other oflicer, or person whose
duty it is, or who may be designated to serve the same; and
such sheriff, or other otticer or person, may offer for sale, and
sell, at public auction, at such time and place as may be designated, any real estate taken by virtue of such execution, complying with the provisions of the law, providing for appraisements, and by giving public notice of the time and place of
the sale, in the manner now provided by law. All personal
property. taken by virtue of any execution, may be sold, as
now provided by law. All executions may issue on application, and the service and return thereof shall be controlled by
the plaintiff or his agent.

§ 3118. Noexecution shall issue against any security on
any promissory note, bond. bond for costs, appeal bond, or
other obligation for the payment of money or property, until

execution shall have been first issued against the principal in
any such note or obligation, and levied upon all the real estate
or other property of said principal, which may be Within the
jurisdiction of the court, in which the judgment may have
been rendered: [’ro('irImI, That whenever t-he plaintiff in any
such execution shall tile in the court, in which the judgment
is pending, an attidavit in relation to such security or securities similar to the one required by law, to be tiled previous to
issuing an attachment, then in such case execution shall issee
simultaneously against the principal and the security against
whom the said aliidavit be tiled.

§ 3119. No real property shall be sold on any execution
issued out of any court in any case at law for less than twothirds of the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens
and encumbrances. § 3120. The sheriff between the days of levying the exe
cution and the sale of the property, shall proceed to ascertain
the cash value of such property as follows:

.5 3121. For that purpose two disinterested householders
of the neighborhood Where the levy is made shall be selected
as appraisers, one of Whom shall be selected by each of the
parties or their agents, or in the absence of either party or
his agent, or upon the refusal of either party, after three
days’ notice by the sheriff to make the selection, the sheriff
shall proceed to select the appraisers, who shall proceed to
appraise the property according to its cash value at the time,
deducting liens and encumbrances; and in case of their disagreement as to the the value thereof, they shall select a like
disinterested appraiser, and with his assistance shall complete the valuation, and the appraisement of any two of them
-shall be deemed the cash value.

§ 3122. In case any appraiser shall fail to act or to complete such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead as
above provided.

.§ 3123. The sheriff shall furnish the appraiserswith a
schedule of the property levied on with the encumbrances
made known to him, and they shall proceed to tix, and set
down opposite to each tract, lot or parcel of real estate, the
cash value, deducting liens and encumbrances, which schedule shall be returned to the sheriff.

§ 3124. It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or appraisers to ascertain the amount of liens or encumbrances, but
either party may furnish the sheritf with a list thereof, with
the amount and nature of each.

,6 3125. The appraisers shall t-ake and subscribe an oath
annexed to such appraisements, to the effect that the property mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their judgment, worth the sums specified therein, that the same is the
fair cash value thereof at the time, exclusive of liens and
encumbrances; which oath the sheriff is authorized to administer and attest when taken and subscribed by the appraisers.

§ 3126. When any property shall be sold subject to liens
and encumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liens and encumbrances, and hold the property discharged from all claims

of the defendant in execution: but the defendant may redeem
the property within one year after the sale thereof, paying
to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, the purchase money
with interest: when redeemed, the purchaser shall have the
growing crops, and shall not be responsible for rents and
profits, but he shall account for wastes.

§ 3127. When any property levied on remains unsold, it
shall be the duty of the sheriff, when he returns the execution, to return the appraisemcnt therewith, stating in his return the failure to sell. and the cause of the failure. ‘

 3128. The lieu of the levy upon the property shall continue until the debt is paid, and the clerk, unless otherwise
directed by the plaintiff, shall forthwith issue another execution, reciting the return of the former execution, the levy and
failure to sell, and directing the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property unsold, if the same is sufficient-, if
not, then out of any other property of the debtor, subject to
execution.

§ 3129. Whenever any property levied upon remains unsold for want of buyers, the plaintiff may cause the same to
be re-offered at any time before the return day of the execution. at his cost, as often as he may direct-, but in case of the
sale of the property, the costs of such offer and sale shall be
taxed against the defendant: each party may have one revaluation of the property, at his costs, after the first offer to
sell.

§ 3130. Property conveyed by a debtor with intent tohin—
der, delay or defraud credito1's, shall be sold without appraisement. «

§ 313]. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment
against the body of any execution debtor, except in cases of
fraud and personal injuries: I’/‘nritlctl, That the defendant
in execution, shall present, under oath,a schedule, containing
all of his property, money, rights and credits.

§ 3132. Hereafter whenever it shall be necessary to levy
any writ of attachment, replevin or execution under the laws
of this territory upon any live stock or herd of cattle that are
ranging at large with other live stock or cattle over any
range country, and when it would be impossible or impracticable to round up, gather or take possession of the same
under such process without, at the same time, rounding up
and cutting out the live stock belonging toother owners, then
and in such case, the sheriff or other otlicer holding such
writ, shall only take possession of such stock as he may be
able to get without interfering with the live stock of other
owners, and as to the balance, it shall be suiiicient, in order
to subject them to the lieu of said writ, that the oiiicer shall
tile with the clerk of the probate court of the county in which
the brand of such live stock is recorded, a certified copy of
said writ. and immediately upon the tiling thereof the clerk
of the court shall note the same in the reception book of his
oflice. and shall also note the same in red ink on the margin
of the page of the book where such brand is recorded, and
shall properly index the process in the general and other
proper indices of his oliice: /’r'nI'it/ct/, That if said live stock

range is in more than one county, then the oiiicer may file a
like certified copy of the writ and brand in any such county,
and the same shall have like binding effect- as a lien upon
such live stock.

9' 3l33. Such process, when so filed, noted and indexed,
shall have -all the binding force as a lien upon said live stock,
as if the same had been levied against said live stock upon the
range and the officer had taken possession of the same. Upon
the next roundup after such levy, and at all times after such
levy until such writ is satisfied, all persons coming into possession of any such live stock shall treat said officer as the
owner thereof.

,5 3134. After the tiling, noting and indexing of such process in the otlice of the probate clerk, as aforesaid, if any person or persons, including the defendant or defendants in such
process, shall sell, drive away, dispose of, kill or butcher any
of said live stock so levied upon, or shall attempt to sell, drive
away, dispose of, or kill, or butcher, any of said live stock, or
shall ga'ther or round up any of said stock with intent in any
way to defeat the levy of said writ, he or they, shall be
deemed guilty of grand larceny, and on conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a line of not less than two hundred dollars,
nor more than one thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for
not less than one year, or more than two years, in the discretion of the jury trying the case.

9' 3135. Any live stock taken under any process, as provided in the foregoing section, shall be disposed of by the
sheriff, or oiiicer, as now provided by law: Pmvidorl, That in
the case of a levy of a writ of execution, under this act, the
officer shall forthwith proceed to sell any live stock so levied
upon, as now provided by law, in lots, from time to time as he
may come into possession of the same, until the writ is satisfied. And upon such writ being satisfied he shall at once
enter satisfaction thereof, in all cases, upon the margin of the
record aforesaid, where such brand is recorded, and shall indorse such satisfaction upon all process filed as aforesaid.

APPEALS AND \Vl{ITS OF ERROR.

§ 3136. Appeals in equity cases and writs of error in common law cases may be taken at any time within one year from
the date of the rendition of final decrees or judgments, and no
affidavit shall be required as a condition precedent to the
granting of such appeals or writs of error. Appeals shall be allowed upon application to the district court in which the decree appealed from was rendered, and unless such application and allowance are made in open court and at the same
term at which the decree was rendered, the clerk shall issue
a citation to the opposite party to appear in the supreme court
to answer such appeal. There shall be no stay of execution
in any equity case, unless the appellant, or some person for
him, shall, within ninety days after the decree appealed from
becomes final, give bond in a sum to be fixed by the district
court, or the judge thereof, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court or judge, to the adverse party, conditioned that the appellant shall prosecute his appeal with due
diligence in the supreme court, and that, if the decree appealed from be affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, he will perform the decree of the district court, and pay all damages
and costs adjudged against him in the supreme court on such
appeal, which bond shall be filed with the clerk of the district
court, and shall become a part of the record: or unless the
appellant is executor or administrator. county or other municipal incorporation, and the decree is against him as such, in
which case the taking of appeal shall operate to stay the execation of the decree. Upon Writs of error, supersedeas or stay
of execution may be obtained, as provided in section three
thousand one hundred and forty-four. Appeals may also be
taken in the manner above provided in equity cases from
such interlocutory judgment or decree in actions for partition as determines the rights and interests of the respective
parties, and directs partition to be made.

§ 3137. Every order of any district court setting aside a
verdict and granting a new trial in any civil action, is hereby
made reviewable in the supreme court by appeal or writ of
error to the same extent and in the same manner as final
orders and decisions of a district court are so reversible:
Provitlml, That as a condition to such right of review, the
party aggrieved by any such order must, at the time of taking such appeal or suing out such writ of error, or Within ten
days after such time, tile with the clerk a written st-ipulation
in the cause, signed by himself or his agent or his attorney
of record: Prm'irliH{/a That, in case of the affirmance of such
order by the supreme court, judgment absolute shall be
given and entered against him in the cause by the district
court upon the issues made by the pleadings therein.

§ 3138. In case any such order shall be reversed by the
supreme court, upon such review, that court shall render
judgment on the verdict in favor of the party for whom such
verdict was rendered, in the amount of such verdict and of
proper interest thereon from the date thereof until the date
of such final judgment, together with the costs.

§ 3139. Noexception shall be taken in an appeal to any
proceeding in the district court. except such as shall have
been expressly decided in that court.

 3140. All appeals taken thirty days before the first day
of the next term of the supreme court shall be tried at that
term, and appeals, taken in less than thirty days before the
first day of such term, sha.ll be returnable to the next term
thereafter: the appellant shall file in the ofiice of the clerk of
the supreme court, at least ten days before the first day of
such court to which the appeal is returnable, a perfect transcript of the record and proceedings in the case. ‘If he fail
to do so, the appellee may produce in court such transcript,
and if it appear thereby that an appeal has been allowed in
the cause, the court shall affirm the judgment, unless good
cause can be shown to the contrary. On appeals and writs
of error, the appellant and plaintiff in error shall assign
errors on or before the first day of the term to which the
cause is returnable: in default of such assignment of errors,
the appeal or writ of error may be dismissed, and the judgment aflirmed, unless good cause for such failure be shown:
joinders in error shall be filed within four days after the
time required for the filing of the assignment of error.

.5 314]. The supreme court in appeals or Writs of error
shall examine the record, and on the facts thereon contained
alone shall award a new trial, reverse or affirm the judgmentof the district court, or give such other judgment as to them
shall seem agreeable to law.

Bandeau vs. Baca. vol. 2. page 194. N. M. Rep.

§ 3142. And upon the aflirmation of any judgment or decision, the supreme court may award to the appellee, or defendant in error, such damages, not exceeding ten per cent.
on the amount of the judgment complained of, as may be just.

See ante-section eight hundred and ninety-nine. ‘

§/3143. The supreme court. on the determination of the
cause in appeal or error, may award execution to carry the
same into effect, or may remit the record with their decision
to the district court from which the cause came, and such determination shall be carried into execution by such district
court

See ante-set-.tion eight hundred and el::1it_\'-seven.

§ 3144. The clerk of the supreme court shall issue a writ
of error to bring into the supreme court any cause finally adjudged or determined in any of the district courts upon a
preecipe therefor, filed in his oflice by any of the parties to
such cause, his attorney or solicitor, at any time within one
year from the date of such judgment or determination, and
giving security for costs therein to the satisfaction of the
clerk. But there shall be no supersedeas or stay of execution
upon such judgment or determination, unless the party applying for such writ of error, or some responsible person for
him, shall, within three months from the date of such judgment or determination, execute a bond to the adverse party
in double the amount of the judgment complained of, with
sufiicient sureties, to be approved by such clerk, conditioned for the paynieiit of such judgment and all costs that

may be adjudged, in case such writ of error shall be dismissed or the judgment or determination of the district court
atiirmed.

R. R. (‘-0. vs. Snxton et ul.. 3 N. M. Rep. H3.

:5 3145. Exception to the decision of the court upon any
matter of law arising during the progress of the cause, or to
the giving or refusing of instructions, must be taken at the
time of su('h decision. In equity causes no exception shall be

required .

See ante-section eight hundred and ninety-eight. For bills or exception see
unte-section eight hundred and ninety-six.

§ 3146. Hereafter no writ of error shall be allowed by the
supreme court of this territory, except Within one year after
the rendition of the judgment, on which said writ of error is
based, and that said supreme court shall make rules for the
government of the practice in writs of error in common law
cases, which said rules shall not conflict. with any of the laws

in force in this territory.
Penn-e vs. Strlckler. 49 Pac.. 7:37.

§ 3147. Appellants and plaintiffs in error in any criminal
case removed into the supreme court of the territory for review shall not be required to print the record, nor any part
thereof; and in civil cases removed into said supreme court
for review, appellants or plaintiffs in error shall not be required to print the record nor any part thereof, unless the
amount of the judgment to be reviewed or the value of the
property in dispute shall exceed one thousand dollars, excitisive of (9OSt.S.

§ 3150. When an appeal shall be taken from the judgment
of a probate court or justice of the peace against the appellant, the costs shall be adjudged as follows:

First. If the judgment be afiirmed, or the appellee on a
trial anew shall recover as much or more than the amount of
the judgment below, the appellant shall pay costs in both
courts.

Second. If, on such trial, the judgment of the appellate
court shall be in favor of the appellant, the appellee shall pay
costs in both courts.

Third. If the appellant shall, at any time before the appeal
is perfected, tender to the appellee any part of the judgment,
and he shall not accept it in satisfaction, and the appellee shall
not recover more than the amount as tendered, he shall pay
costs in the appellate court, but not in the court below, he
shall recove_r costs in both courts.

Martinez vs. Lucero. vol. 1. page 2113. N. M. Rep.

91 3151. If such appeal be from a judgment in favor of the
appellant, costs shall be adjudged as follows: If upon the
trial anew, the appellant shall not recover more than the judgment below, he shall pay the costs of the appellate court. If
he recover nothing, the costs shall be adjudged against him
in both courts. If he recover more than the judgment below.
he shall recover costs in both courts.

§ 3152. In case of appeal in civil suits, if the judgment of
the appellate court be against the appellant, it shall be rendered against him and his securities in the appeal bond.

§ 3153. When any demand shall be presented to the probate court for allowance against the estate of any decedent, if
the demand be allowed, the estate shall pay the costs; if disallowed, the party presenting the demand shall pay the costs.

§ 3154. If any person commence a suit in the district
court against an estate. within twelve months from the date
of the administration, he may recover judgment but shall pay
all costs. '

§ 3155. Hereafter it shall not be legal in any civil suit for
the clerk of any district court to tax in favor of the prevailing party the costs of more than four witnesses, unless the
court shall certify upon the record that the attendance of
more than four witnesses was necessary in the case.

.5 3156. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the various
district courts to provide suitable bound books to be kept in
their respective ofrices, and to be called Cost Books, in which
it shall be the the duty of said clerks, at the conclusion of the
term of court, to enter the names of the parties to the suits
and the nature of the causes in which costs have accrued, or
have been adjudged or taxed during the term, together with
each item of the same and the name of the officer who performed the service: and the nature and quantity and amount
of costs so accrued shall at all times be open for the examination of any person interested therein.

§ 3157. When final judgment or decree shall be rendered
in any cause, and execution shall be issued thereon, the clerk
shall make a complete copy of all the costs taxed against
the defendant in execution, under his hand and the seal of the

§ 3163. Any person claiming such premises may, on motion, be made a defendant.

§ .3164. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to declare in
his petition that on some day, in such petition named, he was
entitled to the possession of the premises, describing them:
and that the defendant, on a day named in the petition, afterwards entered into such premises, and unlawfully withheld
from the plaintiff the possession thereof, to his damage, for
any sum he may name.

§ 3165. The defendant may plead, Not guilty, and under
such plea give in evidence any testimony showing that the
plaintiff is not entitled to such possession, or that the title is
in some other person.

 3166. To entitle the plaintiff to recover in an action of
ejectment, it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to prove
that at the time of the commencement of the action the defendant was in possession of the premises claimed, but the
fact of such possession shall be taken as admitted by the defendant upon his filing a plea of not guilty.

§ 3167. The action shall be prosecuted in the real names
of the parties, and may be brought against the tenant in possession, or against the person under whom such tenant holds
or claims possession.

§ 3168. It shall be sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover, to show that at the time of the commencement of the
action the defendant was in possession of the premises
claimed, and that the plaintiff had a right to the possession
thereof.

§ 3169. In any action brought by a joint tenant, or tenant
in common, againsta co-tenant, he shall be required to prove
an actual ouster or act equivalent thereto.

.5 3170. If the plaintiff prevail, he shall recover for damages tho value of the rents and profits of such premises to
the time of the Verdict or the expiration of the plaintiff's title,
under these limitations:

First. If the defendant had knowledge of the plaintiff's
claim or title, then for the Whole time he had such knowledge. '

Second. If he had no such knowledge, then from the commencement of the action.

Chaves vs. Whitney ct a1.. -1 N. M. Rep.. 611.

§ 3171. If the plaintiff title expire after the action is
brought, but before its determination, the verdict and judgment shall be for damages and costs only.

§ 3172. If the plaintiff prevail, the judgment shall be for
the recovery of the possession, and for the damages and
costs.

Montoyzi vs. Donohoe, vol. :3. page 214. N. M. Rep.

§ 3173. Upon judgment for the recovery of possession. a
writ of possession shall be issued, and the sheriff shall deliver to the plaintiff the possession of the premises, and also
collect the damages and costs. as on execution in other cases.

‘ Romero vs. Munos. vol. 1. page 314. N. M. Rep.

.5 3174. If the judgment be for damages and costs, an execution shall issue as in personal action.

§ 3175. Hereafter in all actions of ejectment which are
now pending or which may hereafter be brought, when the
defendant or tenant in possession in such suit shall have title
of the premises in dispute either by grant from the governments of Spain, Mexico or the Unit-ed States, deed of conveyance founded on a grant or entry for the same, such defendant or defendants may file at the time of the filing of the pleas
in said cause. a notice to the plaintiff, that on the trial of said
cause, he or they will prove what improvements he or they
may have made on the said lands in dispute and the value
thereof. After which notice being filed, the said plaintiff may
at the same time, file a motion to the said defendant or defendants or tenant in possession, that in like manner he or
they will prove the amount of the nu».~.-zw profits of the said
premises: I’;-m°i:Ie-rl, That no improvements shall be taken
into valuation and allowed for, that shall have been made after
the execution of the original summons, in such suit or after
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall have served said defendant or tenant in possession with a written notice that he
or they claim title to the land, specifying in said notice the
nature of the claim; nor shall any Im'.sm' profits be valued and
recovered except such as may have accrued after the commencement of the suit, or notice given as aforesaid.

Pino vs. Hatch. vol. I. page 12:’). N. M. Rep.

:5 3176. When the jury shall find a verdict for the plaintiff
in such action, they shall also find the value of the improvements in favor of the defendant or tenant in possession,
proved in the manner aforesaid, and further shall find the
amount of the mc.sm’ profits proved to have accrued as aforesaid, as also the value of the land in its natural state without
the improvements, and if the value of the improvements
should exceed the amount of the Im'snc profits, the balance
or overplus thereof shall be found by the jury in favor of the
defendant or tenant in possession, and such plaintiff or
plaintiffs shall not have a writ of possession awarded or issued against the defendant or defendants until he or they
shall have paid to the said defendant or defendants, their
agent or attorney the full amount of the balance or overplus,
which the value of the improvements is found to exceed the
uuuswc profits_ as aforesaid. And if the Ilwsuc profits as
aforesaid, shall exceed the value of the improvements as
aforesaid, the jury aforesaid shall find the amount of such
balance or overplus against the defendant or tenant in possession and judgment shall be entered up against said defendant or tenant in possession for such balance or overplus
so found against them.

,5 3177. If upon the rendition of any judgment. in any such
suit, the value of the improvements put upon the land by any
defendant or tenant inpossession as aforesaid shall exceed
the net IIH'.s'IH* profits of said land, the plaintiff or plaintiffs
shall at the term of the court at which said judgment is rendered, elect whether he will take his judgment and pay for
the improvements so assessed against him or take pay from
the defendant or (l('f(-ll(l1llltS for the net profits and the value of
the land in itspzitiiral state without the improvements, and

PARTITION.

§ 3179. When any lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
shall be owned in joint tenancy, tenancy in com mon, or co-parcenary, whether the right or title be derived by donation,
grant, purchase, devise, or descent, it- shall be lawful for any
one or more of the persons interested, Whether they be in
possession or not, to present. to the district court their petition in chancery, praying for a division and partition of such
premises, according to the respective rights of the parties interested therein, and for a sale thereof, if it shall appear that
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the own(_'I‘S.
Bent et al. vs. Maxwell Land Grant and Railway ('-ompuny. vol. 3. page 8.
W. C. Rep.

§ 3180. Every person having an interest in the premises,
whether having possession, or otherwise, shall be made a
party to such petition, and in cases Where one or more of such
parties shall be unknown, or the share or quantity of interest
of any of the parties, is unknown to the petitioner, or when
such share or interest shall be uncertain or contingent, or
when there may be any other impediment, so that such parties cannot be named, the same shall be so stated in the petitioll.

§ 318]. All persons interested in the premises of which
partition is sought to be made, Whose names are unknown, may
be made parties to such partition by the name and description of unknown owners or proprietors of the premises, or as
unknown heirs of any person who may have been interested

in the same.

§ 3182. During the pendency of any such suit or proceeding any person claiming to be interested in the premises may
appear and answer the petition and assert his right by way of
interpleader, and the court shall decide upon their rights as
though they had been made parties in the first instance.

§ 3183. The court shall ascertain and declare the rights,
titles and interests of all the parties to such proceedings and
render such decree as may be required by the rights of the
parties, which said decree shall be binding upon all of the
said parties, whether they be adults or not.

§ 3134. The court, when it shall decree a partition of any
premises, shall appoint three commissioners not connected
with any of the parties either by consanguinity or aiiinity, and
entirely disinterested: each of whom shall take an oath before
some person authorized to administer the same, fairly and
impartially to make partition of said premises in accordance
with the decree of the court as to the rights and interests of
parties, if the same can be done consistently with the interests of the estate, and the said commissioners shall go upon
the premises and make partition of said lands, tenements and
hereditaments. assigning to each party his share, by metes
and bounds, and shall make report in writing, under their
hands, to the court, with all convenient speed, or within the
time which may be prescribed by the court, and the court
may upon the coming in and iilingof such report, make all
such orders thereon, as may be necessary to a final disposition of the case.

§ 3185. When any lands, houses or lots are so circumstanced that a partition thereof cannot be made without manifest prejudice to the owners or proprietors of the same, and
the commissioners appointed to partition the same shall so
report to the court, the court shall thereupon make an order
for the sale of such lands, houses and lots, in such manner
and upon such terms, and by giving such notice of the sale as
the court shall direct, and the person or persons who shall be
appointed by such order to make sale thereof, shall make and
execute good and sutiicient conveyance or conveyances to the
purchaser or purchasers thereof, which shall operate as an
effectual bar both in law and equity against such owners and
proprietors, parties to the proceedings, and all persons claiming under them: and the person or persons making such -sale
shall report their proceedings to the court and shall pay over
the moneys arising therefrom to the parties entitled to receive the same under the direction of the court.

§ 3186. No suit for a partition shall abate by the death of
any tenant, but upon the death of any tenant being a party to
said suit, the heirs or devisees of the said tenant may, on motion, be made parties in his stead.

OFI“ICL\L SECURITIES.

§ 3187. Hereafter the bonds given by all persons elected
or appointed to otlice in this territory shall be recorded.

§ 3188. The bonds of all territorial and district ()1I'lC€l'S
shall be recorded in a record book to be provided for that
purpose, and known as the, Record of official bonds, in the
oflice of the secretary of the territory.

.5 3189. The bonds of all county and precinct officers in
each of the several counties of this territory shall be recorded
in the office of the probate clerk of the county in a book to be
provided by the board of county commissioners, and designated as the, Record of official bonds. .

§ 3190. Each and every person who may hereafter be
elected or appointed to otlice in this territory, required by
law to give bond, shall tile the same for record as provided
in this act before entering upon the discharge of the duties
of the office.

§ 3191. In all actions at law upon the bond of any otiicer
in this territory wherein the original bond of such officer cannot. be produced in court, the certified copy thereof, under the
seal of the officer making the record, shall be received by any
court for the same uses and purposes as the, original bond:
and any judgment rendered and execution issued against the
principal and sureties therein shall be as valid and binding
and of as full force and effect as if the original bond had been
produced in court in said action at law.

.5 3192. The secretary of the territory shall be entitled to
a fee of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) for tiling and recording each bond, and the probate clerk of each of the
several counties shall be entitled to a fee of two dollars and
fifty cents ( ..’..:')O) for filing and recording each bond of a
county otiicer, and one dollar for filing and recording each
bond of a precinct otlicerz the fees for such filing and record
to be paid by the officer tiling the same, at the time of such
tiling.

§ 3193. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any territorial
otiicial, district attorney, board of county commissioners or
other oiiicial charged with the collection of any indebtedness.
or the prosecution of any suit for the collection of any indebtedness due to. or claimed by the territory. any county. city.

town, precinct or school district, from any public ofiicial or the
sureties on his otiicial bond, to compromise, satisfy or discharge such indebtedness in favor of such otiicial or sureties,
except upon payment in full of the amount claimed to be due,
or of the amount for which judgment is rendered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.

,5 3194. Any compromise, satisfaction or discharge of indebtedness prohibited by the preceding section of this act is
hereby declared to be invalid, and shall not be held a bar to
any suit for the collection thereof, and suit may be brought
at any time within four years from the date of any such compromise, satisfaction or discharge to enforce the payment
thereof, notwithstanding any existing law of limitation.

§ 3195. Whenever any revenue officer or other person responsible for public money has neglected or refused or shall
in future neglect or refuse to pay over to the territorial treasurer the sum or balance for which he is accountable, and
which is due to the territory, upon the settlement of his accounts, it shall be the duty of the auditor of public accounts
to make a transcript of the account of such officer or person,
with the territory, showing the sum due the territory by
such otiicer or person, which said account shall be certified
as true and correct, as taken from the books of the auditor,
and shall be signed by said auditor and sealed with his official
seal, and if he shall have no official seal, with his private seal,
and the auditor of public accounts shall transmit the same
immediately, together with correct copies of any other document, bond, obligation or other instrument of writing, signed,
sealed and certified as aforesaid, to the district attorney or
attorney general to be used in the. prosecution of such judge,
officer, individual and their sureties, if they have such sureties.

§ 3196. Such prosecution shall be brought for the Whole
sum due and the interest accrued, and it shall be sufficient to
prove the amount of the debt, and the fact that the securities were the securities of the said of1'icer or individual prosecuted, and judgment shall be given against said officer or
individual and their said securities for the sum so due and interest according to law, and execution shall thereupon be
sued against all the parties so tried, in favor of the territory.

§ 3197. When any party shall be liable to be prosecuted
under the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the
district attorney to immediately commence a suit in favor of
the territory against said party and his securities for the sum
due and interest according to law, and in the trial of any cause
now or that may be hereafter pending against any officer or
person and their securities, the certified transcript of the account of said oflicer or individual provided for by this act, and
the certified copies of any other document, bond, obligation or
other instrument of writing sealed, signed and certified in
conformity with this act, or the originals, shall be admitted
as evidence of such debt or liability of said officer or individ11al,and their securities, and t-he court trying the cause shall
give judgment and issue execution in conformity to said evience.

§ 3203. The assignment of any bond, bill, note. judgment,
conveyance or other security, shall not affect the defense of
the person executing the same.

§ 3204. If any minor, servant or apprentice shall lose any
money or property in any grocery, store or dram-shop by
betting at cards, or any other gambling device, or by any
other bet, wager or hazard whatever, the father, mother, relations or guardian of such minor, or the master of such apprentice or servant may sue for and recover from the keeper
of such grocery, store or dram-shop, such money or property or the value thereof, so lost by sucl1.minor, apprentice or
servant.

' 3205. Any matter of defense, under this act, may be
specially pleaded, or given in evidence, under the general issue.

§ 3206. In all suits, under this act, before a justice of the
peace, the plaintiff may call in the defendant to answer, on
oath, any interrogatory touching the case, and if the defendant refuse to answer, the same shall be taken as confessed.

§ 3207. Such answer shall not he admitted against such
person as evidence in any criminal proceeding.

91 3208. Bets and wagers on an election authorized by the
constitution and laws of the United States, or by the laws of
this territory, are gaming within the meaning of this act.

§ 3209. Every stakeholder who shall knowingly receive
any money or property, staked upon any betting, declared
gaming by the provisions of this act, shall be liable to the
party who placed such money or property in his hands, both
before and after the determination of such bet, a11d the delivery of the money or property to the winner shall be no (lefense to an action brought by the loser for the recovery
thereof: I’I'ol‘irIHl, That no stakeholder shall be liable afterwards, unless a demand has been made upon such stakeholder for the money or property in his possession previous
to the expiration of the time agreed upon by the parties for
the determination of such bet or wager.

§ 3210. Any creditor to any person losing by any gameat
cards or any other gambling device, in addition to the remedy
provided by the above sections of this act, shall have the right
to garnishee the winner in any proceeding by attachment or
execution, and the same proceeding shall be had thereon as if
such winner were a debtor of the party losing to the amount
of money, property, rights or credits, that may appear to
have been so won by said winner from the party losing.

§ 32] 1. Any action for money or property brought under
this act, shall be commenced within one year from the time
such action accrued, and not afterwards.

‘§ 3212. All persons who shall claim money or property
lost at gaming, or when said money or property may be
claimed by his wife, child, relation, or friend, said person,
although he may have gambled, is hereby exempted from the
-punishment imposed by the laws prohibiting and restraining
gaming.

‘II

RELATING TO DAMAGES.

§ 3213. Whenever any person shall die from any injury
resulting from, or occasioned by the negligence, unskillfulness or criminal intent of any ofricer, agent. servant or employe, whilst running, conducting or managing any locomotive, car, or train of cars, or of any driver of any stage coach
or other public conveyance, while in charge of the same as
driver: and when any passenger shall die from any injury resulting from. or occasioned by any defect or insutiiciency in
any railroad, or any part thereof, or in any locomotive or car,
or in any stage coach, or other public conveyance, the corporation, individual or individuals, in whose employ any such
officer, agent, servant, employe, engineer or driver, shall be
at the time such injury was committed, or whoowns any such
railroad, locomotive, car, stage coach, or other public conveyance, at the time any injury is received, resulting from, or
occasioned by any defect or insuiliciency above declared, shall
forfeit and pay for every person or passenger so dying, the
sum of five thousand dollars, which may be sued and recovered: First. by the husband or wife of the deceased: or
second, if there be no husband or Wife, or if he or she fails to
sue Within six months after such death, then by the minor
child or children of the deceased: or third, if such deceased
be a minor and unmarried, then by the father and mother,
who may join in the suit, and each shall have an equal interest in the judgment: or if either of them be dead, then by the
survivor. In suits instituted under this section, it shall be
competent for the defendant for his defense to show that the
defect or insufficiency named in this section, was not of a
negligent defect- or insufficiency.

§ 3214. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused
by the Wrongful act, neglect or default of another, although
such death shall have been caused under such circumstances
as amount in law to a felony, and the act, or neglect, or default, is such as would, if death had not ensued, have entitled
the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages
in respect thereof, then, and in every such case, the person
who, or the corporation which, would have been liable, if
death had not ensued,shall be liable to an action for damages,
notwithstanding the death of the person injured.

§ 3215. Every such action as mentioned in the next preceding section shall be brought by and in the name or names
of the personal representative or representatives of such
deceased person, and the jury in every such action may give
such damages, compensatory and exemplary, as they shall
deem fair and just, taking into consideration the pecuniary
injury or injuries resulting from such death to the surviving
party or parties entitled to the judgment, or any interest
therein, recovered in such action, and also having regard to
the mitigating or aggravating circumstances attending such
wrongful act, neglect or default. The proceeds of any judgment obtained in any such action shall not be liable for any
debt of the deceased: 1’rm-i¢Ic(I, He or she shall have left a
husband. wife. child, father. mother, brother, sister, or child

or children of the deceased child, but shall be distributed as
follows:

First. If there be a surviving husband or wife, and no
child, then to such husband or wife: if there be a surviving
husband or wife and a child or children or grandchildren,
then equally to each, the grandchild or grandchildren taking
by right of representation: if there be no husband or Wife,
but a child or children, or grandchild or grandchildren, then
to such child or children and grandchild or grandchildren by
right of representation: if there he no child or grandchild,
then to a surviving brother or sister, or brothers or sisters,
if there be any: if there be none of the kindred hereinbefore
named, then the proceeds of such judgment shall be disposed
of in the manner authorized by law for the disposition of the
personal property of deceased persons.

§ 3216. Every corporation operating a railway in this
territory shall be liable in a sum sufficient to compensate such
employe for all damages sustained by any employe of such
corporation, the person injured or damaged being without
fault on his or her part, occurring or sustained in consequence of any mismanagement, carelessness, neglect, default or wrongfulact of any agent or employe of such. corporation while in the, exercise of their several duties, when
such mismanagement. carelessness. neglect. default or wrongful act of such employe or agent could have been avoided by
such corporation through the exercise of reasonable care or
diligence in the selection of competent eniployes or agents,
or by not over working said employes, or requiring or allowing them to work an unusual or unreasonable number of
hours: and any contract restricting such liability shall be
deemed to be contrary to the public policy of this territory
and therefore void.

§ 3217. It shall be unlawful for any such corporation

knowingly and willfully to use or operate any car or locomotive that is defective. or any car or locomot-ive upon Which
the machinery or attachments thereto belonging are in any
manner defective, or shops or machinery and attachments
thereof which are in any manner defective. which defects
might have been previously ascertained by ordinary care
and diligence by said corporation.

If the employe of any such corporation shall receive any injury by reason of such defect in any car or locomotive or machinery or attachments thereto belonging, or shops or machinery and attachments thereof. owned and operated, or
being run and operated by such corporation, through no fault
of his own, such corporation shall be liable for such injury.
and upon proof of the same in an action brought by such employe or his legal representatives, in any court of proper
jurisdiction, 1 vainst such railroad corporation for damages
on account of such injury so received, shall be entitled to
recover against such corporation any sum commensurate
with the injuries sustained: I’:-oriclml, That it shall be the
duty of all the em ployes of railroad corporations to promptly report all defects coming to their knowledge in any such
car or locomotive or shops or machinery and attachments

thereof to the proper officer or agent of such corporation
and after such report the doctrine of contributory negligence
shall not apply to such employe.

§ 3218. Whenever the death of an employe shall be caused under circumstances from which a cause of action would
have accrued under the provisions of the two preceding sections, if death had not ensued, an action therefor shall be
brought in the manner provided by section three thousand
two hundred and fifteen, and any sum recovered therein shall
be subject to all of the provisions of said section three thousand two hundred and lifteen.

§ 3219. The jury on the trial of any issue or inquisition
of damages may, if they shall think fit, give damages in the
nature of interest, over and above the value of the goods at
the time of the conversion or seizure.

5 3220. Defendants in a judgment founded on an action
for the redress of a private wrong shall be subject tocontribution, and all other consequences of such judgment in the
same manner and to the same extent as defendants in a judgment in an action founded on a contract.

§ 3221. If any person shall willfully set on lire any woods,
marshes or prairies so as thereby to occasion damages to any
other person, such person shall pay a sum not exceeding
five hundred dollars, nor less than tifty dollars, one-half
thereof for the use of the person prosecuting the same, and
the other half for the use of the county in which the offense
is committed.

§ 3222. If any person shall set on lire any Woods, marshes,
prairies, whether his own or not, so as thereby to occasion
any damage to any other person. such person shall make satisfaction in double damages to the party injured. to be recovered by civil action.

BEFORE JUSTICES.

§ 3223. No person shall be elected a justice of the peace
who is not a citizen of the United States. and who shall not
have been a resident of this territory at least twelve months,
and of the county in which he shall reside, at least six months
before his election.

§ 3224. Hereafter all justices of the peace and constables
shall be elected on the second Monday in January of every,

other year, and shall enter upon the duties of their oiiice

on the first Monday of February following their elections, and
hold the same for two years thereafter, unless sooner removed for cause.

§ 3225. The qualification of voters at such election shall
be as provided by law, but no registration shall be necessary
for any such electionzthe same shall be ordered and held in
other respects as the general elections are ordered and held:
but no judge of election or clerk shall receive any pay for
serving as such, at said election, and should any person appointed refuse without sufficient reason to act as such judge
or clerk of election, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in cases of a misdemeanor.
where no punishment is otherwise provided.

§ 3226. Every justice of the peace, elected in either of the
counties of this territory, shall before he enters upon the
duties of his ottice, take and subscribe an oath or afiirmation,
in writing, to support the constitution of the United States.
and the laws of this territor_v, and faithfully to discharge. and
perform all the duties of his said otiice, according t.o the best of
his abilities and understanding: which oath or affirmation
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of
the county in which said justice of the peace may reside.

§ 3227. That every justice of the peace shall, before he
enters upon the duties of his oiiice, execute a bond to the territory in the sum of five hundred dollars, before either anotary
public, the probate judge, or the probate clerk of his county.
conditioned in substance, that he will well and faithfully perform each and all his duties as justice of the peace during his
term of otlice. and until his successor is qualified, and will
promptly, a('('o1‘di11g to law, pay over to the person or persons
untitled tliereto, all moneys that may come to his hands by

virtue of his office: and that he will keep and preserve all
records, books, papers, and other property appertaining to
his said office and deliver the same to his successor when
qualitied.

§ 3228. Such bond shall be executed by the person proposing to qualify as justice of the peace, together with at least
two sureties, resident of the county, who shall together be
worth, in their own respective rights, over and above their
exemptions and liabilities, the amount of the bond, and each
of said sureties shall be required to justify as to their property before either a notary public, the probate judge or the
probate clerk, in the same manner as sureties on other bonds
are now required by law to justify. Said bond shall be approved by and tiled before the probate judge of the county
wherein each justice of the peace qualities, and said bond
shall be preserved among the other records of the office of
the probate judge. Certified copies of said bond shall be evidence in all courts of the territory and may be sued upon,
from time to time, by any person injured by any violations of
the provisions thereof.

.5 3229. Every justice of the peace, now in ofrice, and every
person who shall hereafter be elected or appointed justice of

_’The peace, who shall fail to execute and file the bond, as required in this act, and at the time required by law for entering upon his office, shall be, by such failure, deemed and held
to have resigned his otlice, or to have refused to serve therein, and the otlice to be, by such failure i/mu fm-Io vacant: and
the said office shall be tilled by election or appointmc-nt,as required by law: and the party so failing to execute such bond.
or qualify. as required by law, shall be ineligible to said oiiice
during the period of two years.

:5 3230. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace shall be
coextensive with the limits of the county in which they shall
be elected: Pnrrirlml, That every justice of the peace shall
reside and hold his oftice in the precinct for which he may be
elected. A

§ 323]. If any justice of the peace dies, resigns, or removes out of the precinct, for which he may be elected, or
his term of office he in any manner terminated, the docket,
books, records, papers and documents pertaining to his office,
or relating to any suit, matter or controversy, committed to
him in.his official capacity, shall be delivered to the nearest
justice of the peace, in the same county, who may thereupon
proceed to hear, try and determine such matter, suit or controversy, or issue execution thereon, in the same manner as
it would have been lawful for the justice before whom such
matter, suit or controversy was commenced, to have done.
And all justices' courts shall be public. '

 3232. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
coextensive with the county for which he is elected:

First. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction in
the county for which he is elected, as provided by law in all
civil action, including also attachments and suits of replevin
where the debt, balance due or damages, or value of the property shall-not exceed one hundred dollars: except in actions

for slander, libel and false imprisonment, or where the title
or boundary of lands shall come in question.

Second. To cause to be kept all laws made for the preservation of the peace.

Third. To cause to come before him, persons who shall
break the peace. and commit to jail or bail them, as the case
may be.

Fourth. To arrest all persons who attempt to break the
peace, and compel them to give security for their good behavior and to keep the peace.

Fifth. To cause to be arrested and brought before him all
persons charged with an offense against any of the laws of
the territory and commit them to jail, or take bond for their
appearance before the district court, at the next term thereof
in the county, as the case may require.

Sixth. In all cases of larceny and receiving stolen goods,
when the value of the goods stolen or received does not exceed twenty dollars.

Seventh. In all cases of common assault, assault and battery, affray, and disturbing religious congregation or public
meetings.

Eighth. In all cases of malicious mischief or injury, where
the damage done does not exceed one hundred dollars.

Ninth. In all cases of the unlawful carrying of concealed
weapons.

Tenth. In all cases of unlawful altering of weights and
measures, or using false Weights and measures.

Eleventh. In all other offenses detined in this act.

In all criminal cases Within the jurisdiction of justices of
the peace the punishment upon conviction shall be:

First. In cases of larceny, by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for the
term of three months.

Second. In cases of buying, receiving or aiding in the concealment of stolen goods, or money, the same punishment as
in larceny.

Third. In all cases of malicious mischief, the .same punishment as in larceny.

Fourth. In cases of assault and battery, by imprisonment.
in the county jail for a period not less than two months, nor
exceeding six months, or with a fine not less than twenty-five
dollars, nor exceeding one hundred dollars, or both, at the
discretion of the court trying the. cause.

Fifth. In cases of unlawful carrying of concealed weapons,
the same punishment as in larceny.

Sixth. In all other cases, by imprisonment in the county
‘ail of not more than thirty days, or fine not more than one
hand red dollars, or both.

Bray vs. L‘. 8.. vol. I. page I. N. M. Rep.
Territory vs. Valdez. vol. I. page 348, N. M. Rep.
'l‘erritory vs. Baca. vol. L’. page 183. N. M. Rep.
1’rm‘iII¢'(I, That no justice of the peace shall sit in any criminal case where he may be interested, or Where he may be rela ted to the party against whom the offense is charged, within the second degree of (-ons:1nguinit,\' or atlinity.

§ 3233. Whenever, in any incorporated town or village,
situated more than tifty miles from the county seat of the
county in which such town or village is situated, any person
shall be tried before any justice of the peace, whose precinct.
or any part thereof, is embraced within such town or village.
for any offense against the laws of the territory, amounting
to a misdemeanor, and who shall be convicted thereof and be
sentenced to be contined in the county jail, either as a part of
the punishment intlicted for such offense, or for the non-payment of the line and (-.ost-S that may be assessed against the
person: it shall be lawful for the sheriff or constable receiving the order of commitment to contine the defendant in
the calaboose or jail belonging to such town or village for
the period or term directed in the judgment or order of commitment. And for the purposes of this act the calaboose or
jail of such town or village is hereby declared to be a county
jail. '

§ 3234. The boards of county commissioners in the several counties of the territory are hereby authorized and
empowered to make and enter into a contract with the trustees
of any town or village .mentioned in the first section of
this act for the feeding and guarding of the prisoners contined in the calaboose or jail of any such town or village under
the provisions of this act. and to pay out of the county
treasury to the trustees of such town or village for the feeding and guarding of such prisoners in accordance With the
terms of such contract: Proridml, /um.-ez.=m-, That the price so
contracted shall not exceed the regular legal rate paid the
sheriff for feeding prisoners.

§  In the following cases and no others, a justice of
the peace. may punish for contempt:

First. Disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior

’ toward such justice, While engaged in the trial of a cause, or

in rendering judgment. or in any judicial proceeding which
shall tend to interrupt such proceeding or impair the. respect.
due to his authority.

Second. Any breach of the peace, noise or other disturbance tending to interrupt the official proceedings of such
justice.

Third. Resistance or disobedience of any lawful order or
process made or issued by him.

95 3236. Punishments for contempt in the foregoing cases
may be by fine not exceeding ten dollars or by imprisonment
not exceeding t-h ree days, at the discretion of the justice, but
no person shall be committed to jail for the non-payment of
such fine.

55 3237. No person shall be punished for contempt before
a justice of the peace until an opportunity shall be given him
to be heard in his defense, and for that purpose the justice
may issue his warrant to bring the offender before him.

§ 3238. Upon conviction of any person for contempt before a justice of the peace, the justice shall make up a record
of the the proceedings on such conviction, stating the particular circumstzmces of the case and the judgment rendered
therein.

§ 3239. Justices of the peace are empowered to issue subpoenas for such witnesses in all matters submitted to referees,
or arbitration, and in all cases when it may be necessary to
take depositions.

§ 3240. In allcases before justices of the peace, wherein
the justice has original jurisdiction, the defendant shall not
be deprived of the rigl1t- of a trial by jury.

§ 3241. Whenever upon the investigation of any offense,
the justice of the peace shall commit, or bail any persons to
appear at the next term of the district court of his county, it
shall be his duty to file the papers pertaining to said case, with
the clerk of the district court of said county, on or before the
first day of the next term of said court: or in default thereof
the said justice shall forfeit and pay for each and every offense as aforesaid, a sum not- less than ten, nor more than iifty
dollars, to be recovered upon motion, with three days‘ notice
before the said district court.
~ § 3242. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket in
which he shall enter the title of all causes commenced before
him; the time when process was issued, and the particular
nature thereof: the time when the parties appeared, either
with or without the return of process: a brief statement of
the nature of the plaintiff ‘s demand, and the amount claimed,
and if set-off was pleaded, a similar statement of the setoff and amount estimated; every continuance, stating at whose
request, and for what time, the time when the trial was had,
and whether by jury or otherwise: the verdict of the jury and
when rendered: the time of issuing execution, and the ofiicer
to whom delivered, and an account of the debt, damages and
costs, and the fees due to each person separately; the fact of
an appeal being made and allowed, and the time when granted; when satisfaction was made, and such other entries as
may be material.

§ 3243. All process shall run in the name of the Territory
of New Mexico, be dated on the day of issue, signed by the
justice, and directed to the sheriff, or any constable of the
proper county.

§ 3244. In all cases, not otherwise specially provided for,
the first process shall be a summons, commanding the oflicer
to summon the defendant to appear before said justice at the
time and place stated in the summons, not less than five days,

nor more than twenty days, from the date thereof, to answer

to the plaintiff's demand: the nature of the action to be set
forth and contained in the summons, which summons shall be
served at least five days before the return day thereof, by
reading the same to the defendant or by delivering to him a
true co )y thereof.

§ 32 5. Every constable or sheriff serving any process,
authorized by this act, shall make a return thereon in writing
stating the time and manner of service, and shall sign his
name to such return.

,5 3246. Every justice issuing any process, authorized by
this act, upon being satisfied that such process will not be
executed for want of an officer to be had in time to execute
the same. may empower any suitable person to execute the

same, by an indorsement to that effect upon the process: and
the person so empowered shall possess all the authority of a
constable in relation to the execution of such process, and
shall be subject to the same obligations, and receive the same
fees for his services: I’:-oriclml, That said justice of the peace
shall not deputize any private citizen to execute such process
until the plaintiff in such action, or his agent, shall first file
before such justice his atiidavit that lie has made diligent
Search for a constable of that precinct, and also for a constable in an adjoining precinct, if the residence of such constable
be not more than two miles from the office where such process is issued, and that he has been unable to procure the
services of either of such constables in time to serve his process, or of a sheriff, and that he verily believes the object of
his suit will be frustrated by further delay in trying to find
an officer to execute his process. And where a party to a
suit fails to direct by what officer his process shall be served,
preference shall always be given by the justice to a constable
in the serving of process, where the same can be done Without jeopardizing the ultimate rights of the plaintiff or other
party to the suit. But each party to a suit shall have t-he
right to direct by which one of the regularly qualified oflicers
his process shall be executed: I’rm'i(Iml, That no greater
costs are, by such selection, cast upon any other party to the
suit.

§ 3247. If any oflicer, without showing good cause therefor, fail to execute any process delivered to him, and to make
due return thereof, such officer, for every such offense, shall
pay the party injured the sum of ten dollars, and all damages
such party may have sustained by reason thereof, to be recovered by an action of debt, founded on this statute.

§ 3248. An infant may sue by his father, mother, guardian or next friend. When requested, the justice shall
appoint some suitable person as next friend, who shall signify
his acceptance of such appointment in writing, and shall be
agreed to by such plaintiff, and said next friend shall be held
responsible for the costs of said suit.

§ 3249. After service and return of process against an infant defendant, the suit shall proceed no further, until a
guardian shall have been appointed ml /item. The justice
shall, upon the request of such defendant, appoint some discreet person to act as guardian, who shall assent thereto in
writing: but if said d,efendant shall fail or refuse to appear,
or to nominate such guardian, the justice shall appoint some
discreet person as aforesaid, and the consent of such guardian shall be tiled with the justice: but the said guardian so
appointed shall not be liable for the costs of the suit.

.5, 3250. Upon the return of process duly served, the justice shall wait one hour after the time specified for the appearance of parties, unless they sooner appear.

§ 325]. It shall be the duty of the jllst-ice of the peace,

previous to the commencement of any trial, to propose to the

parties that they reconcile the matter in controversy, and to
give them an opportunity of doing so.

 3252. Any justice of the peace may, upon trial of any
cause in which he may deem it necessary, employ a competent person to interpret the testimony and to translate any
writing necessary to be translated in the trial of such cause.

§ 3253. Such interpreter shall receive the sum of two dollars ($2.()()) per day for each cause, the trial of which occupies
less than one day, and twenty-five cents per one hundred
words for translating and transcribing any writing.

 3254. The fees of interpreters provided for in the preceding section shall be taxed to and payable by the party
adjudged to pay other costs in the same cause.

§ 3255. Upon return of any process each party may plead
or allege, but shall give a bill of particulars of his demand, if
required by the justice, or opposite party; the justice shall
then, upon the application of either party on good cause shown,
adjourn the case for such time as may be required, not exceeding thirty days.

§ 3256. If it appear on the trial of any cause from the
evidence, that the title to lands is in question, the justice shall
immediately make an entry therof on his docket and cease
all further proceedings.

 3257. A defendant may set off demands which he has
against the plaintiff, if his demand arises from a judgment or
upon a contract expressed or implied, whether such contract

be written or unwritten, sealed or without seal, and if it be

founded upon a bond or other contract having a penalty, the
sum equitably due by virtue of the condition only, shall be
set off if his demand be due him, if the demand existed at the
time of the commencement of the suit and belonged to himself: if his demand be against the plaintiff in the action, unless
the suit be brought in the name of a plaintiff who has no real
interest in the contract upon which the suit is brought, in
which case no set-off of a demand against the plaintiff shall
be allowed, except as hereinafter provided. If there be several defendants the demand pleaded in set-off must be due to
them all jointly; if the action be founded upon a contract,
other than a promissory note, a bill of exchange which has
been assigned by the plaintiff, a demand against such plaintiff or any assignee of such contract, at the time of assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant in good faith
before notice of such assignment, may be set off to the

amount of the plaintiff’s debt, if the demand be such as‘

might have been set off against such plaintiff or assignee
while the contract belonged to him. .

§ 3258. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory
note, or bill of exchange which has been assigned to plaintiff
after it became due, a set-off to the amount of the plaintiff's
debt may be pleaded: if a demand existing against any person
or persons, who shall have assigned or transferred such note,
or bill after it became due, if the demand be such as might
have been set off against the assignor or while the note or bill
belonged to him.

§ 3259. If the plaintiff be trustee for any other, or if the
suit be in the name of a plaintiff, who has no real interest in
the contract upon which the suit is founded, so much of a demand existing against those whom the plaintiff represents, or
for Whose benefit the action is brought, may be set off against
the plaintiff's demands, if the same might have been set off in
the action, by those beneficially interested.

§ 3260. To entitle a defendant to a set-off, he must plead or
give notice of the same.

.5 326]. If the amount of the set-off duly established, be
equal to the plaintiffs debt on demand, judgment shall be
entered that the plaintiff take nothing by his action: if it be
less than the plaintiff's dent or demand, the plaintiff shall
have judgment for the residue only: and if there be found a
balance due from the plaintiff to the defendant, judgment
shall be rendered a trainst the plaintiff for the amount thereof:
but no such judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff
when the contract which was the subject of the suit shall have
been assigned before the commencement of such action, nor
for any balance due any other person than the plaintiff in the
action.

§ 3262. A subpiena may be served by any officer, by reading it to the witness or by delivering a copy thereof to him.

:5 3263. Every such attachment shall be served and executed in the same manner as a warrant, and the fees for issuing and serving the same, shall be paid by the person against
whom the same was issued, unless he shows to the satisfaction of the justice, reasonable cause for his omission toattend,
in which case the costs shall be paid by the party suing out
the same. .

§ 3264. Every party in any civil suit pending before a
justice, may, upon notice, cause the deposition of any witness
to be taken by any officer authorized to take depositions in
any county in this territory where the said witness may be.

:51 3265. The justice shall allow every deposition taken,
certified and returned according to the provisions of this act,
to be used on the trial of the cause in which it is taken, in all
cases Where the same testimony given verbally could have
been received; but no such deposition shall be read unless it
appear to the justice that the witness Whose deposition is
offered is dead, or resides out of the county, or is unable to
attend on account of sickness or infirmity.

§ 3266. If either party shall fail to appear within one hour
after the time specified for the return of the process, or after
the hour of adjournment, the justice shall proceed to hear the
proofs of the party present, and render judgment thereon.

§ 3267. In every action brought by Virtue of this act, it
shall be lawful for either of the parties to the suit, or for the
attorney or agent or either of them, after issue joined, but
before the court shall proceed to inquire into the merits of
the cause, to demand of the court that their cause he tried by
ajury; said jury to consist of six men possessing the same
qualifications as jurors in the district court: and upon such

demand, the justice shall direct the sheriff or any constable.

present, or if no officer be present, the justice may appoint a
suitable person to perform the duty, to whom he shall administer the following oath or aflirmation, as the case may be:
You do solemnly swear (or affirm) before the ever living God,

that you will perform the duties required of you according to
the best of your abilities, without partiality to either party.

The person so sworn shall write down the names of eighteen
persons, being inhabitants of the county, and possessing the
necessary qualifications for jurors; from the said list, each
party may strike out alternately six names, and in case of the
absence of either party, or his failure or refusal to strike out
as aforesaid, the justice shall himself strike out six names,
and shall thereupon issue a rmu‘re_r‘m-in.s- requiring the otiicer
to summon the persons whose names remain in the above list
to appear at a time and place therein mentioned to serve as
jurors for the trial of the cause to be therein named in said
rmairo _fm*iu.s': Prorirlml, That if any of said jurors so summoned as aforesaid shall not attend, or if there should be
legal objections raised to any of those Who shall appear, it
shall be the duty of the oiiicer to summon a sufficient number
of talesmen to till the deficiency. The jurors so taken shall
take the following oath: You and each of you do solemnly
swear (or affirm), that you will well and truly try the issue
joined between A. B., plaintitf, a.nd C. D., defendant, and a
true verdict give, according to law and the evidence given
in court, so help you God.

And after having been sworn they shall hear the evidence
Which shall be delivered in public, in their presence. And
to each witness on any trial. the justice shall administer the
following oath, to-wit: You do solemnly s-wear (or affirm),
that the evidence you shall give in the case now pending
between A. B., plaintiff, and C. D., defendant, shall be truth,
the Whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.

And after hearing the evidence, the jury shall be kept
together in some convenient place until they agree upon a
verdict, or shall be discharged by the justice, and when the
jurors shall agree upon a verdict, they shall deliver the same
to the justice, who is required -to give judgment thereon and
to award execution as hereinafter directed. .

 3268. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury,
after having been kept together a reasonable time. cannot
agree on their verdict, he may discharge them and issue a
new venire, unless the pa.rties consent that the justice may
render judgment.

§ 3269. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a
juror, and shall not appear, nor render a reasonable excuse for
his default, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dollars.

§ 3270. Upon all judgments rendered by a justice, execution shall be issued by such justice, after ten days shall have
expired, excluding the day of trial, unless the plaintiff in execution shall make an affidavit stating that he has good reason
to believe, and verily does believe, that the defendant in execution, is about to remove his erfects beyond the limits of the
county, or that he is about to convey his eiiects so as to defraud the plaint—it’t', or that he is about to secrete his property
so as to hinder the payment of said judgment. and that unless
said execution be issued immediately that he will lose his
debt: in which (°a.se the justice shall issue e.\'ecution upon the

making of such atiidavit at any time after the rendition of
judgment and before the expiration of the ten days as aforesaid: PI‘(Il‘ill(’(I, That no execution shall issue against the
body of any defendant in execution.

§ 3271. The execution shall order the officer to levy the
debt or damages, together with the interest thereon and the
costs, upon the goods and chattels of the person against
whom the execution shall be granted, his arms and accoutrements excepted, and such other property as may be excepted
by law, and pay the money within thirty days from the date
thereof to the justice issuing the same.

§ 3272. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall state in his docket, and also on the back of the execution, the amount of the debt, damages and costs separately,
and the otiicer receiving such execution shall indorse thereon
the time of receiving the same.

§ 3273. If any execution be not satisfied it may at the
request of the plaintiff or his attorney be renewed from time
to time by the justice issuing the same, indorsing thereon to
that effect: if any part of the execution has been satisfied the
indorsement of renewal shall express the sum due on the
execution: every such indorsement shall renew the execution in full force for thirty days, and no longer, and an entry
of such indorsement with the date shall be made in the docket
of such justice.

§ 3274. The officer after taking the goods and chattels
into his custody by virtue of an execution, shall without delay
give public notice by posting up not less than three advertisements, put up at different public placesin the precinct
where the property is tobe sold, of the time and place, when
and where the same will be exposed for sale: such notice shall
describe the goods and chattels so taken as aforesaid, and be
put up at least ten days before the day of sale.

:5 3275. At the time and place so appointed, the officer
shall expose the goods and chattels to public vendue for cash,
to the highest bidder. and shall in all cases return the execution and have the money before the justice at the time of
making such return.

§ 3276. No ofiicer shall directly or indirectly purchase
any goods or chattels at any sale made by him upon execution, and every such purchase shall be absolutely null and
void.

;‘ 3277. If there be no property found, or if the. goods and
chattels are not sutiicient to satisfy the execution, the officer
shall, upon the demand of the plaintiff or his attorney, summon in writing as garnishees such persons as may be named
to him by the plaintiff or his attorney, to appear before the
justice on the return day of the execution to answer such interrogatories as may he put to them touching their liabilities
as garnishees: and likeproceedings shall be had therein before
the justice to final judgment, and execution as in suits instituted by attachment in justices‘ courts.

,5 3278. The officer who shall hold any execution, and shall
receive any money tendered to him, shall indorse the same

on the execution and give the person paying the same receipt
therefor.

§ 3279. Whenever any goods or chattels are wrongfully
taken or obtained, the value of which shall not exceed one
hundred dollars, an action of replevin may be brought by the
person having a right to the immediate possession for the recovery thereof: and the damages sustained by reason of the
unjust capture or detention as is hereinafter specified.

Ruhe vs. Abreu. vol. 1. paste 247. N. M. Rep.

§ 3280. Actions of replevin shall in all cases be commenced by a writ which shall be returnable in the same manner as asummons. ,

§ 3281. No writ of replevin shall issue unless the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, shall file an afiidavit with the justice
stating that the goods and chattels are wrongfully detained
by the defendant and stating the value thereof, and that he
has a right to the possession thereof: and every writ of replevin issued without such afiidavit shall be quashed at the

cost of the plaintiff. _
Martinez vs. Martinea vol. 2. page 464. N. M. Rep.
Lamy vs. Remuzon. vol. 2. page 245, N. M. Rep.
Hurruel vs. Irwin. vol. :3. page 221. N. M. Rep.
A hreu vs. Brown. vol. 2. page 11. N. M. Rep.

§ 3282. The writ of replevin shall com ma.nd the ofiicer to
whom it is directed to cause to be replevied to the plaintiff,
the goods and chattels named in the affidavit required/by the
foregoing section, and to summon the person who is charged
with detaining them, to appear before the justice on the return day of said_writ, to answer the plaintiff for the unjust detention of the same: and it shall be lawful for the officer to
break open any house, stable or outhouse, or other building
in which such property is concealed. to replevy the same.
having first demanded deliverance of the same, at the house,
or other building, or the place where the same is concealed.

§ 3283. Every officer, before he makes deliverance to the
plaintiff of any goods or chattels, taken by virtue of any writ
of replevin, shall take of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney.
in the name and for the benefit of the defendant, a bond with
sufficient security, in double the value of the goods and chattels replevied, which value shall be assessed by two or more
respectable persons whom the officer shall swear for that
purpose, conditioned that the plaintiff will prosecute the suit
with effect, and without delay. and make return of the property, if the return thereof shall be adjudged, and pay all costs
and damages which shall be awarded against him, and keep
harmless the officer in the execution of the writ, which bond
shall be returned with the writ: and if the plaintiff, his agent.
_or attorney, shall fail or refuse to execute such bond within
twenty-four hours after having been notified by the ofiicer of
the taking of such goods and chattels, the officer shall return
such goods and chattels to the defendant: I’roI°i(I(’(I, Ium‘(‘l‘m'.
If the defendant shall, within five days from the time of the
taking of said goods by the said officer, under a writ of replevin, give unto the officer. who may serve said writ, a good
and sufiic-lent bond in the name and for the benefit of the

plaintiff, in double the value of the. goods so replevied, conditioned for the forthcoming of said goods and chattels at the
time of the trial of said cause. then, and in that case, the said
defendant shall be entitled to retain possession of said property, and if any officer shall deliver any property, taken by
Writ of replevin, to the plaintiff without taking such security.
or shall take insufficient security. he shall be liable in damages to the defendant.
Arehibeque vs. Mlera. vol. I. page 419. N. M. Rep.

:5 3284. On the return of any writ of replevin the same
proceedings shall be had as in other suits; and if the plaintiff
discontinue, suffer a non-suit. or if he should otherwise fail to
prosecute his suit to final judgment, it shall be the duty of
the justice to summon a jury as hereinbefore provided, to impanel and swear the same, to inquire and assess the value of
the goods and chattels replevied, together with the adequate
damages for the detention of the same: or if on the trial of
the issue joined the jury shall find for the defendant, the value
of such goods and chattels, together With adequate damages
for the detention thereof, shall be assessed by said jury, and
the justice shall render judgment in favor of defendant for
such value and damages so found by the jury: but if the jury
shall find that the defendant did unlawfully detain such goods,
and that they were the property of the plaintiff, they shall
assess adequate damages for such detention.

§ 3285. The defendant shall not commence a suit upon the
bond given by plaintiff. provided for in section three thousand
two hundred and eighty-three, until heshall have sued out
an execution, and it shall be ascertained by the return of said
execution that the plaintiff has not in the county sufficient
personal property whereon to levy and make the amount of
such judgment, damages and costs.

§ 3288. The defendant may plead -that he is not guilty of
the charge alleged, and his plea shall put in issue not only the
right of plaintiff to the property, but also the wrongful taking
and detention thereof.

Garland et al. vs. Bartels Bros" vol. 7.’. paste I. N. M. Rep.

§ 3287. An attachment against the property of any debtor
may be issued on the application of any cI‘edito1':

First. When the debtor has departed, or is about to depart from the county, so as to-hinder or delay his creditors.

Second. ' When the defendant is about to remove from the
territory any of his property, with intent to defraud his credit-ors.

Third. Or when the defendant has assigned, disposed of
or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of or secrete any of
his property with the intent to defraud his creditors.

Fourth. When the defendant is not a resident of the territory.

§ 3288, Before any attat-hment shall issue in any cause,
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit, setting forth that the defendant is indebted to him in a sum to
be specified, and also shall state that the affirmant has good
reason to believe, and verily does believe. in one ormore of the
causes which, according tothe provisions ofthe preceding section, will entitle the plaintiff to sue by attachment: I’rm*i1l('4I,
Imuw~m', That before any such attachment shall issue, the
justice shall take from the plaintiff a bond to the defendant,
with two or more suliicient securities in double the sum
claimed, conditioned to pay the defendant all damages and
costs he may sustain by reason thereof, if no judgment shall
be recovered against such defendant.

9' 3289. Every such attachment shall state the amount of
the debt sworn to in the plaintilfs aftidavit, and shall command the sheriff or any constable of the county in which the
justice resides, to attach so much of the goods and chattels of
the debtor as will be suliicient to satisfy such debt, and safely
keep the same, in order to satisfy any judgment that may
be recovered on such attachment, and to make return thereof
to the justice who issued the same at the time thereon specified, not less than five, nor more than fifteen days from the

date. thereof.

§ 3290. The oliicer to whom such attachment shall be
directed and delivered, shall execute the same as an ordinary
summons, and shall attach, take into possession and safely
keep such part of the goods and chattels of the defendant as
shall be sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintiff. He
shall immediately make a11 inventory of the property seized,
and shall serve the said attachment and inventory upon the
defendant therein named. if he shall be found, by reading said
Writ and inventory to him, and leaving a true copy of the
same with him. But if said defendant shall not be found,
then the officer serving the writ shall leave a copy of said writ
and inventory certified by him, at the usual place of residence of the defendant, but if the defendant shall have no
place of residence in the county where the goods and chattels
are attached, such copy and inventory shall be left with the
person in whose possession said goods and chattels are found.

§ 3291. - No goods attached by an officer under the provision of this act shall be removed by him, if a bond be given to
such officer by the person in whose possession the same may
befound, or the person claiming the same, in a penalty double
the sum claimed in the attachment, conditioned, that such
goods and chattels shall be produced to satisfy any execution
that may be issued upon any judgment which may be obtained by the plaintiff upon such attach ment: and in case the
property be not produced as conditioned in the bond, execution shall issue against the property of the security.

§ 32‘.~l2. If such attachment shall be returned, personally
served upon the defendant, the justice shall proceed to hear
and (letez-niiiie the cause, in the same manner as upon summons returned personally served.

§ 3293. When a defendant cannot be summoned, and his
property or effects shall be at-t-ached, and he do not appear at
the return of the writ, the justice. shall enter an order on his
(locket, and shall issue the same to the sheriff or constable
directing him to give notice to the defendant by publication
in a newspaper, or by posting up advertisements in at least
three of the most public places in the county, that a writ has
been issued against him. and his property attached. and that

unless he appear before the justice at a time and place to be
mentioned in said advertisement, not less than tWenty,.nor
more than ninety days from the date thereof, judgment will
be rendered against him, and his property sold to pay the
debt.

§ 3294. Such notice shall be set up or published at least
tifteen days before the time at which the party is required to
appear.

,5 3295. When the defendant shall be notified as aforesaid
and shall not appear and answer, judgment by default shall
be rendered, which may be proceeded on to tinal judgment in
like manner as in ordinary actions.

§ 3296. Attachments may be dissolved at any time before
final judgment, on motion made by the defendant, his agent
or attorney: if the defendant shall appear and plead to the
action, and give bond to the plaintiff with good and sufficient
security, to be approved by the justice, in double the value of
the property. elfects and credits attached, conditioned that
such property, effects and credits shall be forthcoming, and
abide the judgment which shall be rendered in the case.

:5 3297. When an attachment shall be dissolved, all proceedings touching the property and eti'ects attached, and
garnishees summoned shall be vacated, and the suit proceed
as if it had been commenced by summons only.

§ 3298. When any plaintitf, his agent or attorney shall
make oath (or affirmation) that he has good reason to believe,
and verily does believe that any person is indebted to, or has
property. describing the same as nearly as may be, in his
possession belonging to the defendant in at-tachment, and if
the otiicer making service of such writ or attachment cannot
come at the property of the defendant in possession of such
person, the said officer shall summon such garnishee by leaving with him a copy of such writ of attachment, and a copy of
the affidavit, together with a notice in writing to such garnishee, to appear before the justice within tive days, who
shall give attendance accordingly. and make answer under
oath (or affirmation) to all questions that may be put to him
touching the pI'()peI't_\' or credits of the defendant in his possession, and from the day of such service such garnishee
shall stand accountable to the plaintiff in attachment, for the
amount of moneys, property and credits in his hands, or due
from him to the said defendant in attachment.

§ 3299. The suit instituted against such garnishee shall
be continued without trial or decision until the action against
such defendant in attachment shall be determined; and if in
such action nothing shall be found due from the defendant to
the plaintiff, then the garnishee shall recover costs against
the plaintiff: or if, in such suit so instituted against the garnishee, the plaintiff shall be non-suited, his suit discontinued,
or judgment be had against him, the said garnishee shall recover costs: and if the plaintiff shall recover judgment against
the defendant in such attachment. and the garnishee shall deliver up to the othr-er before judgment is had against him, all
the goods. chattels and other property of such defendant in
his possession. and shall also pay over to the said justice all

moneys due from him to the said defendant, then the costs
which shall have accrued on such suit against the garnishee
shall be paid out of the proceeds of the property attached, belonging to the defendant: but if the garnishee shall not appear,
or ifappearing, shall refuse truly to confess the matter alleged, and the plaintiff, on trial, shall recover judgment, the
said garnishee shall pay the costs.

§ 3300. After the final determination of the suit against
the defendant. the justice shall,at the request of the plaintiff,
his agent, or attorney, issue a summons against the garnishee,
commanding him to appear before the justice to show cause
why a judgment should not be rendered against him.

' § 3301. Upon the return of the writ of attachment, if the
plaintiff shall make sufficient proof of the debt due by the defendant, and also of the goods and chattels, rights, moneys,
credits and effects in the hands of the garnishee, the said justice shall at the time provided by this act, give judgment
thereon for said plaintiff, and award execution thereon either
against the effects of the defendant or against the garnishee,
as the case may require: I’mvidc(l, The amount proved by
any creditor does not exceed the sum recoverable before a
justice of the peace in other cases: Proviclvd, u.I.s-o, That if the
plaintiff shall fail in proving his demand against the defendant, or in proving the goods, chattels, rights, credits, moneys
or effects in the hands of any garnishee, judgment shall go
against him for the costs, and the justice shall issue an execution therefor.

§ 3302. If any person summoned as garnishee, as provided for in this section, shall fail or refuse to appear before
the said justice at the time specified in the summons served
upon him, said justice mayupon application of the’ plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, forthwith issue an attachment directed
to the proper officer, commanding him forthwith to bring the
body of said garnishee before him to make answer as required above.

§ 3303. If a garnishee before a justice shall refuse to
make full answer to all such questions touching the matter in
controversy as may be put to him by said justice, the justice
shall render judgment against the garnishee in favor of the
plaintiff in attachment, for the full amount which may be
proved in the trial of the suit to be due from the defendant
to the said plaintiff, and execution may issue against the defendant in the suit and the garnishee jointly, but no greater
amount shall be collected from the garnishee than may be
necessary to satisfy the demands of the plaintiff and costs of
suit, after having first advertised and sold all the property of
the defendant attached by Virtue of the writ of attachment,
and applied the same to the satisfaction of the judgment in
favor of the plaintiff.

§ 3304. Corporations may be proceeded against as garnishees in the same manner and with like effect as individuals
under the provisions of’ this act, and the rules of law regulating proceedings against corporations.

§ 3305. Any person aggrieved by any judgment rendered
by any justiée, may appeal by himself, his agent or attorney

to the district court of the county where the same was rendered: I’I'nl'i(I4’d, Im((‘ct'cr, That no appeal shall be allowed
unless the party appealing shall tile a bond to the adverse
party, in a sum sutiicient to secure such judgment and costs,
with one or more securities to be approved by the justice.
011- vs. Hopkins, vol. L’. paste '.’7‘..’. W. t‘. Rep.

.5 3306. Upon an appeal being made according to the foregoing section, the justice shall allow the same, and make an
entry of such allowance on his docket: and all further proceedings on the judgment shall be suspended by the allowance of the appeal.

Secou vs. Leroux. vol. I. page 3:01. N. M. Rep.

:5 3307. That in all cases triable before justices of the
peace, in which appeals are now, or may hereafter be allowed
by law, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace before
whom such cause is tried, toallow such appeal, upon demand
by the party aggrieved, and a compliance by such party with
the statutes regulating such appeals: I’rm‘i(lcr1, That it shall
not be necessary for the appellant tobring his sureties on his
appeal bond before the justice for the purpose of having his
bond approved: Ami /wovitlctl, /'m'IIu'r, That in u]lcz1.sesincluding actions of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, appeals may be taken at any time within ten days after the rendition of the judgment.

.5 3308. If any justice of the peace shall wrongfully refuse
to allow an appeal in any case where an appeal is now or may
hereafter be permitted by law, or shall demand from any
person the payment of any sum of money as a condition precedent to the granting of such appeal, or to the approval of
any bond which may be required by law to perfect such appeal or any stay of proceedings thereon, such justice of the
peace so offending shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved,
a penalty of two hundred dollars. to be recovered by him in
an action of debt prosecuted in his own name, in the district
court of the county in which such justice is acting.

§ 3309. Whenever any justice. of the peace shall wrongfully refuse to grant an appeal as provided in section three
thousand three hundred and seven, the appellant, his agent
or attorney‘ shall have the right to appear before the clerk
of the district court of the county in which such appeal has
been refused, and file an allidavit, setting forth the name of
the justice of the peace, the number of his precinct, the
names of the parties to the action, the amountof the judgment and the date of its rendition, and the fact that an appeal
has been applied for to the justice of the peace within the
time allowed by law, and that a good and sufficient bond was
tendered to the said justice of the peace at the time of such
application, and that such appeal has been refused; and thereupon, it shall be the duty of such clerk of the district court
to prepare a bond in a sum sutticient to secure the performance of such judgment and the payment of any further damages and costs which may accrue, conditioned as bonds for
appeals from justices of the peace are required by law to be
conditioned, and upon the execution thereof by the appellant,
with sutiicient sureties, such clerk shall approve such bond,

and forthwith issue a writ to such justice of the peace, commanding him forthwith to stay all proceedings on the said
judgment, and to transmit to the said district court all t.he
original papers and a complete transcript of all proceedings
in said cause. and the issuance of such Writ shall operate to
stay all such proceedings. It shall also be the duty of the
said clerk to issue a citation directed to any sheriff or any constable of any county of this territory, commanding him to
notify the appellee that an appeal has been taken from the
said judgment, and that unless he appears before the said
district court on or before the second day of the next term of
the said court. which shall convene not less than five days
aft-er the service of such citation, and enter his appearance to
the said appeal, judgment will be rendered against him upon
said appeal: I’mri«lmI, lmI(‘('ver, That unless such application
is made to such clerk of the district court within thirty days
after the refusal of such appeal, the appellant shall be deemed
to have waived his right to such appeal, and also his right of
action against. such justice of the peace under the provisions
of section three thousand three hundred and eight.
Lockhurt vs W'uullucntt.. 4| Pac. Rep.. 536.

§, 3310. If the citation provided for by section three
thousand three hundred and nine shall be returned, Not
found, by the officer to whom the same is delivered, service
thereof may thereafter be made in the same manner that service of process by. attachment against non-residents in the
courts of justices of the peace is permitted by law to be made.

§ 3311. If any officer shall wrongfully return any such
citation that the appellee cannot be found, when by exercising ordinary dilligence such officer could have found such
appellee, such officer and the sureties on his official bond
shall be liable to such person in double the amount of
the demand sued for in any cause, and all costs accrued
therein. recoverablein an action of debt in the district court_
of the county in which such default occurs.

§ 3312. In case of any action for the recovery of the penalty provided in section three thousand three hundred and
eight, the same shall be prosecuted against the justice of the
peace and the sureties upon his official bond.

§ 3313. Although the jurisdiction of the justice of the
peace may not affirmatively appear upon the face of the
papers transmitted upon any appeal, yet if such jurisdiction
actually existed in the justice of the peace before whom such
cause was tried, it shall be the duty of the district court to
allow any amendment necessary to set» forth correctly the
fact of jurisdiction, and no appeal shall be dismissed for any
defect in the papers so transmitted: Proviriml, The same can
in truth be amended to correctly set forth the jurisdictional
facts. ~

.5 3314. All the provisions of this act shall be applicable to
appeals in criminal cases: I’m(‘i(ImI, /mu-crow, That it shall be
unnecessary in any such case to issue any citation, but shall it
be the duty of the district attorney, or other prosecuting otlicer. to take notice of the doclceting of any such appeal in the
district court: .-lmlfurr/m’. pmridml, That if the judgment in

any such case shall be a judgment of imprisonment, the penalty of the bond shall he the amount of bail fixed by the justice of the peace, if any such amount shall have been so fixed,
or any other amount that may be fixed by any district judge,
upon application made to him for that purpose.

.5 3315. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the district
courts of this territory, to keep in their respective oflices,
printed forms of the atiidavit, bond, writ and citation provided for in this act, and to fill up such atiidavit and bond,
and take all necessary oaths and acknowledgments thereto,
upon request of the party appealing, his agent, or attorney;
and upon the filing of any such atiidavit, to enter said cause
as an appeal cause upon the docket of his court for the proper
county, and such clerk, for the performance of the duties imposed upon him by this act, shall be entitled to demand and
receive from the party requesting such services, the sum of
two dollars, and no more, to be paid at the time of the rendition of the services, and to be_taxed as costs in the case.

:5 3316. On or before the tirst day of the next term of the
district court for the county, the justice shall tile in the ollice
of the clerk of said court a transcript of all the entries made
in his docket relating‘ to the case, together with all the papers
relating to the suit.

§ 3317. The case upon such appeal shall be tried dc novo,
and the same rules shall govern the district court in said trial
that are prescribed for the government of justices‘ courts.

Archibeque vs. Mleru. vol. 1. page 160. N. M. Rep.

§ 3318. The clerk of the district court shall docket such
appeals on or before the second day of the term, and the
plaintiff in the court below shall be plaintiff in the district
court.

§ 3319. In all cases of appeal from a justices court if the
judgment of the justice be aliirmed, or if on the trial anew in

thedistrict court judgment be against the appellant, such

judgment shall be rendered against him and his sure-ties on
appeal bond.

§ 3320. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
in criminal cases throughout the county in which he was
elected and Where he shall reside, and shall be a conservator
of the peace therein. He is authorized and required, on view
or complaint made on oath or affirmation, to cause any person
charged with the commission of a crime or breach of the law,
to be brought before him or some other justice of the peace,
and shall inquire into the complaint, and try the same, if
within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace as defined in
this act, and either commit to jail, discharge or recognize such
person, to appear before the district court, as the case may
require. He shall also recognize the witnesses introduced on
behalf of the territory, whose testimony may be necessary to
the further prosecution of the charge, to appear at the same
time as the defendant, to-wit: ()n the tirst day of the next
term before the district court of his county, and shall tile said
recognizances and all papers pertaining to the cause with the
clerk of the district court, on or before the tirst day of the
next term thereof: l’roz-him], That no justice of the peace

shall sit in any criminal case where he may be interested, or
where he may be related to the party against whom the offense is charged, within the second degree of consanguinit_v
or atiinity. A
'l‘errit.ory vs. Tafoya. vol. '3. page l9l. N. M. Rep.

§ 332]. In all cases of assault and battery or affray, the
same proceedings shall be had, as in other criminal cases and
the justice, Whenever a person shall be brought before him,
charged with the commission of either of the crimes mentioned in this section, shall upon hearing the charge, discharge, commit or recognize the person as the case may require.
" 3322. Whenever any person shall make oath or a-tiirmation stating, amongst other things, that the person making
such complaint has just cause to fear, and does fear, that
another will beat, wound or kill him or her, or his or her ward,
child or children, or will commit some other act of personal
violence upon him or her or them, or will maliciously destroy
his or her property, it shall be the duty of the justice to
whom such complaint is made as aforesaid, to issue his warrant, commanding the oliicer to arrest and bring before him
the person complained of, to answer such complaint: and
upon the return of the warrant with the person in custody, it
shall be the duty of the justice to examine into the truth of
such complaint, and if upon such examination he shall be of
opinion that there was just cause therefor, he shall order tl1e
person complained of to enter into recognizance with good
and sutiicient securities in a sum not to exceed five hundred
dollars, nor less than one hundred dollars, conditioned, that
he or they shall keep the peace and be of good behavior
generally, and especially to the person complaining, for the
period of six months thereafter, and in default of such recognizance the justice shall commit the person or persons so
complained of to the jail of the county, there to remain until
discharged by due course of law.

§ 3323. If the person complained of be committed for not
giving bond, the justice of the peace may discharge him upon
said bond being given.

§ 3324. Any person who, in the presence of a justice of
the peace, shall assault or threaten to assault another, or to
commit an offense against his person or property, may be
required by such justice to give security to keep the peace as
above provided.

§ 3325. Aperson who has given bond to keep the peace
must appear on the first day of the next term of the district
court, and if the complainant appear, and the defendant do
not appear, the district court may forfeit the bond and order
.s-rI'I'¢'_]"(I('ins to issue against the parties on the bond: and if the
defendant fail to come in and answer the «%'('ir't'_fm'i(I.s', judgment
shall be tinal against the parties on said bond.

§ 3326. If neither the complainant» nor defendant. appear,
the district court must discharge the. bond at the costs of the
defendant: but if both parties appear, the court may hear
their proofs and allegations, and may either (lischarge the
bond or require a new one for :1 time not exceeding six months.

and award the costs against either the complainant or defendant, as justice may require.

55 3327. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace
in criminal cases to keep a docket of his proceedings, as in
civil cases: and when the party accused shall be recognized,
deliver a transcript of such proceedings to the clerk of the
district court without unnecessary delay.

§ 3328. It shall be lawful for any judge or justice of the
peace, upon complaint made before him, upon oath or a11irmation, that a larceny has been committed, and that the person
swearing or aiiirming does verily believe that the stolen
goods or other property is concealed in any dwelling house,
outhouse, garden, yard or other place or places, to issue a
warrant under his hand commanding every such dwelling
house or place to be searched, and if any of the goods described in any such warrant be found therein, then that the
said goods be seized and brought. before the judge or justice
who issued said warrant: if upon the examination of witnesses before said judge or justice of the peace, it shall be
determined by such judge or justice of the peace that the
goods so brought before him have been stolen, such judge or
justice shall order the sheriff of such county to keep such
goods until the claimant’s right be legally ascertained; but in
case the judge or justice of the peace shall, upon such examination as aforesaid, determine that such goods so seized have
not been stolen, then the goods shall be immediately restored
to the person from whose possession they were taken.

91 3329. A justice of the peace shall award a change of
venue in any cause or proceeding pending before him for any
of the following causes: First. When the justice is interested, prejudiced, or related
to either party within the second degree of consanguinity or
affinity. _

Second. When the opposite party has an undue influence
over the mind of the justice of the peace.

Third. When the inhabitants of the precinct in which the
cause or proceeding may be brought or pending, are prejudiced against the applicant.

Fourth. When the opposite party has an undue influence
over the inhabitants of the precinct.

§ 3330. Any party to a cause pending before a justice of
the peace, may present to said justice a petition setting forth
the cause of his application for a change of venue, and shall
annex thereto an affidavit to the truth of the petition, alleging
that he has just cause to believe, and does believe, that he
cannot have a fair trial on account of the causes alleged,
which petition and atlidavit shall be supported by the oath of
at least two witnesses of good character and known to the
court, who shall be presented by the party on making his application, and the causes not being proved in conformity with
the provisions of this section, no change of venue shall be
granted.

§ 3331. Upon such application being made, the justice
shall, in the presence of b( ith parties or their attorneys, proceed
to hear and try the same, and if good cause shall be shown

therefor, shall award a change of venue to a justice court in
some other precinct in his county, where the cause complained of does not exist, as convenient as may be to all the
parties: P:'o(‘iII('tI, That each party shall have the right to one
change of venue and no more, in said cause.

§ 3332. Upon the awarding of such change of venue, the
justice of the peace ordering the same, shall immediately
make out a full transcript of the proceedings in the cause, including the petition and affidavit, and order of removal, and
transmit the same by the constable of his township, duly certified, together with all the original papers filed in the cause,
to the justice of the peace to which the removal was ordered:
and the justice of the peace to which such cause is certified,
shall file the same, and the cause shall be docketed, proceeded
in and determined, as if it had originated before him.

§  All the costs and expenses attending any. such

change of venue shall be taxed and paid as other costs in the
suit.
.5 3334. That hereafter whenever any cause being tried
before a justice of the peace is removed to any other precinct
under change of venue, the constable or officer who carries
the papers and record to such other justices office shall receive as compensation, fifty cents for such carrying and eight
cents per mile one way, and the justice to Whom such cause
is sent, shall receive n‘fty cents for trying the case and twentyfive cents for entering up judgment therein, all to be taxed as
other costs in the case.

§ 3335. If any justice of the peace fail to transmit the
transcript and papers in any cause, the venue whereof has
been changed, or if said papers be sent and lost, such loss or
failure shall not operate as a discontinuance of such cause,
but at the next term of the justice court may be filed, or if
lost, copies of the original may be furnished and filed, and
the cause shall proceed as if no such failure or loss had happened.

§ 3336. If any justice of the peace on retiring from office
shall fail or refuse todeliver the archives and documents pertaining to his of1‘ice to his successor after such successor has
duly qualified as required by law, he shall, on conviction, be
liable to a line of not less than one hundred dollars, and to be
imprisoned until he shall deliver such archives and documents to the justice who may be entitled to the same.

§ 3337. Hereafter civil suits before a justice of the peace
may be brought and prosecuted in the precinct where the
plaintiff or defendant, or some one of them, resides, orin the
precinct where the contract was made or is to be performed,
or where the cause of action originated.

No justice of the peace shall sit in any case where he may be
interested or who may be related to either party within the
second degree of consanguinity or aiiinity.

During the period of a vacancy in the otlice of justice of the
peace in any precinct, or where such justice shall be absent
from his precinct for a period of two days, or whenever such
justice shall be unable or unwilling to perform the duties of
his oiiice, or whenever such justice shall be disqualified toact

by reason of the paragraph next preceding, in either of these
events it shall be lawful to commence and prosecute. civil actions to final judgment and recovery before a justice of the
peace in some precinct adjoining that precinct in which actions are required to be brought by the first paragraph of this
section: [’ruI‘i(lctl, That if the justice shall be absent from his
precinct three hours, and at such time it becomes necessary
to immediately sue out an attachment or Writ of replevin in
order to secure a debt or other demand or personal property
which is about to be removed from the county, it shall be
lawful for the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, in such suit to
file his affidavit, setting forth such necessity for immediate
action, before a justice of the peace in some adjoining precinct of the county and there commence and prosecute his action to final judgment and recovery.

§ 3338. If the defendant has no permanent residence
within this territory, or shall attempt toabscond or evade the
service of process in any manner, then suit may be commenced in any precinct of the territory where the defendant
may be found.

§ 3339. In all appeals taken from the sentences of justices of the peace, the appellant shall cause to be filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court a certitied transcript
of the record of the proceedings had before the justice of t-he
peace, together with the original oath, recognizance and other
original papers in the case, on or before the return day of the
appeal.

§ 3340. When an appeal shall be taken and granted from
any justice of the peace, it shall be legal for such justice of
the peace to issue summons for Witnesses that may be required by any of the contending parties for their appearance
before the court to which the appeal is taken, which summons shall contain the names of all the witnesses required
by the rty making the demand.

:5  1. Every person who shall be summoned as provided in the foregoing section, shall attend in conformity
with mandate, in the same manner as if the summons had
been issued by the clerk of the court to which the appeal is
taken.

:5 3342. No justice of the peace of the respective counties
of this territory shall try any cause, nor hold his court out of
his respective precinct, and the justice who shall violate the
provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor as involuntary neglect of his duties, and shall be tried
on indictment before the district court, according to the provisions of sections eight hundred and forty-four to eighthundred and fifty-six.

§ 3343. All causes that said justice of the peace shall try,
beyond the limits of their precinct shall be null and void, and
the parties shall have the right to commence their suits, as
though they had not been tried, and the justice sotrying said
cause‘ shall, after conviction, be removed from otiice, and
shall pay all damages caused to the parties.

.5 3344. The two preceding sections shall in nowise effect
the co-extensive jurisdiction of the justice of the peace in the

county in which they are elected, such jurisdiction being in
force according to law.

§ 3345. An action for forcible entry or unlawful detainer
of real property may be prosecuted before any justice of the
peace in the precinct wlw1'e the property is situated, in the
following cases: '

First. When the defendant by force, intimidation, fraud
or by stealth, enters or shall have entered in the lands and
tenements of another and detains ‘the same, for the purpose
of proving any of the reasons or causes herein enumerated,
it shall not be necessary to show that there was force, intimidation or fraud apparently or physically; and it shall be sufficient t-0 prove that defendant entered upon and occupies the

° premises against the will or consent of the owner or owners

thereof, and that after having been notified by the owner, his
agent or attorney to vacate the same, he refused to do so.

Second. When a lessee or tenant holds over after the termination or contrary to the terms of his lease or tenancy.

Third. When the tenant fails to pay the rent at the time
stipulated for payment.

Fourth. When the defendant continues in possession after
a sale by foreclosure of mortgage, or on execution, unless he
claims by a title paramount to the mortgage by virtue of
which the sale was made, or by title derived from the purchaser at the sale.
Roberts et al. vs. Trujillo. vol. I. page 519. W. C. Rep.

Romero vs. Gonzales. vol. I, page mu, W. C. Rep.

9‘ 3346. The legal representatives of the person who might
have been plaintiff, if alive, may bring this suit after his
death.

§ 3347. Before suit can be brought in any except the first
of the above classes, three days‘ notice to quit must be given
in writing to the defendant.

§ 3348. The complaint of the plaintiff must be made upon
oath.

Sanchez vs. Luna. vol. 1. page 238. N. M. Rep.

§ 3349. If there be no justice of the peace in the precinct
where the premises are situated, able or qualified by law to
act, suit may be brought before some justice of the peace in
any adjoining precinct. Suits of this nature shall be governed by the same rules governing other cases before justices
of the peace, except as herein modified.

§ 3351). The time for appearance and pleading must be
not less than three, nor more than ten days from the time the
notice is served on the defendant.

§ 3351. No adjournment shall be made for more than ten
days. nor to any other place except by consent of parties.

§ 3352. If the defendant is found guilty, judgment shall
be entered against him for damages, and that he be removed
from the premises, and that the plaintiff be put in possession
thereof: and warrant of removal shall issue accordingly to
which shall be added a clause commanding the officer to levy
the damages and costs as in ordinary cases.

§  The question of the title cannot be investigated
in this action, nor boundaries of land, and nothing herein

contained shall prevent a party from suing for a trespass, or
in ejectment, or from testing the right of property in any
other manner.

:5 3354. An action of this kind cannot be brought in connection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of setoff.

.5  The warrant for removal can be executed only in
the daytime.

§  Any person who may be lawfully and peaceably
in the possession of any land, and shall have cultivated, occupied or used the same, or any part thereof, in any one year,
shall not be deemed or held to have abandoned the same when
absent therefrom, unless he fails to re-enter the same in good
faith on or before the fifteenth day of April, next following
the last year in which he cultivated, occupied or used the
same, unto the purpose of occupying, cultivating or using the
same, or some part thereof, from year to year: and any person who may make an adverse entry to him during such time,
except lessees, after the expiration of their term, and persons, whose permission he has to use, occupy or cultivate the
same, or any part thereof, and after such permission expires,
shal].be deemed guilty of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, and subject to the laws governing the same.

§ 3357. An appeal shall be allowed to the district court in
all such cases, to be taken in the same manner as appeals are
required to be taken from the decisions of justices of the
peace, and the bond shall operate as a supersedeas to the execution for damages and costs, and also to the warrant of removal.

Tlpton vs. Cnrdn\':I. vol. I. page 383. N. M. Rev.
Sanchez vs. Luna. vol. 1. page 238. N. M. Rep.
Romero vs. (ionzales. vol. 1. page 160. W. (3. Rep.

§ 3358. An appeal shall be allowed to the district court in
all cases wherein judgment may be hereafter rendered in
forcible entry and unlawful detainer, or both: Prot'irIc(I,
Such appeal be so taken within ten days after the rendition
of such judgment, and the appellant executing a good and
sufficient appeal bond, in_a sum to be _tixed by the justice trying the cause, conditioned according to law as now_ in force.

§ 3359. The district court on the trial of an appeal, shall

' proceed «Iv Il()’l‘u, and may assess damages as aforesaid up to

the time of final judgment against the defendant, and the
security in the appeal bond shall be liable with the principal
for the damages so assessed, and said court may issue a warrant of removal or restitution as the case may require.

§ 3360. On appeals being taken to the district court, in
any action of forcible entry and unlawful detainer. if the plaintitf recovers judgment, the dam. (res assessed shall be the 
tual value of the rents due up to the rendition of judgment by
the justice of the peace, and double the value of all rents accrued, after the rendition of judgment by the justice of the
peace, and up to the rendition of judgment in the district
court, and if an appeal be afterwards taken therefrom to the
supreme court, and judgment for plaintiff be there affirmed,
said plaintiff shall have the right to recover further damages

at double the actual value of the rents of the property from
the time of the rendition of judgment in the district court to

the time of the delivery of possession to him, and shall have

the right to sue for the same on the appeal or supersedeas bond
given in the district. court, which shall be fixed ata sum sumcient to cover such last mentioned damages, as also all damages and judgments rendered in the district court, which said
bond shall contain a condition that the defendant appealing or
taking a writ of error will pay all such judgment and damages
if the judgment of the district court be aliirmed.

§ 3361. On appeals taken from a judgment of a justice of the peace, the bond shall be in sufficient sum to
cover all damages and judgment recovered in the justice
of the peace court, as also all damages and judgment that
may be rendered and recovered in the district court. And
the district court may, on motion, require an additional bond
to be given in any such case, and should the appellant fail to
give such bond when required by the district court, Within
the time that may be required, then the said appeal shall be
dismissed and the judgment below affirmed, and additional
damages in accordance with this act assessed, and judgment.
execution and a writ of possession then given by the district
court

§ 3362. All processes or executions issuing under and by
virtue of this act may be executed by any sheriff or constable
of the county in which the action is commenced.

§ 3363. The right of a landlord shall not be affected by the
underleasing of his tenant.

§ 3364. When a lessee has been induced to take a lease by
means of force, fraud or intimidation, he shall be permitted
to plead a paramount title in himself, an outstanding title or
the want. of title in the lessor.

§ 3365. In all cases before a justice of the peace in which
judgment shall be rendered against any party, either party
may take his appeal to the district court.

Archibeque vs. Mlera. vol. 1. page 160. N. M. Rep.

§ 3366. Upon the "party producing at the oiiice of the justice of the peace within ten days after the rendition of the
judgment, good and sufficient security, and otlering to make
the bond required, and the securities consenting to become
security on the appeal, it shall be the duty of the justice to
make out a bond and present it to the party, his agent or attorney, and the securities to sign, and upon the same being
signed, the justice shall suspend all furt-her proceedings in
the cause and immediately make out a true and perfect transcript of the case from his docket, and transmit it, together
with all the papers in the cause, to the clerk of the district
court.

Orr vs. Hopkins. vol. 2. page 27:’. W. (3. Rep.
Secou vs. Lemux. vol. 1. page :l-W, N. M. Rep.

§ 3367. Whenever judgment shall be rendered by a justice of the peace, and from any cause whatever, either party
shall be prevented or shall be unable to appeal within ten
days, and he shall believe that injustice has been done him in
the trial, if any was had, and in the judgment, he shall make

out his petition in writing to the district judge, within thirty
days from the rendition of the judgment, setting forth the circumstances of the trial, as much as shall be necessary, and
the reasons why he was unable, or was prevented from appealing in the ordinary way, and that the judgment is unjust,
and setting forth the facts upon which such injustice shall
be charged, and upon said petition being sworn to by the
party, his agent, or attorney, it may be presented to the district judge, and if the judge shall be of the opinion tl1at it sufticiently conforms to the provisions of this section, he shall
indorse his order thereon, that the clerk take from the petitioner. his agent, or attorney, such bond to the adverse party,
with security, as the judge shall deem proper, and that upon
such bond being made, the clerk issue ('(’rfiuI'(u‘i to the justice
to forthwith send up the full transcript, together with the
papers in the cause. The clerk shall also issue a summons,
notifying the adverse party that an appeal has been taken,
and citing him to appear at the next term of the district court
to answer to the same.
Territory vs. Valdez. vol. 1. page 533. N. M. Rep. .

§ 3358. All causes removed into the district court in pursuance of the foregoing sections shall be tried dc norm, and the
court shall allow all amendments which may be necessary
in furtherance of justice in all cases appealed by petition or
rm-rim-m-i, or in the ordinary mode.

§ 3369. Any justice of the peace who shall neglect or refuse to send up the transcript and papers, and suspend all
further proceedings upon being served with a t'cI'fim'm'i, may
he proceeded against by attachment as in cases of contempt.

§ 3370. All justices of the peace of this territory are hereby declared to be magistrates.

§ 3371. Justices of the peace of this territory shall be and
are hereby empowered to administer oaths and affidavits and
take depositions: and all affidavits and depositions taken before a duly acting and commissioned justice of the peace in
accordance with law, and properly attested by him, shall be
entitled to full faith and credit.

§ 3372. The following forms are prescribed for the use of
justices of the peace in the actions mentioned, and shall be
used by them in all such cases: ‘

IN FORCIBLE ENTRIES AND DETAINERS.
COMPLAINT.

A. B. ) Before E. F., justice of the peace in and for ——
vs. -precinct, in - county.
0. D. )

A. B., plaintiff in the above entitled cause, complains and
says, that heretofore, to-wit: ()n the ——-- day of — , A. D.
lH- -, at the County of —», he was lawfully possessed (or
lawfully entitled to the possession) of a certain tract of land,
(or acertain tenement, etc.), situated in said county, known,
designated and described as follows: (here describe the land
or tenement with reasonable certainty), and being so thereof
lawfully possessed (or lawfully entitled to possession), as

aforesaid: the said defendant, C. D.. on the day and year,
and at the county aforesaid, unlawfully and with force (according to the facts), entered into and upon the said tract or parcel of land (or tenements), and detained and held the possession thereof, and such, detains and holds the possession
thereof against the plaintiff. Wherefore the said plaintiff
says that the said defendant is guilty of forcible entry and
detainer, contrary to the form of the-statutein such case made

and provided.
(Signed,) A. B.

Territory of New Mexico, l
County of ~ ———-~— g’ A

A. B., being duly sworn, says that the said complaint by
him subscribed, and the matters therein contained are true,
and further saith not.

A. B.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this —-—— day of —-——,
A. D. 18 ~.
E. F.,

Justice of the Peace.

SUMMONS.

'1'/M‘ 'I'¢'1'I'ifm-'_1/Qf.\'('1(‘ .lI¢’J'i¢-o, To f/to .5’/H’I'I:[f (or (‘U')l.'-€f(I()/(’) of flu‘
('o~m:fy/ of , (i'rccfin.(/.'

You are hereby commanded to summon C. D., of the County
of to appear before the undersigned, justice of the peace
within and for the said county at--——— in said county, on the
day of —— at the hour of o'clock in the forenoon of
said day, then and there to answer and defend against the
complaint of A. B., of forcible entry and detainer (or of an
unlawful detainer), made by the said C. D. upon the lands of
the said A. B., hereto annexed will more fully appear: and
have you then and there this precept, with the return of your
proceedings thereon.

Given under my hand, as such justice of the peace, this- —1

 

 

   

day of in the year of our Lord, 18 .
E. F.,
Justice of the Peace.
ATTACHMENT.
AFFIDAVIT.

A. B., being duly sworn, says that C. D. is justly indebted
to him, after allowing just credits and set-oifs, in the sum of
e———, which indebtedness accrued on account of a promissory
note (or open book account, etc., as the case may be), made by
the said C. D. to A. B., on which there now remains due and
unpaid the said sum . as above stated. And this atiiant
further states, that he has good reason to believe and does
believe that said defendant is not an inhabitant of the Territory of New Mexico (or so conceals himself, or any other of
the causes provided for by law).

A. B.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this day of -———-18-—-——. ~—~— ———
Justice of the Peace.

BOND.

I\'Imu' all rm’): lr_I/ fllcsc [II'(‘-\‘t'lIf.\', That We—~— as principal and
as securities, are held and firmly bound to the Territory
of New Mexico in the sum of~——dollars, for the payment of
which we bind ourselves and our heirs, executors and administrators firmly by these presents.
Sealed with our seals, and dated this-———-day of , 11%.».
The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas
—, as plaintiff, is about to institute a suit before————, a justice of the peace within and for—~—~—p‘recinct, in——county, by
attachment against——~—, as defendant, returnable on the——~—
day of——, IHW, for the sum of-—udollars and-- ewcents.
Now if the plaintiff shall prosecute his action without delay,
and with effect, and shall pay and refund all sums of money
that may be adjudged to be refunded to the said defendant.
or found to have been received by the said plaintiff, and not
justly due him, and moreover shall pay all damages which
may accrue to-———, said defendant, or any garnishee by reason of this attachment or any process or proceeding in said
suit. or by reason of any judgment or process thereon, then
this obligation to be void: otherwise to remain in full force.
Approved by me this day of———, 18, ~.

Justice of the Peace.

WRIT.

Territory of New Mexico, I_

County —~— --—— \
The Tcrrifmw of Xcu‘ .l[(’J'l'('u, To flu’ con.-.-ml//c of precinct, in

flu’ (‘minty o_f——, (:';'w*fin_(/.'

You are commanded to attach -——, all and singular his
goods and chattels, moneys, credits and effects, or so much
thereof as shall be suflicient to satisfy the sum of —— dollars,

with interest and costs of suit in whosesoever hands or possession the same may be found in your township, so that he
be and appear before me , a justice of the peace Within
and for said precinct and county, at my office in said precinct,
on the day of -+—-«, 1H’ , to answer of a plea of ——,
and that you summon the said ——-— to appear before me, the
said justice of the peace, at the time and place aforesaid, to
answer the action of the said plaintiff. And also that you
summon as garnishees all such persons found in your precinct
as may be directed by the plaintiff or his agent, to appear before me, the said justice, at the time and place aforesaid, to
answer such interrogatories as the said justice may propound, and have you there this writ.
Witness my hand this day of -~———, It-<— -.
—————~-—-~——~, J. P.

   

Summons as garnishees.

9
J ustnce of the peace.

REPLEVIN.

AFFIDAVIT.
A. B. l 1n replevin, before E. F., justice of the peace, for
vs. - precinct, in H-—~v county.
C. D.

The above named A. B., being duly sworn, says, that he has
good right to the possession of the following described goods
and chattels, and that the same are wrongfully detained by
the said O. D.: (Here describe goods and chattels).

Sworn to and subscribed before me this —— day of -——,
18%.

Justice of the Peace.

BOND.

Knoll‘ all IIH‘-N by fla.e.s'¢' ]n'¢’.s'¢'nI.s-, That We, ———-, as principal,
and , as securities, are held and firmly bound unto C. D.
in the sum penal of dollars, to the payment of which well
and truly to be made, We do hereby jointly and severally bind
ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators.

Sealed with our seals, and dated this day of ———-, 18- ~.

The condition of the above obligation is such that whereas
the said A. B. is about to take out a writ of replevin againstthe said C. D. for the following goods and chattels: —-~ —.

Now, if the said A. B. shall appear on the return day of
said Writ, and prosecute his said suit to effect, and pay all
costs and damages which shall be awarded against him, then
this obligation shall be void: otherwise in full force.

Approved this —— day of , lH—-.

   

Justice of the Peace.
\V'RI'l‘.

'I'/It’ '['¢'1'rifm"_I/ uf.\'('u' .lIa'.ri(-o, To fill‘ cam.»-ml)/c‘ qf'—— 'prm'/'m'f, in
——-«— rounfy:

You are commanded, that without delay you cause to be
replevied unto A. B., the goods and chattels following, to-wit:
(Here describe goods, etc.), which C. D. wrongfully detains
from the said A. B., and that you summon the said C. D. to
appear before mein my office in ~— precinct, in —— county,
at —— o’clock in the forenoon of - -v—~, the —— A day of + ~,
lH~ v—, to answer unto the said A. B. for the unlawful detention of the goods and chattels aforesaid.

(liven under myhand this day of ~——, 18.

9

Justice of the--Peace.
EXECUTION.

Tlu’ 'I'(’I'I‘ifu)‘§/ Qf .\'('H‘ .l[¢'.I‘i('n, '['n I/H‘ .8‘/H‘rI:[i'(tu' ('nII.\'lII/)/r) (if
mnmfg/, ( Q‘ rvof i n._(/ :
WH1~:m;As, --— on the

day of ———-, 1H , obtained

judgment before the undersigned justice of the peace of Precinct —- -—, in the County of - --. against ——a, that he have
restitution of (Here insert a description of the premises, as
in the complaint, if the judgment be for the whole, or as in
the judgment, if it be for apart), and that he recover of the
said - - - the sum of — - damages, and in addition thereto at
the rate of for rents and profits from the —« day of
—--—. lH—-, until restitution shall be made, together with costs.

You are hereby commanded to take with you the power of
the county, if necessary. and to cause the said - e to be
forthwith removed from the said premises, and the said ~ a
to have peaceable possession thereof, and that the goods and
chattels of the said - ——- you cause to be levied the damages,
rents and profits aforesaid, with the sum of »—— - for costs and
———- for this writ-, and your fees hereon, and that you return
this writ with your doings thereon, to the undersigned
within twenty days from the date hereof.

Given under my hand. this - day of - -- -, 18 -.

Justice of the Peace.

A(."I‘l NH AS CORD NOR.

§ 3373. It shall be the duty of each justice of the peace
within his respective precinct, to inquire into and investigate

,the cause of the death of any human being that shall be found

dead in the precinct of said justice of the peace, when it may
appear that said death was caused by violence or any other
illegal means, and it is hereby made the duty of every justice
of the peace, when required so to do in writing, by any two
persons, heads of families and voters in the precinct, to examine and inquire into the cause of the death of any hu man.

being, he the cause of the death what it may.

§ 3374. The examination provided for in the foregoing
section shall be held over the body of the deceased, and with
a jury of six men, voters of the precinct, which jury shall be
summoned by the constable, verbally, by an order of the
justice of the peace to that effect, and the witnesses shall be examined and their attendance compelled as in other cases before justices of the peace.

§ 3375. Whenever the cause of the death of any person 1

shall have been ascertained in the manner prescribed in this
act, the verdict of the jury shall be given in writing, which
shall be signed by the justice of the peace and each one of the
jury, and so recorded in the oflice of the probate judge of the
county in which the said inquest was held, and the verdict of
the jury shall be in the following form:

We, the undersigned, justice of the peace and jury, who sat
upon the inquest held this--—day of--— —, lR-- -, on the body
of (Here shall be stated the name of deceased, if known, and
if not then state, On the body of a person whose name is unknown"), found in Precinct IllllIli)E!I'——— -of the County of ,
find that the deceased came to his (or her) death by reason of

(Here insert the cause of the death, and by whom the crime
was committed, if ascertained).
A. B.,
Justice of the Peace.
C. D.,
E. F.
G.
I. J .,
K. L ,
M. N.,
Jurors.
§ 3376. In the absence of a justice of the peace from his
precinct, or during the sickness of such justice of the peace,
then any justice of the peace of the county may hold such inquest in the precinct of the said absent or sick justice of the
peace. § 3377.‘ Every justice of the peace who shall hold an inquest as provided for in this act, shall receive from the county
treasury of his county the sum of two dollars in full of all his
services in such inquest, and the constable shall receive the
fees allowed by law to persons in causes before justices of
the peace, which fees shall be paid out of the county treasury,
and the witnesses shall receive the fees now allowed by law,
and the county shall also pay the necessary expenses of the
decentinterment of the said deceased over which an inquest
has been held as herein provided, which shall be allowed by
the county commissioners.

C
-9
O

