CHAPTER XXVII. 
CIVD, PROCEDURE AND PRACTICE • 
.!let of 12th Jul.y, 1851. Pamphlet! p. 141. 
SscTioN 1. That all courts of said Territory shall be held
openly and publicly, and that all persons whatsoever shall be freely 
admitted within the same, and permitted there to remain so long
as they shall observe good order and decorum. 
SEc. 2. It shall be within the power of each and every pre-
siding officer of the several courts of this Territory whether of 
record or not of record, to preserve order and decorum, and for
that purpose to punish contempts by reprimand, arrest, fine or
imprisonment, being circumscribed by the usage of the courts of
the United States. 
SBc. 3. Each district court of each county in said Territory
shall keep a record, and as soon as practicable shall have a seal,
with the initials (D. C.) engraved across the face thereof, and the
name of the county on the margin; said seals shall be kept by the 
clerks of the district courts of the respective counties, and with
them they shall authenticate all documents emanating from their
respective offices needing authentication. 
SEc. 4. The district court shall have original jurisdiction in
all cases civil and criminal in which the jurisdiction is not specially
delegated to some other court, and such appellate and supervisory
jurisdiction as may be given them by law. 
SEc. 5. The distinctions known to the common law of Eng­
la.nd and the United States between courts of chancery or equity, 
and of courts of common law, and the distinctive jurisdiction of
said courts in regard to the subject matter in controversy, shall not 
be regarded or recognized in the practice of the courts of said
Territory. 
S tj Th d di . . b diffi .
Ee. . e names an atinctions etween erent actions 
as known to the common law of England and the United States
shall not be deemed material by the courts of said Territory, and 
all matters of complaint or defence between the parties of o. like
nature may be joined respectively in the petition or answer. 
SEc. 7. Every person shall be sued in the county in which he
lives, except in the following cases, that is to say: 
lat. A married woman when liable to be sued, shall be sued in
the county in which her husband resides. 
2d. When a defendant has inherited an estate concerning which
any one may wish to institute a suit, he shall be sued in the county
in which the estate is situated. 
3d. When a. defendant has contracted to perform an obligation
in a particular county, he shall lie sued in the county in which he
has engaged to perform the contract. 
4th. When.the defendant has committed some crime for which a
civil action for damages may be maintained, in such case he ma.y
be sued in the county in which the crime was committed, or
wherever he may be found. 
5th. In case the defendant may be a transient person, he may be
sued in whatever county he may be found. 
6th. When suit is brought for the recovery of moveable property,
it shall be brought in whatever county the property may be found. 
7th. In cases against guardians, curators, executors and adminis­
trators, the parties may be sued in the county in which any such
persons were appointed to any of said trusts, in the county in
which the property in controversy may be found, or in the county
in which the defendant may live ; it being optionary with the
plaintiff. 
8th. In cases of delinquencies or frauds in public officers, they
may be sued in the county in which the fraud or delinquency
occurred, or in which the defendant ma.y be found. 
9th. When lands are the object of the suit, it shall be brought in
the county in which the lands are situated. 
10th. When two or more persons [are] liable to be made defend­
ants in the same suit, if it be in the nature of a transitory action,
the suit may be brought in the county in which either of the
proposed defendants may reside. 
SEc. 8. No person shall be sued as endorser or security unless
suit has been first or simultaneously brought and prosecuted in
good faith against the principal. 
SEc. 9. The style of a.II process shall be the Territory of New
Mexico. 
SEc. ·10. The records of the court of ea.ch preceding day of
the term shall be read and corrected in open court on the morning
of the succeeding day, except on the last day of the term, on
which the proceedings of the same day shall be read, and the
record of the term at the end thereof, be signed by the judge
presiding. 
SEc. 11. · In case the presiding judge shall die before signing
the record of any term, or shall from any cause be disabled from
doing so, a certificate by the clerk at the end of such record of
the facts shall be sufficient to authenticate such record, and make 
it of full force. ·
SEc. 12. In all suits, if there be two or more plaintiffs or 
defendants, and one or more of them shall die, if the cause of
action shall survive, it shall proceed in the name of or against the 
survivors .
SEC. 13. If on the death of the plaintiff in actions which 
=~survive before verdict, the heir, legatee, or legal representative do
not appear on being duly notified of said death, by a process to 
be issued by the clerk of the court to the proper officers to make
service of the same, and become a party on or before the second
term of the court next after such service shall have been made and
returned, such action shall abate, unless good cause be shown to
the contrary. 
SEc. 14. If either party to any suit shall die between verdict
and judgment, the judgment shall be entered as if both parties
were living. 
SEc. 15. The district court shall have power to hear and
determine all motions when three days' notice shall have been given
against the adverse party, against sheriffs or other officers for
money received on execution, or other process or order of the
court which shall not be paid to the party, his agent or attorneys,
failing or refusing to pay over money received for their clients,
and to render judgment as in other cases. 
SEc. ~6. It shall be the duty of the judge of any court to
cause judgment, sentence or decree of the court to be carried into 
effect according to law.
SEC, 17. The venue shall be changed in all cases both civil 
and criminal to the nearest county free from exceptions, when the
judge is interested, or when the party moving for a change shall 
make oath that he cannot have justice done him in the county in
which the suit is then pending, setting forth the cause of such
obstruction of justice ; which oath must be supported by the 
additional oaths of at least two disinterested persons, provided,
that neither party shall be allowed to change the venue in the same
case more than twice. 
SEC. 18. In criminal cases, the common law, as recognized
by the United States and the several States of the Union, shall be 
the rule of practice and decision. 
SBc. 19. The civil mode of practice is hereby adopted as the
rule of practice in civil cases in the several courts of the Terri­ 
tory. Provided, that the supreme court may, from time to time,
adopt such rules for its own government and that of the district 
courts not inconsistent W'ith the laws of the Territory, as it may
deem proper. 
SBC. 20. All civil suits shall be commenced and conducted by
petition and answer, replication and rejoinder, rebutter and sub­ 
rebutter, and in this order, until an issue or issues be formed em­
bracing the whole merits of the case. 
SEc. 21. When any person who ma.y think he has cause of
action against another shall wish to bring suit against his adver­
sary, he shall file in the office of the clerk of the district court a
petition setting forth the name of the court, the name of the judge
and style of the court, the Christian and surname of both plain­
tiff and defendant. He shall set forth the residence of all the
parties, if known ; he shall then proceed to set forth the facts
upon which his suit is founded in a. clear and plain manner; and
if there are any instruments of writing relied upon as evidence or
as matter in any way material to the suit, the originals or copies
of the same shall be filed with the petition if they are in the
power or control of the party wishing to avail himself of them. 
SEc. :.rn. If any papers shall be referred to, and the original
or copies not filed as above required, they shall not be used in the
trial, unless the party offering them shall give some satisfactory
reason why the same were not filed. Finally, he shall set forth
the nature of the relief sought, and he or his agent or attorney
shall sign the petition. 
SBc. 23. The rules laid down in the preceding section shall
be applicable, under like circumstances. to each successive step in 
the pleadings. 
SEc. 24. When any matter is plead by either party, at any
stage of the cause, within the time of plea.ding, it shall be the 
duty of the court, before the same is submitted to the jury, to
consider and determine upon the sufficiency of the matter, whether
excepted or not. 
SEc. 25. The defendant in any case shall file all matter of
legal exception, answer upon the merits, in abatement or in bar, 
at one and the same time. 
SEc. 26. No want of form shall be sufficient cause for abating
1 d 'd d h , , uffi , 
any matter p ea , provi e t e court can see m 1t s cient matter
upon which to base a decree or judgment ; and when legal excep­
tions are sustained, the opposite party shall have leave to amend, 
SBC. 27. Ea.ch party, by leave of the court, shall have leave
to amend, upon such as the court ma.y think proper, at any time 
before verdict, judgment or decree. 
SBc. 28. All pleas in abatement, except pleas to the jurisdie- 
tion as to the subject, shall be under oaih. 
SEc. 29. The order of pleading shall be as follows, that is to
say: 1st, legal exceptions; 2d, pleas in abatement, (1) to the 
jurisdiction as to the subject matter, (2) as to local jurisdictions,
(3) as to the disability or misnomer of the person, either the
plaintiff or the defendant; Bd, answer in bar of the action. 
SBc. 30. When any party to a suit, either as principal or 
• d f d d ,
security, or en orser, oun e on any written contract, covenant 
or agreement whatsoever, shall deny his signature, he shall do the
same under oath . 
SBc. 31. In all cases where a. suit has been instituted upon
any writing obligatory, or may be so instituted, the execution of 
the instrument shall be regarded as proven, and the plea of non 
est factum shall be regarded as unavailing, until the person filing
such plea shall have made oath that he never executed the said
instrument nor authorized any person to execute it for him. 
SEc. 32. Each party may plead as many matters as he may
think proper, provided that they are pertinent to the cause. 
SEc. 33. Each party may plead any matter arising out of the
same transaction in reconvention and set-off. 
SEc. 34. It shall be the duty of the clerk, when any paper is
filed in his office, immediately to enter on the back thereof his cer­ 
tificate of the day on which it was filed, in the words, " Filed in
my office this -- day of , 18-," a.nd sign his name as 
clerk to the same. But in case he should at any time neglect to
do so, it may, at the discretion of the court, guided by the justice
of the case, be entered nune pro tune. In like manner shall
all other matters be performed nunc pro tune when the ends of
justice may require it. 
SEc. 35. In all cases in which papers, being private property,
have been filed for any purpose whatever, it shall be the duty of 
the clerk to give the same out to the proper owner, by order of
the court, at any time he may want them, retaining certified
copies (thereof) in the office. 
SEc. 36. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the district
court, whenever a. petition is filed, to make out a true certified
copy of the same, and also a like copy of the original writ, which
he shall deliver to the sheriff of the county, whose duty it shall be
to serve the same on the defendant by delivering to him the said
copy at least five full days before the first day of term of court,
exclusive of the day on which service is made, and the said first 
day of the term. 
SEc. 37. All original process in any suits shall be returned
on the first day of "the term next after its issuance. 
SEc. 38. Whenever any sheriff shall return that the defend­
ant is not to be found in his county, or that he secretes himself, 
or absconds, so that he cannot make service upon him in the ordi­
nary way, the plaintiff may sue out a writ of attachment, to be
governed by the laws and rules regulating other attachments. 
SEc. 39. That on the third day of the term, if no answer be 
filed, and if the demand be for a sum certain ( or liquiclated ), the
plaintiff may take his judgment final: Provided, that the defend­
ant shall have the right to file his answer at any time before judg­
ment is entered. 
. SEC. 40. In all cases in which an answer has been filed, or in
which the sum is uncertain or unliquidated, or in which demsges 
are the object of the suit, the same shall stand for trial in the
order in which they are docketed: Provided, that all suits shall
be docketed as they are filed. 
SEc. 41. The clerk shall keep a motion docket, on which he
shall enter all motions, which motions shall be disposed of a.t each 
term or continued. 
SBc. 42. The clerk shall make out such other dockets and in
such form as the supreme court shall require by rule. 
the SBc. 43. On calling of the docket, all cases shall be tried,
set for trial, or continued. 
SBc. 44. That all applications for a continuance shall be
supported by oath unless the facts be within the knowledge of the 
court, in which case it shell be so stated on the record.
SBc. 45. That upon good cause, supported by oath, the court 
may extend the time of pleading. 
SBc. 46. Motions for new trials, and in anest of judgment,
shall be entertained ; appeal shall also be allowed in a manner to 
be provided by law. 
SEc. 4 7. In all cases the plaintiff, on motion of any penon 
interested in the suit or costs, may be ruled to give secunty for
costs, and in case he shall fail so to do on or before the first day
of the next term after such rule, the case shall abate. 
SEc. 48. If any person wishing to institute a suit, or having
done so, shall make oath that he is too poor to pay the costs, he 
shall have all and any process of the court free of costs. 
CHAPTER XXVIIl. 
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE JURY • 
.11ct of 14th January, 1853. Pamphlt>I, p. 57. 
SECTION 1. That in any suit in the district courts, the judges
shall give their instructions to the jury in writing only, and sdch 
instructions thus given shall be filed with the papers in the case. 
SBc. 2. That no judge of the district court shall fine any 
person for contempt or want of respect for the court, in a sum
exceeding fifty dolla.rs, without a trial by jury. 
SBc. 3. That this a.ct shall take effect from its passage.
(Translated from the original Spaaish.] 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
SBRVICE OF PROCESS • 
.!lei of 12th January, 1852. Pamphlet, p. 346. 
SECTION 1. That sll original process from a.ny of the courts
in this Territory shall be executed by the proper' officer as follows : 
First. By reading the original process to the defendant, and
delivering a. copy thereof if required. 
Second. By delivering a copy of the original process to the
defendant. 
Third. If the defendant be absent, by delivering a. copy of the
original process to some free person residing at the usual place of
abode of the defendant, over fifteen yea.rs of age. 
Fourth. If no such person be found willing to accept a copy
of the process 88 above provided for, then by posting the same in
the most public part of the defendant's premises. 
Provided always, That the clerk or officer issuing such pro-
cess, shall be required to endorse thereon, the nature of the suit,
the a.mount of the damages claimed, and for what demand the suit
is brought ; Provided further, That if a.ny such defendant shall
refuse to hear the process read, or to accept a. copy thereof from
the proper officer, it shall be deemed good service in law. 
Be it further enacted, That all acts and parts of acts not
consistent with this act, be and the same are hereby repealed. 
Be it further enacted, That this a.ct take effect, and be in
f fr d f ' 
orce om an a ter its passage . 
.!let of 12th January, 1853. Pamphlet, p. 39. 
SBc. 2. That all contracts, which, by the common law, are
joint only, shall be construed to be joint and several. 
SEC. o. In all cases of joint obligations, and joint assump-
tions of copartners, and others, suits may be brought and prose­
cuted a.gs.inst any one, or more, of those who are so liable. 
SBc. 4. All suita, instituted in any of the courts of this
Territory, shall be brought in the county in which the defendant 
resides, or in the county in which the plaintiff' resides, and the
defendant may be found ; and in case the defendant is not a. 
resident of this Territory, such suit may be brought in any county. 
SEc. 5. Any creditor whose demand amounts to fifty dollars
or more may sue out a writ of capias in the circuit court by filing 
au affidavit stating that the defendant is justly indebted to him
after allowing all set-offs, in a sum specified in the affidavit, and
on what account; that the affiant has reason to believe, and does 
believe, that the defendant is a.bout to abscond from the 'I'erritory,
so as to endanger the collection of his debt, and by also filing a
bond as is required in attachments . 
SEc. 6. Creditors whose demands amount to less than fifty
dollars may sue their debtors before alcaldes, by writs of capias, 
subject to the same rules as are prescribed in the preceding
section concerning such writs. 
SEc. 7. A writ of capias shall be served by ta.king the body
of the defendant and retaining the same in custody until
discharged by due course of law, but the defendant shall be
discharged at any time by giving bond and security to the sheriff' or 
constable that he will render himself in custody to abide the judg­
ment, order or decree of the court. 
SEc. 8. The defendant may, at the return term of the writ,
deny the truth of the affidavit by answer without oath, and the
same proceedings shall be had thereon as in cases of attachments. 
Ssc. 9. If the petition and writ shall be served ten days before
the first day of next term of said court, the defendant shall, on or 
before the second day of said term, file his legal exceptions to said
petition, if any he have, which exceptions shall be determined by
the judge in a summary manner. · 
Ssc. 10. If the exceptions be overruled, the defendant shall
forthwith file his answer under oath, fully admitting or denying or 
confessing and avoiding every material pa.rt of said petition. 
SEc. 11. If no such exceptions be filed, the defenda.nt shall
file such answer on or before the second day of said term . 
SEc. 12. All subsequent pleadings shall be filed under oath,
and in such time as the court shall prescribe. 
SBC. 13. All causes shall be tried at the next return term of
the writ, unless continued for good cease. Every cause may be 
continued by a court upon application of either party, verified by
affidavit, showing good cause for such continuance. 
SBc. 14. All appeals from inferior tribunals to the prefects or
circuit courts shall be tried a.new in said courts on their merits, as 
if no trial had been had below.
SEc. 15. The courts may, from time to time, appoint inter- 
preters and translators to interpret the testimony of witnesses, and
to translate any writing necessary to be translated in such courts 
or causes therein. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
DIS:MISSION OF ACTIONS • 
.llct of 2d January, 1852. Pamphlet, p. 246. 
SECTION 1. That the plaintiff', in any suit pending in the
district court, may, at any time in the vacation of said court, file
in the clerk's office of said court a written dismissal of his suit,
o.nd said cause from that date shall be considered as dismissed at 
the cost of said plaintiff', and judgment shall be entered accord­
ingly at the ensuing term of the district court. 
SEc. 2. In a.11 causes appealed, or in any other manner
brought from any inferior court to any superior court, the party 
appealing, or so bringing said suit into the sl:erior court, may,
in like manner, dismiss his appeal in the same manner] as in the 
first section of this act provided; and when sai cause is dismissed
as aforesaid, the judgment in the inferior court shall remain and 
be in all things as valid, as if said cause had never been removed
from said inferior court. 
SEc. 3. Any cause pending in any court of this Territory
may be dismissed by the plaintiff in said cause, at his costs, at 
any time before the same is submitted to the jury in causes tried
by the jury, or before judgment has been rendered in causes tried 
by the court. .
SBc. 4. In all criminal cases a nolle prosequi cannot be 
entered after any testimony has been introduced for the defendant. 
SBC. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after it.& passage. 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
Kearney Code, Pamphlet, p. 39. September 22d, 1846. 
SBcTION 1. Creditors, whose demands amount to fifty dollers
or more, may sue their debtors in the circuit court, by attachment 
• th f ll . .
m e o owing cases, to-unt : 
ATTACIIKENTS. 
First. When the debtor is not a resident of, nor resides in,
this Territory. 
Second. When the debtor has concealed himself, or absconded,
or absented himself from his usual place of abode in this Terri­
tory, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be passed upon
him. 
Third, When the debtor is about to remove his property <>I" 
effects out of this Tenitory ; or has fraudulently concealed or
disposed of his property or effects so as to defraud, hinder, or
delay his creditors. 
Fourth. When the creditor [ debtor 1 is a.bout fraudulently to 
convey or aasign, conceal or dispose of his property or efeet.s, so
aa to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors. 
Fi/ th. When the debt was contracted out of this Territory,
and the debtor has absconded or secretly removed his property or
effects into the Territory, with the intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud his creditors. 
SEc. 2. A creditor wishing to sue his debtor by attachment,
may place in the clerk's office of the circuit court of any county
in this Territory a petition or other lawful statement of his case
of action, and shall also file an affidavit and bond ; and thereupon
such creditors ma.y sue out an original attachment against the
lands, tenements, goods, moneys, effects and credits of the debtor 
in whosesoever hands they may be. 
SEc. 3. The affidavit shall be made by the plaintiff, or some
person for him, and shall state that the defendant is justly indebted
to the plaintiff, after allowing a.11 just credits and offsets, in a sum 
( to be specified in the affidavit), and on what account; and shall
also state that the affi~a.vit [ a.ffiant] has good reason to believe, and
does believe, the existence of one or more of the causes which,
according to the provision of the first section, will entitle the
plaintiff to sue by attachment. 
SEc. 4. The bond shall be executed by the plaintiff or some
responsible person as principal, and two or more securities, resi­ 
dents of the county in which the action is to be brought, in a sum
at leest double the amount sworn to, payable to this Territory, 
conditioned that the plaintiff shall prosecute his action without
delay and with effect, and refund all sums of money that may be
adjudged to be refunded to the defendant, and pay all damages
that may accrue to any defendant or garnishee by reason of this
attachment, or any process of judgment thereon. 
SBc. 5. The clerk shall judge of the sufficiency of the pen-
a.Ity and the security in the bond; if they be approved, he shall 
endorse his approval thereon, and the same, together with the affi­ 
davits and petition or other lawful statement of the cause of
action, shall be filed before an attachment shall be issued. 
SEC. 6. The bond given by the plaintiff, or other person, in a
suit by attachment, may be sued on by any pa.rty injured, in the 
name of the Territory, and shall proceed as in ordinary suits, and
shall recover such damages as he may sustain. 
SEc. 7. Original writs of attachment shall be directed to the
sheriff of the proper county, commanding him to attach the de­ 
fendant, by all and singular, his lands and tenements, goods,
moneys, effects, and credits, in whosesoever hands the same may
be found, with a clause of the nature and to the effect of an ordi­
nary citation to answer the action of the plaintiff. 
SEc. 8. Original writs of attachment shall be issued and
returned in like manner as ordinary writs of citation; and when 
the defendant is cited to answer the action, the like proceedings
shall be had between him and the plaintiff as in ordinary actions
on contracts, and a general judgment may be rendered for or
against the defendant. 
SEc. 9. The manner of serving writs of attachment shall be
as follows: 
First. The writ, petition, or other lawful statement of the
cause of action, shall be served on the defendant as an ordinary 
citation.
Second. Garnishees shall be summoned by the sheriff, declar­ 
ing to them that he summons them to appear at the return term of
the writ to answer the interrogatories which may be exhibited by
the plaintiff, and by reading the writ to them if required. 
Thi, d, When lands or tenements are to be attached, the officer
shall briefly describe the same in his return, and state that he 
attached all the right, title and interest of the defendant to the
same, and shall moreover give notice to the actual tenants, if any 
there be. 
Fourth. When goods and chattels, moneys, effects, or evidences
of debt are to be attached, the officer shall seize the same and keep 
them in his custody if accessible, and if not accessible he shall
summon the person in whose hands they may be as garnishee. 
Fifth, When the credits of the defendant are to be attached,
the officer shall declare to the debtor or the defendant that he 
attached in his hands all debts due from him to the defendant., 
or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the debt, interest,
and costs, and summon such person as garnishee. 
SEc. 10. All persons shall be summoned as garnishees who
are named as such in the writ, and such others as the officers shall 
find in the possession of goods, money, or effects, of the defendant
not actually seized by the officer and debtors [ creditors 1 of the
defendant, and also such as the plaintiff or his agent shal] direct. 
SEc. 11. When the defendant cannot be cited, and his pro­
perty or effects shall be attached, if he do not appear and answer 
to the action at the return term of the writ, within the first two
days thereof, the court shall order a publication to be made,
stating the nature and amount of the plaintiff's demand, and
notifying the defendant that his property has been attached, and
that unless he appears at the next term, judgment will be rendered
against him. and his property sold to satisfy the same ; which
notice shall be published four weeks successively in some news­
paper printed in this Territory, the last insertion to be not less 
than two weeks before the first day of the next term ; but if there
should be no newspaper printed in this Territory, said notice shall 
be published by not less than six ha.nd bills put up at six different
public places in the county, at ·least six weeks before the first day
of the next term. 
SEC. 12. When the defendant shall be notified, by publication
as aforesaid, and shall not appear and answer the action, judg­ 
ment by default may be entered, which may be proceeded on to
final judgment as in ordinary actions, but such judgment shall
only bind the property attached, and shall be no evidence of
indebtedness against the defendant in any subsequent suit. 
SEc. 13. When property of the defendant found in his posses-
sion, or in the hands of any other person, shall be attached, the 
defendant, or such other person, may retain possession thereof,
by giving bond and security to the satisfaction of the officer
executing the writ, to the officer or his successor in double the
value of the property attached, conditioned that the same shall be
forthcoming when and where the court shall direct, and shall
abide the judgment of the court. 
SEc. 14. The officer executing the writ of attachment shall
return, with the writ, all bonds taken by him in virtue thereof, a.
schedule of all property and effects attached, and the names of
all the garnishees, the times and places when and where respec­
tively summoned. 
SEc. 15. If the officer wilfully fail to return a. good and 
sufficient bond, in any case where bond is required by this law, he
shall be held and considered a.s security for the performance of
a.11 acts, and the payment of all money to secure the performance 
of which such bond ought to have been ta.ken.
SEc. 16. In all cases when property or effects shall be 
attached, the defendant may, at the court to which the writ is 
returnable, put in his answer, without oath, denying the truth of
any material fact contained in the affidavit, to which the plaintiff 
may reply; a trial of the truth of the affidavit shall be had at
the same term, and on such trial the plaintiff' shall be held to 
prove the existence of the facts set forth in the affidavit, as the
ground of the attachment, and if the issue shall be found for him
the cause shall proceed, but if it be found for the defendant the 
cause shall be dismissed at the costs of the plaintiff.
SEc. 17. The plaintiff may exhibit in the cause, written alle- 
ga.tions and interrogatories at the return term of the writ, and not
afterwards, touching the property, effects and credits attached in 
the hands of any garnishee. The garnishee shall exhibit and file
his answer thereto, on oath, during such term, unless the court for
good cause shown shall order otherwise. In default of such an­
swer, or of a sufficient answer, the plaintiff may take judgment
by default against him, or the court may, upon motion, compel
him to answer by attachment of his body. 
SEc. 18. Such judgment by default may be proceeded on to
final judgment in like manner as in cases of the defendant in
actions upon contracts, but no final judgment shall be rendered
against the garnishee until there shall' be final judgment against
the defendant. 
SEhc.1, 19. . The pla.indtiffh ~a.y denhy11thbe an~wder of thdie g~shee
in w o e or m part, an t e issue s a e tne as or nary issues 
between plaintiffs. If on such trial the property or effects of the
defendant be found in the hands of the garnishee, the value thereof
shall be assessed and judgment shall be rendered for the proper
amount of money. If the answer of the garnishee be not excepted
to or denied at the ssme time at which it is filed, it shall be taken
to be true and sufficient. 
SEc. 20. If by the answer not excepted to nor denied, it shall
appear that tho garnishee is possessed of property or effects of the
defendant, or is indebted to the defendant, the value of the prop­
erty or effects, or of the debt, being ascertained, judgment may
be rendered against the garnishee. 
SEc. 21. In all cases of controversy between the plaintiff and
garnishee, the parties may be adjudged to pay or recover costs as
in ordinary cases between plaintiff and defendant. 
SEC. 22. Creditors whose demands are for a. less amount than
fifty dollars may sue their debtors by attachment, before an alcalde, 
in the same cases, and in the same manner, and under the same
rules, as creditors are allowed to sue out writs of attachment in
the circuit court; Provided, that publication, when required, ma.y 
be by six handbills, put up at six different public places, three
weeks before the return day of the writ. 
SEc. 23. That any person w_ishing to sue his debtor by attach­
ment, where the debt or sum claimed exceeds the sum of one hun­
dred dollars, may do so by first filing with the clerk of the district 
court of the county in which the debtor lives, or before the clerk
of the probate court of the county in which the suit is brought,
an affidavit and bond, as now required to be done before the clerk
of the district court, which shall authorize the clerk before whom
said affidavit and bond shall be filed to issue writs of attachment,
the same as clerks of the district court, which attachment, together
with the affidavit and bond, when issued by clerks of the probate
court, shall be by them made returnable to the next term. of the
district court for the proper county, and shall be by them returned
to said district court on or before the first da, of said term . 
SEC. 24. That debts owing and to become due shall b? subject
to attachment as well as debts due ; Provided, that 1t be set 
forth in the affidavit that said debt is not due, and the time that
it will become due. 
SEC. 25. That the form of said affidavit shall be as follows,
to-wit: 
am-TERRlTORY OF NEW MEXICO, ~ 
County of 5 as
This da.y personally appeared before 
me the undersigned, Clerk of the (District Court or Probate
Court, as the case may be,) A. B. ( or C. D., agent for A. B.,
as the case may be,) and, being duly sworn, says that E. F. is
justly indebted to the said A. B. in the sum of dollan,
after allowing all just offsets, and that the said E. F. is ( setting
forth one of the causes of attachments. ) 
--- --- Clerk.
SBc. 26. That the form of said bond shall be as follows, 
to-wit:
KNow ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, That we (A. B., principal, 
or C. D., agent for A. B., principal, as the case may be,) and
N. N. and M. M. his securities, ere held and firmly bound unto 
the Territory of New Mexico, in the sum of --- dollars, for
the payment of which, well and truly to be made, 1re bind our­
selves, our heirs, executors and administrators, firmly by these
presents, sealed with our seals and dated this -- day of--, 
A.D. . 
A B-- 
or C. D., agent for A B--- 
Sworn to and subscribed before me this -- day of --, A.
D.--- 
The condition of the above obligation is such that, whereas the 
above named A. B. has this day sued out an attachment before 
J. J., Clerk of the (District Court or Probate Court, as the case 
may be,) against E. F., for the sum of . dollars, returnable
to the next term of the District Court for the county of 
Now if the said A. B. shall prosecute his said action without
delay, and with effect, and refund all sums of money that may be
adjudged to be refunded to the defendant, and pay all damages
that may accrue to any defendant or garnishee by reason of said
attachment, or any process of judgment thereon, then this obliga­
tion to be null and void, otherwise to remain in full force and
effect. 
~
A
B 
N N 
M M 
AN AOT A:M:ENDATORY OF THE LAW RELATIVE TO ATTACH­
MENTS. 
Be it enacted by the Legialative .!J.aaembly of the Territory
of New Me:xicu : 
SEc. 27. In all suits in the district courts by attachments,
when the property attached shall be of a perishable nature, and
liable to be lost or diminished in value before the final adjudica­ 
petltio'h tion of the case, and the defendant shall not give bond to retain
the possession of the same, the plaintiff or defendant may make 
out a petition in writing setting forth the kind, nature and condi­
tion of the property, and present said petition to the judge of the
district in vacation ; and if he shall find it sufficient in form and
conditions, he may hear the testimony of witnesses as to the prop­
erty, and if he shall believe that the interests of both plaintiff and
defendant will be promoted by the sale of the property, ma.y order
such sale to be made, and direct the manner thereof. 
SEc. 28. In such case the judge may appoint some one to
make such sale, and require such bond and security to be given 
for the faithful/erformance of the same and the accounting for
the proceeds an paying the same over, as the nature of the case
may demand. 
SEc. 29. The judge ma.Li, if he shall find the safety of the
h · f ds h · · ' 
property or t e security o t e procee s all reqm.re 1t, appoint a
special receiver to take posseesion of the same, after giving such 
bond and security as the judge shall approve. 
'
I L.s. 
~
~ 
'
I z.s. 
~
~ 
'
I L.B. 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
aa1~tt SEC. SO. All such proceeds of sale of property shall be deliv­
ered to such person as the judge or court shall determine entitled 
to the same upon the final disposition of the suit. 
SEc. 31. The judge or court may allow to the receiver, or per-
ki id l bl · f hi · 
son ma mg 8a1 sa. e, a. reasona e compensation or 18 services,
and the necessary costs for keeping and preserving the property. 
Ssc. 32. This a.ct to take effect from and after its passage.
Approved, February 2d, 1859. [Tr&W1la.ted.] 
AN ACT TO AMEND THE LAW OF ATTACHMENTS. 
SEc. 33. That hereafter in any civil suit pending, or which
may hereafter be brought, when the summons against the defend­ 
ant h88 been returned "executed," the plaintiff, his a.gent, or
attorney, may at o.ny time before judgment file an affidavit with
the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, and give bond
with security as in cases of original attachments ; and thereupon
the clerk must issue an attachment, returnable as in other cases
of original attachments. 
SBc. 84. Be it further enacted: That in all cases when
attachments are sued out ancillary to the original suit, the suit 
must thereafter proceed in all respects as if it had been commenced
originally by attachment. 
Sxc. 35. Be it furt/l.er enacted: Tha.t all laws or parts of
laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby repealed,
and this act shall be in force from and after its passage. 
Approved, January 16, 1860. 
AN ACT TO AllEND THE LAW OF ATTACHMENT. 
SBc. 36. That the law of this Territory in regard to attach-
menta, be and the same is so amended, that where the defendant 
cannot be served personally with the process, and shall have no
place of residence in this Territory, and the property of the
defendant shall have been attached in time to make the necessary
publication as now required by law, the officer executing the said
precess, or the agent or attorney of the plaintiff in said case, is
hereby authorized to make publication of notice to the defendant
in such attachment in the manner now prescribed by law, which
shall have the same force and effect to compel the appearance of
the defendant in any such suit in attachment, as if such publication
of notice had been in conformity to an order of court as heretofore
required ; and upon satisfactory proof being made to the court of
the publication of said notioe, the plaintitr may proceed in said 
case as if the process had been served personally upon the said
defendant. 
SEC. 37. That this act shall be in force and take effect from
and after its passage. 
Approved, January 23d, 1862. [Translation.] 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
DEPOSITIONS OF WITNBBBBS • 
.I.let of 18th January, 18&3. Pamphlet, p. 39.
SECTION 1. That it shall be· lawful to take declarations of 
witnesses, to be used in any court in this Tenitory, in all civil
cases, when the witness or witnesses may be sick or absent from 
the Territory, or when it is impossible for them to present them­
selves before the court which tries the case to which said declara­
tions relate. 
SEc. 2. That said declarations may be taken before any judge,
alealde, or justice of the peace, in the Tenitory, and when they 
are taken they shall be enclosed and sealed by the same judge,
alcalde or justice of the peace before whom they were taken, and
by him delivered to the court which tries the case to which said
declaration relates, or they may be delivered to the clerk of said
court. 
Ssc. 3. Before taking said declarations, the par'J who desires
to take them shall notify the other party interested three days 
before that, in which ( may be ta.ken said declaration), when the
other pa.rty resides less than eight leagues from the place in which
they may be taken, and one day for each eight leagues that said
other party may reside from said places. Said notice may be
served by a sheriff, constable, or by the party himself, or by any
one for him, and in such notice the other party shall be notified of
the time and place in which said declarations are taken. 
SBc. 4. Declarations or depositions taken in conformity to
this act shall be received as legal testimony under the following
circumstances : 
First. When the witness may be sick.
Second. When, under existing circumstances, it is impossible 
that he can present himself before the court.
Third. When the witness is out of the Territory. 
Fourth: When the witness has died after giving this declara­
tion. 
SBc. 5. That this act shall take effect from its passage. 
SBc. 6. In all cues where witnesses are required in any cause
pending in any court having a clerk, such clerk, and in all other 
cases the person holding the court, shall issue a aubpoene for such
witneeaes, stating the day and place, when and where, the wit­
nesses a.re to appear . 
SEc. 7. Such subpoene ahall contain the names of all witnesses
for whom a. summons is required by the same party, at the same 
time, in the same cause, and who reside in the same county, and
may be served in any county in this Territory, in the same man­
ner as a citation or a summons for a defendant. 
SEc. 8. A witness summoned in any cause pending in anl 
court, and failing to attend, may be compelled to appear by wnt
of attachment against his body, which may be served in any county
in this Territory. 
TESTIJIONY BY INTERROGATIONS • 
.!let uf 12th July, 1851. Pamphlet., p. 138. 
SEc. 9. That when either party to any suit in any court
within said Territory may wish to avail hims;lf of the testi­ 
mony of the adverse party, he shall annex the interrogations
which he wishes answered to his petition or answer ( as the case
may be,) and serve the opposite party or his attorney with a copy
thereof ; but no party shall be bound to answer the same, unless
the party filing them, or his attorney, shall swear that he believes
the same a.re material to his cause or defence ; Provided always, 
that the party shall have a reasonable time to file his answer as
ma.y seem just, and that such answer shall in like manner be made
under oath. 
SEc. 10. Each party to any suit in any court within this 
. d · · h · f ffi. f
erritory, esmng t e testimony o any o cer o government, 
whose attendance in court would interfere with the discharge
of his official duties, or of any witness residing within the limits
of this Territory, may file his interrogatories, propounded to such
witness, with the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending,
serving. the opposite party or his attorney with a. copy of the same,
and a notice of at least five full· days, and one additional day for
every twenty miles the opposite party or his attorney, ( as the
case may be) na.ming it, lives from the place of ta.king out such
commission, that he will on such a. day apply to the clerk for a
commission to take the answer to such interrogatories ; during 
which time the opposite party, his agent or attorney, may also
file his cross interrogatories which shell be embraced in the com­
mission. 
SEc. 11. On the day specified, either party, after having filed
interrogatories, may apply for and take out said commission,
which shall be issued by the clerk, appointing one or more com­
missioners, who shall be either a. district or circuit judge, chief
justice of the county, commissioner of deeds for this Territory,
notary public, or two justices of the peace. 
SEc. 12. Such commissioners shall cause the witness or wit- 
nesses to come before them, at such time and place as they may
think most convenient and expeditious, and take the answers to
the interrogatories and cross interrogatories contained in the com­
mission, the witness being first sworn to depose the truth. The
witness shall sigu the same and they shall also be certified and
signed by the commissioners, enveloped and sealed, and the names 
of the commissioners, as such written across the seals, and directed
to the clerk of the office from which the commission was issued. 
SEc. 13. The package may be sent by mail or by private
hand. If by mail, the postmaster a.t which the same is mailed 
shall endorse on the back thereof us follows : '' Received of--­
---, one of the commissioners," and if delivered by private
hands, the person delivering the same into the court or the clerk
shall make affidavit that he received it from one of the commis­
sioners, that he has had the same in his possession ever since, and
that it has undergone no alteration. The package shall not be
opened but by the court during the session of the same, or by
leave of the clerk in vacation. 
SEc. 14. The testimony of aged or infirm persons, or of
persons about to depart from this Territory, may be taken in like 
manner in regard to any suit pending, or which any person may
anticipate, which testimony in this section specified shall be
regarded as taken de bene esse and shall not be used when the
witness can be conveniently brought into court. 
SEc. 15. Any party dissatisfied with the answers to any inter-
rogatories may propound others, and take out a new commission 
for the same and other witnesses. 
SEC. 16. All testimony shall be read as evidence, subject to
all objections as if the witness were in court in person. 
AN ACT AMENDING THE SECOND SECTION OF AN ACT PRO·
VIDING FOR TAKING TESTIMONY BY INTERROGATION,
APPROVED, JULY 12, 1861. 
Be it enacted by the Legislatiue .!lssembly of the Ttrritory
of .rVew Mexico : 
SEc. 17. That hereafter, in all civil actions pending in the 
di · d · · f 11 · h · d b d 
istnct courts, epositions o a witnesses w o may resi e eyon
the limits of the county in which the court is held, shall be taken 
under the same rules and provisions of the act now in force,
approved the twelfth day of July, 1851. 
SEc. 18. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this
act arc hereby repealed. 
SEc. 19. That this act shall be in force from and after its
passage. 
Approved, January 15th, 1858. [Translation.] 
CHAPTER XXXIII. 
EJECTMENTS • 
.!Jct of December, 1847. Pamphlet, p. 416. 
SECTION 1.. The action of ejectment roay be maintained in
all cases where the plaintiff is legally entitled to the poeseseion of 
the premises.
SEr. 2. The action shall be prosecuted in the real names of 
the parties, and shall be brought against the tenant in possession.
SEC. 3. Any person claiming such premises may, on motion, 
be made a defendant.
SEC. 4. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to declare in bis 
petition that on some day in such petition named he W88 entitled
to the possession of the premises, describing them ; and that the
defendant, on a dsy named in the petition, afterwards entered into
such premises, and unlawfully withheld from the .plaintiff the 
possession thereof, to his damage, for any sum he may name.
SEc. 5. The defendant may plead u not guilty," and under 
such plea give in evidence any testimony showing that the plain­
tiff is not entitled to such possession, or that the title is in some 
other person. .
SEc. 6. It shall be sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover 
to show that at the time of the commencement of the action the
defendant was in possession of the premises claimed, and that the
plaintiff bad a right to the possession thereof. 
SEC. 7. In any action brought by a. joint tenant, or tenant in
common, against a co-tenant, he shall be required to prove an 
actual ouster or act equivalent thereto. 
SEc. 8. If the plaintiff prevail, he shall recover for damages
the value of the rents and profits of such premises to the time of
the verdict or the expiration of the plaintiff's title, under these 
limitations : 
First. If the defendant had knowledge of the plaintift''s claim
or title, then for the whole time he had such knowledge. 
Second. If he had no such knowledge, then from the com­
mencement of the action. 
SEc. 9. If the plaintiff 'a title expire after the action is 
brought, but before its determination, the verdict o.nd judgment
shall be for damages and costs only. 
SEc. 10. If the plaintiff prevail, the judgment shall be for
the recovery of the possession, and for the damages and costs. 
SEC. 11. Upon judgment for the recovery of possession, n
writ of possession shall be issued, and the sheriff shall deliver to
the plaintiff the possession of the premises, and also collect the
damages and costs, as on an execution in other cases. 
SEc. 12. If the judgment be for damages and costs, an exe-
cution shall issue a.a in personal action. 
AN ACT TO BE ENTITLED AN ACT TO AMEND THE LAW IN
RELATION TO ACTIONS OF EJEOTMENT. 
Be. it enacted by tbe Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of New Mexico: 
SEc. 13. That hereafter in all actions of ejectment which are
now pending or which may hereafter be brought, when the defend­
ant or tenant in possession in such suit shall have title of the
premises in dispute either by grant from the Governments of 
Spain, Mexico or the United States, deed of conveyance founded
on a grant or entry for the same, such defendant or defendants
ma.y file at the time of the filing of the pleas in said cause, u. 
notice to the plaintiff, that on the trial of said cause, he or they
will prove what improvements he or they may have made on the
said Iands in dispute and the value thereof. After which notice
being filed, the said plaintiff may ut the same time, file a. motion 
to the said defendant or defendants or tenant in possession, that
in like manner he or they will prove the amount of the mesne
profits of the said premises. Provided, that no improv;ments 
1:=: shall be taken into valuation and allowed, for that shall have been 
d f h . f th . . l . h . 
ma e a ter t e execution o e ongma summons m sue suit or
after the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall have served said 
defendant or tenant in poseeesien with a written notice that he or
they claim title to the land, specifying in said notice the nature
of the claim ; nor shall any mesne profits be valued and recovered 
recover-:except such as may have accrued after the commencement of the
suit, or notice given as aforesaid. 
SEc. 14. Be ii fur/her enacted: That when the jury shall
find a. verdict for the plaintiff in such action, they shall also find 
the value 'of the improvements in favor of the defendant or tenant
in possession, proved in the manner aforesaid, and further shall 
find the amount of the mesne profits proved to have accrued as
aforesaid, as also the value of the land in its natural state without
the improvements, and if the value of the improvements should
exceed the a.mount of the mesne profits, the balance or ovcrplus
thereof shall be found by the jury in favor of the defendant or
tenant in possession, and such plaintiff or plaintiffs shall not have
a writ of possession awarded or issued against the defendant or
defendants until he or they shall have pa.id to the said defendant
or defendants, their agent or attorney the full amount of the
balance or overplus, which the value of the improvements is found
to exceed the mesne profits 88 aforesaid. And if the mesne profits
as aforesaid, shall exceed the value of the improvements, 88 afore­
said, the jury aforesaid shall find the amount of such balance or
overplus against the defendant or tenant in possession and judg­
ment shall be entered up against said defendant or tenant in
possession for such balance or overplus so found against them. 
SEc. 15. Be it further enacted: That if upon the rendition
of. any judgment in any such suit, the value of the improvements 
put upon the land by any defendant or tenant in possession as
aforesaid shall exceed the nett mesne profits of said land, the
plaintiff or plaintiffs shall at the term of the court at which said
judgment is rendered, elect whether he will take his judgment and
pay for the improvements so assessed against him or take pay
from the defendant or defendants for the nett profits and the value
of the land in its natural state without the improvements, and if
he elect to take pay for the nett profits and the value of the la.nd
without the improvements as aforesaid, the said plaintiff or plain­
tiffs shall tender a warrantee deed to the defendant or defendants
for the said lands, upon the payment of its value as found by the
jury on its natural state without the improvements, which payment
shall be made to the plaintiff or plaintiffs in such reaaonable term
as the court may allow. 
SEc. 16. Be it furtber enacted: That the principles of the
provisions of this act shall apply and extend to all suits in chan­ 
cery when the object of the bill or answer is for the recovery of
lands and tenements. 
SEc. 17. Be it further enacted: That all laws a.nd parts
of laws inconsistent with the provisions of this act be and the
same are hereby repealed. 
SBc. 18. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. 
Approved, February Bd, 1858. [Translation.] 
CHAPTER XXXIV. 
BXECUTIONS. 
Kearney Code. Pamphlet, p. 68. September 22d, 1846. 
SBCTION 1. The party in whose favor any judgment, order or
decree in any court may be returned, shall have execution there­
for in conformity to the order, judgment, or decree. 
Ssc. 2. The execution shall be against the goods, chattels,
lands and body of the defendant against whom the judgment. 
order or decree shall be rendered: Provided, that executions
from alcaldes shall not go against lands. 
SEC. 3. When any execution shall be placed in the hands of
any officer for collection, he shall call upon the defendant for pay­ 
ment thereof, or to show him sufficient goods, chattels, effects and
lands whereof the same may be satisfied ; and if the officer fail to 
find property sufficient to make the same he shall notify all per­
sons who may be indebted to said defendant not to pa.y said
defendant, but to appear before the court out of which said
execution issued and make true answers on oath concerning his
indebtedness, and the like proceedings shall be had as· in cases of
garnishees summoned in suits originating by attachments. If the
officer shall not find sufficient goods, chattels, effects, lands or
debts to satisfy the execution, he shall arrest the body of the
defendant, and in default of payment commit him to jail. 
SEc. 4. Any defendant so committed to jail may, at the 
expiration of five days from the day of his commitment, be dis­ 
charged upon rendering a schedule, under oath, of al] his property,
money and effects, and delivering the same to the sheriff of the
county ; the sheriff shall have power to administer the oath afore­
said to said defendant. 
Bae. 5. The truth of such schedule may be tried on the return
of the execution before the tribunal which issued the same, and if
it be found untrue the body of the defendant may be retaken and
committed to jail to await his trial for perjury. 
SEc. 6. The person whose goods are taken on execution, may
retain possession thereof until the day of sale, by giving land 
[bond] in favor of the plaintiff with sufficient security to be
approved by the officer in double the value of such property, con­
ditioned for the delivery of the property to the officer at the time
and place of sale, to be named in such condition, which bond shall
be returned with the execution. 
SEc. 7. Upon the failure of the officer to return such bond, or
in case of its insufficiency, the officer shall be subjected to the 
same liability as i~vided in the case of similar bonds in suits
commenced by att ent. 
SBc. 8. No goods and chattels, or other personal effects taken
by virtue of an execution, shall be sold until the officer having 
charge of the writ shall have given ten days notice of the time and
place of sale, and of the property to be sold, by at least three
advertisements put up at public places in the county in which the
sale is to be made. 
SBc. 9. When real estate shall be taken on execution by any
officer, it shall be his duty to expose the same to sale at the court
house door on some day during the term of the court of the county
in which the same is situated, having previously given twenty days'
notice of the time and place of sale, and what lands are to be sold,
and where situated, by at least six hand-bills signed by him, and
put up at different public places in the county. 
Sac. 10. All executions, issued from the circuit or superior
court, or the court of the prefect, twenty days before the next
term of such court, shall be returnable to the said next term ; and
all executions issued from said courts less than twenty days before
the next term of such courts shall be returnable to the second 
succeeding term.
SBc. 11. All executions issued by alcsldea shall be returnable 
in thirty days from their date . 
.llct of 12th January, 185.3. Pamphlet, p. 37 . 
SEC. 12. That all the laws, or parts of laws which decree that
the executions issued by justices of the peace, shall not be executed 
against the body of any defendant under execution, are hereby
repealed, and the law respecting executions from the justices of
the peace shall remain in force as in the Kearney code. 
SEC. 13. All executions issued by a justice of the peace, and
returned " nulla bona" upon application of the party in whose 
favor they were issued, may be recorded in the office of the 
clerk of the district court for the county, and being endorsed
Jnd registered by the clerk in his record, such executions shall
have the same force as if they had been issued from the same
district court . 
SEc. 14. That this act shall take effect and be in force after
its iassage. · 
t Transle.ted from the original Spsnish.]
.llct of 12th February, 1855. Pamphlet, JJ· 89. 
SEC. 15. That all real estate of the Territory of New Mexico,
and of any county of said Territory, is, by this act, exempt from 
execution, and, therefore, no court of this Territory shall issue
executions against said property. 
SEc. 16. That all acts, or parts of acts, in conflict with the
provisions of this act are repealed. 
SBC. 17. That this act shall be in force from and after its 
passage. 
[Translated from the original Spanish.] 
Be it enacted by the Legislative .1/ssembly of the Territory
of New Mezico: 
SEc. 18. That no execution shall issue against any security
on a.ny promissory note, bond, bond for costs, appeal bond, or 
h bl" . £ th f ·1 
ot er o iganon or e payment o money or property, unn
execution shall have been first issued against the principal in any
such note or obligation, and levied upon all the real estate or
other property of said principal, which may be within the juris­
diction of the court, in which the judgment may have been
rendered. Provided, That whenever the plaintiff in any such
execution shall file in the court in which the judgment is pending
an affidavit in relation to such security or securities similar to the
one required by law' to be filed previous to issuing an attachment, 
then in such case execution shall issue simultaneously against the
principal and the security against whom the said affidavit be filed. 
SEc. 19. That the 8th section of an a.ct regulating the practice
in the supreme court, and in the district courts of the Territory 
of New Mexico, approved July 12, 1861, be and is hereby
repealed. 
SBc. 20. That this act shall take effect and be in force, from
and after its passage. 
Approved, J anua.ry 27th, 1857. (Translation.] 
AN ACT CONCERNING EXECUTION. 
APPRAISEMENTS, 
SBc. 21. No real property shall be sold on any execution or
order of sale issued out of any court, for less than two-thirds of 
the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens and incum­
brances. 
SEc. 2i. The sheriff between the days of levying the execution
hand the sale of the property, shall proceed to ascertain the cash 
value of such property as follows :
SEc. 23. For that purpose two disinterested householders of 
the neighborhood where the levy is ma.de shall be selected as
appraisers, one of whom shall be selected by each of the parties 
or their agents, or in the absence of either party or his agent, or
upon the refusal of either party, after three days' notice by the
sheriff to make the selection, the sheriff shall proceed to select the
appraisers, who shall proceed to appraise the property according
to its cash value at the time, deducting liens and incumbrances;
and in case of their disagreement as to the value thereof, they
shall select a like disinterested appraiser, and with his assistance
shall complete the valuation, and the appraisement of any two of
them shall be deemed the cash value. 
SBc. 24. In case any appraiser Bhall fail to act or to complete
such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead as above pro­
vided. 
SEc. 25. It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or appraisers
to ascertain the amount of liens or incumbrances, but either party 
may furnish the sheriff with a. list thereof, with the amount and
nature of each. 
SEc. 26. The sheriff shall furnish the appraisers with a 
•schedule of the property levied on with the incumbrances made
hi d d 
known to im, and they shall procee to fix, an set down
opposite to each tract, lot or parcel of real estate, the cash value, 
deducting liens and incumbrances, which schedule shall be returned
to the sheriff. 
SEc. 27. The appraisers shall ta.ke and subscribe an oath
annexed to such appraisements, to the effect, that the property
mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their judgment, worth
the sums specified therein, that the same is the fair cash value
thereof, at the time, exclusive of liens and incumbrances ; which
oath the justice is authorized to administer and attest when taken 
and subscribed by the appraisers.
SEc. 28. When any property shall be sold subject to liens and 
incumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liens and incumbrances,
and hold the property discharged from all claims of the defendant
in execution ; but the defendant may redeem the property within
one year after the sale thereof, paying to the purchaser, his heirs
or assigns, the purchase money with interest; when redeemed, the
purchaser shall have the growing crops, and shall not be respons­
ible for rents and profits, but he shall account for wastes. 
SEc. 29. When any property levied on remains unsold, it shall
be the duty of the sheriff, when he returns the execution, to return
the appraisement therewith, stating in his return, the failure to
sell, and the cause of the failure. 
SEc. 30. The lien of the levy upon the property shall con- 
. ·1 h d b . id d h 1 k l th •
tmue unti t e e t is pat , an t e c er , un ess o erwrse 
directed by the plaintiff, shall forthwith issue another execution,
reciting the return of the former execution, the levy and failure
to sell, and directing the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the
property unsold, if the same is sufficient, if not, then out of any
other property of the debtor, subject to execution. 
SEc. 31. Whenever any property levied upon remains unsold
Hor want of buyers, the plaintiff may cause the same to be re-offered 
ut any time before the return day of the execution, at his cost, as
often as he may direct, but in case of the sale of the property, the 
costs of such offer and sale shall be taxed against the defendant ; 
each party may have one re-valuation of the property, at his
costs, after the first offer to sell. 
SEC. 32. Property conveyed by a debtor with intent to hinder,
delay or defraud creditors, shall be sold without appraisement. 
SEc. 33. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment
r:i~~"o?;'1:}against the body of any execution debtor, except in cases of fraud 
and personal injuries. Provided, That the defendant in execu­
tion, shall present under oath a. schedule, containing all of his 
property, money, rights and credits. 
SEc. 84. Nothing in this act, shall affect debts contracted
before the passage of the same ; and that this act shall take effect 
and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved, February 4th, 1857. "[Translation.] 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
REPLEVIN, 
.11ct of December, 1847. Pamphlet, p. 413. 
SECTION 1. Any person having a right to the immediate
possession of any goods or chattels, wrongfully taken or wrong­
fully detained, may bring an action of replevin for the recovery
thereof, and for damages sustained by reason of the unjust caption
or detention thereof. 
SEc. 2. No cross replevin, or replevin for property in the
hands of an officer shall be brought. 
SBc. 3. Before the writ of replevin be issued, the plaintiff, or
some creditable person in his stead, shall file in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court an affidavit alleging that the plaintiff is
lawfully entitled to the possession of the property mentioned in
the declaration, that the same was wrongfully taken, or wrong­
fully detained by the defendant, and that the right of action
accrued within one year. 
SBC. 4. The plaintiff, or some responsible person shall, before
the execution of the writ, enter into bond with sufficient securities, 
to the officer to whom the writ is directed, in double the value of
the property, conditioned for the prosecution of the suit with effect,
and without delay make return of the property if a. return is
adjudged, keep harmless the officer and pay all costs that may
accrue. 
SBc. 5. The writ shall be executed by delivering the goods
and chattels in the declaration mentioned, to the plaintiff', and by
summoning the defendant to appear on the return of the writ, to
answer the action of the plaintiff. 
SBc. 6. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of the 
premises charged against him, and this plea. will put in issue, not
only the rightful ownership of the property mentioned in the
declarsti on, but also the wrongful ta.king and detention thereof. 
SEc. 7. In case the plaintiff fails to prosecute his suit with
effect, and without delay, judgment shall be given for the defend­ 
ant and shall be entered against the/la.intiff and his securities for
the va.lne of the property taken, an double damages for the use 
of the same from the time of delivery, and it shall be in the option
of the defendant to take back such property or the assessed value 
thereof. 
SBc. 8. If such property be not returned and accepted within
thirty days after the judgment, the sheriff shall collect the assessed 
value thereof from the plaintiff and his securities, as on other
executions. 
SBc. 9. Any officer demnified by the execution of a. writ of
replevin, may maintain an action therefor on the bond by him 
taken. 
SEc. 10. The defendant may, for any violation of the bond,
bring an action thereon in the name of the officer for his use. 
Snc. 11. The sheriff for failing to take bond, or for taking
insufficient bond from the plaintiff, shall be responsible on his 
official bond for all damages sustained thereby, recoverable by
action of debt in the name of the party injured. 
CRAFTER XXXVI. 
AN ACT TO RESTRAIN GAMING. 
Be it enacted by the Legislative ..i.asembly of lite 1'erritory
of New Mexico: 
SECTION 1. Any person who shall lose ~ny money or property
at any game at cards, or at any gambling device, may recover the
same by action of debt, if money ; if property, by action of 
trouer, repieuin. or detinue.
SBc. 2. In such action it shall be sufficient for the plaintiff 
to declare generally as in actions for debt for money had and 
received for the plaintiff's use, or as in actions of trouer or 
detinue for a. supposed finding and the detaining or converting
the property of the plaintiff to the use of the defendant whereby
an action hath accrued to the plaintiff. 
SBc. 3. The wife, children, heirs, executors, administrators
and creditors of the person losing, may have the same remedy
aga.iitst the winner as provided in the preceding section. 
S 4 All · d · · b d bill 
EC. • JU gments, securities, on s, 1 s, notes or con-
veyances, when the consideration is money or property won at 
gambling, or at any game or gambling device, shall be void; and
may be set aside or vacated by any court of equity upon a bill
filed for that purpose, by the person so granting, giving, entering
into, or executing the same or by any creditor or by his executors,
administrators, or by any heir, purchaser or other persons inter­ 
ested therein. 
SEc. 5. The assignment of any bond, bill, note, judgment,
conveyance, or other security, shall not effect the defence of the 
person executing the same.
SEc. 6. If any minor, servant or apprentice shall lose any 
money or property in any grocery, store or dram-shop by betting
at cards, or any other gambling device, or by any other bet,
wager or hazard whatever, the father, mother, relations or
guardian of such minor, or the master of such apprentice or
servant may sue for and recover from the keeper of such grocery,
store or dram-shop, such money or property or the value thereof,
so lost by such minor, apprentice or servant. 
SEc. 7. Any matter of difference, under this act, may be
specially pleaded or given in evidence under the general issue. 
SEc. 8. In all suits under this act, before a justice of the 
h l · 'ff 11 · h d f d h 
peace, t e p ainti may ca m t e e en ant to answer on oat
any interrogatory touching the case ; and if the defendant refuse
to answer, the same shall be taken as confessed. 
SEc. 9. Such answer shall not be admitted against such
person as evidence in any criminal proceeding. 
SE~. l_O. Bets and '!fagers ~n an election authorized by t~e
Constitution and laws of the United States or by the laws of this 
Territory, are gaming within. the meaning of this act.
SEc. 11. Every stakeholder who shall knowingly receive any 
money or property, staked upon any betting declared gaming by
the provisions of this act, shall be liable to the party who placed 
such money or property in his hands, both before and after the
determination of such bet, and the delivery of the money or pro­
perty to the winner, shall be no defence to an action brought by
the loser for the recovery thereof. Provided, That no stake­
holder shall be liable afterwards, unless a demand has been made
upon such stakeholder, for the money or property in his possession,
previous to the expiration of the time agreed upon by the parties
for the determination of such bet or wager. 
SEc. 12. Any creditor to any person losing by any game a.t
cards or any other gambling device, in addition to the remedy
provided by the third section of this act, shall have the right to 
I 
garnishee the winner in any proceeding by attachment or execu­
tion, and the same proceeding shall be had thereon as if such
winner were a. debtor of the party losing to the amount of money,
property, rights or credits, that may appear to have been so won 
by said winner from the party losing.
SEC. 13. Any action for money or property brought under 
this act, shall be commenced within one year from the time such
action accrued, and not afterwards. 
SEC. 14. All persons who shall claim money or property lost
a.t gaming, or when said money or property may be claimed by 
his wife, child, relation, or friend, said person, although he may
ha.ve gambled, is hereby exempted from the punishment imposed
by the laws prohibiting and restraining gaming. 
Sec. 15. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this
act are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect from and 
after its passage.
Approved, January 24th, 1857. [Translation.] 
CHAPTER XXXVIl •. 
AN ACT CREATING THE ACTION OF ACCOUNT RENDER. 
Be it enacted by the Legislative .!l.ssembly of the Territory
of New Mexico: 
SECTION 1. That from and after the passage of this act, when
any partner of a joint partnership business shall refuse or neg­
lect, at the request of any other partner, to come to a settlement
with him or them, of the affairs of said joint partnership busi­
ness, it shall be lawful for any member of said firm to present a
petition to the district judge, in vacation or term time, stating,
under oath, the name and nature of the firm, and that one or
more of said partners refuses or neglects to come to a. settlement
concerning such partnership business, asking said district judge
to appoint three competent auditors to adjust the accounts between
the said partners. 
SEc. 2. The said judge shall, upon presentation of said peti-
tion aforesaid, appoint three suitable persons to adjust the accounts 
between said partners. They shall appoint the time and place of
meeting, of which they shall give due notice to the parties inter­
ested, and shall have power to compel the presence of witnesses
and the production of books and papers, by subpoena, in the same
manner as courts of record. At the time of meeting, the audit­
ors shall proceed to examine the partnership accounts, and, if they
shall deem the same to be necessary, may take the testimony of the
parties in interest, under oath, touching the said accounts ; and
the said auditors shall report all their proceedings to the next
term of the district court. 
811:c. 3. If either party is dissatisfied with the report of said
auditors, he shall file exceptions to the same and appeal to the 
district court within five days after the report shall have been
filed ; otherwise the said report shall be confirmed by said court,
and shall be final and conclusive in the matter. 
SEc. 4. The auditors shall receive two dollars per day each
for each day's attendance, and witnesses shall be entitled to the 
same fees 88 when in attendance before the district court. All
costs shall follow the determination of the proceedings 88 in other 
C88eB. 
SBc. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. 
Approved, J a.nuary 30th, 1856. [Translation.] 