Sec. 1. There shall be in this territory but one form of civil action for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the recdress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be the same at law and in equity.

Sec. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

Sec. 3. When a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be
tried; and such order shall e the only authority necessary
for a trial.

SEC. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of A
the real party in interest. except as otherwise provided in this 
act; but in suits brought by the assrgnee of an account, unliquidated demand, or thing in action not arising out of com A
tract, the assignor shall not be a witness on behalf of the:
plaintiff.

SEC. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, 8
the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any;
set-off or other defense, existing at the time of, or before notice
of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred in good
faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 6. An executor or administrator, trustee of an express A
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may 8116a
without joining with him the person or persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust
within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include
a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for
the benefit of another.

SEC. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband ,
shall be joined with her; except, that when the action con- r
cerns her separate property, she may sue alone; when thei.I
action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be
sued alone.

SEC. 8. If a husband and wife is [are] sued together, the 1
wife may defend for her own right.

SEC. 9. When an infant is a arty, he shall appear by I
guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the t
action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a probate judge.

SEC. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as ollows: First. 6
When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, ’1
if he be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under that age, F
upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant.
Second. When the infant is defendant, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within ten days after the service of the summons; if he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.

SEC. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of 1
his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury c
or death of a child ; and a guardian for the injury or death of
his ward.

SEC. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of l
the action, and obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined J
as laintiffs, except when otherwise provided in this act. ‘

SEC. 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has,

or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination
or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
.in interest shall be joined as plaintiffs, or defendants; but if
the consent of any one, who should have been joined as plaintiff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question
is one of a common or general interest, of many persons, or
when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for
the benefit of all.

SEC. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, be included in the same action,

at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 16. An action shall not abate by the death, or other
disability of the party, or by the transfer of any interest therein,"
if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the
death, or other disability, of a party, the court, on motion, may
allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of
interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

SEC. 17. The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without
the presence of other parties, the court shall order them to be
brought in.

TITLE II.

PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in
the county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to change
the place of trial, as provided in this act: First. For the recovery of real property, or mining claims, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such
right or interest, or for injuries to real property. Second.
For the partition of real property. Third. For the foreclosure
of a mortgage of real property, . °

SEC. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried 1n
the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject
to the like power of the court to change the place of trial’:
First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county
bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and op osite to the
place where the offense was committed.‘ Second). Against a
public ofiicer, or person especially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his oflice, or against
a person who, by his command, or in his aid, does anything
touching the duties of such oilicer.

SEC. 20. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the.
county in which the parties, or some of them, reside at the1
commencement of the action; or, if none of the parties reside
in the territory, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintiff may designate in his complaint, subject, however,
to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided in this act.

SEC. 21. The court may, on motion, change the place of ,
trial in the following cases: First. When the county designated
in the complaint is not the proper county. Second. When
there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein. Third. When the convenience of witnesses, and the
ends of justice, would be promoted by the change. Fourth.
When, from any cause, the judge is disqualified from acting in
the action.

TITLE III.
MANNER or COMMENCING ACTIONS.

SEC. 22. Civil actions in the district court, and the probate
courts, shall be commenced by the filing of a com laint with
the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, and the:
issuing of a summons thereon; provided, that, after the filing
of the complaint, a defendant in the action may appear, answer
or demur, whether the summons has been issued or not, and
such appearance, answer or demurrer, shall be deemed a waiver
of summons.

SEC. 23. The clerk shall indorse on the complaint the day, ,
month and year the same is filed ; and, at any time within one ‘
year after the filing of the same, the plaintiff may issue, or
cause to be issued, a summons therein. l‘he summons shall be
issued and signed by the clerk, or the attorney of the plaintiff, 1
and directed to the defendant, and when issued by the clerk, to
be issued under the seal of the court. '

SEC. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action, ‘
the court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the action, and

'require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint,
within the time mentioned in the next section, after the service
of summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that judgment
by default will be taken against him, according to the pra er
of the complaint, briefly stating the sum of money or ot er
relief demanded in the complaint.

SEC. 25. The time in which the summons shall require the
defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: First.
If the defendant is served within the county in which the action
is brought, ten days. Second. If the defendant is served out
of the county, but in the district in which the action is brought,
twenty days. Third. In all other cases, forty days.

SEC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a
notice, in substance as follows: First. In an action arising on
contract for the recovery only of money or damages, that the
plaintiff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint. Second. In other
actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, the
plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein.

SEC. 27. In an action affecting the title to real property,
the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time
afterwards, may file with the recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, a notice, of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties, the object of the action,
and a description of the property in that county affected
thereby. From the time of filing, only, shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer
of the property affected thereby.

SEC. 28. The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the
county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by
a person specially appointed by him, or appointed by a judge
of the court in whic the action is brought, or by any white
male citizen of the United States, over twenty-one years of
age. When the summons is served by the sheriff or his de uty,
it shall be returned with the certificate or affidavit of the oflicer,
to the office of the clerk where the complaint is filed. When
the summons is served by any other. person, as before provided,
it shall be returned to the office of the clerk, with the affidavit
of such person of its service.

SEC. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a
' copy thereof, as follows: First. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation,
secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof. Second. If
against a minor, under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or, if
there be none within the territory, then to any person having
the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or
in whose service he is em loyed. Third. If against a person
judicially declared to be ogunsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, to such guardian. Fourth. In all other cases, to
the defendant rsonally.

SEC. 30. hen the person on whom the service is to be
made, resides out of the territory, or has de arted from the
territory, or cannot, after due diligence, be ound within the

territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons,
and the fact shall appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the
court, or a judge thereof, or a probate judge, and it shall, in
like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against the
defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that
he is a necessary or proper party to the action, such court or
judge may grant an order that the service be made by publication of the summons.

SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made
in a newspaper to be designated, as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as may
be deemed reasonable, at least once a week; provided, that the
publication against a defendant, being or residing either in the
states of California or Oregon, or territories of Utah or \Vashington, shall not be less than one month; and against a defendant residing out of this territory, or absent therefrom, or out
of either of the states of California or Oregon, or territories of
Utah or Washington, shall not be less than three months. In
case of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the court or 'udge shall also direct
a copy of the summons and complaint to e forthwith deposited
in the post office, directed to the person to be served, at his
place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal
service of a co y of the summons and complaint, out of the
territory, shall e equivalent to publication and deposit in the

ost office. In either case, the service of the summons shall

(3 deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for
the direct payment of money, the court, in its discretion, may,
instead of ordering publication, or may, after publication,
appoint an attorney to appear for the non-resident, absent or
concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on his part.

SEC. 32. Where the action is against two or more defend
ants, and the summons is served on one-or more, but not on
all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows: First. If the
action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the
court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be
entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far
onl as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all,
andy the separate property of the defendant served; or, Second.
If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as
if they were the only defendants.

SEC. 38. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as
follows: First. If served by the sheriff or his de )uty, the affrdavit or certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or, éecond. If by
any other person, his affidavit thereof; or, Third. In case of
publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, showing the same; and an atlidavit of a deposit

of a copy of the summons in the ost oilice, if the same shall
have been deposited; or, Fourth. be written admission of the
defendant.

SEC. 34. In case of service otherwise than b publication,
the certihcatc or ailidavit shall state the time an place of the
servxce.

SEC. 35. From the time of the service of the summons in a
civil action, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him.

TITLE IV.
PLEADINGS.

'9

SEC. 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the
parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment
of the court.

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be
determined, shall be those prescribed in this act.

SEC. 38. The only leadings on the part of the plaintiff

' shall be the com laint, demurrer, or replication to the defendant’s answer, an the only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be a demurrer to the complaint, or a demurrer to the
replication, or an answer to the complaint. The demurrer or
answer of the defendant, and the demurrer or replication of the
plaintiff, shall be filed with the clerk, and acopy thereof served
on the adverse party, or his attorney.

SEC. 39. The complaint shall contain—First. The title of
the action, specifying the name of the court and the name of
the county in which the action is brought, and the names of
the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant, and shall be
addressed to a court of law or equity, as the case may be.
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language. Third. A demand
of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If the recovery of
money, or damages, he demanded, the amount thereof shall be
stated.

SEC. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within
the time required in the summons to answer, when it a pears
upon the face thereof, either—First. That the court as no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of
the action; or, Second. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity
to sue; or, Third. That there is another action pending between
the same parties for the same cause ; or, Fourth. That there is
a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,
Fifth. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or, Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts

suflicient to constitute a cause of action; or, Seventh. That the
complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or uncertain.

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the ground :
upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken.
Unless it do so, it may be disregarded.

SEC. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, ,
or to one or more of several causes of action stated therein,‘
and answer the residue ; or may demur and answer at the same
time.

SEC. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of the
amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion, ‘
require the complaint as amended to be tiled, and a copy of
the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be
affected thereby, or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by
attorne ; the defendant shall answer in such time as may be
ordere by the court, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases.

SEC. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section,
forty, do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objec- ?
tion may be taken by answer.

SEC. 45. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer.
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the ‘
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain—First.
If the complaint be verified, a specific denial to each allegation 1
of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or a denial‘
thereof, according to his information and belief; if the complaint be not verified, then a general denial to each of such
allegations, but a general denial shall only put in issue the
material and express allegations of the complaint. Second. A
statement of any new matter or counter-claim, constituting a
defense, in ordinary and concise language. When the answer
contains new matter, constituting a defense, the plaintiff may,
within the same length of time allowed for answering, and
subject to the same rules, reply to such new matter; and if he
fail to do so, such new matter shall be taken as true, and
deemed roved at the trial. If new matter of set-off and
counter-c aim be set up in the answer, the reply may contain
matter of set-off and counterclaim, not embraced in the complaint. All new matter set up in the replication, shall be
deemed denied by the defendant.

SEC. 47. The counter-claim mentioned in the last section,‘
shall be one existing in favor of the defendant, and against a.
plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action: First. A cause of action arising out of the transaction
set forth in the complaint or answer, as the foundation of the
plaintiff’s claim, or defendant’s defense, connected with thesubject of the action. Second. In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action arising also upon contract, and
existing at the commencement of the action.

SEC. 48. “Then cross-demands have existed between persons, under such circumstances, that if one had brought an
action against the other, a counter-claim could have been set
up, neither shall be deprived of the bmefit thereof, by the
assignment or death of the other; but the two demands shall
be deemed compensated, so far as they e ual each other.

SEC. 49. The defendant may set fort by answer as many
defenses and counter-claims as he may have. They shall eac
be separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner
by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 50. \thn the answer contains new matter, the plaintiff may, within the number of days which the defendant is, by
the summons, required to answer, and days to be computed
from the time of the service on the plaintiff, of such answer,
demur to the same for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the
grounds thereof; and he may, also, within the same time, demur
to one or more defenses, set up in the answer, and the defendant may in like manner demur to the plaintiff’s replication.
Sham and irrelevant answers, replications, and defenses, and
so much of any answer or replication as may be irrelevant, redundant, or immaterial, may be stricken out on motion, and
upon such terms as the court in its discretion may impose.

SEC. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party,
I or his attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit,
' the answer and replication shall be verified also, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 52. The verification of the answer or replication, re.quired in the last section, may be omitted when an admission
of the truth of the complaint or answer might subject the
party to prosecution for felony or misdemeanor.

SEC. 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or
a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution
of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the
answer denying the same be verified.

SEC. 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a
written instrument, and a co y thereof is contained in the
answer, or a copy is annexed tiiereto, the genuineness and due
execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless
the replication denying the same be Verified.

SEC. 55. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the
affidavit of the party shall state that the same is true of his
own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein
stated on his information or belief, and as to those matters, that
he believes it to be true. And where a pleading is verified, it
shall be by the afiidavit of the party, unless he be absent from

the county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney, or other person verifying the same. ’ When the pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except the
party, he shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons why it is
not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made by an ocher thereof; or when the
territory, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a arty, the
verification may be made by any person acquainte with the
facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the attorney-general
or district attorne , in behalf of the territory, the pleadings need
not, in any case, he verified.

SEC. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth
in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he.
shall deliver to the adverse party, within five days after a
demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge
thereof, or a probate judge, may order a further account, when
the one delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.

SEC. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a
pleading, it may be stricken out by the court on motion of any
person aggrieved thereby.

SEC. 58. In an action for the recovery of real property,
such property shall be described, with its metes and bounds,
in the complaint.

SEC. 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination of
a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading
shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring
jurisdiction.

SEC. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
showing such performance; but it may be stated generally, that
the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and
if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading' shall
establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 61. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of whic the cause of action arose; but it
shall be sufficient to state generally, that the same was pub
lished or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such allegation
be controverted, the plaintiff shall establish on the trial that it
was so published or spoken. ‘

SEC. 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 64. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in
the same complaint, when they all arise out of——First. Contracts express or implied; or, Second. Claims to recover specific
real property, with or without damages for the withholding
thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and
profits of the same; or, Third. Claims to recover specific ersonal property, with or without damages for the withliol ing
thereof. Fourth. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contractor by operation of law; or, Fifth. Injuries to character;
or, Sixth. Injuries to person; or, Seventh. Injuries to property.
But the causes of action so united, shall all belong to one only.
of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the action,
and not require different places of trial, and shall be separately
stated; provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest
and prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an
action for either an injury to character or to the person.

SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint or
answer, when it is verified, not specifically controverted by the
answer or replication, shall, for the purpose of the action, be
taken as true. The allegation of new matter in the replication
shall, on trial, be deemed controverted.by the adverse party.

SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim, or defense, and which could not be stricken
from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

SEC. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on
! demurrer, either party may, within ten days, amend any pleading demurred to, of course, and without costs, filing the same,
as amended, and serving a copy thereof upon the adverse
party, or his attorney, who shall have ten days to answer,
reply, or demur thereto ; but a party shall not so amend more
than once. When a demurrer to a complaint or answer is
overruled, and there is no answer or replication tiled, the court
may, upon such terms as shall bejust, and upon payment of
costs, allow an answer or replication to be filed. If a demurrer to the replication be overruled, the facts alleged in the
replication shall still be considered as denied.

SEC. 68. The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
- such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedings, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect, and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer
filed. The court may, likewise, upon aHidavit showing good
cause therefor, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon

such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars, and may, upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this act;
and may, upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment
of costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from a
judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, when,
from any cause, the summons and a copv of the complaint in an
action have not been personally served on the defendant, the
court may allow, on such terms as may be just, such defendant,
or his legal representatives, at any time within six months after 
the rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the
merits of the original action.

SEC. 69. When the plaintiff is ignorant oft he name of a]
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading}
or proceeding by any name; and, when his true name is dis-n
covered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingl .

SEC. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the urpose;
of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally con-1
strued, with a View to substantial justice between the parties.

SEC. 71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, dis-;
regard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings;
which shall not affect the substantial rights of the parties; and
no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such
error or defect.

TITLE V.

CHAPTER I.—0f the Provisional Remedies in Civil Actions ,'
Arrest and Bail.

SEC. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except.
as prescribed by this act.

SEC. 73. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases, arising after the passage of
this act: First. In an action for the recovery of money or dam—
ages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or
implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the territory, with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action
is for willful injury to person, to character, or to pro erty.
knowing the property to belong to another. Second. D an
action/for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use by
a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney,
factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment
as such; or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for
misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment, or for a willful violation of duty. Third. In an action
to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, removed, or dis osed of, so that it cannot be found, or
taken by the sheriff. ourth. When the defendant has been
guilty of fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or conversion
of which the action is brought. Fifth. When the defendant
has removed or disposed of his property; or is about to do so,
with intent to defraud his creditors.

SEC. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall be
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or from a probate judge.

SEC. 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear
to the judge, by the afiidavit of the plaintiff, or some other
person, that a sufiicient cause of action exists, and that the case
is one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The ailidavit shall be either positive, or upon information and belief;
and, when upon information and belief, it shall state the facts
upon which the information and belief are founded. If an
order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the
clerk of the county.

SEC. 76. Before making the order, the judge shall require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sureties,
to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiff
will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which shall be at least dve hundred dollars. Each of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder, or freeholder, within the territory,
and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over
and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of ropert
exempt from execution. The undertaking shall be filled wit
the clerk of the court.

SEC. 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall require the sheriif of the county where the defendant may be
found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specided sum, and to return the order, at a time therein mentioned,
to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending.

SEC. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit
upon which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who,
upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of
the affidavit; and, also, if desired, a copy of the order of
arrest.

SEC. 79. The sheriff shall execute the order by arrestino'
Eheldefendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged

by law.

SEC. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall

be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon

depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 81. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written :
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufiicient sureties, '
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect
that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest, that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the court, during the pendency of
the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or that they will pay to the plaintiff the amount
of any judgment which may be recovered in the action.

SEC. 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days,
thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exon-l
eration; or, he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the
county where he was arrested.

SEC. 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail at any time or place before they are finally charged, I
may themselves arrest him ; or, by a written authority, indorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower the
sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of the defendant by the
sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or upon
his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated; provided,
such arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest, delivery,
or surrender, be not made within ten days after judgment, the
bail shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be
bound to pay the amount of the judgment within ten days
thereafter.

SEC. 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment.
within ten days after they are finally charged, an action may
be commenced against such bail for the amount of such original
judgment.

SEC. 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a territorial prison ; or‘
by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process.

SEC. 86. \Vithin the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff shall tile the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of
the court in which the action is pending, with his return
indorsed thereon; together with a copy of the undertaking of
the bail. The original undertaking he shall retain in his possession until tiled, as herein provided. The plaintiff, within
ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he
does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no
notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking
shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the
sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintiff, or his attorney,.
notice of the justification of the same, or other bail (specifying

the place of residence and occupation of the latter), before a
judge of the court, or probate judge, or county clerk, at a
specified time and place; the time to be not less than five, nor
more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties.
In case other bail be given, there shall be a new undertaking.
SEC. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:

First. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or
freeholder, within the county. Second. Each shall be worth
the amount 5 ecified in the order of arrest, or the amount to
which the order is reduced, as provided in this chapter, over
and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; but the judge, or county clerk, on
justification, may allow more than two sureties to justify severally, in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the
whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

SEC. 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, or county clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath,
on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the judge or county clerk, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing,
and subscribed b the bail, if required by the plaintiff.

SEC. 90. If t c judge, or clerk, find the bail sufficient, he
shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his
allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the sheriff
shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter [of this act], the defendant
may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either case,
the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit
made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 92. The sheriff shall, immediately after the deposit,
pay the same into court, and take from the clerk receiving the
same, two ccrtihcates of such payment; the one of which he
shall deliver or transmit to the plaintiff, or his attorney, and
the other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond
of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of
delinquency. .

SEC. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last
two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice,
at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and justification with the clerk, the money deposited
shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 94. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in
favor of the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of
the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof; and, after

satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the
defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the
clerk Sh'ill, under like direction of the court, refund to him
the whole sum de osited and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 95. If, a ter being arrested, the defendant escape or
be rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail; but he
may discharge himself from such liability by the giving and
justification of bail, at any time before udgment.

SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff,
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be
had on his official bond, for the recovery of the whole or any
deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time before

justification of bail, apply to the judge who made the order, or
the court in which the action is pending, upon reasonable
notice to the plaintiff to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
may oppose the same by aflidavits or other proofs, in addition
to those on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 98. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily
appear that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the
order shall be vacated; or, if it satisfactorily appear that the
bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be. reduced.

CHAPTER II.— Claims for Delivery of Personal Property.

SEC. 99. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such
property to him, as provided in this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing—First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to
the possession thereof. Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Third. The alleged cause of
the detention thereof, according to his best knowledge, information and belief. Fourth. That the same has not been taken
for a tax, assessment or due, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution, or an attachment against the property of
the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure. Fifth. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 101. The plaintiff or his attorney may thereupon, by
an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff
of the county where the property claimed may be, to take the
same from the defendant.

SEC. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit, and notice, with.
a written undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sure- ‘
ties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound

to the defendant in double the value of the property as stated
in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return
of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may from any
cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the afiidavit, if it be in
the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in
his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his
agent, from Whose possession the property is taken, or if neither
can be found, by leaving them at the usual lace of abode of
either, with some erson of suitable age an discretion, or if
neither have any nown place of' abode, by putting them in
the nearest post-ofiice, directed to the defendant.

SEC. 103. The defendant may, within two days after serv-ice of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to

the sheriff that he excepts to the sufiiciency of the sureties.
If he failsto do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties
shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest ;
and the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties, until the objection to them is either waived, as above
provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to
the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the
next section.

SEC. 104. At an time before the delivery of the property
to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving
to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, asstated in the aflidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may,
for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within five days after the
taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in section one hundred
and nine.

SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaint, iff of not less than two, nor more than five days, shall justify

before a judge or county clerk, in the same manner as upon
bail on arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. ' The sheriff shall be
reSponsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or
until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time ; but if they, or others
in their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. ‘

SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties, and their justification, shall be such as are prescribed by this act in respect t01
bail upon an order of arrest. . ‘

SEC. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed .
in a building or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its;
delivery ; if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or
inclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his
possession, and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the power
of the county.

SEC. 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as,
in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and 
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the
same.

SEC. 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other.
person than the defendant, or his agent, and such person make I
affidavit of his title thereto, or right of possession thereof, ‘
stating the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same ‘
upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such
claim, by an undertaking, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the
value of the property, as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or houseolders of the county ; and no claim to such property, by any
other person than the defendant, or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff, unless so made.

SEC. 110. The sheriff shall file the notiCe, undertaking and
affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein. CHAPTER IIl.-—Ivy'unctz'ons.

SEC. 111. An injunction is a writ, or order, requiring a
person to refrain from a particular act. The order,‘or writ,
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought,
or by the judge thereof, or by a probate judge; and when
made by ajudge, may be enforced as the order of the court.

SEC. 112. An injunction may be granted in the following
cases: First. When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually. Second. When it shall appear by the complaint
or aflidavit, that the commission or continuance of some act
during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury
to the plaintiff. Third. then it shall appear during the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or is procuring, or sud‘ering to be done, some act in violation

of the plaintiff’s rights, respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.

SEC. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of
issuing the summons upon the complaint; and, at any time
afterwards, before judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint,
in the one case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefor. N o injunction
shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by the
oath of the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person making the oath, has read the complaint, or heard the com
plaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same is
true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated
on information and belief, and that, as to those matters, he be
lieves it to be true. When granted on the com laint, a copy
of the complaint, and verification attached, shall e served with
the injunction; when granted upon affidavit, a copy of the
affidavit shall be served with the injunction.

SEC. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an ‘order
to show cause; but, in such case, the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court or judge granting or refusing
the injunction.

SEC. 115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge
shall require, except where the people of the territory are a
party plaintiff, a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will
pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an
amount to be specified, as such arty may sustain by reason of
the injunction, if the court final y decide that the plaintiff was
not entitled thereto.

SEC. 116. If the court or judge deem it pro er that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should be card before
granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause
to be shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.

SEC. 117. An injunction to suspend the general and ‘ordinary business of a corporation, shall not be granted, except by
the court; nor shall it be granted without due notice of the
application therefor to the proper officers of the corporation,
except when the people of this territory are a party to the proceeding. .

SEC. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice, to the judge who granted the injunction, or to the
court in which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the
same. The application may be made upon the complaint and
the affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or upon afiidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.
If the application be made upon affidavit on the part of the

defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same
by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which
the injunction was granted.

SEC. 119. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appear
that there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall
be dissolved; or if it satisfactoril y appear that the extent of the
injunction is too great, it shall be modified.

CHAPTER IV.-Attachment.

SEC. 120. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons,
or any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant
attached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that
may be recovered, unless the defendant give securit to pay
such judgment, in the following cases: First. Where the
debtor is not a resident of this territory. Second. When the
debtor has absconded or absented himself from his usual place
of abode, or is about to abscond or absent himself, so that the
ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him. Third.
When the debtor conceals himself, so that the ordinary process
of law cannot be served upon him. Fourth. Where the debtor
has removed, or is about to remove, any of his property or
effects out of the territory, to the injury of his creditors, or
with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud them. Fifth.
Where the debtor has fraudulently conveyed, assigned, or
otherwise disposed of, or is about to fraudulently convey,
assign, or otherwise dispose of his property or effects, with the
intent to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors. Sixth. “7 here
the debtor has fraudulently concealed, or is about to fraudulently conceal his roperty or effects, with the intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud is creditors. Seventh. Where the debtor
fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation
respecting which the suit is brought.

SEC. 121. The clerk of the court shall issue the writ of
attachment ,upou receiving‘an affidavit by or on behalf of the
plaintiff, which shall be filed, showing—First. That the
defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum (specifying the amount of such indebtedness), over and above all legal
set-offs, or counter claims, upon a contract express or implied,
for the direct payment of money, and that such contract was
made, or is payable in this territory, and that the payment of
the same has not been secured by any mortgage on real or
personal property. Second. That the deponent has good
reason to believe, and does believe, that one or more of the
causes set forth in the several subdivisions of the next preceding section, actually exists at the time of making the affidavit reciting the facts upon which such belief is founded.

SEC. 122. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, in a sum not
less than two hundred dollars, nor exceeding the amount
claimed by the plaintiff, with sufhcient sureties to the effect,

that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the attachment
should be dismissed, the laintiff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendhnt, and all damage which he may
sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking.

SEC. 123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any

fcounty in which property of such defendant may be, and
require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such
defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or so
much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiffs
demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity
with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security by
the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs; in which case

’ to take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the
same time, to sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 124. The rights or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation or company, together with
the interest and profits thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and all other property in this territory of such defendant,
not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment
be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered, shall execute the same without delay; and if the
undertaking mentioned in section one hundred and twentythree be not given, as follows—First. Real property shall be
attached by leaving a copy of the writ with the occupant
thereof; or if there be no occupant, by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place thereon, and filing a cop ', together with a
description of the ropcrty attached, with tie recorder of the
county. Second. ersonal property, capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by taking it into custody, Third. Stock
or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or
company, shall be attached by leaving with the president, or
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing
agent thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice stating the stock
or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such
writ. Fourth. Debts and credits, and other personal property,
not ca able of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving
with t e erson owing such debts, or having in his possession,
or under liis control, such credits or other personal property, a.
copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by him to
the defendant, or the credits and other personal property in his
possession or under his control, belonging to the defendant, are
attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the
plaintiff, or his attorney, that any person has in his ossession,

[or under his control, any credits or other ersona propert
belonging to the defendant, or is owing any dhbt to the defend:
ant, the sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of the

writ, and a notice that such credits, or other propert or debts,
as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of suc writ.

SEC. 127. All persons having in their possession, or under
their control, any credits or other ersonal property belonging
to the defendant, or owmg any debts to the defendant at the
time of service upon them of a copy of the writ and notice, as

rovided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such property
be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the
sheriff, liable to the plaintiff for the amount of such credits,
property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any
judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

SEC. 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or
having in his possession, or under his control, any credits or
other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be
required to attend before the court or judge, or a referee
appointed by the court or judge, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his
property, and may be examined on oath. The court or judge
may, after such examination, order personal property capable
of manual delivery to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms
as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims
against the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other
personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.

SEC. 129. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the
pro erty attached, and return the same with the writ. To
ena le him to make such- return as to debts and credits
attached, he shall request, at the time of service, the party
owing the debt, or having the credit, to give him a memorandum, stating the amount and description of each; and if such
memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum,
may be required to pay the costs of any proceedings taken for
‘ the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amount and
description of such debt or credit.

SEC. 130. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which such:
preperty is sold on execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be retained by him to answer any
judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done
without suit. The sheriff ’s receipt shall be asufflcient discharge for the amount paid.

SEC. 131. If any personal property attached be claimed by;
a third person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury f
of six men to try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be had thereon, with the like effect, as in a case of
a claim after levy u )on execution.
SEC. 132. If ju gment be recovered by the plaintiff, the
1sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the roperty attached by
him which has not been delivered to the (lhfendant, or a claimant, as herein before provided, or subjected to-execution on
another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose—First. By paying
to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property
sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so
much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment. Second.
If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so
'much of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to
satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remai in his
hands. Notices of the sales shall be given, and the seilbs conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 133. If, after selling all the property attached by him
remaining in his hands, and applying the roceeds, together
with the proceeds of any debts or credits col eeted by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance
shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the
judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable
demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property
attached unap lied on the judgment.

SEC. 134. f the execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole

1 or in part, plaintiff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to section one hundred and twenty-three, or section one
hundred and thirty-seven, or he may proceed as in other cases
upon the return of an execution.

SEC. 135. If the defendant recover judgment against the

t plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached, remaining in the sheriff ’s hands, shall be
delivered to the defendant or his agent; the order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

SEC. 136. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in

' the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
to the court in which the action is pending, or to the judge
thereof, or to a probate judge, for an order to discharge the
same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the
next section; and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached remaining in his hands, shall be released
from the attachment, and delivered to the defendant upon the
justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required by
the plaintiff.

SEC. 137. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the court or judge, an undertaking executed by at least
two sureties, residents and freeholders or householders in the
county, to the effect that the sureties will, on demand, pay to
the plaintiff the amount of any judgment that may be recovered in favor of the plaintiff in the action, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be sufficient to
satisfy the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint,
and the costs. The sureties may be required to justify, on such
application before the judge or court, and the property attached
shall not be released from the attachment without their ustifio
cation, if the same be required.

SEC. 138. In all cases, when property or effects have been
attached, the defendant, or any creditor of the defendant interested, may file a plea in the nature of a plea in abatement,
under oath, putting in issue the truth of the facts alleged in
the affidavit on which the attachment was sued out.

SEC. 139. Upon such issue, the plaintiff shall be held to
prove that the facts alleged by him in said affidavit, as the
grounds of the attachment, existed at the time of the issuance
of the writ of attachment.

SEC. 140. If the issue be found against the plaintiff, the
attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the laintiff, and
his sureties shall thereafter be liable upon the hon for all damages sustained by the defendant, in consequence of the issuing
of the attachment.

SEC. 141. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise,
within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his
proceedings indorsed thereon, or attached thereto.

CHAPTER V.——Deposz't in Court.

SEC. 142. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or which belongs, or is due, to another party,
the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in
court, or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may
be just, subject to the further direction of the court.

SEC. 143. A receiver may be appointed by the court in
which the action is pending, or by a judge thereof—First.
Before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either
party, when he establishes a prima facz'e right to the property,
or to an interest in the property which is the subject of the
action, and which is in possession of an adverse part , and the
property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of eiug lost
or materially injured or impaired. Second. After judgment,
to dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pending of an appeal. And, Third. In

TITLE VI.

CHAPTER I.—Trz'al and Judgment.

SEC. 144. A judgment is the Iinal determination of the
rights of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be
entered in term or vacation.

SEC. 145. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case
requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
side, as between themselves.

SEC. 146. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or
more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment is proper.

SEC. 147. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no
answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded
in his complaint; but, in any other case, the court may grant
him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint
and embraced within the issue. ,

SEC. 148. An action maybe dismissed, orjudgment of nonsuit entered, in the following cases: First. By the plaintiff
himself, at any time before trial, upon the payment of costs, if
a counter-claim has not been made. If a provisional remedy
has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered
by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action thereon.
Second. By either party, upon the written consent of the other.
Third. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on the
trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.
Fourth. By the court, when, upon the trial, and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintiff abandons it. Fifth.
By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when, upon the
trial, the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury.
The dismissal in the first two subdivisions shall be made by an
entry in the clerk’s register. Judgment may thereupon be
entered accordingly.

SEC. 149. In every case other than those mentioned in the
last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER II.—.Judgment upon Failure to Answer.

SEC. 150. Judgment may be bad, if the defendant fail to
answer, as follows: First. In an action arising upon contract
for the recovery of money or damages only, if no answer has
been filed with the clerk of the court within the time specified
in the summons, or such further time as may have been granted,
the clerk, upon application of the plaintiff, shall enter the

default of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section thirty-two.
Second. In the other actions, if no answer has been filed with
the clerk of the court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as may have been granted, the clerk shall
enter the default of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintiff
may apply, at the first, or any subsequent term of the court,
for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to enable the
court to give judgment, or to carry thejudgmentinto effect, the
court may take the account, or hear the proof, or may, in its
discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the
action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the
court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or, if,
to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long
account be necessary, by a reference, as above provided. Third.
In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time designated
in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication,
and that no answer has been filed, apply for judgment; and
the court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the
demand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be
not a resident of the territory, shall require the plaintiff, or his
agent, to be examined on oath respecting any payments that
have been made to the laintiff, or to any one for his use, on
account of such demand? and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover.

CHAPTER III.——0f Issues, and the manner of their disposition.

SEC. 151. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of lawis maintained by the one party and controverted by the other..
Issues are of two kinds—First. Of law. Second. Of fact.

SEC. 152. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint or answer [or] to some part thereof.

SEC. 153. An issue of fact arises—First. Upon a material,
allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer. Second.

Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue of law is
joined therein.

SEC. 154. An issue of law shall be tried by the court“
unless it be referred, upon assent, as provided in chapter sixl
of this title.

SEC. 155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unlessg
a jury trial is waived, or a reference ordered, as provided in
this act. Where there are issues, both of law and fact, to the
same complaint, the issues of law shall be first disposed of.

SEC. 156. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of
the court according to the date of the issue. Causes once,
placed on the calendar, for a general or special term, if not

tried or heard at such term, shall remain upon the calendar

,from court to court until finally disposed of.

SEC. 157. Either party may bring the issue to trial, or tea

L hearing, and, in the absence of the adverse party, unless the
court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

SEC. 158. A motion to postpone a trial, on the ground of
the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon aflidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be
obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure it.
The‘court may also require the movmg party to state upon
aflidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the
adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be
given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trlal,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed.

ARTICLE I.—Formation of the Jury.

SEC. 159. When the action is called for trial byjury, the
clerk shall prepare separate ballats, containing the names of
the jurors summoned who havepppeared and not been excused,
and deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from the box
twelve names, and the persons whose names are drawn shall
constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before
thejury is complete, or if, from any cause, ajuror orjurors be
excused or discharged, the sherill' shall summon, under the
direction of the court, from the citizens of the county, and not
from bystanders, so many qualitied persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve
persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than three. Such
consent shall be entered by the clerk in the minutes of the
trial.

SEC. 160. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or
“affirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance,
that they each of them will well and truly try the matter in
issue between —- the plaintiff, and —— the defendant, ;
and a true verdict render according to the evidence.

SEC. 161. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when
there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a
challenge before it can be made. The challenges shall be to
individual jurors, and shall either be peremptory, or for cause.
Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

SEC. 162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or
more of the following grounds: First. A want. of any of the
qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror. Second. Consanguinity or affinity within the
third degree to either party. Third. Standing in the relation

of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk,
or principal and agent, to either party; or being a member of
the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party ; or being security on any bond or obligation for either
party. Fourth. Having served as a juror or been a Witness
on a previous trial between the same parties for the same cause
of action. Fifth. Interest on the part of the juror in the
event of the action, or in the main question involved in the
action, except the interest of the juror as a member or citizen
of a municipal corporation. Sixth. Having formed or
expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of
the action. Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in the
juror evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

SEC. 163. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court.
The juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined
as a witness on the trial of the challenge.

ARTICLE II.—Conduct of the Trial.

SEC. 164. If, after the empanneling of the jury, and before
verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his
duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that case,
the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or a new jury may
be sworn, and the trial begin. anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empanneled.

SEC. 165. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them
all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their verdict; and, if it state the testimony of
the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact. The court shall furnish to
either party, at the time, upon request, a statement in writing
of the points of law contained in the charge ; or shall sign, at
the time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted
by the counsel of either party.

SEC. 166. After hearing the charge, the jury may either
decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they
shall be kept together in a room provided for them, or some
other convenient place, under the charge of one or more oilicers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by
 the court. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep
the jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not
suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict; and, he shall not, before the
verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 167. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may
take with them all papers (except depositions) which have been
received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers as
ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the
person having them in possession; and they may also take

with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the
trial, taken by themselves or any of them; but none taken by
any other person.

SEC. 168. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the
testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law
arising in the cause, they may require the ofiicer to conduct
them into court. Upon their being brought into court, the
information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the parties or counsel.

SEC. 169. In all cases where a ury are discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident, or other
cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried immediately, or
at a future time, as the court may direct.

SEC. 170. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn,
'from time to time, in respect to other business; but, it shall
nevertheless be deemed open for every purpose connected with
the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered. or
the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury to bring
in asealed verdict, at the opening of the court, in case of an
agreement during a recess, or adjournment for the day. A
final adjournment of the court fdr the term shall discharge the
jury.

SEC. 171. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they shall be conducted into court by the officer having them in
charge. Their names shall then be called, and they shall be
asked by the court, or clerk, whether they have agreed upon,
their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the aliirmative,
they shall, on being required, declare the same.

SEC. 172. If the verdict be informal, or insufficient in not
covering the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may
be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the Court, or the
jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 173. When the verdict is given, and is not informal
or insufficient, the clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in
the minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them
whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury
shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed,
the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be discharged
from the case.

ARTICLE I II.—T}ze Verdict.

SEC. 174. The verdict of a jury is‘either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally
upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or
defendant; 8. special verdict is that by which thejury find the
facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. The special
verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as established by
the evidence, and not theevidence to prove them; and those

conclusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall
remain to the ecurt but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 175. In an action for the recovery of money only, or:
specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render
a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or
any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of
fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special finding or verdict shall be filed with the
clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment
accordingly.

SEC. 176. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in an .
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when:
a counter-claim for the recovery of money is established, ‘
exceeding the amount of the plaintiff’s claim as established,
the jury shall also find the amount of the recovery.

SEC. 177. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the}
plaintiff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return:
thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff,
or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is
entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any are
- claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing part

has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such
property.

SEC. 178. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be
made by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the ‘
time of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and the
verdict; and where a special verdict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or, if the case be reserved for argument
or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

CHAPTER V.—Trial by the Court.

SEC. 179. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact, in actions arising on contract, and with
the assent of the court in other actions, in the manner following: First. By failing to appear at the trial. Second. By
written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
Third. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
The court may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a waiver
in other cases.

SEC. 180. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court,
its decision shall be given in writing, and filed with the clerk,
within ten days after the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision ‘shall be entered
accordingly.

SEC. 181. Chancery cases may be tried by the court with
or without the finding ofjury upon issues formed by the court;
and on a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an
account be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered.

CHAPTER VL—Of References, and Trial by Rafei'ees.

SEC. 182. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the parties nled with the clerk, or entered in the minutes—First. To try any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a judgment thereon. Second. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable
the court to proceed and determine the case.

SEC. 183. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct
a reference in the following cases: First. When the trial of an
issue of fact requires the examination of a long account on
either side; in which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact involved therein. Second. When the taking of
an account is necessary for the information of the court before
judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect.
Third. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
arises upon motion, or otherwise, in any stage of the action;
or, Fourth. When it is necessary for the information of the
court in a special proceeding.

SEC. 184. A reference may be ordered to any person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If
the parties do not agree, the court or judge shall appoint one
or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county
in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against whom
there is no legal objection.

SEC. 185. Either party may object to the appointment of
any person as referee, on one or more of the following grounds:
First. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror. Second. Consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree, to either party.
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master
and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to
either party ; or, being a member of the family of either party;
or a partner in business with either party; or, being security
on any bond or obligation for either party. Fourth. Having
served as a juror, or been a witness on any trial between the
same parties for the same cause of action. Fifth. Interest on
the part of such person in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action. Sixth. Having formed
or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits

of the action. Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in
such person evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

SEC. 186. The objections taken to the appointment of any
person as referee, shall be heard and disposed of by the court.
Ailidavits may be read, and any person examined as a witness
as to such objections.

SEC. 187. The referees shall make their report within ten
days after the testimony before them is closed. Their report
upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of the court,
and upon filing the report with the clerk of the court, judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the
action had been tried by the court. The decision of the referees
may be excepted to and reviewed, in like manner as if made
by the court. When the reference is to report the facts, the
report shall have the effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER VII.
ARTICLE I.—Ea:ceptions.

SEC. 188. An exception is an objection taken at the trial
to a decision upon a. matter of law, whether such trial be by
jury, court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence,
or in the charge to a jury, or at any other time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or
decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a
new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material,
and affect the substantial rights of the parties.

SEC. 189. The point of the exception shall be particularly
stated, and may be delivered in writing to the judge, or if the
party require it, shall be written down by the clerk. \Vhen deivered in writing, or written down by the clerk, it shall be
made conformable to the truth, or be at the time corrected
until it is so made conformable. When not delivered in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in the judge’s
minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of the case, as
provided in this act.

SEC. 190. No particular form of exception shall be required. ,
The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence, or
other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no more; and
the whole as briefly as possible.

SEC. 191. When a cause has been tried by the court, or by
referees, and the decision or report is not made immediately:
after the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall
be deemed excepted to on a motion for a new trial, or on appeal,
without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

ARTICLE II.—New Trials.

SEC. 192. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact, .
1n the same court, after a. trial and demsnon by a jury, court, or
referees, 1n actions at law; but in chancery cases, such reexamination shall be called a rehearing, and motions for a new

trial, or rehearing, as the case may he, shall be conducted as
in this article provided.

SEC. 193. The former verdict or other decision may be
vacated, and a new trial or rehearing granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes
materially affecting the substantial rights of such party: First.
Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse
party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which
either party was prevented from having a fair trial. Second.
Misconduct of the jury. Third. Accident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Fourth.
Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence,
have discovered and produced at the trial. Fifth. Excessive
damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice. Sixth. Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision; or that it is against law.
Seventh. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to
by the party making the application.

SEC. 194. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the
last section, it shall be made upon affidavit; for any other
cause, it shall be made upon a statement prepared as provided
in the next section.

SEC. 195. The party intending to move for a new trial, shall
give notice of the same within two days after the trial, and
shall, within five days after such notice, prepare and file with
the clerk the affidavit required by the last section, or a statement of the grounds upon which he intends to rely. If no
affidavit or statement be filed within five days after the notice,
the right to move for a new trial shall be deemed waived.
The statement shall contain so much of the evidence, or reference thereto, as may be necessary to explain the grounds taken,
and no more. Such statement, when containing any portion
of the evidence of the case, and not agreed to by the adverse
party, shall be settled by the judge, upon notice. On the
argument, reference may also be made to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and to the minutes
of the court. If the application be made upon affidavits tiled,
the adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearing.
Any counter affidavits shall be filed with the clerk one day at
least previous to the hearing.

SEC. 196. The application for a new trial, or rehearing,

shall be made at the earliest period practicable, after filing the
affidavit or statement.

CHAPTER VIII.—lee JIanner qf Giving and Entering Judgment.

SEC. 197. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall
be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within

consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings. '

SEC. 198. W hen the case is reserved for argument or further ,
consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be‘
brought by either party before the court for argument.

SEC. 199. If a counter-claim, established at the trial, exceed ‘
the plaintiff’s demand, so established, judgment for the defend- 1
ant shall be given for the excess; or, if it appear that the}
defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment
shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 200. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession
or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and
damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property,
or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

SEC. 201. The clerk shall keep, among the records of the
court, a book for the entr of judgments, to be called the
“Judgment Book,” in which each judgment shall be entered,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

SEC. 202. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon
any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may, nevertheless, render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be
a lien on the real property of the deceased party, but shall be
payable in the course of administration on his estate.

SEC. 203. Immediately after entering the judgment, the
clerk shall attach together and file the following papers, which
shall constitute the judgment roll : First. In case the complaint
be not answered by any defendant, the summons, with the affidavit, or proof of service, and the complaint, with a memorandum indorsed on the complaint, that the default of the defendant, in not answering, was entered, and a copy of the judgment.
Second. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, and a copy
of the judgment, and any orders relating to a change of the
parties.

SEC. 204. Immediately after filing judgment roll, the clerk
shall make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the docket kept by him; and from the time
the judgment is docketed, it shall become a lien upon all the
real property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution in the county, owned by him at the time, or which he may
afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien shall
continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied.

SEC. 205. The docket mentioned in the last section is a
book which the clerk shall keep in his office, with each page

divided into eight columns, and headed as follows: Judgment
debtors; judgment creditors; judgment; time of entry; where
entered in judgment book; appeals, when taken; judgment of
appellate court; satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If
judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the amount
shall be stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if
the judgment be for any other relief, a. memorandum of the
general character of the relief granted shall be stated. The
names of the defendants shall be entered in the docket in
alphabetical order.

SEC. 206. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at
.all times, during ofhce hours, for the inspection of the public,
without charge; and it shall be the duty of the clerk to arrange
the several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

SEC. 207. A transcript of the original docket certified by
' the clerk, may be filed with the recorder of any other county,
and from the time of the filing, the judgment shall become a
lien upon all the real property of the j udgment debtor, not exempt
from execution in such county, owned by him at the time, or
which he ma afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires.
The lien shal continue for two years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied.

SEC. 208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the
, clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an
acknowledgment of satisfaction tiled with the clerk, made in
the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment creditor; or within one year after the
judgment by the attorney, unless a revocation of his authority
be previously died. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in
fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it shall be the duty of
the party, or attorney, to give such acknowledgment, and, upon
motion, the court may compel it, or may order the entry of
satisfaction to be made without it.

TITLE VII.
OF THE EXECUTION or JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTION.

CHAPTER I.—The Execution.

SEC. 209. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may, at any time within five years after the entry thereof, issue
a writ of execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 210. The writ of execution shall be issued in the
name of the people of the United States, in the territory of
Nevada, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribe by
the clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where
the judgment roll is filed, the names of the parties, the judge

ment, and; if it be for money, the amount thereof, and the
amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially as follows: First. If it be against the property of
the judgment debtor,.it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the
judgment, with interest, out of the personal propert of such
debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot he found,
then out of his real roperty; or, if the judgment be a lien
upon real property, t ien out of the real property belonging to
him on the day the judgment was docketed; or, if the execution
be issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the
docket was filed in the oflice of the recorder of such county,
stating such day, or at any time thereafter. Second. If it be
against real or personal property, in the hands of the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such property. Third. If it be
against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the
sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of the
county, until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to law. Fourth. If it be for the delivery
of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require
the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the
same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
rents, or profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the
personal property of the party against whom it was rendered,
and the value of the property for which the judgment was
recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot
be had; and if sufficient personal roperty cannot be found,
then out of real property, as providJed in the first subdivision
of this section.

SEC. 211. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more persons, in an action upon
ajoint contract, in which action all the defendants were not
served with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the
sheriff to satisfy thejudgmeut out of the joint property of all
the defendants, and the individual property only of the defendants who were served, or who appeared in the action. In
other respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified in
the first subdivision of the last section.

SEC. 212. The execution may be made returnable at any
time, not less than five, nor more than sixty days after its
receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judgment
roll is filed.

SEC. 213. Where a judgment requires the payment of
money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same
shall be enforced, in those respects, by execution. Where it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is

l

' try the validity of the claim.

given, or upon the person or oflicer who is required thereby,
or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.

SEC. 214. After the lapse of two years from the entry of
judgment, an execution shall be issued only by leave of the
court, on motion. Such leave shall not be given, unless it be
established by the oath of the party, or other proof, that the

judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due;

and after the la se of five years from the entry thereof, all
judgments shall e barred, and no action shall be maintained
thereon, and no execution shall issue thereon.

SEC. 215. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the
judgment, execution thereon against his‘property may, upon
permission granted by the probate court, be issued and executed, in the same manner, and with the same effect, as if he
were still living.

SEC. 216. Where the execution is against the pro erty of
the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff) of any
county in the territory. Where it requires the delivery of real
or personal property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the
county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different
counties.

SEC. 217. All goods, chattels, moneys and other property,
real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law,
and all property and rights of property seized and held under
attachment in the action, shall be liable to execution. Until a
levy, property shall not be affected by the execution. Shares
and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery,
may be attached on execution in like manner as upon writs of
attachment. Gold dust, gold and silver bullion, shall be returned by the oflicer as so much mone collected at its current value,
without exposing the same to sale.

SEC. 218. If the property levied on be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff shall summon from his
county six persons, qualified as jurors between the parties, to
, He shall also give notice of the
claim, and of the time of trial, to the plaintiff, who may appear
and contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses shall be sworn by the sheriff, and if their verdict be in
favor of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless
the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the sheriff, and the
witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be
against him; otherwise, by the plaintiff. On the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by the plaintiff as
witnesses.

SEC. 219. The following pro erty shall be exempt from
execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided:

First. Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one
hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor. Second.
Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture, belonging to
the judgment debtor, including stove, stove pipe and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, and
provisions actually provided for individual or family use, sufficient for one month. Third. The farming utensils, or implements of husbandry, of the judgment debtor, also, two oxen,
or two horses, or two males, and their harness; two cows, one
cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses, cows or mules,
for one month. Fourth. The tools and implements of a
mechanic, necessary to carry on his trade, the instruments and
chests of a surgeon, physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary
to the exercise of their profession, with the rofessional librar ,
and the law libraries of an attorney and) counselor. Fift 1.
The tent and furniture, including a table, camp stools, bed and
bedding of a miner; also, his rocker, shovels, spades, wheelbarrows, pumps, and other instruments used in mining, with
grovisions necessary for his support for one month. Sixth.

wo oxen, or two horses, or two mules, and their harness, and
one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, teamster, or
other laborer, habitually earns his living, and food for such
oxen, horses or mules, for one month; and a horse, harness and
vehicle used by a physician or surgeon in making his professional visits. Seventh. All fire engines, with the carts, buckets, hose, and apparatus thereto appertaining, of any lire coman or department, organized under any law of this territory.

ig 1th. All arms and accouterments required by law to be
kept by any person; but no article mentioned in this section
shall be exempt from execution issued on a judgment recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage thereon. Ninth. All
court-houses, jails, public offices and buildings, lots, grounds,
and personal property, belonging to any county of this territory, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks and places, public buildings, town halls, markets, buildings appertaining to the
fire department, and the lots and grounds thereunto belonging
and appertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporated
city, or dedicated by such town or city to health, ornament, or
public use.

SEC. 220. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient
amount of property, if there be suflicient; collecting or selling
the things in action, and selling the other property, and paying
to the plaintiff or his attorney so much of the proceeds as will
satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with the clerk
of the court; any excess in the proceeds over the judgment
and the sheriff’s fees shall be returned to the judgment
debtor. When there is more property of the judgment debtor
than is sufficient to satisfy the jud ment and the sheriff’s fees,
within the view of the sheriff, he s all levy on only such part

of the property as the judgment debtor may indicate ; provided,
that the judgment debtor be present at, and indicate at the
time of the levy, such part; and provided, that the pro erty
indicated be amply suflieient to satisfy such judgment an fees.

SEC. 221. Before the sale of property on execution, notice
thereof shall be given, as follows: First. In case of perishable
property, by posting written notice of the time and place of
sale, in three public places of the township or city where the
sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable,
considering the character and condition of the property.
Second. In case of other personal property, by posting a
similar notice in three public places of the township or city
where the sale is to take place, not less than five nor more
than ten days successively. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for
twenty days successively, in three public places of the township or city where the property is situated, and also where the
property is to be sold; and publish a copy thereof once a week
for the same period, in a newspaper in the county, if there be
one.

SEC. 222. An officer selling without the notice prescribed
by the last section, shall forfeit dve hundred dollars to the
aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done
before the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hundred dollars.

SEC. 223. All sales of property under execution shall be
made at auction, to the highest bidder, and shall be made
between the hours of nine in the morning and live in the afternoon; after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the
execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the oflicer holding
the execution nor his deputy shall become a purchaser at such
sale. When the sale is of personal property, capable of manual
delivery, it shall be within view of those who attend the sale,
and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
prices; and when the sale is of real property, and consists of
several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately ;
or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third
person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion
shall be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if present at the
sale, may also direct the order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold, when such property consists of several
known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to
advantage separately ; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow
such directions.

SEC. 224. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by
him for property struck off to him at a sale under execution,
the oliicer may again sell the property, at any time, to the
highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the
officer may recover the amount of such loss, with costs, by

motion, upon previous notice of five days, before any court, or
before any justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed his
jurisdiction.

SEC. 225. Such court, or justice, shall proceed in a sum-j
mary manner to give judgment, and issue execution therefor‘
forthwith, but the defendant may claim a jury. And the same i
proceeding may be had against any subsequent purchaser who
may refuse to pay, and the officer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of any person so refusing.

SEC. 226. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make the ofiicer liable for any more than the amount}
bid by the second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount]
collected from the purchaser refusing to pay.

SEC. 227. When the purchaser of any personal property,
capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase money“
the officer making the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the
property, and if desired, shall execute and deliver to him a
certificate of the sale and ayment. Such certificate shall
convey to the purchaser all t e right, title, and interest, which
the debtor had in and‘to such property on the day the execution was levied.

SEC. 228. When the purchaser of any personal property
not capable of manual deliveriy, shall pay the purchase money, ‘
the officer making the sale 818“ execute and deliver to the
purchaser a certificate of sale and payment. Such certificate
shall convey to the urchaser all right, title and interest which
the debtor had in an to such property on the day the execution
was levied.

SEC. 229. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is ,
less than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale}
shall be absolute. In all other cases, the real property sold'
shall be subject to redemption, as provided in this chapter [of
this act]. The officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate
of the sale, containing—First. A particular description of the
real property sold. Second. The price bid for each distinct
lot or parcel. Third. The whole price paid. Fourth. When
subject to redemption, it shall be so stated. A duplicate of
which certificate shall be filed by the officer with the recorder
of the county.

SEC. 230. Preperty sold subject to redemption, as provided ‘
in the last section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed i
in the manner hereinafter provided, by the following persons, ‘
or their successors in interest: First. The judgment debtor,
or his successor in interest, in the whole or any part of the
property. Second. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or
mortgage, on the property sold. The persons mentioned in
the second subdivision of this act are, in this chapter [of this
act], termed redemptioners.

SEC. 231. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may,
redeem the property from the purchaser Within six months]

after the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his
purchase, with eighteen per cent. thereon in addition, together
with the amount of any assessments or taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and the
interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner other than
the judgment under which the purchase was made, the amount
of such lien, with interest.

SEC. 232. If the pro erty be so redeemed b a redemptioner,
either the judgment debtor, or another red’emptioner, may,
within sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem it
from the last redem tioner, on paying the sum paid on such
last redemption, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and
the amount of any assessments or taxes, which the said last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount; and the amount of an
liens held b said last redemptioner prior to his own, with,
interest in a dition; provided, that the judgment under which
the property was sold need not be paid as a lien. The property may be again, and as often as the debtor C“ redemptioner
is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemption er, within
sixty days after the last redemption, with four per cent. thereon
in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which
the said last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption

_by him, with interest thereon; and the amount of any liens
other than the judgment under which the property was sold,
held by the said last redemptioner, previous to his own, with
interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to the sheriff.
If no redemption be made within six months after the sale,
the purchaser or his assignee shall be entitled to a conveyance;
or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed, and no
other redemption has been made, and notice thereof given, the
time for redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner or his assignee be entitled to a sheriff ’s deed. If the
debtor redeem at any time before the time,for redemption
expires, the effects of the sale shall be terminated, and he be
restored to his estate.

SEC. 233. The payment mentioned in the last [two] sections
may be made to the purchaser, or redemptioner, as the case
may be, or for him, to the officer who made the sale, and a
tender of the money shall be equivalent to payment.

SEC. 234. A redemptioner shall produce to the ofiicer, or
person from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice
to the sheriff—First. A copy of the docket of the judgment
under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk
of the court, or of the county, where the judgment is docketed; or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of
the record thereof, certified by the recorder. Second. A co y
of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified y
the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto;

and, Third. An affidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.

SEC. 235. Until the expiration of the time allowed for
redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, by order granted, with or without notice, on
the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor.
But it shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession
of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession
afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry,
or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to use
wood or timber on the property therefor, or for the repair of
fences, or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the property.

SEC. 236. The purchaser, from the time of the sale until a
redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive from]
the tenant in possession the rents of the property sold, or the
value of the use and occu ation thereof; provided, that in case
the property shall be red)eemed as rovided in this act, the
amount of such rents and profits which may have been received
by such purchaser or redemptioner, or which said purchaser or
redemptioner may have been entitled to claim or receive, unless
such claim shall be released to the person claiming such right
of redemption, shall be deducted from the amount which such,
purchaser or redemptioner would be entitled to receive on such
redemption.

SEC. 237. If the purchaser of real property sold on execug
tion, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in conse- ,
quence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, :
or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he m. 1
recover the price aid, with interest, from the judgment crecli‘
itor. If the purchaser of property at sheriff ’3 sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover possession in consequence of
irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because
the property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original udgment
for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with interest thereon, from the time of payment, at the same rate that
the original judgment bore; and when so revived, the said
judgment shall have the same effect as the original judgment
of said court of that date, and bearing interest as aforesaid,
and any other or after acquired property, rents, issues, or
profits, of the said debtors, shall be liable to levy and sale under
execution in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no property of such debtor sold bo'na. fide before the filing of such
petition,.shall be subject to the lien of said judgment; and
provided, further, that notice of the filing of such petition
shall be made by filing a notice thereof in the recorder s ofiice

of the county Where such property may be situated; and that
said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original
plaintiff, or plaintiffs, for the use of said petitioner, the party
in interest. All sales ordered by the court shall be conducted
in the same manner as sales upon execution.

CHAPTER II.—Pr0ceedings supplementary to the Execution.

SEC. 238. When an execution against property of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgments issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides,
or if he do not reside in this territory, to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisfied
in whole or part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such
return is made, shall be entitled to an order from a judge of
the court, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a timc and place specified in the order; but
no judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a judge
or referee out of the county in which he resides, when proceedings are taken under the provisions of this chapter [of this
act].

SEC. 239. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof upon afiidavit of a party or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the court, or of a judge thereof, that any
judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or
judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear
at a specified time and place before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the
judgment, as are provided upon the return of an execution.
Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, the judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor,
his agent or attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger
of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the debtor
and bring him before the judge. Upon being brought before
thejudge, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking,
with sufficient security, that he will attend from time to time
before the judge or referee, as shall be directed during the pendency of proceedings, and until the final determination thereof,
and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of his
property not exempt from execution. In default of entering
into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison.

SEC. 240. After the issuing of an execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to
the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may
be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff ’s receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

SEC. 241. After the issuing and return of an execution

against property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person
or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge
may by an order require such person or corporation, or any
ofIicer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place, before him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer
concerning the same.

SEC. 242. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify
before the judge, or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter [of this act], in the same manner as upon the trial of an
issue.

SEC. 243. The judge or referee may order any property of
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands
of such debtor or any other person, or due to the judgment
debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment;
except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services,
at any time within thirty days next preceding the order, shall
not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by the
debtor’s adeavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necespay for the use of a family supported wholly or in part by his

a or.

SEC. 244. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged
to have property of t e judgment debtor, or indebted to him,
claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, the court or judge may authorize, by an order to that
effect, the judgment creditor to institute a suit against such person or corporation for the recovery of such interest or debt;
and the court or judge may, by an order, forbid a transfer or
other disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can
be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may
be modified or vacated by a judge granting the same, or the
court in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such
terms as may be just.

SEC. 245. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order
of the referee, prOperly made in the proceedings before him
under this chapter, he may be punished by the court or judge
ordering the reference for a contempt.

TITLE VIII.

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.
CHAPTER I.—Actz'ons for the Foreclosure of Jfortgages.

SEC. 246. There shall be but one action for the recovery
of debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by a mortgage, or lien hpon real estate, or personal property, which shall
be for an enforcement of said lien, or mortgage, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. In such action, the court

shall have power before judgment, or decree, to direct a sale of
the incumbered property, or such part thereof as shall be
necessary, and the application of the proceeds to the payment
of the costs and expenses of the sale, the costs of the writ,
and the amount due to the plaintiff. If it shall a pear from
the sheriff ’s returns that there is a deficiency of suc proceeds,
and a balance still due to the plaintiff, the judgment shall be
docketed for such balance, and shall, from the time of such
docketing, be a lien upon the real estate of the judgment
debtor, and an execution may be issued by the clerk of the
court, as are other judgments against the property of the judgment debtor, to collect such balance or deficiency.

SEC. 247. If there be surplus money remaining after the
' payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or incumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid to
the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct it to
be deposited in court.

SEC. 248. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or
incumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the
property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the
sale shall cease; and afterwards, as often as more becomes due,
for princi a1 or interest, the court may, on motion, order more
to be sol . But, if the property cannot be sold in portions
without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be
sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid,
there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER IL—Actz'ons for Nm'sance, lVaste, and TVillful Yl'espass,
in certain cases, on Real Property.

SEC. 249. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an
action. Such action may be brought by any person whose
property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment
is lessened by the nuisance ; and by the judgment the nuisance
may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 250. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action
against him therefor, in which action there may be judgment
for treble damages.

SEC. 251. Any person who shall cut down or carry off any
wood or underwood, tree or timber, on the land of another
person, or on the street or highway in front of any person’s
house, village or city lots, or cultivated grounds, or on the
commons or public grounds of any city or town, or on the
street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority,
-. shall be liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or

town, for treble the amount of damages which may be assessed
therefor, in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 252. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the ;
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from
uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a public highway or
bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.

SEC. 253. If a person recover damages for a forcible or:
unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of, any building, or;
any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three 1
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

CHAPTER Ill—Actions to determine Conflicting Claims to Real

Property, and other provisions relating to Actions concerning
Real Estate.

SEC. 254. An action may be brought by any person in
possession, by himself or his tenant, of real prOperty, against;
any person who claims an estate, or interest therein, adverse to 3
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate,
or interest.

SEC. 255. If the defendant in such action disclaim, in his,
answer, any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judg-j
ment to be taken against him withoutanswer, the plaintiff shall ‘
not recover costs.

SEC. 256. In an action for the recovery of real property,‘
where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time;
the action was commenced, but it appears that his right has?
terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and l
judgment shall be according to the fact; and the plaintiff may
recover damages for withholding the property.

SEC. 257. When damages are claimed for withholding the .
property recovered, upon which permanent improvements have i

een made by a defendant, or those under whom h: claims,§
holding under color of title adversely to the claims of the
plaintiff, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall
be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

SEC. 258. The court in which an action is pending for.
recovery of real property, or a judge thereof may, on motion, 1
upon notice to either party, for good cause shown, grant an
order allowing to such party the right to enter the property
and make survey and measurement thereof, for the purpose of
the action.

SEC. 259. The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant; and there-j
upon such party may enter upon the property with necessary
surveyors and assistants, and make such survey and measurements; but if any unnecessary injury he done to the property,
he shall be liable therefor.

SEC. 260. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed .
a conveyance, Whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of r

the mortgage to recover possession of the real property, without a foreclosure and sale.

SEC. 261. The court may, by injunction, on good cause
shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to
the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

SEC. 262. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have
'succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the property by the tenaht
in possession, after sale and before possession is delivered under
the conveyance.

SEC. 263. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by an
alienation made by such person, either before or after the corn‘ mencement of the action.

CHAPTER IV.—Actz'ons for the Uswpation of an 0,35% or

Franchise.

SEC. 264. An action may be brought by the district attorney, in the name of the people of the United States and territory of Nevada, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps,
intrudes into, or unlawfully holds, or exercises, any public
office, civil or military, or any franchise within this territory.
And shall be the duty of the district attorney to bring the
action, whenever he has reason to believe that any such of‘n‘ce
or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully
held, or exercised, by any person, or when he is directed to do
so by the governor.

SEC. 265. \Vhenever such action is brought, the district
attorney, in addition to the statement of the cause of' action,
ma also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rig tly entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto; and in such case, upon proof by afiidavit that the
defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the
office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may
be granted by a judge of the supreme court, ora district judge,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and
thereupon he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 266. In every case, judgmentmay be rendered upon
the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the
party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice shall require.

SEC. 267. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of
such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of oilice,

and executing such official bond as may be required by law,
to take upon himself the execution of the of‘nce.

SEC. 268. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, ‘
he may recover, by action, the damages which he shall have
sustained, by reason of the usurpation of the office by the
defendant.

SEC. 269. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same oflice or franchise, one action may be brought against all I
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such.
office or franchise.

SEC. 270. When a defendant, against whom such action
has been brought, is adjudged guilftiy of usur ing, or intruding 
into, or unlawfully holding, any 0 cc, franchise, or privilege,
judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded ‘
from the office, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs
of the action. The court may, also, in its discretion, impose
upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
which line, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of
the territory.

TITLE IX.
APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.—Appeals in General.

SEC. 271. A judgment, or order, in a civil action, except
when expressly made final by this act, may be reviewed as?
prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.

SEC. 272. An order made out of court, without notice to,
the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without notice, '
by the judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on
notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.

SEC. 273. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be known ‘
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.

SEC. 274. An appeal may be taken in Chancery cases—
First. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding ,
commenced in the court in which the judgment is rendered, 1
within one year after the rendition of the judgment. Second.
From a judgment rendered on an ap eal from the robate
court, within ninety days after the ren ition of the ju gment.
Third. From an order granting or refusing a new trial or a
rehearing; from an order refusing to change the place of trial
of an action or proceeding after a motion is made therefor, in
the cases provided by law, or on the ground that the judge is
disqualified from hearing or trying the same; from an order
granting or dissolving an injunction, and from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction, and from any special
or er made after final judgment, within sixty days after the
order is made and entered in the minutes of the court. This section shall not extend to appeals to the district court from
orders or judgments of the probate courts, but shall extend to
judgments rendered in the district courts on such appeals.

SEC. 275. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk
of' the court, with whom the judgment or order appealed from
is entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same, or some
specific part thereof, and serving a copy of the notice upon
t e adverse party, or his attorney.

SEC. 276. When the party who has the right to appeal,

1 wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the record of
the judgment or order, he shall, within twenty days after the
entry of such judgment or order, pre are such statement, which
shall contain the grounds upon which he intends to rely on the
appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be necessary to
explain the grounds, and no more; and shall file the same with
the clerk. The respondent may, within five days thereafter,
prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a copy on the
appellant. If such amendments are admitted, the statement
shall be corrected accordingly; and, if not admitted, the statement and amendments shall be presented to the judge who
tried or heard the case, upon notice of two days to the respondent, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by such
'udge.

SEC. 277. If the party shall omit to make a statement
within the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have
waived his right thereto; and when a statement is made, and
the parties shall omit, within the several times above limited,
the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an
appearance before the judge, they shall respectively be deemed,
t e former to have agreed to the statement as proposed, and the
latter to have agreed to the amendment as proposed, and no
settlement of' the statement, or certificate thereto by the judge,
shall be required.

SEC. 278. The several periods of time above limited may
be enlarged upon good cause shown by the judge before whom
the cause was tried.

SEC. 279. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall
be signed by him, with his certificate that the same has been
allowed, and is correct; when the statement is agreed upon b
the parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same, wit
their certificate that it has been agreed upon by them, and is
correct. In either case, when settled or agreed upon, it shall
be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 280. The clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal be from a final judgment to the judgment roll; if the
ap eal be from an order, to such order, or a copy thereof.

SEC. 281. The provisions of the last preceding sections
shall not appl to appeals taken from an order made upon
allidavit filed, gut such atiidavits shall be annexed to the order

‘ in the place of the statement mentioned in those sections.

SEC. 282. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may .
review any intermediate order involving the merits, and neces-l
sarin affecting the judgment. '

SEC. 283. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the,
appellate court may reverse, afiirm, or modify the judgment or'
order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and as to any or all of the parties; and may set aside,
or confirm, or modify, any or all of the proceedings subsequent to, or dependent upon, such judgment or order, and
may, if necessary or proper, order a rehearing. When the
judgment or order is reversed or modified, the appellate court
may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment or order; and when it appears
to the . pellate court that the appeal was made for delay, it
may add) to the costs such damages as may be just.

SEC. 284. On an appeal from a final udgment, thegappellant shall furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, 3
the judgment roll, and the statement annexed (if there be one),
certified by the clerk to be a correct copy. An appeal from a
judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an order, the appellant shall furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal,
the judgment or order appealed from, and a copy of the papers
used in the hearing of the court below; such copies to be certified by the clerk to be correct. If any written opinion be
placed on file on rendering the judgment, or making the order
in the court below, a copy shall be furnished. If the appellant
fail tpi furnish the requisite papers, the appeal .may be dismisse .

CHAPTER II.-Appea.ls to the Supreme Court from the District
Court.

SEC. 285. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court.
from the district courts, in the following cases: First. From a 3
final judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding
commenced in those courts, or brought into those courts from
another court. Second. From an order granting or refusing a
new trial or rehearing; from an order refusing to change the
place of trial of an action, or proceeding, after a motion is
made therefor, in the cases provided by law, or on the ground
that a judge is disqualified from hearing or trying the same;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction, and from
any special order made after final judgment.

SEC. 286. To render an appeal effectual for any pnr ose, in .
any case, a written undertaking shall be executed on t e part.
of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the
appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be awarded
against him on the appeal, not exceeding three hundred dollars;
or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk, with whom the
judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal.

Such undertaking shall be filed, or such deposit made with the
clerk, within five days after the notice of appeal is filed.

SEC. 287. If the appeal be from a judgment, or order,
directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution
of the judgment or order, unless a written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant by two or more sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupation, to the effect
that they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment or order, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof be aflirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the art of
such amount as to which the judgment or order shall be aiigirmed,
if affirmed only in part; and all damages and costs which shall
be awarded against the appellant, upon the ap eal.

SEC. 288. If the judgment or order appea ed from, direct
the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property,
the execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed b
appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivere ,
be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court
may appoint; or, unless an undertaking be entered into, on the
part of the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or judge thereof, or probate judge, may
direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the
appellate court upon the appeal.

SEC. 289. If the judgment or order appealed from, direct
the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by the appeal,
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court. '

SEC. 290. If the judgment or order appealed from direct
the sale, or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not he stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or
more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be
committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of
the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the court b
which the judgment was rendered, or order made, and whic
shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is
for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the pa ment of such deficiency.

SEC. 291. henever an appeal is perfected, as provided
by the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all fur' ther proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment or
order appealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein;

but the court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action, and not affected by the judgment or
order appealed from. And the court below may, in its discre«
tion, dispense with or limit the security required by said sections when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee,
or other person acting in another’s right.

SEC. 292. The undertaking prescribed by sections two 1
hundred and eighty-six, two hundred and eighty-seven, two:
hundred and eighty-eight, and two hundred and ninety, may:
be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the a pellant.

SEC. 293. An undertaking upon an appeal shall e of no
effect, unless it be accompanied by the afiidavit of the sureties, I
that they are each worth the amount specified therein, over1
and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of the
property exempt from execution; except, where the judgment
exceeds three thousand dollars, and the undertaking on ap eal
is executed by more than two sureties, they may state in their
afiidavit that they are severally worth amounts less than that
expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sutlieient sureties. The adverse party may,
however, except to the sufiiciency of the sureties within five
days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless they or
other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
probate judge, or the county clerk, within five days thereafter,
upon notice to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in their
affidavit, the appeal shall be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given; and in all cases where an undertaking is
required on appeal, by the provisions of this chapter [of this
act], a deposit in the court below of the amount of the] judgment appealed from, and three hundre dollars in addition,
shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking; and in all cases
the undertaking or deposit may be waived, by the written consent of the respondent.

SEC. 294. In cases not provided for in sections two hundred and eighty-seven, two hundred and eighty-eight, two hun- i
dred and eighty-nine, and two hundred and ninety, the per-]
fecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking and thejustification of the sureties thereon, if required, or making the
deposit mentioned in section two hundred and eighty-six, shall
stay proceedings in the court below Upon the judgment or order
appealed from; except, that where it directs the sale of perisha le pro erty, the court below may order the property to be
sold, an the roceeds thereof to be deposited shall abide the
judgment of' t e appellate court.

SEC. 295. Appeals in the supreme court may be broughtto
a hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the 
opposite party. Before the argument, each party shall furnish
to the other a copy of his points, and file one copy thereof
with the clerk.

SEC. 296. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it

shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed
from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the
clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate to
the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the j ud ment of the
supreme court on the docket against the origina entry. In
cases of a peal from an order, the clerk shall enter at length in
the recor s of the court the certificate received, and minute
against the entry of the order appealed from a reference to the
certificate, with a brief statement that such order had been
affirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case may be, by the
supreme court, on appeal.

CHAPTER III.—Appeals to the District Court from the Probate

Court.

SEC. 297. An appeal may be taken from a probate courtto
- the district court of the district in which the probate court is
held, in the following cases: First. From an order or decree
admitting a will to probate, or refusing the same. Second.
From an order setting apart property, or making an allowance
for the widow or children. Third. From an order granting
letters testamentary, or of administration, or appointing a
guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or of a person
incompetent to manage his property, or refusing to grant such
letters, or to make such appointment, or making such letters
or appointment. Fourth. From an order directing the sale or
conveyance of real property. Fifth. From an order or decree
by which a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share is allowed,
or payment thereof directed, or by which such allowance or
direction is refused. Sixth. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator, or guardian. Seventh.
From a final judgment or order in an action for a divorce, and
from any other final judgment or order made by said court,
except in cases of appeal from j ust-ices’ courts.

SEC. 298. The a peal shall be taken within thirty days
after the order or ecree appealed from is entered with the
clerk.

SEC. 299. A peals from the rebate court shall be brought
to a hearing at the earliest period) practicable. For a failure to
prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a

earing, the district court may order the appeal to be dismissed.

CHAPTER IV.——Appeals to the Probate Courts from Justices’
Courts.

SEC. 300. Judgments in all civil cases rendered by justices
may be reviewed by the probate court. When the appeal is
taken on questions of law alone, it shall be heard on a statement of the case prepared as prescribed in title nine of this
act. When the appeal is taken on questions of fact, or on
questions of both law and fact, the action shall be tried anew

in the probate court, and either party may, on such trial, demand a jury.

SEC. 301. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the
case, the probate court may review all orders affecting the:
judgment appealed from, and may set aside, or confirm, or
mo ify, any or all of the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon said judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, order :
a new trial. When the action is tried anew on appeal, the
trial shall be conducted in all respects as trials in the district;
court. The provisions of this act, as to changing the place of
trial, and all the provisions as to trials in the district court,
shall be applicable to trials on appeal in the probate court.
For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in
bringing it to a hearing, the probate court, after notice, may
order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments rendered in the
probate court on appeal, shall have the same force and effect,
to be enforced'in the same manner, as judgments in actions
commenced in the district court.

TITLE IX. —CHAPTER I.

SEC. 302. Every final judgment, order, or decision of a,
district court, except in Chancery, may be re-examined upon a
writ of error in the same court for error in fact, in the supreme
court for error in law. .

SEC. 303. Every such writ shall be prosecuted within one
year, and not after. But if the party entitled to have such,
writ shall be absent from the territory, and shall not have been
personally served with process, nor a peared to the action, or
if such party be an infant, or marrie woman, or imprisoned,
or insane, then such writ may be prosecuted within two years
from the removal of such disability, and not after; provided, that
the absence from the territory shall not entitle the party to a
longer time than five years; the time limited shall include the
day on which the judgment is rendered, or the order or decision is made, or on which the disability ceases.

SEC. 304. A writ of error shall be deemed to have issued
on the day on which the plaintiff in error shall file in the office ‘
of the clerk of the district court, where the record is, a written
undertaking, executed by two sureties, to be approved by the
clerk, for the payment of all the costs of such proceeding; and
it shall not be necessary, in any stage of the proceedings,
actually to sue out the writ of error.

SEC. 305. On the filing of such undertaking, the clerk shall
issue a notice to the defendant in error, under the seal of the
court, specifying the court in which, and the time when he is
to appear to protect his interests; and, if the prwczpe direct the
writ of error to be made returnable to the supreme court, he
shall send thither a transcript of the record under the seal of

the court. Such notice may be, as nearly as applicable, in the
following form:

TERRITORY or NEVADA,
County of

To C— D——.

You are hereby notified that A. B. has sued out a writ of
error from the supreme court, to reverse the decision of the
district court of said county, given in your favor against the
said A. B. at the term of 18—, and unless you appear
in the said su rerne court on the Monday 18—, the
cause will be heard in our absence.

Witness the seal of t e district court, the — day of —, 18—.

' E. F., [SeaL] Clerk.

SEC. 306. The notice may be served on the defendant in
error, or his attorney of record, by any sheriff within his
county, and shall be by delivering him a copy thereof, or it
may be served by any other disinterested person; and the
return of the sheriff indorsed thereon, or the afiidavit of such
other disinterested person, shall be evidence thereof, and if
served ten days before the return day, the cause may be heard
at that term. If returned not found, the court of error may
make such order for the service or publication of notice, as
shall appear most likely in the particular case, to convey knowledge of the proceeding to the defendant in error, and may
then proceed as if the notice had been personally served.

SEC. 307. The transcript shall contain a copy of the writ,
and return, the pleadings, the journal entries and bills of exception, the execution and return, and such other matters as the
court or judge shall have ordered to be made part of the
record. Either party may have a certiorarz' to supply any diminution of the record.

SEC. 308. The court of error may affix the time for assigning errors and filing joinders. If errors in law be assigned, no
joinder shall be necessary; one or more errors in fact may be
assigned, and the defendant may put in the common joinder as
a demurrer thereto, or may traverse or confess, and avoid the
facts assigned for error, and a separate issue shall be made on
each.

SEC. 309. The judgment or other matter complained of
may be afiirmed, or may be reversed or set aside, in whole or
in part, or may be modided, or a different judgment or order
may be substituted for that complained of, and the cause may
be remitted to the district court, for such further proceedings
as the supreme court by mandate shall direct. Execution may
issue from the supreme court, or its judgments may be executed by the district court, on a mandate for that purpose.

SEC. 310. If the undertaking for costs contain an addi, tional undertaking to pay the judgment, if affirmed, and
damages, or any new or modified judgment that may be given
against the plaintiff in error, then all further proceedings by
way of executing the judgment shall forthwith cease until the

 

 

 

further order of the court of error. In such case, if the j udgment be afIirmed or modified, or any new judgment be given
against the plaintiff in error, damages may be awarded to the
defendant in error, not exceeding ten per cent. upon the
amount of the judgment, exclusive of interest and costs, if it
manifestly appears that the proceeding was without probable
cause, and merely for delay. And in cases where judgment
is rendered against the plaintiff in error, judgment shall also
be rendered against the sureties in the undertaking, to the
extent of their liability, and execution shall issue against them
accordingly. .

SEC. 311. The undertaking for a writ of error may be in
the following form:

A. B. } District court, county of , judgment at

 

 

 

vs. term, 18 W'e promise to pay all costs that
C. D. may be awarded against A. B. on his writ of error
in this cause (and also the judgment, if affirmed), and the
damages, or any new or moditied judgment that may be given

against him. E. F.
G. H.

SEC. 312. If, after the undertaking be filed, either party
shall die, or, being a single woman, shall marr ,the proper
persons may, on motion, be made parties, and t e cause shall
proceed to judgment.

SEC. 313. Any person who may be a party or privy in
any judgment, order, or decision, may prosecute a writ of
error to reverse the same, and the reversal shall enure to the
benefit of all parties and privies therein ; and no other party
or privy shall afterwards prosecute a writ of error for the samecause.

SEC. 314. The reversal of a judgment, order, or decision,
shall not affect the title of property sold upon an execution
issued upon such judgment, order, or decision, if such property
be purchased at the sale by a stranger, but if purchased by the
judgment creditor, the plaintiff in error may bring an action
for the recovery thereof, and the court may award restitution,
or render such other judgment as justice shall require.

SEC. 315. When the supreme court shall be equall
divided in opinion, the cause shall stand continued until ail
the judges are present.

SEC. 316. Whenever, on the trial of an action at law in thei
district court, it shall be found to turn on important or doubt- I
ful principles of law, the court may direct a special verdict tos
be found, and in all cases the parties ma agree upon the facts, l
and such ao‘reement, in writing, signed by the parties or their‘
attorneys, shall be made part of their record ; and all questions
of law arising on special verdicts, agreed cases, motions for
new trials, and all others in any manner arising in the district
courts, in law or equity, may be adjourned into the supreme

court for decision; and the supreme court may give judgment,
or remand the cause, or make any order according to the law
and justice of the case.

TITLE X.
MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER I.——Proceedings against Joint Debtors.

SEC. 317. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation,
by proceeding as provided in section thirty-two, those who were
not originally served with the summons, and did not appear to
the action, ma be summoned to show cause why they should
not be bound y the judgment, in the same manner as though
they had been originally served with the summons.

SEC. 318. The summons, as provided in the last section,
shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned
to show cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be
served in the same manner, and returnable within the same
time, as the original summons. It shall not be necessary to
file a new com laint.

SEC. 319. ‘he summons shall be accompanied by an af'tidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney,
that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied;
and shall specify the amount due thereon. .

SEC. 320. Upon such summons the defendant may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently; or
he may deny his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability
by the statute of limitation.

SEC. 321. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the judg,. ment, or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the afiidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case; if
he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and
judgment, the summons with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute such written allegations.

SEC. 322. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases;
but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on
the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a
verdict be found against him, it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.

CHAPTER II.— Confession of Judgment without Action.

SEC. 323. A judgment by confession may be entered without actiou, either for money due or to become due, or to secure
any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter [of this
act].

SEC. 324. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by;
the defendant, and verihed by his oath, to the following effect: ‘
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified
sum. Second. If it be for money due, or to become due, it
shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become
due. Third. If it be for the pur ose of securing the plaintiff
against a contingent liabilit , it shall state concisely the facts
constituting the liability, and, shall show that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same.

SEC. 325. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the
court in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall indorse ‘
upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a judgment of such
court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs. The
statement and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed, shall
thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER III.—S'ubmz°tting a Controversy without Action.

SEC. 326. Parties to a question in difference which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree
upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

SEC. 327. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,
as in other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to
the trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the judgment roll.

SEC. 328. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the
same manner subject to appeal.

CHAPTER IV.— 0f Arbitrations.

SEC. 329. Persons capable of contracting may submit to
arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of a
civil action between them, except a question of title to real
property in fee or for life. This qualification shall not include
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real
property.

SEC. 330. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing,
and may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 331. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be
entered as an order of the district court, for which purpose it
shall be filed with the clerk of such court in the district where

the parties, or one of them reside. The clerk shall thereupon
enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with
the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date
of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any, within which the award shall be made. When
so entered, the submission shall not be revoked without the
consent of both parties. The arbitrators ma be compelled by
the court to make an award, and the awar may be enforced

' by the court, in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the court, it may be revoked
at any time before the award is made.

SEC. 332. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of
the parties, and to make an award thereon.

SEC. 333. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together

a during the investigation; but when met, a ma'ority may determine any question. Before acting, they shallJ be sworn before
an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly
to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties
in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award according to their understanding.

SEC. 334. The award shall be in writing, signed by the
arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties.
When the submission is made an order of the court, the award
shall be filed with the clerk, and a note thereof made in his
register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of
the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an
afiidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has been
served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days
prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry
of judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by
the clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the
effect of a judgment.

SEC. 335. The court, on motion, may vacate the award
upon either of the following grounds, and may order a new
hearing before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion:
First. That it was procured by corruption or fraud. Second.
That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise
acted improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the party
were prejudiced. Third. That the arbitrators exceeded their
powers in making their award; or, that they refused, or iniproperly omitted to consider a art of the matters submitted to
them; or, that the award is indjefinite, or cannot be performed.

SEC. 336. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the

' award, where it ap ears—First. That there was a miscalculation
in figures, upon which it was made, or that there is a mistake
in the description of some person or property therein. Second.

When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted,
which can be separated from other parts, and does not affect
the decision on the matter submltted. Third. When the
award, though im erfect in form, could have been amended if
it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 337. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to
appeal or writ of error, in the same manner as an order which ‘
is subject to appeal or writ of error in a civil action; but the
judgment entered before a motion is made shall not be subject
to appeal or writ of error.

SEC. 338. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and:
an action be brought therefor, the amount to be recovered shall j
only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and'
attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER V.—017‘er of the Defendant to Compromise _the Wok
or a Part of an Action.

SEC. 339. The defendant may, at any time before the trial 5
or judgment, serve upon the laintiff an offer to allow judg—:
ment to be taken against him or the sum or property, or to
the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the clerk shall enter judgment accordingly.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be
deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence; and if
the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall
not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from the
time of the offer.

TITLE XI. ‘

0F WITNESSES, AND THE MANNER OF OBTAINING EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I.—0f le'tnesses.

SEC. 340. All persons, without exception, otherwise than.
as specified in this chapter [of this act], may be witnesses in
any action or proceeding. No person offered as a witness shall 1
be excluded on account of his opinions on matters of religious]
belief, nor shall any person be excluded on account of his interest in the event of the action or proceedings, except in thei
following cases: First. When he is~ a party to the action or:
proceeding, or the action or proceeding is rosecuted or deended for his immediate benefit. Second. hen his interest
is a present, certain, and vested interest.

SEC. 341. The true test of the interest of a person, which.
shall render him incompetent as a witness, shall be, that he
will gain or lose by the direct legal 0 eration and effect of
the judgment, or that the record of .t e judgment will be
legal evidence for or against him in some other action; but
nothing in this, or in the last section, shall prevent a party

callin as a witness the adverse ,party to the action, or a person w ose interest is adverse, nor a party beino' a witness in
the case mentioned in section three hundred and seventy.

SEC. 342. The following persons shall not be witnesses:
First. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. Second. Children under ten
years of age, who, in the opinion of the court, appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they
are examined, or of relating them truly. Third. Indians, or
persons having one half or more of Indian blood, and negroes,
or persons having one half or more of negro blood, in an action
or proceeding to which a white erson is a party. Fourth.
Persons against whom judgment as been rendered upon a
conviction for a felony, unless ardoned by the governor, or
such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

SEC. 343. A husband shall not be a witness for or against
his wife, nor a wife a witness for or against her husband; nor
can either, during the marriage, or after, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by
one to the other during the marriage. But this exception
shall not apply to an action or proceeding by one against the
other.

SEC. 344. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the
consent of his client, be examined as a witness to any commutnication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon,

in the course of professional employment.

SEC. 345. A clergyman or riest shall not, without the
consent of the person making t 1e confession, be examined as
a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs.

SEC. 346. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, with_out the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness, as to
any information acquired in attending the patient, which was
necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient.

SEC. 347. A public officer shall not be examined as a wit.ness to communications made to him in otIicial confidence,
when the public interest would suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 348. The judge himself, or any juror, may be called

,as a witness by either party; but in such case it shall be in the
discretion of the court or judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another judge
and jury. 

SEC. 349. When a witness does not understand and speak

' the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret
for him.

t

CHAPTER II.—1l[anner of compelling the Attendance of Witnesses,
and their Rights and Duties.

SEC. 350. A subpena may require not only the attendance

of the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and
place, to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring
any books, documents, or other things, in his control, to be
used as evidence. No person shall be required to attend as a
witness before any court, judge, justice, or any other oflicer, out
of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be less
tharli thirty miles from his place of residence to the place of
tria .

SEC. 351. The subpena shall be issued as follows: First.
To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of
the court before which the attendance is required, or in which
the issue is pending. Second. To require attendance out of
court, before a judge, justice, or any other officer authorized to
administer oaths, or take testimony in any matter, under the
laws of this territory, it shall be issued by the judge, justice,
or other officer before whom the attendance is required. Third.
To require attendance before acommissioner appointed to take
testimony by a court of any other state, territory, or county, it
may be issued by any judge or justice of the peace, in places
within their respective jurisdictions, with like power to enforce
attendance, and upon certificate of contumacy to said court, to
punish contempt of their rocess, as such judge or justice could
exercise, if the subpena irected the attendance of the witness
before their courts in a matter pending therein.

SEC. 352. The service of a subpena shall be made by showing the original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing
its substance, to the witness personal y, giving or offering to
him at the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to which
he is entitled for travel to and from the place designated, and
one day’s attendance there. Such service may be made by any
person. ‘

SEC. 353. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel,
so as to prevent the service of a subpena upon him, any court
or judge, or any ofiicer issuing the subpena, may, upon proof
by affidavit of the concealment, and of the materiality of the
witness, make an order that the sheriff of the county serve the
subpena, and the sheriff shall serve it accordingly, and for that
purpose may break into the building or vessel where the witness is concealed.

SEC. 354. A person present in court, or before a judicial
officer, may be required to testify, in the same manner as if he
were in attendance upon a subpena issued by such court or
ofhcer. 

SEC. 355. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served
with a subpena, to attend at the time appointed, with any
papers under his control required by the subpena, to answer
all pertinent and legal questions, and, unless sooner discharged,
to remain until the testimon is closed.

SEC. 356. A witness sha 1 answer questions legal and pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a

{claim against himself; but he need not give an answer which
shall have a tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony, nor need he give an answer which shall have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in
issue, or to a fact from which the fact in issue would be presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his prewous
conviction for felony.

SEC. 357. Disobedience to a subpena, or a refusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an afiidavit or
deposition when required, may be punished as a contempt by
the court, or officer issuin the subpena, or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if t e witness be a party, his complaint
may be dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

SEC. 358. A witness disobeying a subpena, shall also forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and
all damages which he may sustain by the failure of the witness
to attend; which forfeiture and damages may be recovered in
a civil action.

SEC. 359. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court
or officer issuing the sub ena, upon proof of the service thereof,
and of the failure of t e witness, may issue a warrant to the
sheriff of the county to arrest the witness, and bring him before
the court or officer where his attendance was required.

SEC. 360. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or

‘ prison within this territory, for any other cause than a sentence
or felony, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a
court or ocher for the purpose of being orally examined, may
be made as follows: First. By the court itself, in which the
action or special proceeding is pending. Second. de a judge
of the supreme court, district court, or probate ju ge of the
county where the action or proceeding is pending, if before a
judge or other person out of court.

SEC. 361. Such order can only .be made upon afiidavit,
showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
exgected from the witness, and its materiality.

SEC. 362. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where
the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than
a sentence for felony, his production may be required. In all
other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon
deposition.

SEC. 363. Every person who has been in good faith served
with a subpena to attend as a witness before a court, judge,
commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt, shall
be exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while going to the
place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and returning
therefrom.

SEC. 364. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall be void; but an oflicer shall not be liable to the party
for making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent detention of
the party, if such party claim the exemption, and make an affidavit stating—First. That he has been served with a subpena
to attend as a witness before a court, officer, or other person;
specifying the same, the place of attendance, and the action or
proceeding in which the subpena was issued. Second. That

e has not been thus served by his own rocurement with the
intention of avoiding an arrest. Third. hat he is at the time
going to the place of attendance, or returning therefrom, or
remaining there in obedience to the subpena. The adeavit
may be taken by the officer, and shall exonerate him from liability for discharging the witness when arrested.

CHAPTER III.—0f the Examination of Parties to an Action or
Proceeding, and of Persons for whose immediate benefit such
Action or Proceeding is Prosecuted or Defended.

SEC. 365. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in
aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceed- j
ing, shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be
had on behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner provided by this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 366. A party to an action or roceeding may be examined as a witness, at the instance of t e adverse party, or of
any one of several adverse parties; and for that purpose may i
be compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules of examination, as any other witnessto testify at the trial,
and he may be examined on a commission.

SEC. 367. The examination of a party, thus taken, may be
rebutted by adverse testimony. 1

SEC. 368. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, .
or to give his deposition before trial, or upon a commission,f
when required, his complaint, answer or reply may be strickeni
out, and judgment be taken against him; and he may be, also, ‘
in the discretion of the éourt, proceeded against as in other
cases for a contempt.

SEC. 369. A person for whose immediate benefit the action ;
is prosecuted, or defended, though not a party to the action, 1
may be examined as a witness in the same manner, and subjecti
to the same rules of examination as if he were named as a.
party. And a party to an action or proceeding, may be examined as a witness in his own behalf, the same as any other
witness; but such examination shall not be had, nor shall any
other person for whose immediate benefit the same is prosecuted or defended, be so examined, unless the adve'rse party,
or person in interest, is living, nor when the opposite party
shall be the assignee, administrator, executor, or legal representative of a deceased person, nor unless ten days’ notice of
such. intended examination of the party or person interested,

specifying the points upon which such party or person is
intended to be examined, shall be given in writing to the
adverse party, except that in special proceedings of a summary
nature, such reasonable notice of such intended examination
shall be given as shall be prescribed by the court or judge.
And when notice of such intended examination shall be given
in an action or proceeding, in which the opposite party shall
reside out of the jurisdiction of the court, such party may be
examined by commission issued and executed as now rovided
by law; and whenever a party or person in interest, has been
examined under the provisions of this section, the other party
or person in interest, may offer himself as a witness in his own
behalf, and shall be so received. When an assignor in a thing
in action, or contract, is examined as a witness on behalf of any
person deriving title through, or from him, the ad verse party
may offer himself as a witness to the same matter in his own
behalf, and shall be so received, and to any matter that will
discharge him from any liability that the testimony of the
assignor tends to render him liable for. But such assignor
shall not be permitted to be examined on behalf of any person
deriving title through, or from him, against an assignee, or an
executor or administrator, unless the other party to such contract, or thing in action, whom the defendant or plaintiff represents, is living, and his testimony can be procured for such
examination; nor at least ten days’ notice of such intended
examination of the assignor, specifying the points upon which
he is intended to be examined, shall be given in writing to the
adverse party. This section shall not be held to impair, or in
any way affect the existing provisions of law bv which persons
of Indian, or negro blood, are excluded from being witnesses.
SEC. 370. Parties may be witnesses on their own behalf,
when the action is brought for the settlement of or in relation
»_ to the business and accounts of a copartnership then existing,
or which had previously existed between them, to prove
vouchers or items of account under one hundred dollars.

CHAPTER IV.—0n A fidavz'ts.

SEC. 371. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge,
' or officer of this territory, may be taken before any judge or
clerk of any court, or any justice of the peace, or notary public
in this territory.

SEC. 372. An aiiidavit taken in another state or territory
of the United States, to be used in this territory, shall be taken
before a commissioner appointed by the governor of this territory to take aflidavits and depositions in such other state or
territory, or before a judge of a court of record having a seal.
SEC. 373. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be
used in this territory, shall be taken before an embassador,
minister, or consul of the United Stateshor before any judge
of a court of record having a seal in such foreign country.

SEC. 374. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a
court in another state or territory, or in a foreign country, the
genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence of the
court, and the fact that such judge is a member thereof, shall
be certified by the clerk of the court under the seal thereof.

CHAPTER V.-—Deposz'tzbns taken in this Territory.

SEC. 375. The testimony of a witness in this territory, may
be taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and
in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen
therein, in the following cases: First. When the witness is a
party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.
Second. When the witness resides out of the county in which
his testimony is to be used. Third. When the witness is about
to leave the county where the action is to be tried, and will
probably continue absent when the testimony is required.

ourth. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial,
is nevertheless too infirm to attend.

SEC. 376. Either party may have the deposition taken of a
witness in this territory, before any judge or clerk, or any
justice of the peace, or notary public in this territory, on serving upon the adverse party previous notice of the time and
place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit,
showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section, at
any time during the forty days immediately after the service
of the summons by publication has been completed, and at any
time thereafter, when the defendant has not appeared, the notice
required by this section may be served on the clerk of the
court where the action is pending. Such notice shall be at
least five days, and in addition, one day for every twenty-five
miles of the distance of the place of examination from the residence of the person to whom the notice is given, unless for a
cause shown, a judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time.
When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall
be served with the notice.

SEC. 377. Either party may attend such examination, and:
put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The‘
deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the witness, and corrected by him in any particular, if desired; it shall
then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the judge or
oflicer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope or wrapper, sealed, and directed to the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing
may agree upon, and either delivered b the judge or officer
to the clerk or such person, or transmitte through the mail, or,
by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such deposi- 1
tion may be used by either party upon the trial, or other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the parties attend at the
examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall
be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time of
the examination. If the deposition be taken by the reason of
the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness, or because he is too infirm to attend, roof by aflidavit or
oral testimony shall be made at the trial t at the witness continues absent, or infirm, to the best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken may be also read in
case of the death of the witness.

SEC. 378. When a deposition has been once taken, it may
be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding by either
party, and shall then be deemed the evidence of the party
reading it.

CHAPTER VI.—0f Depositiom taken out of this Territory.

SEC. 379. The testimony of a witness out of the territory
may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after
the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and, in a special proceeding, at any time after a question
of fact has arisen therein.

SEC 380. The deposition of a witness out of this territory
shall be taken upon commission issued from the court, under
the seal of the court, upon an order of the judge, or court,
or probate judge, on the application of either arty, upon
five days previous notice to the other. It shal be issued
to a person agreed upon by the parties, or, if they do not
agree, to any judge or justice of the peace selected by the
officer granting the commission, or to acommissionera pointed
by the governor of this territory to take ail‘idavits an depositions in other states.

SEC. 381. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as

Ithe respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties.
disagree as to their form, by the judge or officer granting the
order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, may be
annexed to the commission; or, when the parties agree to
that mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

SEC. 382. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his
deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute; and to certify the deposition to the court, in a
sealed envelope, directed to the clerk, or other person designated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other
usual channel of conveyance.

SEC. 383. A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon
evidence, satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the

Witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used
to obtain it.

CHAPTER VIL—Of Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.

SEC. 384. The testimony of a witness may be taken and
perpetuated, as provided in this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 385. The . plicant shall produce to a district judge,
or to a probate j u ge, an affidavit stating—First. That the
applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
territory, an in such case, the name or names of the person or

ersons whom he expects will be adverse parties; or, Second,

hat the proof of some fact or facts is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested, or to establish marriage descent, eirship, or any other matter which may hereafter become material to establish, though no suit may at the
time be anticipated, or if anticipated, he may not know the
parties to such suit; and, Third. The name or names of the
witness or witnesses to be examined at his or their lace of
residence, and a general outline of the facts expected) to be,
proved. The judge to whom such petition is presented shall
make an order allowing the examination and prescribing the
notice to be given, which notice, if the parties are known and
reside in this territory, shall be ersonally served on them;
and if unknown, such notice shall e served on the clerk of the
county where the property to be affected by such evidence is
situated, and a notice thereof published in some newspaper to
be designated by the judge making the order.

SEC. 386. Upon proof of service of the notice, as provided
in the last section, it shall be the duty of the judge before whom
the depositions are ordered to be taken, to proceed to take the
depositions of the witnesses named in said petition, upon the
facts herein set forth; and the taking of the same may be continued from time to time, in the discretion of the judge.

SEC. 387. The examination shall be by question and
answer, unless the parties otherwise agree. The deposition,
when taken, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the
witness, then certified by the judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the ofiice of the clerk of the district court of the
county where the same was taken; together with the order for
the examination, the petition on which the same was granted,
and the proof of service of notice.

SEC. 388. The affidavits or other proof filed with the deposition, or certified copies thereof, shall be prz'ma facz'e evidence
of the facts stated therein.

SEC. 389. If a trial be had between the persons named in
the petition as parties ex ectant, or their successors in interest, 4
or between any parties w erein it may be material to establish i
the facts which such depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon
proof of the death or insanity of the witness or witnesses, or
of his or their inability to attend the trial, by reason of age,

sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or depositions, or
certified copies thereof, may be uSed by either party, subject to
all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be made
at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER VIII.—Administration of Oat/Ls and Aj‘i-rmations.

SEC. 390. Every court of this territory, every judge or
clerk of any court,!every justice of the peace, and every notary
public, and ever ofiicer authorized to take testimony, or to
decide upon evi ence in any proceeding, shall have power to
administer oaths or afiirmations.

SEC. 391. When a person is sworn who believes in any
other than the christian religion, he may be sworn according
to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

SEC. 392. Any witness who desires it, may, at his option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn afiirmation or
declaration, by assenting, when addressed, in the following
form: “You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
give in this issue (or matter), pending between and ,
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”
Assent to this affirmation shall be made by the answer “I do.”
A false affirmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury
equally with a false oath.

 

 

CHAPTER IX.—Inspection of Documents, and llzlscellaneous Provisions as to Records and ll"rz'tz'ngs.

SEC. 393. Any court in which an action is pending, or a
judge thereof, or probate judge, may, upon notice, order either
party to give to the other, within a specified time, an ins ection and copy, or permission to take a cop of any book, ocment, or paper in his possession, or under is control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or the defense
therein. If com liance with the order be refused, the court may
exclude the boo , document, or paper from being given in evidence; or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be.
and the court may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party
from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

SEC. 394. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a
*writing other than the writing itself, except in the following
' cases: First. When the original has been lost or destroyed;

in which case, proof of the loss er destruction shall first be
made. Second. When the original is in the possession of the
party against whom the evidence is offered, and Me fails to pro.
uce it after reasonable notice. Third. When the original is
a record, or other document, in the custody of a public oiiicer.
Fourth. When the original has been recorded, and a certilied

copy of the record is made evidence by statute. Fifth. When
the original consists of numerous accounts, or other documents,
which cannot be examined in court without great loss of time,
and the evidence sought from them is only the general result
of the whole.

SEC. 395. The party producing a writing as genuine, which
has been altered, or appears to have been altered after its exe- i
cution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and such}
alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for the
appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration
was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the
writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

SEC. 396. A judicial record of this territor , or of the,
United States may be proved by the production 0 the original, 1
or a c0py thereof, certified by the clerk or other person having I
the legal custody thereof, under the seal of the court, to be a
true copy of such record.

SEC. 397. The records and judicial proceedings of the ,
courts of any state of the United States, may be proved or'
admitted in the courts of this territory by the attestation of the
clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal,
together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is
in due form.

SEC. 398. A judicial record of a foreign country may be
proved b the production of a copy thereof, certified by the}
clerk, Witl the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk?
and seal; or by the legal keeper of the record, with the seal
of his office annexed, if there be a sea], to be a true copy
of such record; together with a certificate of a judge of the
court, that the person making the certificate is the clerk of
the court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case
[that] the signature is genuine, and the certiiicate in due form;
and also, together with the certificate of the minister or embassador of the United States, or of a consul of the United States
in such foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying
generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or other legal keeper of the record.

SEC. 399. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign coun- ,
tr shall also be admissible in evidence upon proof—-First.
T lat the copy offered has been compared by the witness with ‘
the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it.
Second. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of
the court, or other legal keeper of the same ; and, Third. That
the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be the
seal of the court where the record remains, if it be the record
of a court ; [or, if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record
of a court,] by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

SEC. 400. Printed copies, in volumes of statutes, code, or
other written law, enacted by any other state or territory, or
foreign government, purporting or proved to have been publ lished by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts and
judicial tribunals of such state, territory, or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and officers of this territory on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. V

SEC. 401. A seal of a court or public ofiioe, when required

' to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy
of any record or document, may be impressed with wax, wafer,
or any other substance, and then attached to the writ, process,
or proceeding, or to the c0py of the record or document, or it
may be impressed on the paper alone.

TITLE XII.

OF THE WRIT OF CERTIORARI AND OF MANDAMUS.
CHAPTER I.—T}ze IVrz’t of Certz'orarz', or Review.

SEC. 402. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the
writ of review.

SEC. 403. This writ may be granted on application by any
court of this territory exce t a justice’s court; the writ shall

’be granted in all cases w ere an inferior tribunal, board, or
ofhcer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or officer, and there is no
appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any other plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy.

SEC. 404. The application shall be made on affidavit by
the party beneficially interested, and the court may require a
notice of the application to be given to the adverse arty, or
may grant an order to show cause why it shoul not be
allowed, or ma grant the writ without notice.

SEC. 405. T e writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal,
board, or officer, or to any other person having the custody of
the record or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a
tribunal, the clerk, if there be one, shall return the writ, with
the transcript required.

SEC. 406. The writ of review shall command the party to
whom it is directed, to certify fully to the court issuing the
writ, at a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a
transcript of the record and proceedings (describing or referring to them with convenient certainty), that the same may be
reviewed by the court; and requiring the party, in the meantime, to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be
reviewed.

SEC. 407. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the
words requiring the stay shall' be omitted from the writ; these
words may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion 'of

the court; but if omitted, the power of the inferior court or,
ofhcer shall not be suspended nor the proceedings stayed.

SEC. 408. The writ shall be served in the same manner as
a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by the court.

SEC. 409. The review upon this writ shall not be extended
further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board,
or officer, has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal,
board, or oflicer.

SEC. 410. If the return of the writ be defective, the court
may order a further return to be made. \Vhen a full return
has been made, the court shall proceed to hear the parties, or'
such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming or annulling, or modifying
the proceedings below.

SEC. 411. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer
having the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

SEC. 412. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall consti-3
tute the judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other
than the supreme court, an appeal may be taken from the
judgment in the same manner, and upon the same terms as
from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER IL—The l’Vr’it cf Mandate or Mandamus.

SEC. 413. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the:
writ of mandate.

SEC. 414. It may be issued by any court in this territory, 3
except a justice’s court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, 1
board or person, to compel the erformance of an act, which1
the law specially enjoins as a uty resulting from an office,
trust or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the
use and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled,
and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior
tribunal, corporation, board or person.

SEC. 415. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there ,
is not a plain, speedy and adequate remed , in the ordinary
course of law. It shall be issued upon afli avit, on the application of the arty beneficially interested.

SEC. 416. he writ shall be either alternative or peremptory: .
the alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against1
the party to whom it is directed, and command such party,i
immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some other
specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to
s ow cause before the court, at a specified time and place, why
he has not done so. The eremptory writ shall be in similar
form, except that the wor s requiring the arty to show cause
why he has not done as commanded sha 1 be omitted, and a
return dav shall be inserted.

SEC. 417. When the application to the court is made without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the

. alternative shall be first issued; but if the application be upon

due notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may be
issued in the first instance. The notice of the application,
when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
granted by default. The case shall be heard by the court,
Whether the adverse party ap ear or not. .

SEC. 418. On the return ay of the alternative, or the day
on which the application of the writ is noticed, or such further
day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ or
notice shall have been served, may show cause by answer under
oath, made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in
a civil action.

SEC. 419. If an answer be made, which raises a question

,as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the

motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and
upon the supposed truth of the allegation of which the application for the writ is based, the court may, in its discretion,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the
argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified
to the court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated
in the order for trial, and the county shall be designated in
which the same shall be had. The order may also direct the
jury to assess any damages which the applicant may have sustained in case they find for him.

SEC. 420. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded

fby the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may

I

countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by way of
avoidance.

SEC. 421. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of
the jury, he ma move for a new trial upon a statement regared as provi ed in section one hundred and ninety- ve.

he motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be
brought on before the judge of the court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted
the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After
a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall
not be had.

SEC. 422. If no notice of a new trial be given, or if given
be denied, the clerk, within five days after the rendition of the
verdict or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the court in
which the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy

, of the verdict attached to the order of trial ; after which either

party may bring on the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 423. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard
on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which
does not raise a question such as is mentioned in section four

hundred and nineteen, but only such matters as may be explained or avoided by a re ly, the court may, in its discretion,
grant time for replying. f the answer, or answer and reply,
raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements, not affecting. the substantial rights of the parties, the
court shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument of the case.

SEC. 424. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall ,
recover the damages which he shall have sustained as found e
by the jury, or as may be determined by the court, or referees,
upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs; and for
such damages and costs, an execution may issue, and a peremptorv mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

SEC. 425. The writ shall be served in the same manner 381
a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly'
directed by order of the court.

SEC. 426. When a perem tory mandate has been issued
and directed to any inferior tri unal, corporation, board, or per- .1
son, if it appear to the court that any member of such tribunal, }
corporation or board, or such person upon whom the writ has
been personally served, has, without just excuse, refused or
neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of
persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the
party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months,
and may make any orders necessary and rcper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine e imposed upon a
judge or officer who draws a salary from the territory or county,
a certified copy of the order shall be forwarded to the auditor,
or county treasurer, as the case may be, and the amount thereof
may be retained from the salary of such judge or oilicer. Such
judge or ofIicer, for his willful disobedience, shall also be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor in ofiice.

TITLE XIII.

OF CONTEMP’I‘S AND THEIR PUNISHMENTS.

SEC. 427. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed
contempts: First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the judge whilst holding court, or engaged in
his judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, reference, or arbitration, or
other judicial roceeding. Second. A breach of the peace,
boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, in presence of the
court or its immediate vicinity, tending to interru t the due
course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding. ird. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or rocess, issued by the court or judge at chambers. Fourth. isobedience of a subpena duly served, or refusing to be sworn,

or answer as a witness. Fifth. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any oflicer, by virtue of an order or process of such court or judge at chambers.

SEC. 428. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court, or judge at chambers, it may
be punished summarily ; for which an order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate View and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or judge at chambers, an
affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge, of the facts
constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the
referees or arbitrators. .

SEC. 429. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of
attachment may be issued to bring the person charged to
answer, or without a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment
may, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be granted;
and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such
previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to show
cause.

SEC. 430. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued
pursuant to this chapter [of this act], the court or judge shall
direct, by an indorsement on each warrant, that the person
charged may be let to bail for his appearance in an amount to
be specified in such indorsement.

SEC. 431. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the
sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the
court or judge, and detain him until an order be made in the
premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

SEC. 432. When a direction to let the person arrested to
bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed
thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing
and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day
of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two suilicient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant, and abide the order of the court or judge
thereupon ; or they will pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

SEC. 433. The oflicer shall return the warrant of arrest and
the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person
arrested, by the return day specified therein.

SEC. 434. When the person arrested has been brought up
or appeared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate. the
charge, and shall hear any answer which the person arrested
may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time
to time, if necessary.

SEC. 435. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court
or judge shall determine whether the erson roceeded against
is guilty of the contempt charged, and) if it e adjudged that
he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on him
not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned
not exceeding five days, or both.

SEC. 436. When the contempt consists in the omission to
perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perorm, he may be imprisoned until he have erformed it,
and in that case the act shall be specified in t e warrant of
commitment.

SEC. 437. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of this chapter [of this act], shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense;
but the court before which a conviction is bad on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted.

SEC. 438. When the warrant of arrest has been returned
served, if the persons arrested do not appear on the return day,
the court or judge may issue another warrant of arrest, or may
order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action
shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

SEC. 439. Whenever by the provisions of this chapter [of
this act], an oflicer is required to keep a person arrested on a
warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a
court or judge, the inability from illness or otherwise of the
person to attend, shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing

im up; and the officer shall not confine a person arrested
upon the warrant, in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his
personal attendance.

SEC. 440. The judgment and orders of the court or judge
made in cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The
punishment shall be by fine or im risonment, but no tine shall
exceed the sum of five hundred ollars, and no imprisonment
shall exceed the period of five days, except as provided in section four hundred and thirty-six. ’

TITLE XIV.

OF COSTS.

SEC. 441. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors shall be left to the agreement, express
or implied, of the parties; but there shall be allowed to the
prevailing party in any action in the supreme court, district
court, and probate courts, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action, or special proceeding in the nature of an
action.

SEC. 442. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintiff
upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases: First. In
an action for the recoveryof real property. Second. In an
action to recover the possession of personal property when the
value of the ro erty amounts to one hundred dollars or over.
Such value 3 a1 be determined by the jury, court or referee
by whom the action is tried. Third. In an action for the recovery of money or damages where the plaintiff recovers one
hundred dollars or over. Fourth. In a special proceeding in
the nature of an action.

SEC. 443. When several actions are brought on one bond,
undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other in" strument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of
action, against several parties who might have been joined as
defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to the
plaintiff in more than one of such actions, which may be at his
election, if the party proceeded a ainst in the other actions
were at the commencement of t e previous action openly
within this territory; but the disbursements of the plaintiff
shall be allowed to him in each action.

SEC. 444. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section four hundred and forty-two, and in a special proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 445. In other actions than those mentioned in section

t. four hundred and forty-two, costs may be allowed or not; and
if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court; but no
costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of money
or damages when the plaintiff recovers less than one hundred
dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, when the value of the property is less than one hunred dollars.

SEC. 446. When there are several defendants in the actions
mentioned in section four hundred and forty-two, not united in
interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the
court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor.

SEC. 447. In the following cases, the costs of an appeal, or
writ of error, shall be in the discretion of the court: First.
When a new trial is ordered. Second. When the judgment is
modified. '

SEC. 448. The fees of referees shall be fifteen dollars to
each for every day spent in the business of the reference, and
the parties shall not agree upon any other rate of compensation in writing, nor shall any other rate of compensation be
allowed by the court.

SEC. 449. When an application is made to a court or referee
to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the
postponement may be imposed, in the discretion of the court
or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 450. When in an action for the recovery of money
only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the action he tendered to the plaintiff the full
amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in
court for the plaintiff the amount so tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintiff shall not recover costs,
but shall pay costs to the defendant.

SEC. 451. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of eXpress trust, or person expressly
authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in action by
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right,
but such costs shall, b the judgment, be made chargeable
only 11 on the estate, and, or party represented, unless the
court s all direct the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action
or defense. ’

SEC. 452. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisg
diction, in a special proceeding, is brought before a court of
higher jurisdiction for a review, in any other way than by
appeal, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appea ,
and may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 453. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered,
and who claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court, 5
within two days after the verdict or decision of the court, a
memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or roceeding, which memorandum shall
be verified by the cat of the party, or his attorney, stating
that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have
been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 454. The clerk shall include, in the judgment entered '
up by him, the costs, per centage allowed, and any interest on 3
the verdict from the time it was rendered.

SEC. 455. When the plaintiff in an action resides out of ,
the territory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs 1
and charges which may be awarded against such plaintiff, may
be required by the defendant. When required, al proceedings
in the action shall he stayed until an undertaking, executed by
two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against
the plaintiff by judgment, or in the progress of the action, not
exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an
additional undertaking may be ordered by the court or judge,
upon proof that the original undertakin is insuiiicient security, and proceedings in the action staye until such new or
additional undertaking be executed and filed.

SEC. 456. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned above, shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder or freeholder within the county, and
is worth double the amount specified in the undertaking, over
and above all just debts and liabilities, exclusive of preperty
exempt from execution.

SEC. 457. After the lapse of thirty days from the service
of notice that security is required, or of an order for new or
additional security, upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the court or judge may order

the action to be dismissed.

TITLE XV.

OF MOTIONS, ORDERS, SERVICE OF PAPERS, AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS.

SEC. 458. Every direction of a court or judge made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An ap lication for an order is a motion.

SEC. 459. Motions s all be made in the county in which
the action is brought, or in an adjoining county in the same
district.

SEC. 460. When a written notice of a motion is necessary,
it shall be given, if the court be held in the same district with
both parties, five days before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise ten days; but the court, or judge, or probate
judge, may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 461. \Vhen a notice of motion is given, or an order
to show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court,
and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of
the order, the judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter
may be transferred by his order to some other judge, before
whom it might originally have been brought.

SEC. 462. Written notices and other papers, when required
to be served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the
manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not other‘
wise provided; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to
original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party
into contempt.

SEC. 463. The service may be personal, by delivery to the
party, or attorney, on whom the service is required to be made,
or it may be as follows: First. If upon an attorney, it may be
made during his absence from his ofiice, by leaving the notice
or other papers with his clerk therein, or with’a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office, by
leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning and
six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office; or if
it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving
them at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable
age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then

by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post
office, directed to such attorney. Second. If upon a party, it
may be made by leaving the notice or other paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in
the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion;
and if his residence be not known, by utting the same, inclosed
in an envelope, into the post office, directed to such party.

SEC. 464. Service by mail may be made, where the person
making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made,
reside in different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail.

SEC. 465. In case of service by mail, the notice, or other
paper, shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence,
and the postage aid. And in such case, the time of service
shall be increase one day for every twenty miles distance
between the place of the deposit and the place of the address.

SEC. 466. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an
action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintitf written
notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of
appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant, or his
attorney, shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or paper need not
be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail.

SEC. 467. When a plaintiff, or a defendant, who has
appeared, resides out of the territory, and has no attorney in
the action or proceeding, the service may be made on the clerk
for him. But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the
action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required,
shall be upon the attorney instead of the party, except of subpenas, or writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of
papers to bring him into contempt.

SEC. 468. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action,
a new cause of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 469. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time, between the same parties, and in the same court,
upon causes of action which might have been joined, the court
may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

SEC. 470. An action may be brought by one person against
another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which
the latter makes against the former, for money or property,
upon an alleged obligation; and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due
to the other, for which the plaintiff is bound as security.

SEC. 471. The clerk shall keep among the records of thej
court, two registers of actions, one for action at law and the1
other for proceedings at chancery. He shall enter in them
respectively, thetitle of the action, with brief notes under it,

frk'pm time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had
t erein.

SEC. 472. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all shall meet, but two of them may do any act which
might be done by all.

SEC. 473. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this act, shall be computed by excluding the first
day, and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded.

SEC. 474. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the action, or roceedin in which it is made, or with
a defective title, shall e as valid and effectual for any purpose
as if duly entitled, if it intelliginy refer to such action or
proceeding.

TITLE XVI.
OF PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES IN J USTICES, COURTS.
CHAPTER I.-— 0f the Parties, and the Time and Place cf Chmmencz'ng Actions in Justz'ces’ Courts.

SEC. 475. The provisions of title one, of this act, as to parties to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a justice’s
court has jurisdiction; the word “justice” being substituted for
the word “cler ,” and the word “constable” for the word
“sheriff.”

SEC. 476. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or defend
in person or by attorney; and any person, on the request of a
party, may act as his attorney, except that the constable by
whom the summons or jur process was served shall not appear
or act on the trial in beha f of either arty.

SEC. 477. No person shall be held) to answer to any summons issued against him from a justice’s court in a civil action
in any township or city, other than the one in which he shall
reside, except in the cases following: First. When there shall
be no justice’s court for the township or city in which the defendant may reside, or no justice competent to act on the case.
Second. When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly
and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different townships or different cities of the same county, or in different
counties, the plaintiff may prosecute his action in a justice’s
court of the township or city in which any of the debtors or
other persons liable may reside. Third. In cases of injury to
the person, or to real or personal property, the plaintiff may
prosecute his action in the township or city where the injury
was committed. Fourth. Where persona property unjustly
taken or detained is claimed, or damages therefor are claimed,
the plaintiff may bring his action in any township or city in
which the property may be found, or in which the property
was taken. Fifth. When the defendant is a non-resident of

the county, he may be sued in any township or city wherein
he may be found. Sixth. When a person has contracted to
perform any obligation at a particular place, and resides in
another township or city, he may be sued in the townshi or
city in which such obligation is to be performed, or in which
he resides. Seventh. When the foreclosure of a mortgage, or
the enforcement of a lien upon personal property, is sought by
the action, the plaintiff may sue in the township or city where
the preperty is situated.

SEC. 478. Judgment upon confession may be entered up,
in any justice’s court in t e [territory,] specified in the confession.

SEC. 479. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of an.
action upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without
summons, without regard to their residences, or the place
where the cause of action arose, or the subject-matter of the
action may exist. '

CHAPTER II.--Summons, Arrest, Attachment, and Claim of Personal Property.

SEC. 480. Actions in justices’ courts shall be commenced
by filing a copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument,
upon which the action is brought, or a concise statement, in
writing, of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons
thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the
- parties without summons. In the latter case, the action shall

e deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

SEC. 481. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be ap .
pointed by the justice, as follows: First. If the infant be I
plaintiff, the appointment shall be made before the summons
is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age
of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the
application of some relative or friend. The consent, in writing,
of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for
costs, if he fail in the action, shall be first filed with the justice.
Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the
pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to nominate his
own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and
the proposed guardian be present, and consent, in writing, to
be appointed. Otherwise, the justice may appoint any suitable
person who gives such consent.

SEC. 482. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name, or, if his name be unknown, by a fictitious1
name; and shall summon him to appear before the justice, at
_ his ofiice, naming its township or city, and, at a time specified
therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintiff, for a cause of
action therein described in general terms, sufficient to apprise
the defendant of the nature of the claim against him; and in
action for money or damages, shall state the amount for which

the plaintiff will take judgment if the defendant fail to ap ear
and answer. It shall be subscribed by the justice before w om
it is returnable.

SEC. 483. The time mentioned in the summons for the
appearance of the defendant and time of service shall be as
follows: First. When the summons is accompanied with an
order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately. Second. In all other cases it shall be returnable in not
less than two or more than ten days from its date, and shall
be served at least two days before the time for appearance;
provided, when the defendant is a non-resident of the township
or city where the action is brought, such defendant may appear
at any time after service of summons‘, by giving one day’s
notice to the plaintiff or his attorney.

SEC. 484. The summons shall be served by the sheriff or a
. constable of the county, or any person of lawful age, as follows:
First. If the action be‘against a corporation, by delivery of a
copy to the president or other head of the corporation, or to
the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof; or, when no
such ofhcer resides in the county, to a director resident therein.
Second. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by
delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother,
or guardian; or, if there be none within the county, then to
any person having the care or control of such minor, or with
whom he resides, or in whose service he is. Third. If against
a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian
has been appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian.
Fourth. In all other cases, by delivery of a copy to the defendant personally.

SEC. 485. When the person upon whom the service is to
be made, resides out of the territory, or has departed from the
territory, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within the
territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons,
and the fact shall appear by afiidavit to the satisfaction of the
justice, and it shall, in like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service
is to be made, the justice shall rant an order that the service
be made by the publication of t e summons. The order shall
direct the publication to be made in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at
least once a week; provided, that a publication against a defendant residing out of the territory, or absent therefrom, shall
not be less than one month. The service of summons shall be
deemed complete at the ex iration of the time prescribed by
the order of publication. he justice shall also direct a copy
of the summons to be forthwith deposited in the post office,
directed to the person to be served, at his or her last known
place of residence.

SEC. 486. An order to arrest the defendant may be indorsed
on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be 
arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable at the time of serv- g
ing the summons, and brought before the justice, and there
detained until duly discharged, in the following cases, arising
after the passage of the act: First. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action arisin upon
contract, ex ress or implied, when the defendant is a out to
start from t e territory with intent to defraud his creditors, or
where the action is for a willful injury to the person, or for
taking, detaining or injuring personal property. Second. In
an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own
use, by an attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course
of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity. Third. When the defendant has been guilty
of a fraud in contracting the debt or incurring the obligation
for which the action is brought. Fourth. When the defendant
has removed, concealed or disposed of his property, or is about
to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. But no female
shall be arrested in any action.

SEC. 487. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the
party applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by l
the affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on
which the a plication is founded. The plaintiff shall also execute and eliver to the justice a written undertaking, with
two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment the plaintiff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred dollars.

SEC. 488. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, .
shall be taken to the oflice of the justice who made the order, 3
and, if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be
made to appear to him by the affidavit of defendant that he is‘
a material witness in the action, the oiiicer shall immediately
take the defendant before the next justice of the city or township within the county, who shall take cognizance of the action
and proceed thereon as if the summons had been issued and
the order of arrest made by him.

SEC. 489. The officer making the arrest shall immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorney or agent,
and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating
the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of his
giving notice to the plaintiff.

SEC. 490. The oilicer making an arrest shall keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of the
'ustice.

SEC. 491. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance
with the officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon

such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond

f three hours, except by the trial of another action pending at the
time; or he may have an adjournment, and be discharged on
giving bail, as provided in the next section. An adjournment
at the request of the plaintiff, beyond three hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed
notwithstanding, and the defendant shall be subject to arrest on
the execution, in the same manner as if he had not been so
discharged.

SEC. 492. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand an

adjournment, the same shall be granted, on condition that he

execute and file with the justice an undertaking, with two or
more sufricient sureties, to be approved b the justice, to the
effect that he will render himself amena le to the process of
the court during the endency of the action, and such as may
be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or that the sureties
will pay to the plaintiff the amount of any judgment which he
may recover in the action. On filing the undertaking specified
in this section, the justice shall order the defendant to be discharged from custody.

SEC. 493. A writ to attach the property of the defendant
shall be issued by the justice, on receiving an afiidavit by or on
behalf of the plaintiff, showing the same facts as are required
to be shown bythe ailidavit specified in section five hundred
and twenty-one.

SEC. 494. Before issuing the writ the justice shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or
more suii’icient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the attachment be dismissed, the plaintiff
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment.

SEC. 495. The writ may be directed to the sheriff, or any
constable of the county, and shall require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of the defendant within his county
not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, the amount of which
shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of two sufhcient
sureties in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides
costs; in which case, to take such undertaking.

SEC. 496. The sections of this act, from section one hunidred and twenty-four to section one hundred and forty-one,
both inclusive, shall be applicable to attachments issued in
justices’ courts, the word “constable” being substituted for
the word “sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed to a constable, and the word “justice” being substituted for the word
“ 'ud e.

SEC. 497. The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such
property to him, as provided in this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 498. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the ropert claimed
(particularly describing it), or is lawfully entit ed to t e possessmn thereof. Second. That the property is wrongfully detained
by the defendant. Third. The alleged cause of the detention
thereof, according to his best knowledge, information and belief. Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to statute; or seized under an
execution, or an attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or, if seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; and, Fifth. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 499. The justice shall thereupon, b an indorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, order the sheri or a constable of
the county to take the same from the defendant, and deliver it
to the plaintiff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in
the following section.

SEC. 500. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order,
with a written undertaking executed by two or more suHicient sureties, ap roved by the oflicer, to the effect that they
are bound in double the value of the propert as stated in the
affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, or the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause,
be recovered against the laintiff, the officer shall forthwith
take the propert described) in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant, or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He shall, also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a copy of the affidavit, order and undertaking, b delivering
the same to him personally, if he can be foun within the
county, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is
taken, or if neither can be found within the county, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either within the
county, with some person of suitable age and discretion, or, if
neither have any known place of abode within the county, by
putting them mto the nearest post ofiice directed to the
defendant.

SEC. 501. The defendant may, within two days after the
service of a copy of the aflidavit and undertaking, give notice
to the officer that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties.
If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties
shall justify on notice before the justice; and the oilicer shall
be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until
they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot
reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

SEC. 502. At any time before the delivery of the property

. to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving
to the officer a written undertaking, executed by two or more
suflicient sureties, to the effect that they are bound, in double
the value of the property, as stated in the afiidavit of the
plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such deivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may for any cause he recovered against the defendant. If a
return of the property be not so required within two days
after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall
be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in this chapter [of this act].

SEC. 503. The defendant’s sureties, upon reasonable notice
*to the plaintiff, shall justify before the justice; and upon such
justification, the officer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The officer shall be responsible for the defendant’s
sureties until they justify, or until the justification is completed
or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that
time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the
time appointed, he shall deliver the roperty to the plaintiff.
If the property, or any part thereof, e concealed in a building or inclosure, the oflicer shall publicly demand its delivery;
and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclosure to be broken Open, and take the property into his possessron.

SEC. 504:. When the officer shall have taken property, as
in this chapter [of this act] provided, he shall keep it in a
secure place, and deliver it to, the party entitled thereto, upon
receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses
for keeping the same.

SEC. 505. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make
alhdavit to his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same
upon the ofiicer, the ofIicer shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on '
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against such
claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the plaintiff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no claim to such
property by any other person than the defendant, or his agent,
sha 1 be valid against t e oiiicer, unless so made.

SEC. 506. The officer shall return the order and afiidavit,
with his proceedings thereon, to the justice, within nve days
after taking the property mentioned therein.

SEC. 507. The qualification of sureties on the several
undertakings required by this chapter [of this act], shall be as

follows: First. Each of them shall be a resident and householder, or freeholdcr, within the county. Second. Each shall
be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking, over
and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution.

SEC. 508. For the purpose of justification, each of the
sureties shall attend before the justice at the time mentioned
in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the
adverse party, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
justice, in his discretion, may think pro er. The examination
shall be reduced to writing, and subscrilied by the sureties, if
required.

SEC. 509. If the justice find the sureties sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allow- ;
ance thereon, and file the same, and the ofhcer shall thereupon.
be exonerated from liability:

CHAPTER III.—Pleadings and Trial.

SEC. 510. The pleadings in justices’ courts shall be—First. :
The complaint by the plaintiff, stating the cause of action.‘
Second. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of
the defense. o

SEC. 511. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified
by the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the}
action is—First. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the
enforcement of any lien, on personal property. Second. For
a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful
detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions. Third.
To recover possession of a “mining claim.” In other cases,
the pleadings ma be oral or in writing.

SEC. 512. W en the pleadings are oral, the substance of (
them shall be entered by the justice in his docket; when in e
writing, they shall be filed in his office, and a reference to them i
made in the docket} Pleadings shall not be required to be in
any particular form, but shall be such as to enable a person of
common understanding to know what is intended. )

SEC. 513. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct C
manner, the facts constituting the cause of action. ‘

SEC. 514. The answer may contain a denial of any of the A
_material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant:
believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and
direct manner, of any other facts constituting a defense, or a
counter claim, upon which an action might be brought by the
defendant against the plaintiff in a justice’s court.

SEC. 515. A statement in an answer that party has not suf- C
ficient knowledge or information, in respect to a particular 8‘
allegation in the revious pleadings of the adverse party, toii
form a belief, shalFbe deemed equivalent to a denial.

SEC. 516. When the cause of action, or counter-claim,“
arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of money a:

only, it shall be sufficient for the party to delivera copy of the
account or instrument to the court, and to state that there is
due to him thereupon, from the adverse party, a specified sum,
which he claims to recover or set off. The court may, at the
time of the pleading, require that the original account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and
a cOpy to be furnished; or, if it be not so exhibited and a copy
furnished, may rohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

SEC. 517. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint, or file
with the justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of
the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the payment of money, upon which the action is
brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers, or assignors
thereof, unless he specifically deny the same in his answer, and
verify the same by his oath.

SEC. 518. Either party may object to a pleading of his
adversary, or to any part thereof, that is not sufficiently
explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no
cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true. If
the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and if the Lparty refuse to amend, the
defective pleading shall be disregar ed.

SEC. 519. A variance between the proof on the trial and

'the allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his prejudice thereby.

SEC. 520. The pleadings may be amended at any time

L before the trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, when by
such amendment substantial justice will be romoted. If the
amendment be made after the issue, and it he made to appear
to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court may,
also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment,
the payment of costs to the adverse arty, to be fixed by the
court, not exceeding twenty dollars; hut such payment shall
not be re uired unless an adjournment is made necessary by
the amen ment; nor shall an amendment be allowed after a
witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary.

SEC. 521. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence by which the question of title to real property shall be
raised on the trial before a justice, and if it appear from the
plaintiff ’3 Own showing on the trial, or from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath, or that of his agent or attorney,
that the determination of the action will necessarily involve
the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice
shall sus end all further proceedincrs in the action, and certify
the pleadings; or if the pleadings the oral, a transcript of the

same from his docket to the district court of the county ; and

from the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the

county clerk, the district court shall have over the action the

same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced therein; 3
provided, that when the pleadings or transcript are certified to 1
the district court upon the answer of the defendant, he shall

file an undertaking with two or more sufficient sureties, to be

approved by the justice, to the effect that they will pay all

costs of the action if it be decided against him by the district

court.

SEC. 522. If at any time before the trial it appear, to the,
satisfaction of the justice before whom the action is brought, i
by affidavit of either party, that such justice is a material wit- 1
ness for either party, or if either party make affidavit that he
has reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial before such justice, by reason of the
interest, prejudice, or bias of the justice, the action shall be
transferred to some other justice of the same or neighboring
township; and in case a jury he demanded, and affidavit of
either party is made, that he cannot have a fair and impartial
trial, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the
township against him, the action shall be transferred to some
other justice of the peace in the county. The justice to whom
an action may be transferred by the provisions of this section,
shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action
as if it had originally commenced before him. The justice
ordering the transfer of the action to another justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment of costs, all the
papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from

is docket, of the proceedings therein. Upon the return-day
of the summons, if a jury be required, or if the justice be actually engaged in other oiiicial business, he may adjourn the trial
without the consent of either party, as follows; First. When a
party, who is not a resident of the county, is in attendance, the
adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours; when the
defendant in attendance is under arrest, the adjournment not
to exceed three hours. Second. In other cases not to exceed
five days.

SEC. 523. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon
application of either party, without the consent of the other,
for a period not exceeding ten days (except as provided in the
next section), as follows: First. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary, prove, by his own
oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial, and
shall show in what respect the testimony expected is material,
and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has been
unable to do so. Second. The party asking the adjournment
shall, also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
testimony of any witness of such adverse party who is in

attendance, be then taken by deposition before the justice,
which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken
may be read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject to
the same objections as if the witness were roduced ; but such
objections shall be made at the time of tailing the deposition.
Third. The court may also require the moving party to state,
upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would
be given, and that it is to be considered as actually given on
the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall
not be postponed.

SEC. 524. An adjournment may be had, either at the time
of joining issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case
may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a
period longer than ten days, but not to exceed four months,
from the time of the return of the summons, upon proof, by
the oath of the arty, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
justice, that sue party cannot be ready for trial before the
time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of material
evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act of negligence on his part since
the action was commenced; that he has used due diligence to
procure the evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that

e expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him ;
provided, that if the adverse party admit that such evidence
would be given, and consent that it may be considered as given
on the trial, or offered, or overruled as improper, the adjournment shall not be had.

SEC. 525. No adjournment shall be granted for a period
longer than ten days, upon the application of either party,
except on condition that such party file an undertaking, with
sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they
will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment
which may be recovered against the party applying.

SEC. 526. If the plaintiff fail to appear at the return day
of the summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the summons, or if either
party fail to attend at a day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on his
part, the case may nevertheless proceed, at the request of the
adverse arty, and judgment shall be given in conformity with
the pleadings and proofs.

SEC. 527. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of
joining issue; and shall be deemed waived, if neither party
then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case shall
be adjourned, until a time and place fixed for the return of the
jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and
place shall be determined by the justice, and shall be on the
same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall be

it

summoned upon an order of the justice, from the citizens of 1
the city or township, and not from the bystanders. '

SEC. 528. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice,
shall proceed to call, from the jurors summoned, the names of
the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The
jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any number,
not more than twelve, nor less than three.

SEC. 529. If a suliicient number of com etent and indifferent jurors do not attend, the justice shall ireet others to beI
summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufficient to complete the jury.

SEC. 530. Either party may challenge the jurors. The
challenges shall be either peremptory or for a cause. Each}
party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either
party may challenge for cause, on any grounds set forth in section number one hundred and sixty-two. Challenges for cause
shall be tried by the justice in a summary manner, who may
examine the juror challenged and witnesses.

CHAPTER IV.-—Judgment and Execution.

SEC. 531. Judgment that the action be dismissed without,
prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the1
following cases: First. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses.the action before it is finally submitted. Second. When he,
fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon
adjournment, or within one hour thereafter. Third. When it
is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the
action is brought in the wrong county, or township, or city;
but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause
only of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate
the judgment; if not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed
waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.

SEC. 532. When the defendant fails to appear and answer,
judgment shall be given for the plaintiff, as follows: When a
copy of the account, note, bill or other obligation upon which
the action is brought, was tiled with the justice at the time the
summons was issued, judgment shall be given without further
evidence, for the sum specified in the summons.

SEC. 533. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice shaly hear the evidence, and decide all questions
of fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

SEC. 534. Upon a verdict the justice shall immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, ‘
judgment shall be entered immediately after the close of the
trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in custody;
in other cases it shall be entered within four days after the
close of the trial. If the action be on contract against two or
more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more,
but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only against
those who were served, if the contract be a several, or a joint

and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract
only, the judgment shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint property of
all, and the separate property of the defendants served.

SEC. 535. When the amount found due to either party ex, ceeds the sum for which the ustice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be
rendered for the residue.

SEC. 536. If the defendant, at any time before the trial,
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for
a Specifled sum, the plaintiff may immediately have judgment
therefor, with the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept
such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a
sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs
shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted
from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than
as to costs, as above provided.

SEC. 537. When a judgment is rendered in a certain case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment
thereon, it shall be so stated in the judgment, and entered in
the docket.

SEC. 538. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs
by this chapter [of this act], the justice shall add their amount
to the verdict; or, in case of a failure of the plaintiff to recover,
or in case of a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment
in favor of the defendant for the amount of such costs.

SEC. 539. The justice, on demand of the party in whose
favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof,
which may be tiled and docketed in the ofhce of the clerk of
’ the county where the judgment was rendered. The time of
the recei t of the transcript by the county clerk shall be noted
by him tliereon and entered in the docket; and from that time
executions may be issued by the county clerk on such judgments to the sheriff of any other county of the territory, in the
same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts.
All process upon judgments recovered in justices’ courts to be
executed within the same county, shall be issued by the justice
or his successor in office. No judgment rendered by a justice,
of the peace shall create any lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless atranscri tof such judgment certified by the justice,
be filed and recorded in the office of the recorder. \Vhen such
transcript is to be filed in any other county than that in which
the justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with
the certificate of the county clerk, as to the official character
of the justice. \Vhen so filed and recorded in the office of the
recorder for any count , such judgment shall constitute a lien
upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment debtor
situated in the county where such transcript may be dled and

recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as if such judgment had been rendered in the district court of such county.

SEC. 540. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in :
a justice’s court, may be issued on the application of the party
entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry
of the judgment.

SEC. 541. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be ;
directed to the sheriff, or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or
by his successor in office, and shall bear date the day of its
delivery to the oflicer to be executed. It shall intelligibly
refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and
the name of the justice before whom, and of the county, and
the township or city, where, and the time when, it was rendered; the amount ofjudgment, ifit be for money; and ifless
than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It shall
contain, in like cases, similar directions to the sheriff or constable, as are required by the provisions of title seven of this
act, in an execution to the sheriff.

SEC. 542. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution ,
is directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same man- i
ner as the sheriff is required by the provisions of title seven
of this act, to proceed upon executions directed to him; and
the constable, when the execution is directed to him, shall be
vested for that purpose with all the powers of the sheriff, and,
after issuing an execution, and either before or after its return
(if the same be returned unsatisfied either in whole or in part), :
the judgment creditor shall be entitled to an order from the
justice requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time’to be
designated in the order, and answer concerning his property
before such justice, and the attendance of such debtor may be
enforced by the justice; on his attendance, such debtor may be
examined under oath concerning his property, and any person
alleged to have in his hands property, moneys, effects or credits
of the judgment debtor, may also be required to attend and be
examined, and the justice may order any property in the hands
of the judgment debtor, or any other person, not exempt from
execution, belonging to such debtor, to be applied towards the
satisfaction of the judgment; and the justice may enforce such
order by imprisonment until complied with; but no judgment
debtor, or other person, shall be required to attend before the
justice out of the county in which he resides.

CHAPTER V.—General Provisions.

SEC. 543. Those provisions of this act which are referred
to in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the provisions
embraced in this title, be applicable to justices’ courts and proceedings therein.

SEC. 544. Every justice shall keep a book, denominated at
docket, in which he shall enter—First. The title of every action

or proceeding. Second. The object of the action or roceedincr,
an if a sum of money be claimed, the amount oft e demand.
Third. The date of the summons and the time of its return,
and, if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of
attachment be issued, a statement of these facts. Fourth. The
time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their nonappearance if default be made; a minute of the pleadings and
motions, if in writing, referring to them—if not in writing, a
concise statement of the material parts of the pleading, and of
all motions made during the trial by either party, and his
decisions thereon. Fifth. Every adjournment, stating on whose
application, whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what
time. Sixth. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same
is made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the
time appointed for the trial and return of the jury. Seventh.

The names of the jury, who appear and are sworn, the names

of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request. Eighth. The
verdict of the jur , and when received; if the jury disagree

and are discharge , the fact of such disagreement and discharge.

Ninth. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs

included, and the time when rendered. Tenth. The issuing of
the execution, when issued, and to whom, the renewals thereof,

if any, and when made, and a statement of any money paid to

the justice, and when, and by whom. Eleventh. The receipt

of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and of the appeal bond,

if any be filed.

SEC. 545. The several particulars of the’ last section specified shall be entered, under the title of the action to which they
relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a
justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certitied by the justice,
or his successor in office, shall be primary evidence to prove
the facts so stated therein.

SEC. 546. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which shall be entered the names of the parties to
each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The
names of the plaintiffs shall be entered in the index, in the
alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

SEC. 547. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the
expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor
his official dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessors,
which may be in his custody, to be kept as public records. If
the oflice of a justice become vacant by his death, or removal
from the township or city, or otherwise, before his successor is
elected and qualified, the dockets in possession of such justice
shall be deposited with the county clerk of the county, to be by
him delivered to the successor in office of the justice.

SEC. 548. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited, may issue execution or other process upon a
judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in the same manner,
and with the same effect, as the justice by whom the judgment

was entered might have done. In case of the creation of a new
county, or the change of the boundary between two counties,
any justice into whose hands the docket of a justice formerly
acting as such, within the same territory, may come, shall, for
the purposes of this section, be considered the successor of said
former justice.

SEC. 549. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be ‘
deemed the successor of the justice whose ofiice became vacant‘
before the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires,
the same or another person elected to take office in the same
township, or city, from that time shall be deemed the successor.

SEC. 550. When two or more justices are equally entitled,
under the last section to be deemed the successors in office of a
justice, the probate judge shall, by a certificate subscribed b
him, and tiled in the office of the county clerk, designate which
justice shall be deemed the successor of a justice going out of
office, or whose office has become vacant.

SEC. 551. The summons, execution, and every other pa er a
made or issued by a justice, exce t a subpena, shall be a1 ed 1
up without a blank left to be filed by another, otherwise it
shall be void.

SEC. 552. In case of the sickness, other disability, or neces- ,
sary absence of a justice on a return of a summons, or at thei
time appointed for a trial, another justice of the same township or city may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall
thereupon become vested with the power, for the time being,
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In
that case, the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket of
the justice before whom the summons was returnable.

SEC. 553. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on ,
being satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any dis- :
creet person of suitable age, and not interested 1n the action,
to serve a summons or execution, with or without an order to
arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of attachment.
Said justice shall be liable on his official bond for all official
acts of the person so deputed. Such deputation shall be in
writing on the process.

SEC. 554. The person so deputed shall have the authority
of a constable in relation to the service, execution, and return?
of such process, and shall be subject to the same obligations.

SEC. 555. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of ,
his term of office, may proceed and complete the execution of 1
all final process which he has begun to execute, in the same.
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall ‘
be liable to the same extent.

SEC. 556. A justice may punish as for a contempt, persons,
guilty of the following acts, and no others: First. Disorderly, i

contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the justice while‘

holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial
or other judicial proceeding. Second. A breach of the peace,
boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, in the presence of
the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the court held by
him, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other
judicial proceeding. Third. Disobedience or resistance to the
execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by him.
Fourth. Disobedience to a subpena dul served, or refusing to
be sworn or answer as a witness. Fift . Rescuing any person
or property, in the custody of any oflicer by virtue of an order
or process of the court held by him.

SEC. 557. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily, for which an order shall be made, reciting the facts as
occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that
the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt,
and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not cammitted in the immediate view and presence of
the justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued b such justice,
on which the person so guilty may be arrests and brought
before the justice immediately, when an opportunity to be
heard in his defense, or excuse, shall be given. The justice
, may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense.
' A justice may punish for contempts by fine or imprisonment,
or both, such fine not to exceed in any case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.

SEC. 558. The conviction, 3 ecifying particularly the offense
and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the justice in
his docket.

SEC. 559. Justices of the peace may issue subpenas in any
action or proceeding in the courts held by them, and final process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the
county.

SEC. 560. Justices of the peace may issue commissions to

take the depositions of witnesses out of this territory, and settle
interrogatories to be annexed thereto, and direct the manner in
which the commissions shall be returned. The provisions of title eleventh of this act, so far as the same are consistent with
the jurisdiction and powers of justices’ courts, shall be applicable to justices’ courts, and to actions and proceedings therein.

SEC. 561. In actions respecting mining claims, proof shall
- be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations, established
and in force in the mining district embracing such claim; and
such customs, usages, or regulations, when not in conflict with
the laws of this territory, shall govern the decision of the
action in regard to all questions of location, possession, and
abandonment.

SEC. 562. A new trial may be granted by the justice on
motion, within ten days after the entry of judgment, for an
one of the following causes: First. Accident or surprise, which

ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Second.
Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion; or, Third. Insuihciency of the evidence
to justify the verdict or other decision. Fourth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, _have discovered and produced at the time.

SEC. 563. The application shall be made upon afiidavit and
notice. The affidavit shall be filed with the justice, with a
statement of the grounds upon which the party intends to rely.
The adverse party may use counter aflidavits on the motion,
provided they be filed one day previous to the hearing of the
motion.

SEC. 564. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered
in a j ustice’s court, may appeal therefrom to the probate court
of the county, at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment. The appeal shall be taken by filing a
notice of appeal with the justice, and serving a copy on the
adverse party. The notice shall state whether the appeal is
taken from the whole or a part of the judgment, and if from a
part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken on questions
of law or fact, or both.

SEC. 565. When a party appeals to the probate court on
questions of law alone, e shall, within ten days from the renition of judgment, prepare a statement of the case and file the
same with the 'ustice. The statement shallcontain the grounds
upon which t e arty intends to rely on the appeal, and so
much of the evi ence as may be necessary to explain the
grounds, and no more. Within ten days after he receives notice
that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with
the same, may file amendments; the proposed statement and
amendments shall be settled by the justice, and if no amendments be filed, the original statement shall be adopted. The
statement thus adopted, or as settled by the justice, with aco y
of the docket of the justice, and all motions filed with him By
the arties during the trial, and the notice of appeal, shall be
used) on the hearing of the appeal before the probate court.

SEC. 566. When a party appeals -to the rebate court, on
questions of fact, or on questions of both aw and fact, no
. statement need be made, but the action shall be tried anew in
the probate court.

SEC. 567. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on payment of the fees of the justice, and filing an undertaking as
required in the next section, the justice shall, within five days,
transmit to the clerk of the probate court, if the appeal he on
question of law alone, a certified copy of his docket, the statement as admitted, or as settled, the notice of appeal, and the
undertaking filed; or if the appeal be on questions of fact, or
both law and fact, a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings,
all notices, motions, and other papers filed in the cause, the

notice of appeal, and the undertaking tiled; and the justice
may be compelled by the probate court, by an order entered
upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for
neglect or refusal to transmit the same; a certified copy of such
order may be served on the justice by the party, or his attorney. In the probate court either party shall have the benefit
of all legal objections made in the justice’s court.

SEC. 568. An appeal from a justice’s court shall not be
effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed with
two or more sureties in the sum of one hundred dollars for the

ayment of the costs on the appeal ; or if a stay of proceedings

e claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment, including costs, when the judgment is for the payment
of money, or twice the value of the property, including costs.
when the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal
property; and shall be conditioned, when the action is for the
recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the judgment appealed from, and all costs, if the appeal be
Withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgments and
all costs that may be recovered against him in said action in
the probate court; where the action is for the recovery of
specific personal property, the undertaking shall be conditioned that the a pellant will pay the judgment and costs
appealed from, and) obey the order of the court made therein,
i the appeal be Withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and
costs that may be recovered against him in said action in the
county court, and will obey any order made by the court
,therein. The undertaking shall be accompanied by the aili- davit of the sureties that they are residents of the county, and
are each worth the amount specified in the undertaking over
and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution, or the bond shall be executed by a sufficient number of sureties, who can justify in the
aggregate to an amount equal to double the amount s ecified
in the bond; or a deposit of the amount of the ju gment,
including all costs appealed from, or of the value of the property, including all costs in actions for the recovery of specific
personal property, with the justice; and such deposit shall be
equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in this act mentioned, and in such cases the justice shall transmit the money
to the clerk of the probate court, to be by him paid out upon
the order of the court. The adverse party may, however,
except to the sufficiency of the sureties within hve days after
the filing of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties,
justified before the justice before whom the appeal is taken,
within five days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party,
to the amount stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall be
regarded as if no undertaking had been given.

SEC. 569. If an execution be issued on the filin of the
undertaking, staying all proceedings, the justice shall, by

order, direct the oihcer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such oflicer shall, upon ayment of his fees for services rendered on the execution, t ereupon relinquish alldproperty levied
upon, and deliver the same to the judgment ebtor, together
with all moneys collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees
be not paid, the ofiicer may retain so much of the property, or
proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.

SEC. 570. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in
a justice’s court.

SEC. 571. Justices of the peace shall receive from the
sheriff or constables of their county, all moneys collected on}
any process or order issued by their courts respectively, and'
all moneys paid to them in their oflicial capacity, and shall pay
the same over to the arties entitled or authorized to receive
them without delay. Eor a violation of this section, they may
be removed from their olfice, and shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.

SEC. 572. Justices of the peace may, in all cases, require a ;
deposit of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of ‘
court, before issuing a summons.

SEC. 573. The provisions of sections thirty-two, three hun- .
dred and seventeen, three hundred and eighteen, three hundred J
and nineteen, three hundred and twenty, three hundred and:
twenty-one, three hundred and twenty-two, four hundred and
sixty-two, four hundred and sixty-three, four hundred and
sixty-six, four hundred and sixty-eight, four hundred and
sixty-nine, four hundred and seventy, four hundred and seventy-four, shall be applicable to justices’ courts and actions
herein.

TITLE XVII.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 574. The supreme court may make rules not inconsist- ;
ent with the constitution and laws of the territory, for its own 1
government, and the government of the district courts; but
such rules shall not he in force until thirty days after their
adoption and ublication.

SEC. 575. an action be brought against a sheriff for an
act done by virtue of his oflice, and he give written noticci
thereon to his sureties on any bond of indemnity received by'
him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and the
court or judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five
days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the
amount so recovered, includinor costs.

SEC. 576. Words used in this act in the resent tense shall
be deemed toinclude the future as well as t, e present; words:
used in the singular number shall be deemed to include the
plural, and the plural the singular; writing shall be deemed
to include printing or printed paper; oath to include affirmation or declaration; signature or subscription, to include mark
when the person cannot write, his name being written near it,
and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.

SEC. 577. In all cases where an undertaking with sureties
is required by the provisions of this act, the judge, justice,
clerk, or other officer taking the same, shall require the sureties to accompany the same with an affidavit that the are each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over an above all
their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution; provided, that when the amount 8 ecified 1n
the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, an there are
more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their amdavits that they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent
to that of two suflicient sureties.

SEC. 578. \Vrits of certiorari and mandamus may be issued
in the cases prescribed by this act, by a judge of the supreme
_ court, district court, or probate court, in vacations, and may, in
the discretion of the judge issuing the writ, be made returnable, and a hearing may be had on the return thereof in the
vacation.

SEC. 579. Whenever property has been taken by an officer,

under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of
this act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court,
or a judge thereof, or a probate judge, that the interest of the
parties to the action wil be subserved by a sale thereof, the
court or judge may order such roperty to be sold in the same
manner as property is sold un er an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in court to abide the judgment in the
action. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, in case such party has been personally served with a summons in the action.

SEC. 580. A copy of any record, document, or paper in the
custody of a public officer of this territory, or of the United
States, within this territory, certified under the ofiicial seal, or
verified by the oath of such ofhcer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the original in his custody, may be read in evidence in an action or roceeding in the courts of this territor ,
in the like manner an with the like effect as the original con (1
be if produced.

SEC. 581. When two or more persons associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name, whether
it comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates
may be used by such common name, the summons in such cases
being served on one or more of the associates, but the judgment in such cases shall bind only the joint property of the
associates.

SEC. 582. All decisions given upon an appeal, in any appellate court in this territory, shall be given in writing, with the

reason therefor, and filed with the clerk of the court, but this section shall not apply to actions tried with a jury anew in the
probate court, or an ap eal from a justice’s court.

SEC. 583. A defen ant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract, or for specific personal property, may at any
time before answer upon affidavit that a person not a party to
the action makes against him, and without any collusion with
him, a demand upon the same contract, or for the same property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party,
a ply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his
g ace, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his

e ositing in court the amount claimed on the contract, or
de ivering the Cproperty or its value to such person as the court
ma direct, an the court may in its discretion make the order.

SEC. 584. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the
success of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
against both. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action between
other persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what
is sought by the complainant, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintiffs, or by demanding
anything adversely to both the plaintiff and the defendant.

SEC. 585. Any third erson may intervene either before or
after issue has been joined in the cause.

SEC. 586. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint
filed in the court in which the action is pending, and it must
set forth the grounds on which the intervention rests. A
copy of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the
party or parties to the action against whom anything is demanded, who shall answer it as if it were an original complaint
in the action.

SEC. 587. The court shall determine upon the intervention
at the same time that the action is decided ; if the claim of the
party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs
incurred by the intervention.

SEC. 588. On the trial of any action in the court of record
at the request of either party, the court may appoint a competent person to take down the testimony in writing.

SEC. 589. The party obtaining the postponement of a trial
in any court of record, shall also, if required by the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse
party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before
a judge or clerk of the court in which the case is pending, or
before such notary public as the court may indicate, which
shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be
read on the tria with the same effect, and subject to the same
objections, as if the witness were produced.

SEC. 590. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an
appellate court, such party may have an execution for the

same, on filing a remz'ttz'tur with the clerk of the court below,
and it shall be the duty of such clerk, whenever the remittitur
is tiled, to issue the execution upon application therefor; and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
court, such party may have an execution therefor in like manner as upon a judgment.

CONCERNING COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS TERRITORY, AND
JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

SEC. 591. The following shall be the courts of justice of
this territory: First. The supreme court. Second. The district courts. Third. The probate courts. Fourth. The justices’ courts. Fifth. The recorders’ courts.

SUPREME COURT.

SEC. 592. The supreme court shall have appellate j urisdiction in all civil cases where the amount in dispute exceeds in
value one hundred dollars, and in all criminal cases tried
in district courts, and shall hold its sessions at the capital at
such times as shall be nxed by law.

SEC. 593. The territory shall be divided into three judicial
districts.

SEC. 594. There shall be a district judge for each of the
judicial districts. The courts held by them shall be the distriet courts of the territory.

SEC. 595. The jurisdiction of these courts shall be of two
kinds—First. Original. Second. Appellate.

SEC. 596. The district court shall have original jurisdiction
in civil cases where the amount in dis ute exceeds one hundred
dollars, exclusive of interest, and in al criminal cases not otherwise provided for.

SEC. 597. The appellate jurisdiction of these courts, shall
extend to hearing upon appeal—First. An order or judgment
of a probate court, in the cases prescribed by statute. Second.
In appeals in divorce cases.

SEC. 598. The courts, and the judges thereof, shall have
power to issue all writs necessary or proper to the complete
exercise of the power conferred upon them by the constitution,
and organic act. ’

SEC. 599. The terms shall be held at such times and places
as provided by law; if a room for holding the court he not provided by the county, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and
stationery, suitable and sutlicient for the transaction of business,
the court may direct the sheriff to provide such room, attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, and the expenses shall be a
county charge—[See Cha ter lxxxiii, p. 289.

SEC. 600. The terms shall be held until the business of the term is fully disposed of, or until the day fixed for the commencement of some other term in the district, or the time fixed by law for a term of the supreme courts, and may be adjourned from time to time in the discretion of the court.

SEC. 601. The district judges shall, at all reasonable times,
when not engaged in holding courts, transact such business at
their chambers, as may be done out of court, at chambers; they
may try and determine writs of mandamus, certiorarz', and qua
warranto, hear and dispose of all applications for orders and
writs which are usually granted in t e first instance upon an ex
parte application, and may, in their discretion, also hear applications to discharge such orders and writs.

SEC. 602. Whenever an action or proceeding is commenced
in a district court, in which a probate court has concurrent jurisdiction, the district court may, if the parties consent, by order,
transfer the same to the probate court of the same county; upon
such transference, the probate court shall have and exercise
over such action or proceeding, the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced therein.

SEC. 603. A district judge may hold a term in any judicial
district in this territory, upon the request of the judge of the
district in which such term is to be held; and when, by reason
of sickness or absence from the territor , or from any other
cause, a term cannot be held in a district the judge thereof,
a certificate of that fact shall be transmitte b the clerk to the
governor, who shall thereupon direct some ot er district judge
to hold such term. It shall be the duty of the judge thus
,directed to hold such term.

SEC. 604. Each district court shall have power to make
rules, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this
territory, for its own government and the government of its
ofiicers, but such rules shall not be in force until thirty days
after their adoption and publication, and no rule shall be made
imposing any tax or charge upon any legal proceeding, or
making an allowance to any officer for services.

SEC. 605. There shall be in each county a probate court,
with the jurisdiction conferred by this chapter.

SEC. 606. The probate court shall have power to open and
receive the proof of last wills and testaments, and to admit
them to probate; to grant letters testamentary, of administration, and of guardianship, and to revoke the same, for cause
shown, according to law; to compel executors, administrators
and guardians, to render an account when required, or at the
period fixed by law; to order the sale of propert of estates,
or belonging to minors; to order the payment of (1:3th due by
estates ; to order and regulate all partitions of property or estate
of deceased persons; to compel the attendance of witnesses;
to appoint appraisers or arbitrators; to compel the production

jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now

of title deeds, papers, or other prOperty of an estate, or of a
minor; and to make such other orders, as may be necessary
and prOper, in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred upon
the probate court.

SEC. 607. The probate judge shall have power in vacation
to a point appraisers, to receive inventories and accounts to be
nledp in his court; to suspend the powers of executors, administrators, or guardians in the cases allowed by law; to grant
special letters of administration or guardianship; to approve
c aims and bonds, and to direct the issuance from this court of
all writs and process necessary in the exercise of his powers as
probate judge.

SEC. 608. The probate court shall have jurisdiction to hear
and determine all causes appealed from justices’ courts. The
probate court shall have original civil jurisdiction—First. Of
an action to enforce the lien of mechanics and others. Second.
Of roceedings in cases of insolvency. Third. Of proceedings
in ivorce cases. The probate court, and the judge thereof, shall
have power at chambers, to try and determine suits of mandamus, certioram' and qua warranto, and to issue all writs necessary
or proper to the complete exercise of the powers conferred upon
it by this and other statutes. If a room for holdincr the court
be not provided by the county, together with attendants, fuel,
lights and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction
of business, the court may direct the sheriff to procure such
room, attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, and the expenses
thereof shall be a county charge.

SEC. 609. The courts held by justices of the peace in this
territory, shall be denominated justices’ courts, and shall have
the jurisdiction conferred by this chapter [of this act], but
nothing contained in this chapter [of this act] shall affect their
(pending therein, nor

shall it affect any judgment or order alrea y made, or proceedings already taken.

SEC. 610. J usticcs’ courts shall have jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings: First. Of an action arising on
contracts for the recovery of money only, if the sum claimed,
exclusive of interest, does not exceed one hundred dollars.
Second. Of an action for damages for injury to the person, or
for taking or detaining personal property, or for injuring real
or personal propert , if the damages claimed do not exceed one
hundred do lars. Phird. Of an action for a fine, enalty or
forfeiture, not exceeding one hundred dollars, given y statute,
or the ordinance of an incorporated city. Fourth. Of an action
upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due; when
the payments are to be made by installments, an action may

be brought for each installment as it becomes due. Fifth. Of
an action upon a surety bond or undertaking taken by them,
though the penalty exceed, if the amount claimed does not
exceed, one hundred dollars. Sixth. Of an action for the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien on real
or personal roperty, when the debt secured does not exceed,
exclusive 0 interest, one hundred dollars. Seventh. Of an
action to recover the possession of personal property, when the
value of such property does not exceed one hundred dollars.
Ei hth. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a
degendant when the amount confessed does not exceed one
hundred dollars. Ninth. Of an action for a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention of lands,
tenements, or other possession. Tenth. Of an action to determine the right to a mining claim, and for damages for injury
to the same, when the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars. Eleventh. Of proceedings respecting vagrants
and disorderly ersons.

SEC. 611. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
shall not extend, however, to a civil action in which the title
to real propert shall come in guestion.

SEC. 612. These courts sha 1 also have jurisdiction of the
following public offenses, committed within the respective
counties in which such courts are established: First. Petit larccny. Second. Assault and battery, not charged to have
been committed upon a ublic officer in the discharge of his
duties, or with intent to hill. Third. Breaches of the peace,
riots, affrays, committing a willful injury to property, and all
misdemeanors, punishable by fine, not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both
such tine and imprisonment.

SEC. 613. There shall be no terms in justices’ courts; these
courts shall alwa s be open.

SEC. 614. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the ofiice of
a justice, b death, resignation, or otherwise, a special election .
may be or ered by the probate judge to supply such vacancy.
The justice elected to supply a vacancy shal hold his office
only for the unexpired term of his immediate predecessor.
Each justice, before entering upon the discharge of his duties,
shall take the constitutional oath of office, and shall execute a‘
bond to the state in the sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties, and file the
same with the county clerk.

SEC. 615. The supreme court, the several district courts“
and the several probate courts of this territory, shall be courts]
of record.

SEC. 616. The sittings of every court of justice shall be
public, except as is provided in the next section.

SEC. 617. In an action for divorce, the court may direct
the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be private, and
upon such directions, all persons may be excluded, except the
ofIicers of the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.

SEC. 618. Every court shall have power—First. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence. Second.
To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation
under its authority. Third. To compel obedience toits lawful
judgments, orders, and process, and to the lawful orders of its
judge out of court in an action or proceeding pending therein.
Fourth. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial oflicers.

SEC. 619. A judge shall not act as such in any of the fol,lowing cases: First. In an action or proceeding to which he is

a art , or in which he is interested. Second. When he is
re ate to either party b consanguinit , or affinity, within the
third degree. Third. hen he has een attorney or counsel for either party in the action or proceeding; but this section
shall not apply to the arrangement of the calendar, or the regulation of the order of business.

SEC. 620. A judge shall not act as attorney or counsel in a

icourt in which he is judge, or in an action or proceeding

removed therefrom to another court for review, or in any
action or proceeding from which an appeal may lie in his own
court.

SEC. 621. A judge of the supreme court, or of the district
court, shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except
in an action or proceeding to which he is a party on the record.

SEC. 622. A judge or justice of the peace shall not have a
partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court in this territor . .
, £120. 623. A judge of the supreme court, or of the district

court, or of a probate court, shal not absent himself from the
territory.

SEC. 624. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial

business may be transacted, on any day except as provided in
the next section.

SEC. 625. N o court shall be opened, nor shall any judicial
business be transacted on Sunday, on new year’s day, on the
fourth of July, on christmas day, on Washington’s birth-day,
on thanksgiving day, or on a day in which the general election
is held, except for the following purposes: First. To give, upon
their request, instructions to a jury then deliberating on their

verdict. Second. To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury.
Third. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a
criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

SEC. 626. Every court of justice except a j ustice’s, shall sit
at the county-seat of the county in which it is held, exce t in
cases provided in this article. Justices’ courts shall be he (1 in
their respective townshi s or cities; provided, that no justice
of the peace shall ho] a court in any other township of said
county or city, than the one for which he shall have been
elected. '

SEC. 627. If no judge attend on the day appointed for the
holding the court, before noon, the sheriff or clerk shall adjourn
the court until the next day at ten o’clock, and if no judge
attend on that day before noon, the sheriff or clerk shall
adjourn the court until the following day; and so on from day
to day for one week. If no judge attend for one week, the
sheriff or clerk shall adjourn the court for the term.

SEC. 628. A judge authorized to hold or preside at a court
appointed to be held in a city or town, may, y an order Sled
with the county clerk, and published as he may prescribe,
direct that the court be held or continued at any other place
in the city or county than that appointed, when war, pestilence,
or other public calamity, or the dangers thereof, or tue destruction of the building appointed for holding the court, may render
it necessary: and may, in the same manner, revoke the order,
and in his discretion appoint another place in the same city
or county for holding the court.

SEC. 629. When the court is held at a place appointed as
provided in the last section, every person held to appear at the
court, shall appear at the place so appointed.

SEC. 630. Each of the following courts, and no others, shall
have a seal : First. The supreme court. Second. The district
courts. Third. The probate courts.

SEC. 631. The clerk of each court shall kee the seal thereof.

SEC. 632. The seal of the court need not he affixed to any
proceedings therein, except-—First. To a summons or writ.
Second. To‘the proof of a will, or the a pointment of an executor, administrator or guardian. Third). To the authentication of a copy of a record, or other proceeding of the court, or
an officer thereof, for the purpose of evidence in another court.

SEC. 633. The seal may be affixed by impressing it on the
paper, or on a. substance attached to the paper, and capable of
receiving the impression.
SEC. 634. If an application for an order, made to a judge
of a court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be

refused in whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no
’ subsequent application for the same order shall be made to any
other judge, except of a higher court; provided, that nothing
in this section be so construed as to apply to motions refused
for any informality in the papers or proceedings necessary to
obtain an order.

SEC. 635. A violation of the last section may be punished
as a contempt; and an order made contrary thereto may be
revoked by the judge who made it, or vacated by a judge of a
court in which the action or .proceeding is pending.

SEC. 636. The judges of the supreme court, of the district
courts, and of the probate courts, shall have ower in any part

tof the territory, and justices of the peace andJ recorders within
their res ective counties, shall have power to take and certify—
First. T e proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real
property, or of any other written instrument. Second. The
acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment of any court.
Third. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice of this
territory.

SEC. 637. No action or proceeding in a court of justice shall
be affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges,
or by the failure of a term thereof.

SEC. 638. Every written proceeding in a court of justice
in- this territory, or before a judicial officer, shall be in the
English language; but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in that language may be used, and numbers may
be expressed by figures or numerals, in the customary manner.

SEC. 639. No person or persons shall hereafter make any
entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, but in cases
where entry is given by law, and in such cases not with strong
band nor with multitude of people, but only in a peaceable
manner; and if any person from henceforth do to the contrary, and thereof be duly convicted, he shall be punished by
fine.

SEC. 640. Any justice of the peace shall have authority to
inquire, as hereinafter directed, as well against those who make
. unlawful or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, and detain the same, as against those who, having
lawful and peaceful entry into lands, tenements. or other possessions, unlawfully detain the same; and if it be found, upon
such inquiry, that an unlawful or forcible entry hath been
made, and that the said lands, tenements, or other possessions,
after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then such justice shall
cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof.

SEC. 641. When any complaint shall be made in writing
:to any justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forcible
entry, or unlawful detainer, said justice shall issue a summons,
directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the person or persons against whom
such complaint shall have been made, to appear before the said
justice on a day in such summons named, which shall not be
less than ten days from the day of issuing such summons, and
at the place therein mentioned.

SEC. 642. Such summons shall be served upon the person
or persons against whom the same is issued, by delivering a
certified copy thereof to such person or persons at least two
days before the return-day thereof; and the ofiicer serving the
same shall make a special return of the time and manner of
serving such summons.

SEC. 643. After the return of the summons, served as herein
before provided, and at the time and place appointed in said
summons, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine said
complaint, unless either party shall demand a jury; in which
case, the justice shall issue a venire for a jury, in the same
manner, and upon the same terms, as in other cases provided
for trial by jury in justices’ courts, and such jury shall be
sworn as in other cases.

SEC. 644. If, at the time of making such complaint, it shall
be made to appear that the erson or persons against whom
said complaint is made, or eit er of them, are absent from the
county, it shall be the duty of the justice before whom the same
is made, to issue his summons, as herein before provided, and
the same may be served by leaving a certified copy thereof at
the last and usual place of abode of such person or persons,
not less than two days before the return-day thereof, which
copy shall be left with some member of the family, or some
person residing at such place, of suitable a e and discretion, to
whom the contents thereof shall be exp ained by the officer
leaving the same, and the oilicer shall make a special return
of the time and manner of serving said summons, and the suit
shall thereafter roceed, the same as though a personal service
were had of such) summons.

SEC. 645. The justice may, at his discretion, adjourn any
trial under this act, not exceeding ten days; and when the
defendant, his agent or attorney, shall make oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial, for want of some material witness,
naming him, that he has made due exertion to obtain such witness, and believes, if an adjournment be allowed, he will be
able to procure the attendance of such witness, or his deposition, in time to produce the same upon the trial, in which case,
if such person or persons will give bond, with one or more
squicient sureties, conditioned to pay the said complainant for
all rent that may accrue during the pending of such suit, and
all costs and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the
said justice shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable time
as may appear necessary, not exceeding three months.

SEC. 646. The testimony of any witness, which may be considered necessary by either party, may be taken in the same

manner, and with the like effect, as is provided for the taking
of testimony in other cases in justices’ courts.

SEC. 647. On the trial, the complainant shall only be
required to show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer
complained of, that he was peaceably in actual possession at the
time of a forcible entry, or was entitled to the possession of
the premises at the time of a forcible holding over. The
defendant may show in his defense that he, or his ancestors, or

rthose whose interest in such premises he claims, have been in
quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole year
together next before the said inquisition, and that his interest
therein is not then ended or determined, and such showing
shall be a bar to the prosecution, and in no case when the title
of land is necessarily involved, shall a justice of the peace have
cognizance.

SEC. 648. If upon the trial of any complaint under this act,
the justice or jury shall find the defendant or defendants, or
either of them, guilty of the allegations in the complaint, said
justice shall thereupon enter judgment for the complainant to
have restitution of the premises, and shall impose such fine, not
exceeding one hundred dollars, considering all the circumstances, as he may deem just, and shall tax the cost for the
complainant, and may issue execution therefor; and the said
justice shall also award and issue a writ of restitution ; but if
the said justice or jury 6nd that the person complained of is
not guilty, the justice shall tax the costs against the complainant, and issue execution therefor.

SEC. 649. If the jury impanneled cannot agree upon a ver, diet, the justice may, with the consent of the parties, discharge
them, and issue a venire returnable forthwith, or at some other
time agreed upon by the parties.

SEC. 650. In all cases of a verdict by the justice or jury
for the complainant, the damages shall be assessed as well for
waste and injury committed upon the remises, as for the rents
and profits during such detainer, and t e verdict shall also find
the monthly value of the rents and rofits of the said premises;
and the complainant shall be entit ed to recover treble damages against the persons against whom judgment has been rendered, which damages shall be assessed by the justice or jury,
and when so assessed shall be trebled by said justice, and
entered as a judgment in the cause upon which execution may
issue.

SEC. 651. When any person shall hold over any lands, tenements, or other possessions, after the termination of the time

h. for which they are demised, or let to him or her, or to the person under whom he or she holds possession, or contrary to the
conditions or covenants of the lease or a reement under which
he or she holds, or after any rent shall %ecome due according
to the terms of such lease or agreement, and shall, remain
unpaid for the space of three days, in all such cases, if the

lessor, his heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, agent, or
attorney, shall make demand in writing of such tenant, that he
or she shall deliver ossession of the premises held as aforesaid,
and if such tenant s all refuse or neglect, for the space of three
days after such demand, to quit the possession of such lands or
tenements, or to pay the rent thereof, due and unpaid as aforesaid, upon complaint therefor to any justice of the peace of the
proper county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try, and determine the same, in the same manner as in other cases herein
before provided for, but shall impose no fine upon any such
case mentioned in this section.

SEC. 652. The preceding section shall not extend to any
person who has, or shall have continued in possession one year
after the termination of the time for which the premises were
demised, or leased, or let to him or her, or those under whom
he or she holds possession, or to any person who continues in
possession three years, quietly and peaceably.

SEC. 653. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpenaed
as a witness, who shall not appear, or who, appearing, shall
refuse to serve or give evidence in any prosecution instituted.
under this act, shall forfeit and pay for every such default, or
refusal, to the use of the county, unless some reasonable cause
be assigned, such fine, not exceeding twent dollars, as the said
justice shall think proper to impose, an execution may be
issued therefor.

SEC. 654. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the verdict of the jury, or decision of the justice, he may appeal within
ten days, as in other cases tried before justices of the peace,
and he shall give bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to
be ap roved by said justice, conditioned to pay all costs of such
appe , and abide the order the court may make therein, and
pay all rent and other damages justly accruing during the
pending of such a eal; and upon the dling of the notice of
appeal, and the aid) avit of the appellant that the appeal is
taken in good faith, and that he intends to erfect said appeal,
the justice shall grant a stay of the writ o restitution for not
exceeding two days, for the purpose of allowing the appellant
an opportunity to file his appeal bond, and for no other.

SEC. 655. Upon taking such a peal, all further proceedings
in the case shall be thereby staye , and the appellate court, inf
all cases which are now pending, or which ma hereafter be‘
brought, shall proceed to try the case anew, an shall issue all
necessary writs and process to carry out the provisions of this
act. All laws, or parts of laws, which require a statement of ;
the case, or evidence, or exceptions, to be taken before a justice 1
of the peace, on the trial of a case for forcible entry and unlawful detainer, in order to perfect an appeal, are hereby
repealed, and the same shall be tried in the appellate court on
the evidence introduced before said appellate court.

SEC. 656. If a writ of restitution shall have been issued

previous to the taking of the appeal, the justice shall give the

Tappellant a certificate of the allowance of such appeal; and

‘ upon the serving of such certificate upon the officer having such
writ of restitution, said offlcer shall cease all further proceedings by virtue of such writ, and if such writ shall not have
been completely executed, the parties in possession shall remain
in plossession of the premises until the appeal shall be determine . 7

SEC. 657. In all cases of appeal under this act, the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for want
of form, only provided the proceedings have been conducted
substantially according to the provisions of this act.

SEC. 658. Amendmnts to the complaint, answer or sum. mons, in matters of form only, may be allowed by the court at
any time before final judgment, upon such terms as may be
just, and all matters of excuse, justification, or avoidance of
the. allegations in the complaint, may be given in evidence
under the answer.

SEC. 659. The following, or equivalent forms, may be used

in proceedings under this act, to wit:

The people of the United States, of the territory of Nevada,
to the sheriff or any constable of the county aforesaid:

Whereas, A. B., of the county of , hath exhibited
unto me, a justice of the peace for said county, a complaint
against C. D., of the county of , for that the said O. D.,
of the county of , on the day of , A. D.
—, at the county of , [here insert the substance
of the com laint, with sufficient certainty]. You are therefore
commande< to summon the said O. B., if he be found in your
county, to be and appear before me at my office (or stating the
place), on the — da of , A. D. , then and there to
make answer unto t e complaint aforesaid. Given under my

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hand and seal, this —— day of , A. D. -—-—. E. F ., justice
of the peace.
SEC. 660. WRIT or RESTITUTION.

, The eople of the United States, of the territory of Nevada,
L to the s eriff or any constable of the county aforesaid:
Whereas, A. B., of the county of , at a court of
inquiry of an unlawful or forcible entry, or unlawful detainer,
(as the case may be) held at my office (or state the place) in the
county aforesaid, on the day of , A. D. ,
before me, a justice of the peace for the county aforesaid, by
the consideration of the court, hath recovered judgment against
C. D., to have restitution of [here describe the premises, as in
the complaint]. You are therefore commanded that, taking
with you the force of the county, if necessary, you cause the
said O. D. to be immediately removed from the aforesaid prem 

 

 

 

ises, and the said A. B. to have peaceablerestitution of the
same; and you are also commanded that, of the goods and
chattels of the said O. D., within said county, you cause to
be made the sum of dollars for the said plaintiff, together
with the costs of suit indorsed thereon, and make return hereof
within thirty days from this date. Given under my hand, this
day of , A. D. —. E. F., justice of the peace.

 

 

 

ACTION FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 661. When several persons hold, and are in possession of real pro erty, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common,
an action may he brought by one or more of such persons for
a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of the
persons interested therein; and for a sale of such property, or
a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.

SEC. 662. The interest of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth
in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known
to the plaintiff; and if one or more of the parties, or the share
or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown
to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership
of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the
remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

SEC. 663. No persons who have or claim any liens upon
the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be
made parties to the. action; unless such liens be matters of
record. .

SEC. 664. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaint, iff shall file with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, so far as known, the object of
the action, and a description of the property to be affected
thereby. From the time of the hiing, it shall be deemed notice
to all persons. .

SEC. 665. The summons shall be directed to all the joint
tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having an
interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or
otherwise, 11 on the propertv, or upon any particular portion
thereof; amf generall ‘, to all persons unknown, who have or
claim any interest in t e property.

SEC. 666. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or
any one of the known parties reside out of the territory, or cannot
be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,
the summons may be served on such absent or unknown party
by publication, as in other cases. When publication is made,
the summons, as published, shall be accompanied by a brief
description of the property which is the subject of the action.

SEC. 667. The defendants who have been personally served

with the summons, and a certified copy of the complaint, shall
set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the nature and
extent of their interest in the property; and if such defendants
claim a lien upon the property, by mortgage, judgment, or
otherwise, they shall state the amount and date of the sane,
and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether the
amount has been secured in any other way or not; and if
secured, the extent and nature of the security; or they shall
be deemed to have waived their right to such lien.

SEC. 668. The rights of several parties, laintiffs as well as
“ defendants, may be put in issue, tried and etermined by such
action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title

shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court,

before the judgment of sale shall be made; and where service

of the com laint has been made by publication, like proof shall

be require of the right of the absent or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered; except that where there are

several unknown persons having an interest in the property,

their rights may be considered together in the action, and not

as between themselves. ‘

SEC. 669. The plaintiff shall produce to the court, on the
hearing of the case, the certificate of the recorder of the coun' ty where the property is situated, showing whether there were
or not any liens outstanding of record upon the propert , or
any part thereof, at the time of the commencement 0 the
action.

SEC. 670. If it appear by the certificate of the recorder
that there were outstanding liens'of record at the time of the
commencement of the action, and the persons holding or claiming such liens are not made parties to the action, the court
shall either order such parties to be brought in by an amendment, or supplemental complaint, or ap oint a referee to ascertain whether their liens have been paid) ; or if not paid, what
amount remains due, and their order among the liens held by
the' parties who have appeared and answered ; and whether the
amount remaining due thereon has been secured in any way,
and if secured, the extent and nature of the security.

SEC. 671. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served a
reasonable time revious to the day for appearance before the
referee appointed), as provided in last section, on each person
having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to the
action, to appear (before the referee at a specified time and
place to ma e proof by his own aflidavit or otherwise of the
true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely
thereon. In case such erson be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service ma be made by publication, or notice to
his agents, under the direction of the court, or in such manner
as may be proper. The re ort of the referee thereon shall be
made to the court, and shall be confirmed, modified, or set

aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case
may require.

SEC. 672. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without
such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court,
that the property, or any part of it, is so situated that partition
cannot be made without great rejudice to the owners, the
court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite
proofs being made, it shall order a partition, according to the
respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and
appoint three referees therefor: and shall designate the portion
to remain undivided for the owners, whose interests remain
unknown or are not ascertained.

SEC. 673. In making the partition, the referees shall divide
the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered,
according to the respective rights of the parties, as determined
by the court, designating the several portions by proper landmarks; and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them therein.

SEC. 674. The referees shall make a re ort of their roceedinos, specifying therein the manner 0 executing t eir
trust, escribing the property divided, and the shares allotted
to each party, with a particu ar description of each share.

SEC. 675. The court may confirm or set aside the report,
and, if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being
confirmed. judgment shall be rendered that such partition be
effectual forever, whicn judgment shall be binding and conclusive—First. On all parties to the action, and their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property
divided, or any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for
life, or for years, or as entitled to reversion, remainder, or
inheritance of such property, or of any part thereof, after the
termination of a particular estate therein, and who, by any
contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the
property, or who have an interest in any undivided share
thereof, as tenants for years or for life. Second. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown, to whom
notice shall have been given of the action for partition, by
publication; and, Third. On all other persons claiming from
such parties or persons, or either of them.

SEC. 676. But such judgment and partition shall not affect
tenants for years less than ten, to the whole of the property
which is the subject of the partition.

SEC. 677. The expenses of the referees, including those of
a surveyor and his assistants, when em 10 ed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, an t e amount thereof,
together with the fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be
ap ortioned among the different parties_to the action.

SEC. 678. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate

h

1' of the action.

of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall
thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned to such
party; but such share shall be first charged with its just roportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such ien.

SEC. 679. When a part of the property only is ordered to
be sold, if there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided
share of the whole property, such estate may be set off in any
part of the property not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 680. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered
property, shall be applied under the direction of the court, as
follows: First. To pay its ust proportion of the general costs
Second. To pay the costs of the reference.
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their
order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become
due, the amount due to be verified by aflidavit at the time of
payment. Fourth. The residue among the owners of the
property sold, according to their respective shares therein.

SEC. 681. When any party to an action who holds a lien

. upon the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for

U‘ "

the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its
discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the property,
on account thereof.

SEC. 682. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by
the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them
to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs.
But in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited therein, or as
directed by the court. r

SEC. 683. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or
parcels, belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and
who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such parties, for the determination of their
respective claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and
adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken in
court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the
court may, if necessary, re uire such parties to present the
facts or law in controversy, pleadings, as in original action.

SEC. 684. All sales of reai, roperty made by referees under
this cha ter [of this act], shal be made by public auction to
the highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner
required for the sale of real pro erty on execution. The notice
shall state the terms of sale, an if the property or any part of
it- is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that
shall be stated in the notice.

SEC. 685. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase-money
of any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale
on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase-money is

required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested
for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of
the territory.

SEC. 686. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the
purchase-money, of such parts of the pro erty as directed by
the courts to be sold on credit, for the s ares of any known
owner of full age, in the name of such owner; and for the
shares of an infant, in the name of the clerk of the county and
his successors in office.

SEC. 687. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or
years, whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to
receive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction
for such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed
with the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such consent,
the clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the court.

SEC. 688. If such consent be not given, filed, and entered,
as provided in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale
is rendered, the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses,
will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on account of
such estate ; and shall order the same to be paid to such party,
or deposited in court for him, as the case may require.

SEC. 689. If the person entitled to such estate for life or
years be unknown, the court shall provide for the protection
of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if
they were known and had appeared.

SEC. 690. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any person has a vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the
property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent or vested right or estate, and
shall direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be
invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner'as to protect
the rights and interests of the parties.

SEC. 691. In all cases of sale of property, the terms shall
be made known at the time; and if the premises consist of
distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.

SEC. 692. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, shall be interested in any purchase;
nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in the
purchase of any real property, being the subject of the action,
except for the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the
prov1sions of this section shall be void.

SEC. 693. After completing a sale of the property, or any
part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the
same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of
land sold to each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the
price paid as secured; the terms and conditions of the sale;
and the securities, if any, taken. The report shall be filed in

SEC. 694. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order
shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances
and take securities pursuant to such sale; which they are
hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions
to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 695. When a party entitled to a share of the pr0perty, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of
the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees ma take his receipt
for so much of the proceeds of the sale as be ongs to him.

SEC. 696. The conveyances shall be recorded in the count
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar a ainst a 1
persons interested in the property in any way, who s all have

een named as parties in the action; and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons had been
served by publication, and against all persons claiming from
them, or either of them.

SEC. 697. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an
unknown owner, or to a person without the territory, who has
no legal representatives within it, the same shall be invested
in securities on interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled
thereto.

SEC. 698. When the security of the proceeds of sale is
taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is made,
it shall be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the
name of the clerk of the county where the apers are filed,
and his successors in ofiice, who shall hold t e same for the
use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of
the court.

SEC. 699. When security is taken by the referees on a sale,
and the parties interested in such securit , by an instrument in
writing under their hands, delivered to t- e referees, agree upon
the shares and portions to which they are respectively entitled;
or, when shares and preportions have been previously adjudged
by the court, such securities shall be taken in the name of, and

ayable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto; and shall

e delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefor. Such
algrcifment and receipt shall be returned and filed with the
0 er .

SEC. 700. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or
by whom an investment is made, and his successors in office,
shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and
a ply and invest the same as the court may direct; and shall
6 e in his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a
book provided and kept for that purpose, in the clerk’s office,
free for inspection by all persons, of investments and moneys
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 701. When it appears that the partition cannot be
made equally between the parties, according to their respective

rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of
them, and a partition be ordered by judgment, the court may
ad judge compensation to be made by one party to another, on
account of the inequality of partition. But such compensation
shall not be required to be made to others, by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless, in case of an infant, it appear
that he has personal property suiiicient for that purpose, and
that his interest will be promoted thereby.

SEC. 702. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds
of the sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his
general guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him in
the action, upon giving the security required by law, or
directed by order of the court.

SEC. 703. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or
other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own aifairs,
whose interest in real roperty shall have been sold, may
receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of
such real property, from the referees, on executing, with sufficient securities, an undertaking, approved by a judge of the
court, or by a probate judge, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just
account to the person entitled, or his legal representative.

SEC. 704. I‘he general guardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate
of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of
conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate held
in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the
owners of the shares, of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court, which partition
shall be approved or disapproved by the court.

SEC. 705. The costs of partition, including fees of referees,
and other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to
their respective interests therein, and may be included. and
s ecitied in the judgment. In that case, they shall be a lienon
t e several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against such shares, and against other property held by
the respective parties. When, however, a litigation. arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the
eXpense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, orany of them.

SEC. 706. The court, with the consent of the parties, may
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the provisions of this chapter [of this act] ; and
the single referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the

powers and perform all the duties required of the three
referees.

SEC. 707. When several persons hold and are in possession

' of mining claims, as joint tenants, or tenants in common, upon

5“

the petition of one or more of the joint tenants, or tenants in
common, the court havincr jurisdiction shall appoint a commissioner, who shall proceed to make a partition of the property
to be divided, and make a repbrt to the court, as provided in
this act.

SEC. 708. In case of partition of a mining claim, any of
the tenants in common, or joint tenants, interested therein, may
file an affidavit showing to the court that a sale for cash would
be injurious to him, her or them; the court shall, upon such
showing, appoint a commissioner, who shall decide such claim
as hereinafter provided for.

SEC. 709. The commissioner provided for in the last section
shall proceed to the place where such claim is located, and at
such time as the court may direct, within not less than twenty
nor more than forty da 3 after such sale shall have been
ordered by the court, shall sell such claim at auction to the
highest bidder, in parts or parcels, to the joint tenants, or tenants in common, and shall receive bids in shares or undivided
interests; or parts of such claim, to be divided.

SEC. 710. The party or parties seeking the partition of such

, mining claim, shall be deemed the highest bidder, within the

meaning of the last preceding section, who will take the least
part or portion of such mining claim, at a place upon such
claim to be selected by him, her or them, in proportion to the
whole share, shares, or interest, held by such party or parties ;
provided, that if the remainder of the joint tenants, or tenants
in common, shall fail to make a higher bid, in roportion to
their joint shares or interests in such claim, then t e bid of the
party or parties seeking the partition, shall be received and
declared to be the highest bid, and the commissioner shall proceed to measure off such claim to the party or parties, as hereinafter rovided, and such claim, or part of the claim, so measured 0119 by the said commissioner, to the highest bidder, shall
be, and is hereby, considered as an entire surrender to the
Opposing party the remainder of his or her shares or interests
in said claim, thereby relinquishing the residue of the shares
or interests held by the party to whom was awarded the highest
bid (not included in the measurement of said commissioner) to
the adverse party.

SEC. 711. Whenever any such bid as mentioned in sections
seven hundred and nine and seven hundred and ten, shall
have been received and declared, the commissioner shall go
upon the claim and measure of? to such bidder the amount of
such claim so bid off at such place as the bidder shall elect.

SEC. 712. After setting off such bids, as provided in the
last section, the commissioners shall again receive bids as herein before provided, and shall thereafter measure off such bids, as provided for in section seven hundred and ten, and shall continue in the same manner to receive bids and set apart the same from such claims, until the parties who still hold an undivided portion of such mining claim, shall be satisfied that the sale cease, and are content to hold the remaining portion of such claims as joint tenants, or tenants in common, as the case may be.

SEC. 713. The court may confirm, or set aside the report, and if necessary, appoint a new commissioner. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judgment shall be binding and conclusive.

SEC. 714. The expenses and reasonable compensation of the commissioner, including those of the surveyor, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and shall be apportioned among the parties to the action.

