AN ACT to simplify and abridge the Practice, Pleading-r
and Proceedings of ' the Courts of this State. I

Passed April 12,.1848.

Whereas, it is expedient, that the present forms of actions
and pleadings in cases at common law should be abolished, that the distinction between legal and equitable
remedies should no longer continue, and that an uniform course of proceeding, in .all cases, should be established; Therefore,

The People of the State of New- York, represented in Senate and £ssanbly, do enact as follow: :

GENERAL DIFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

Sncuox 1. Division of remedies.

2. Dennition of an action.

3. Definition of especial proceedl
4. Division of actions, into civil an criminal.
7

I

5. Dennition of a criminal action. \
6. Dennition of a civil action.

. Civil and criminal remedies, not merged in each other.
8. Subjects embraced in this act.

§ 1. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into,]

1. Actions, and

2. Special pmbeedings.

§ 2. An actiorr is aregular judicial proceeding, in which a,
party prosecutes another party, for the enforcement or protec- 1
tion of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the
punishment of a public offence;

§ 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§ 4. Actions are of two kinds;

‘ 1. Civil, and

3;Cdmhd.

()5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the state, as a
party, against a person charged with a public offence, for
the punishment thereof.

§6. ‘ Every other is a civil action.

§7. Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not

merged in the other.

§8. This act is divided into two parts.

The first relates to the courts of justice, and their juris—
diction : '

The second relates to civil actions commenced in the courts
of this state, after this act shall take effect, and is distributed into twelve titles. The first four relate to actions in all the courts
of the state, and the others, to actions in the supreme court,
in the county courts, in the superior court of the city’of
New-York, in the court of common pleas for the city and
county Of New-York, in the mayors’ courts of the cities of
Albany, Hudson, Troy and Rochester, and in the recorders’
courts in the cities Of Buffalo and Utica; and to appeals to
the court of appeals, to the supreme court, tO the county
courts, and to the superior court of the city of. N ew-York.

PART I,

I
OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, AND THEIR JURISDICTION.

TITLE I. OF THE COURTS, IN GENERAL,
' II. OF THE COURT OE APPEALS.
III. OF THE SUPREME COURT ; CIRCUIT COURTS; AND
COURTS OF OYER AND TERMINER.
IV. OF THE COUNTY COURTS.
V. 01‘ THE SUPERIOR COURT, AND COURT OF Cou—
MON PLEAs IV THE CITY or NEW-YORK, AND
THE MAYORS’ AND RECORDERS’COURTS IN OTHER CITIES. '
VI. OF THE COURTS 0F JUSTICEs OF THE PEACE.
VII. 0F J USTICE’S AND OTHER INFERIOR COURTS IN
CITIES.

TITLE I.

OF THE COURTS, IN GENERAL.

SECTION 9. The several courts of this state.
10. Their jurisdiction generally. '

§ 9. The following are the courts of justice of this state:
1. The codrt for the trial of impeachments. °
2. The court of appeals.

3. The supreme court.

4. The circuit courts.

5. The courts Of oyer and terminer.

6. The county courts. '7. The courts of general sessions of the peace.

8. The courtof special sessions.

9. The surrogates’ courts
10. The courts of justices of the peace
11. The superior court of the city of .New-York,

12. The court of common pleas for the city and county of
of New-York.

n.‘

13, The mayors’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson,
Troy and Rochester. ‘ 14. The recorders’ courts of the cities of Buffalo and Utica.
'15. The marine court of the city of New-York.
16. The, assistant justices courts in the city of New-York.
17. The municipal court of the city of Brooklyn.
18. The justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Troy and
and Hudson.
19. The police courts. "
§ 10. These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdic-t
tion now vested in them respectively, except as otherwise:
prescribed by this act.

TITLE II. OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.,

SECTION 11. its jurisdiction.
12. May reverse, amrm or modify judgment or order appealed from.
13. Terms of court.
14. Concurrence of live judges necessary to a judgment.

§11. The court of appeals shall have exclusive jurisdic-1
tion to review, upon appeal, every actual determination I
hereafter made, at a general term, by the supreme court, by
the superior court of the city of New-York, or by the court
of common pleas for the city and county of New-York, in
the following cases, and no other:

1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein, or
brought there from another court ; and upon the appeal
from such judgment, to review any intermediate order invol-.
ving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

2. In a final order, affecting a substantial right, made in
a special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an
action, after judgment:

But such appeal shall not be allowed in an action originally commenced in a court of a justice of the peace, or in
the marine court of the city of New-York, or in an assistant
justice’s court of that city, or in the municipal court, of the
city of Brooklyn, or in a justice’s court of the cities of Albany, Tr'cliy and 'Hudson, respectively. § 12. he court of appeals may reverse, afiirm or modify the j
judgment or order appealed from ; and its judgment shall be ‘
remitted to'the court below, to be enforcml according to law. 7

§13. There shall be six general terms, in each year, toj
commence on the first Tuesday of January, March, May,'
July, September and November, and to continue until the‘
fourth Saturday thereafter, inclusive, unless all the causes
ready for hearing be sooner heard. They may, however, be
continued as much longer as the court shall deem necessary.

Additional terms may also be held, by order of the court.

§14. The concurrence of live judges shall be necessary,
to pronounce a judgment. If five do not concur, the ap—
peal shall be reheard.

TITLE III.

or THE SUPREME covar, cracutr co'oa'rs, ARI) booms or

OYER AND TERMINIR.

SECTION 15, Existing sta tory provisions, as to terms and business of’ the

court, rep aled; and order ofthe court lining the turns,
8Lc., abrogated.
16. General termsaprescribed.

l7. Concurrence a majority of judges, necessary to give mment.

18. Special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and termlner
prescribed. ‘

19. The same to be held together.

20. Duration of' special term.

21. Duration of the circuit court.

22. Duration of' the court of oyer and terminer.

23. Times and places of general and special terms, circuit mute,
and courts of oyer and terminer, how designated, and by
whom to be held. ‘ r ,

24. Extraordinary general terms, circuit courts and courts of oyet
and t rminer, how appointed.

25. Places 0 holding the courts.

26. Publication of appointment thereof;

27. Designation of the judges therefor.

28. When other ijudges may hold the courts.

29. Certmcate 0 business at term and circuit, to be mined to

the governor. .
30. Duties of the judges, as to business out of court.
- 31. Rooms, fuel, &c., how to be furnished.

§ 15. All statutes, now in force, providing' for the designation of' the times and places of holding t e general and
special terms of the supreme court, and the circuit courts and
courts of oyer and terminer, and of the judges who shall
hold the same, are repealed, from and after the first da of
July next; and the order of‘ the supreme court, adopted uly
14, 1847, prescribing the times and places of' holding the
general and special terms of the court, and the circuit courts
and courts of oyer and terminer, during the residue of the
year 1847, and for the years 1848 and 1849, and assigning
the business and duties thereof to the several judges of the
court, is, from and after the first day of July next,abi-ogated;
and the provisions of this title are substituted in place thereof.

§ 16. Six general terms of the supreme ’court shall be held
annually in each judicial district, and be continued at least'
fifteen days, unless sooner adjourned for want of' business.
They may, however, be continued as much longer as the
court shall deem necessary. ‘

l} 17.. The concurrence of a majority of' the judges hold~
ing a general term, shall be necessary to pronounce a jar! ment. If a majority do not concur, the case shall be rehea .
y ’ § 18. The number "of special terms, circuit courts and
courts of oyer and terminer, annually, in the several counties, shall be as follows :

Eleven, In the city and county of N ew-York.

Six, In the countieS of Albany, Erie, Kings, Monroe and
Oneida.

Five, In the counties of Dutchess, Jefferson, Onondaga,
Remelaer and St. Lawrence. Four, In the counties of Alle any, Cayuga, Chautauque,
Chenango, Columbia, Delaware, Iglerkimer, Livingston, h‘l adison, Niagara, Ontario,, Orange, Oswego, Otsego, Saratoga,
Steuben, Suffolk, Tompkins, Ulster, ‘Washington, Wayne,
and Westchester.

Three, In the counties of Broome, Cattaraugus, Chemung,
Clinton, Cortland, Essex, Franklin, Fulton [with Hamilton,
Gienesee, Greene, Lewis, Montgomery, Orleans, Putnam,
Queens Richmond,Rockland, Schenectady, Schoharie, Seneca, Sullivan, Tioga, Warren, Wyoming and Yates.

§ 19. Special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and
terminer, shall be held at the some places, and commenced
on the same day. ,

§20. The special term shall continue until the adjournment of the circuit court; and the judge may continue it
longer, or adjourn it to any other time or place, within the
county.

§2L The circuit court shall continue at least twelve days,
unless sooner adjourned for want of business. It may, however, be continued as much longer as the court shall deem
necessary. , '

§22. The court of oyer and terminer may continue, as
long as the court shall deem necessary).

§23. The governor Shall, on or efore the first day of
May next, by appointment in writing, designate the firms
and places of holding the general and special terms, circuit
courts, and courts of dyer and terminer, and the judges by
whom they shall be held; which appointment shall take efa
foot on the first day of July, thereafter, and shall continue
until the thirty-first day of December, 1849. The judges of
the supreme court shall, in like manner, at least one month?
before the exPiration 'of that time, appoint the times and places of holding those courts, for two years, commencing on
the first day of January, 1850, and so on, for every two succeeding years,

§24. The governor may also appoint extraordinary gen-j
era] and ;special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyeré
and terminer, whenever, in his judgment, the public good:
shall require it. . j

§25. The places appointed within the several counties,;
for holding the general and special terms, circuit courts, and ;
courts of oyer and terminer, shall be those designated by
statute for holding county or circuit courts. If a room for

holding the court in such place shall not be provided by the
supervrsors, it may be held in any mom provided for that
purpose, by the sheriff, as prescribed by section thirty-one.

§26. Every appointment,'so made, shall be immediately
transmitted to the secretary of state, who shall cause it to be
published in the newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be inserted, at least once in each
week, for three weeks, before the holding of any court in
pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication shall be
paid out of the treasury of the state.

§27. The dt-signatitm of judges to hold the courts, shall
be such, as that not more than one-half, nor less than onefourth of the courts to which each shall be assigned, shall be
held out of the district within which he was elected ; and so
that, of the judges who shall hold a general term, one, at
least, shall sit at the next succeeding general term, and shall
deliver the judgments of the judges who held the preceding
term, in causes there argued and held under advisement.

§28. In case of the inability, for any cause, of a judge
assigned for that purpose, to hold a special term or circuit
court, or.sit at a general term, or preside at a court of oyer
and terminer, any other judge may do so.
I §29. Within ten da s after .the expiration of every term
land circuit court, the Clerk shall certify to the overnor, the
number of actions on the calendar, the num%er tried or
heard, the number decided, the number remaining undisposed
of, and the duration of the term or circuit.
1  30. The judges shall, at all reasonable times, when not
engaged in holding court, transact such other business as
‘may be done out of court. One of the judges elected in the
first judicial district, to be designated from time to time,
among themselves, shall attend for that purpose, at the cityhall in the city of New-York, on every judicial day, from
ten o’clock in the forenoon until three o’clock in the afternoon, and longer, if the business require it ; and every proceeding commenced before one of those judges, may be continued before another, with the same effect as if commenced
before him.

§~31. The supervisors of the several counties shall provide the courts appointed to be held therein, with rooms,
attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and sudicient
for the transaction of their busines. If the supervisors neglect, the court may order the sheriff to do so ; and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order into effect, when
certified by the court, shall be a county charge.

"‘ - TITLE IV.

OF THE COUNTY COURTS.

SECTION 32. Repeal of existing statutes, defining their jurisdiction.
33. Their jurisdiction.
34. General terms - and times of transacting business.
35. Issues of fact, how to be tried.
36. Jury, how summoned.

37. Proceedings on trial by jury. .
38. Juries in county courts dispensed with, and in general sessions
provided for. ’

§ 32. All statutes now in force, conferring or defining the}
jurisdiction of the county courts, are repealed; and those:
courts shall have no other jurisdiction than that provided in;
the next section. But the repeal contained in this section
shall not affect any proceedings, now pending in those
courts.

§33. The county courts shall ,have jurisdictionf'in the:
following actions and proceedings : i

1. The exclusive power to review a judgment rendered
in a civil action within their respective counties, by a Court
of a justice of the peace, or by the justices courts in the
cities of Albany, Troy and Hudson, respectively 5

2. ,For the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and
the sale of mortgaged premises, within the county ;

3. For the partition of real property, within the county ;

' 4. For the .admeasurement of dower in real property,
within the county ; .

'5. For the sale of the real property of an infant, when
the property is situated, and the infant resides, within the
county 3 ‘

6. For the care and custody of the person and estate of
a person of unsound mind, or an habitual drunkard, residing
in the county ; ' ' .

7. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious corporation, of its real property within the county, and
the appropriation of the proceeds thereof. .

8. In cases, in which jurisdiction was vested by the Re-'
vised Statutes, in the late courts of common pleas, under
the provisions relating to attachments against absconding,
concealed or non-resident debtors, to voluntary assignments,
made pursuant to the application of an insolvent and his
creditors, and to voluntary asssignments by persons imprisoned on execution in civil cases ;

9. In proceedings for the remission of fines and forfeited
recogmzances,

§34. A general term-of each county court, for the finali
hearing of actions or proceedings pending therein, shall be3
heldat the places in the counties respectively designated by
statute for holding county or circuit courts, on the first

Tuesday of January, March, May, July, September and Nov
vember, in each year, and may continue as long as the court
deem necessary. The court shall be deemed always open,
for the. transaction of any other business.
_ § 35. An issue of fact hereafter joined in a county court,
shall be tried by the court, unless, on motion of either party, it shall order a jury trial. § 36. If a jury trial he ordered, the court shall direct the
sheriff to summon eighteen residents of the county, competent as 'urors, to- appear before the court, at a time and
place to specified.

§37.~ A jury shall ‘be drawn from the persons so summoned, or if there be a defect of jurors, it shall be supplied
as in other cases. The practice appertaining to jury trials,
and to the verdict of the jur , and the proceedings thereon,
as in this act provided, shal. in all respects apply to such
trial. .

§38. No jury shall hereafter be summoned for a county
court, except as provided in the last section, nor shall a
grand or fpetit jury be summoned for a court of general
sessions 0 the peace, (except in the city and county of

New—York,) unless so directed by the board of supervisors
of the county.

\

TITLE V.

01" THE SUPERIOR SOUR-'1' ANDCOUBT 0'1" COMMON PLEAi, II THE

CITY or NEW-YORK, AND THE msrdrts’ AND nnconnnns’
covnrs IN OTHER CITIES.

exams 39.. Jurisdiction of the courts named in this title. .
40. Jurisdiction of the New-York superior court, on appeal.

41. General and special terms, of superior court and common
pleas, in New-York.

42. General and special terms, by Whom held.
43. Judgments, where given.

44. Cancun-once "of two judges, necessary to a judgment, :1 a
general term

§39. The jurisdiction of the superior 'court of the city
of New-York, of the court of common pleas for the city
and county of New-York,.of the mayors’ court: of the citiu
of Albany, Hudson, Troy and Rochester, and of the record-ers’ courts of the cities of Buffalo and Utica shall extend to
the following actions : 1. To the actions enumerated in section 103, when the
cause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action
shall be situated, within those cities, respectively.

2. To all other actions, where all the defendants shall reside
or be personally served with the summons, within those
cities, respectively. . .

3. To actions against corporations, created under the laws
of this ’state, and transacting their general business, or 

.0

ing an office for the transaction of busineSs, within those
cities, respectively, or established by law, therein,

{)40. The superior court of \the city of New- York shallg
also have power to review the judgments of the marineh
court of the city of New-York,and of the assistant justices’;
courts in that city. ' "

{)4}. The superior court of the city of New-York, and;
the court of common pleas, for the city and county of New-.1
York, shall, within twenty days, appoint general and special?=
terms of thorn: courts reapectively, and prescribe the dura-P
tion thereof ; and they may, from time to time, res ectively,
alter such appointments : and hereafter, no fee sha l-be paid;
for any service of a judge of either of those courts.

§42. A general term shall be held by at least two of the:
judges of those courts respectively, and a special term byc
a single 'udge. - ‘
' §43. judgments upon appeal shall be given at the gen-{
eral term ; all others, at the special term. t

§44. The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary:
to pronounce. a judgment age-the general term. If two dor

not concur, the appeal shall reheard. :
. 1
TITLE VI. t
O or THE counrs 0F varrcss or run panes.

'8“?on 45. Repeal of certain existing provisions,
46, 47. Jurisdiction of these courts.

48—55. Proceedings where title to real property comes in question.

56. Docketing their judgments, and effect thereof.

57. Provisions {of this act, as to forms of action and pleading,
applicable to these courts.

§45. The provisions contained in sections 2, 3 and 4, of
the article of the Revised Statutes, entitled “Of the jurisdiction of justices’ courts,” as amended by sections 1 and 2,
'of the act concerning justices’ courts, passed .May 14, 1840,
and the provisions contained in sections 59 to 66, of the
same article, both inclusive, are repealed, and the provisions
of this title substituted in place thereof. But this repeal
shall not affect any action heretofore commenced, in a court
of a justice of the peace.

I} 46. Justices of the peace shall have civil jurisdiction in
the following actions, and no other: '

1. An action arising on contract for the recovery of money only, if the sum'claimed do not exceed one hundred
dollars ; - . 2. An action for damages for an injury to the person, or
to real or personal prOperty, if the damages claimed do not
exceed one hundred dollars ;

3. An action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, given by statute; ‘ i

l

4. An action, commenced by attachment of prOperty, as

now provided by statute; if the debt or damages claimed do
not exceed one hundred dollars;

5. An action upon a bond, conditioned for the payment of
money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum; the judgment to be given for the sum
actually due. Where the payments are to be made by in.
s.alments, an action may be brought for each instalment, as
it shall become due; '

6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them, though
the penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dollars.

{)47. But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance
of an action: ‘ . i

1. In which the people of this state are a party, excepting for penalties not exceeding fifty dollars;

2. Nor where the title to real prOperty shall come in question, as provided by sections 48 to 55, both inclusive; '

3. Nor of an action for an assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction;

4. - Nor of a matter of account, where the sum total of the
accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the
justice, shall exceed four hundred dollars; .

5. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator"
as such.

'1 {)48. In every action brought in a court of a justice of
the peace, where the title to real~property shall come in question, the defendant may, either with or without other matter
of defence, set forth in his answer, any matter showing that
such title will come in question. Such answer shall be in
writing, signed by the defendant or his attorney, and delivered to the justice. The justice shall thereupon countersign,
the same, and deliver it to the plaintiff.

§ 49. At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver to the justice a written undertaking, executed by" at least
one sufficient surety, and approved by the justice, to the effeet that if the plaintiff shall, within thirty days thereafter,
deposit with the justice a summons and complaint in an action in the supreme court, for the same cause, the. defendant
will, within ten days after such deposit, give an admission in
writing of the service thereof. Where the defendant was
arrested in the action before the justice, the undertaking
shall further provide, that he. will, at all times, render himself amenable to the process of the court; during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the

judgment therein. In case of failure to comply with the

undertaking, the surety shall be liable, hot exceeding one
hundred dollars. ‘

I

§50. Upo‘n the delivery of the undertaking, to the justice,j
the action before him shall be discontinued, and each party?
shall pay 'his own costs. The costs so paid by either party‘
shall‘be allowed to him, if he recover costs in the action to
be brought for the same cause in {he supreme court. If no
such action be brought within thirty days after the delivery
of- the undertaking, the defendant’s costs before the justice
may be recovered of the plaintiff.

§51. If the undertaking be not delivered to the justice,
he shall have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed»
therein; and the defendant shall be precluded, in his defence,
from drawing the title in question.

{‘3 52. If, hdwever, it appear on the trial, from the plaintiff’s own showing, that the title to real property is in question, and such title shall be disputed by the defendant, the
justice shall dismiss the action, and the plaintiff shall pay the
costs. '

§53. When a suit before a justice shall be discontinued
by the delivery of an ansvver and undertaking as provided
in sections 48, 49 and 50, the plaintiff may prosecute an action for the same cause, in the supreme court, and shall complain for the same cause of action only, on which he relied
before the justice; and the answer of the defendant shall be
the same which he made before the justice.

{)54. If the judgment in the supreme court be for the
plaintiff, he shall recover costs. If it be for the defendanty
he shall recover costs; eXcept that upon a verdict, he shall‘
pay costs to the plaintiff, unless the judge certify that the
title to real property came in question on the trial.

§55. If, in an action before ajustice, the plaintiff have
several causes of action, to one of which the defence of title
to real property shall be interposed, and as to such cause,
the defendant shall answer. and deliver an undertaking, as
provided in sections 48 and 49, the justice shall discontinue
the proceedings as to that cause, and the plaintiff may commence another action in the supreme court therefor. As to
the other causes of action, the justice may continue his proceedings.

t} 56. A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party in,
whose favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give aj
transcript thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the
office of the clerk of the county where the judgment was
rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
clerk, shall be noted thereon and entered in the docket; and,
from that time, the judgment shall have the same effect, as a
lien, and be enforced in the same manner, as a judgment of
a county court. A certified transcript of such judgment may
be filed and docketed in the clerk’s office of any other coun«

ty, and with the like effect, in every respect, as- in the county where the judgment was rendered; except, that it shall be
a lien, only from the time of filing and docketing the transcript. '
r t} 57. The provisions of‘this act, respecting forms of action,
Ipleadings, and the rules of evidence, and the times of come
mencing actions, shall apply to the courts of justices of the
peace, except that the pleadings may be oral, and made at
;the same time as if this act had not been passed.

TITLE VII.

‘ OF JUSTICES, AND OTHER. INFERIOR COURTS JN CITIES,

CHAPTER I. The marine court of the city of New-York.
II. The assistantjustices’ courts of the city of New-York.
III. The municipal court of the city of Brooklyn; and the judices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Troy and Hudson.
IV. General provisions. ‘

CHAPTER I.

THE MARINE COURT OF THE CITY OF NEW'YORK.
' SECTION 68. Its jurisdiction.

{)58. The marine court 'of the city of New-York shall
have 'urisdiction in the following cases, and no other:_

1. n actions similar to thOSe in which courts of justices
of the peace have jurisdictioh, as provided by sections 46 and
47.

, 2. In an action upon the charter or a bZ-law of the corporation of the city of N ew-York, where t e penalty or forieiture shall exceed twenty-five dollars, and not exceed one
hundred dollars.

, 3. In an action between a person belonging to a vemel in
the merchant service, and the owner, master or commander
thereof, demanding compensation for the performance, or
damages for the violation, of a contract for services on board
such vessel, during a voyage performed, in whole or in part,
or intended to be performed, by such vessel,'though the sum
demanded exceed one hundred dollars.

4. In an action by or against any person belonging to or
on board of a vessel in the merchant service, for an asault and
battery or false imprisonment, committed on board such vessel, upon the high seas, or in a place Without the United
States, of which the ordinary courts of law of this state have
jurisdiction, though the damages demanded exceed one hundred dollars. But nothing in this or the last preceding sub.
division'of this section, shall give the court power to proceed
in any of the cases therein referred to, as a court of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction.

CHAPTER ‘ II.

rm: ASSISTANT Jusrrcas’ connrs, IN THE CITY or
NEW-YORK.
SECTION 59. Their jurisdiction.

§59. The assistant justices’courts in the city of New-4
York, shall have jurisdiction in the following cases, and no
other:

1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the
peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sections 46 and 47;
such jurisdicti , however, to be ‘limited to cases where the
sum due or clo£nned, or the judgment confessed, shall not
exceed fifty dollars. '

2. In an action upon the charter or a by-law of the corpo—
ration of the city of,New-York, where the penalty or forfeiture shall not exceed 5fty dollars.

CHAPTER III.

THE MUNICIPAL COURT OF THE CITY or BROOKLYN AND THE
JUSTICES’ cona'rs or THE cums or ALBANY, 'rnov AND
HUpSON.

.

SECTION 60._ Their jurisdiction.

. §60. The municipal court of the city of Brooklyn, and‘
the justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Troy and Hudson, respectively, shall have jurisdiction in the following cases, and no other : »

1. In actions similar to those in which courts of justices
of the peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sectidns 46
and 47.

2. In an action upon the charter or by-laws of the Corporations of their cities respectiVel , where the penalty or forfeiture shall not exceed one hun red dollars.

‘ CHAPTER IV. '

GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SECTION 61. Sections 48 — 57 applied to these courts.

§ 61. The provisions of sections 48 to 57, both inclusive“
relating to forms of action, to pleadings, to the times of 1
commencing actions, to the rules of evidence, to filin and1
docketing transcripts of judgments, to their effect an the
mode of enforcin them, and to proceedings Where title to
real property shal come in question, shall apply to the courts
embraced in this title ; except, that after the discontinuance
of the action in the inferior court, upon an answer of title,
the new action may be brought either in the supreme court,
or in any other court, having jurisdiction thereof ; and except, also, that in the city and county of New-York, a judgment, the transcript whereof is docketed in the otiice of the
clerk of that county, shall have the same effect as a lien,
and be enforced in the same manner, as a judgment of the
court of common pleas for the city and county of NewYork.
PART II. OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE L OF THEIR FORM.

II. OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING THEM.
III. OF THE PARTIES. ' .
IV. OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL.- .

V. OF THE MANNER OF COMMMNCING THEM.

VI. OF THE PLEADINGS.
VII. OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.
VIII. OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
IX. OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT.
X. OF THE COSTS.
XI. OF APPEALS. '
XII. OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

TITLE I.

01" THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 62. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and
forms of such actions and suits, abolished.
63. Parties to an action, how designated.
64. Actions on judgments, abolished.
‘ 65. Feigned issues, abolished.

§ 62. The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits hereto-‘
fore existing, are abolished ; and, there shall be in this state,
hereafter, but one form of action, for the enforcement or
protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of
private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.

§63. In such action, the party complaining shall be
'known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defend- ant.

§64. No action shall be brought upon a judgment ren‘dered, in any court of this state, (except a court of a justice
of the peace,) between the same parties, without leave of
the court, for good cause shown on notice to the adverse
party; and no action on a judgment rendered by a justice
of the peace shall be commenced within two years after its
rendition, except in case of his death, resignation, incapacity
to, act, or removal from the county. '

\

§65. Feig‘ed issues are abolished; and instead thereof}:
in the cases where the power now exists to order a feigned i
issue, or when a question of fact, not put in issue by the
pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may
e made, stating, distinctly and plainly, 'the question of fact
to be tried, and such order shall be the only authority necessary for the trial. TITLE II.

OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Actions in general. '
II. Actions for the recovery of real property. ‘

III. Actions, other than for the recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

SECTION 66. Repeal of existing limitations.
67. Time for commencing civil actions.

§66. The provisions contained in the second, third, fourth,1
fifth and sixth articles of the chapter of the revised statutes,i
entitled “of actions and the times of commencing them,”
are repealed,'and the provisions of this title are substituted
in their stead. This title shallnot extend to actions already
commenced, or to cases where the right of action has already
accrued; but the statutes now in force shall be applicable to
such cases, according to the subject ,of the action, and without regard to the form. '

§67. The civil actions embraced within section 66, can‘
only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this ti-‘;
tle, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except ‘
where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by
statute. '

CHAPTER II.

TE'IE TIME OE COMMENCING ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF
REAL PROPERTY.
Burton 68. Limitation of actions for the recovery of real property.

§68. The provisions of the Revised Statutes, contained
in the article entitled “Of the time of commencing actions
relating to real property,” shall, until otherwise provided by
statute, continue in force, and be applicable to actions for the
recovery of real property. CHAPTER III. - "

OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTION§, OTHER. THAN FOR THE

RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY. '

SECTION 69. Periods of limitation, prescribed.
70. Within twenty years.
71. Within six years.
72. Within three years.
73. Within two years.
74. -Within one year. .
75. When cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current acco‘unt. .
76. Actions for penalties, am, by any person who will sue,
when to be brought.
77. Actions for relief, not before provided for. o
78 Actions by the peoyle, suhject to the lame limitation.

§69. The periods prescribed in section 67, for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real
‘ property, shall be as follows:

§ 70. Within twenty years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of
the United States, or of any state or territory within the
United States.

2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

§ 71. Within six years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express or implied; excepting those mentioned in section seventy.

2. An action upon a liability created by statute, otherthan
a penalty or forfeiture. .

3. An action for trespass upon real property.

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods
or chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of per.
sonal property. '

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other
injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on com
tract, and not hereinafter enumerated.

6. An action for relief, oh the ground of fraud; the cause
of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts consno
tuting the fraud.

§ 72. Within. three years. _

1. An action against a sheriff or coroner, upon a liability
incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and
in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an ofiicial duty;
including the non-payment of ’money collected upon an execution. But this section shall not apply to an action for an
escape. , 2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or fdrfeiture,
where the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such
party and the pe0ple of this state, except where the statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

.

§ 73. Within two years: . 

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false
imPrisonment. . '

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to
the people of this state.

§ 74. Within one year. . I

1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§75. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon:
a mutual, open and current account, where there have been I
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action i
shall be deemed to have accrued. from the time of the last'
item in the ‘account, on the adverse side.

§ 76. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture,1
given in whole or in part to any person who will prosecutel
for the same, must be commenced within one year after thel
commission of_ the offence; and if the action be not com-j
menced within the year, by a private party, it may be com-menced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the people
of this state, by the attorney-general, or the district attorney
of the county where the offence was committed. ~

 77. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for,
must be commenced within ten years after the cause of ac-l
tion shall have accrued. i

t) 78. The limitations prescribed in this title shall apply to;
actions brought in the name of the people of this state or.
for their benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private}
parties.

CHAPTER IV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING

o ‘ ACTIONS.

SECTION 79. When action deemed to have been commenced .

80. Exception, when defendant is out of the state.

81. Exception, as to persons under disabilities.

82. Provrsion where person entitled, dies before the limitation
expires.

83. In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.

84. Provision, where judgment has been reversed.

85. Time of stay of action by injunction to be deducted.

86. Disability must exist when right of action accrued.

87. When two or more disabilities, limitation does not attach, till
all removed. ‘

88. This title not applicable to bills, &c., of corporations, or to
bank notes. - '

89. Nor to actions against directors or stockholders of monied cor‘ porations. Limitation, in such cases, prescribed. l '

r

90. New promise must be in writing.

§‘79. An action shall not be deemed commenced, within
the meaning of this title’, unles: it appear:

1. That the summons or other process therein was duly
served upon the defendants, or one of them; or

_ 2. That the summons was deliVered, with the 'intentthat
it should be actuallywserved, to the sheri‘d' of the coun in
which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last resi ad;
or if a corporation be defendant, to the sherin’ of the county
in which such corporation was established by law, 'or where
its general business was transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of business. - '

§80. If, when the cause of action shall accrue, against a
person, he be out of the state, the action may be commenced
within the term herein limited, after his return to the suite ;
and if, after the cause of action shall have accrued, he depart from and reside out of the state, the time bf his absence
shall not be part of the time limited for the commencement
of the action. , ,

§81. If a person entitled to bring an action except for
a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheri'H' or other oilicér
for an escape, be at the time the cause of. action accrued,
either : a

1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or

2. ‘ Insane; or ,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life ; or

4. A married woman :

The time of such disability shall not bepartof the time
limited for the commencement of the action.‘

§82. If ‘a person entitled- to bring an action die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, his representatives
may commence the action, after the expiration of that time,
and within one year from his death:

§83. When a person shall be an alien subject or cik'zen
' of a country at war with the U nited States, the time of the
continuance of the war shall not be part of the period limited
for the commencement of the action.

§ 84. If an action shall be commenced within the time
prescribed therefor, and a judpment therein for the plaintiH
be reversed, on appeal, the p aintiff, Or if he die and the
cause of action survive, his heirs or ‘ re resentatitres may
commence a new action within one year a er the reversal.

'§ 85. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by injunction, the time of the continuance of the injunction shall not be part of the time limited for the continencement of the action. ‘

I § 86.. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless
it existed when his right of action accrued.

§ 87. When two or more disabilities shall exist, the limitation shall not attach until they all be removed.

§'88. This title shall riot affect actions to enforce the pay-‘:
ment of bills, notes or other evidences of debt issued by mo-f
nied co orations, or issued or put in circulation as money. T
- §189.. his title Shall not affect actions. against directors ori
Stockholders of a monied coyporation, to recover a penaltyf
6r forfeithre imposed, or to enforce a liabilit created, by the ?
sectoiid title of the chapter of the Revised tatntes, entitlledl
‘f Of incorporations';” but such actions must be brought;
within six years after the discovery, by the aggrieyed party,1
' the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or}
t e liability was created. | O, r . A  h j

§90. Where the time for commencing an action arising;
on contiraCt shall have eipired, the cause ,of action shalyl’n‘ot‘
be deemed revived by an acknowled ment or new promise,i
1i bless the same be in writing, subscriged by the party to be}
c 'arged thereby. ‘

TITLE III.
‘ . or 'rnr: “mes To own. sorrows.
SECTION Aetionto bein the mun“ e of the real party in interest.. _
. Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defence. . |
93. Eneputort- ott- trnstee may sue without the persons benencially
H ‘lnerese.r, , _ - ‘.. .. I
tld. When a married woman is apatty, her husband to be joined,
‘ I except, 8cm. b
.  “on p .yguardian.
g: Guardlari, Ogilppomted.
97. Who may be joined as plaintlm.
r 98. Who maybe oinedas defendants.

I

99. Parties wife in interest to stand on the same side, except, 
. 100. Plat‘ritia‘ may sue in one action the different parties to commer. or paper. , a r . _ .
101. Action not to abate by death, marriage, or other disability, ac.
102. Court may require all persons to be made parties who may be
necessary to a complete determination of the controversy.

._  91. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the 1
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in sec-1
tion.93. I , l

t 92. In the case of an assignment of a thing in aetionh‘
the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any:
set-oil" or other defence existing at the time of, or before 110-}
tice of the assignment ; but this section shall not apply to a‘
negotiable prommissory note or bill of exchange. 1

§_93. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an ex-t
press trust, or a person eXpressly authorised by statute, mayi

sue without joining with him the persons for whose benefit}

the suit is prosecuted. , , .1
§94. hen a married woman is a party, her husband‘
must be joined with her except that, g i

1. When the action concerns her separate property, she}
may sue alone: ' z
2. When the action is between herself and her husband,

she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 95; When an infant is a party, he must appear by guar'
dian, who may be appointed by the court in which the ac
tion is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof.

> § 96. The guardian shall be ap ointed as follows :

1. When the infant is plaint' , upon the petition of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under
.that age upon the petition of some other party to the suit,
or of a relative or friend of the infant :

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the petition of the
infant, if he be of . the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days after the service of the summons. If he
be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then,
upon the petition of any other party to the action, or of a
relative or friend of the infant.

§ 97. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
Iaction, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may he joined
as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title. .

§98. Any person may be made a party defendant, who

.has an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff.
‘ §99, Of the parties to the action, those who are united
3in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if
the consent of any one, who should have been joined as plaintiff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the
reason thereof being stated in the complaint.

§100. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in
'the same'action, at the option of the plaintiff. .

M §101. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or
’other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest '
therein, if the cause of action s'urvive or continue. In case
of death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the court,
:on motion, at any time within one year thereafter, may allow the actiomto be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the
original party; or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

f § 102. When a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
'court may order them to be brought in, by an amendment of
the complaint, or by a supplemental complaint, and a new
summons...

. . TITLE IV.

OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 103. Certailn actions to be tried where the subject arose or is situate . 't
104. Other actions, where any party resides.
105. Actions may be tried in any county unless defendant objects.

(1 103. Actions for the following causes, must be tried in
the county where the cause or some part thereof arose, or in
which the subject of the action or some part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial, in the cases provided by statute.

]. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest therein, or for t e determination, in any form, of such
right or interest, and or injuries to real preperty:

2. For the partition of real property: _

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:

4. For the recoyery of personal prOperty, distrained for
any cause:

5. For injuries to the person or personal property:

6. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offence committed on a‘lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any
county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offence was committed:

7. Against a public officer or person- specially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act 'done by him in virtue of his
ofIice, or against a person, who by his command or in his aid,
shall do any thing touching the duties of such oflicer.

§ 104. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the parties or any of them shall reside at
the commencement of the action; or if none of the parties
shall reside in the state, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff shall designate in his complaint; subject, however, to the power of the court to change the place
of trial, in the cases provided by statute.

§ 105. If the county designated for that purpose in the.
complaint, be not the proper county, the action may, not-.
withstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant shall,j
before the time for answering expire, demand in writing thatf
the trial be had in the proper county. ‘

TITLE V.

01‘ THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL 

Szc'rrox 106. Actions, how commenced.

" f' " 101‘, Summons, requisites of.

- . MB. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.
109. Complaint to be served with summons, except where no per‘ , sonal claim is made, in which case notice td be given.
110. Defendant on whom such notice is served, unreasonabnr deo
fending, to pay costs.

111. Notice of pendency of actions affecting title to real property.
112. Summons, by whom served. v
113. Summons how served and returned.
114. When defendantnot found, publication made.
115. Several defendants, and part only served, how to 
116. When service deemed made in such caSe. ' ” '

117.. Service how proved.

§ 106. Civil actions in the courts of record in this state,
shall be commenced by the service of a summons.

107,. The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintiff, or
his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall reguire
him to answer the complaint, and servea copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the state, to be therein specified, in
which there is a post office, within twenty days after the serivice of. the summons, exclusive of the day of service.

108. The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons a notice, in substance as follows: '

1. In an action arisin on contract, for the recovery of
money only, that he wil ,talie judgment for a sum specified
therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint:

2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, the plaintiff will apply to the court, at a spe. .
citied time and place, '(after the expiration of the time for
answering,) for the relief demanded in the complaint.'

§‘109. A copy of the complaint shall be served with the
lsummons, except, that in the case of a defendant against
,whom no personal claim is made, in an action for the parti—
ltion of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage,

the plaintiff may, instead of a copy of the complaint, delir:er to such defendant, with the summons, a notice subscribed
‘ by the plaintiff, or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the property affecv
ted by it, and that no personal claim is made against such
defendant; in which case no copy of the complaint need be
served on such defendant, unless, within the time for answer
ing, he shall, in writing, demand the same.

. § 110. If a defendant, on whom such notice is served,
Tunreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the
'plaintifl'. ' § 1111. In an action affecting the title to real property, the
plaintid‘, at any time after the commencement thereof, may

file with the clerk of each-county, in which the property. is:
situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing;
the names of the parties, the object of the action, and-a,
description of the rcperty in that county affected thereby ;

and, if the action Ibe for the foreclosure of a mortgage, the

date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time and

place of recording the same. In such case only, shall the

pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser

or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby.

§ 112: The summons may be served by the sheriff of the!
county, where‘the defendant may be found, or by any other:
person, not a party to the action, The service shall be made,
and the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the
person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable
diligence. The person subscribing the summons, may, at
his option, by an endorsement on the summons, fix the time,
for the service thereof, and the service shall then be, made
accordinglyn '

§ 11.3. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy?
thereof, as follows: « ‘ 3

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or‘
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof:

2,, If against a minor, under the age of fourteen years, to
such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or
guardian, or if there be none within the state, then to any
person havi the care and control of such-minor; or with
whom he shal reside, or in whose service he shall be employed. .

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, in consequence of. habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee
has been appointed, to the committee; and. to the defendant
' personally: , .

4. In allother cases, to the defendant personally.

§114. When the person on whom the service is to be
made, cannot after, due diligence be found within the state,
and that fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of
the court, or a judge thereof; and it shall in like manner
appear, that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in
respect to whom the service is to be made, and that such defendant is aresident of this state, or has property therein;
such court'or judge may grant an order, that the service be
made by the publication of the summons in two newspapers,
which the judge may designate, as most likely to give'notice
to the person to be served, and for; such length of time, not
less than thirty days, as the judge shall deem reasonable. In
case of publication, the judge shall also direct a copy of the

summons to be forthwith deposited in the post oflice, directed
to the person to be served, at his place of residenCe, unless
it appear to the judge that such residence is neither known
to the party making the application, nor can with reasonable
diligence be ascertained by him. Personal service of the
summons out of the state, shall be equivalent to publication,
and deposit in the post office. If the summons shall not be
personally served on any defendant, nor received by such de-3
fendant through the post ofl‘ice in the cases provided for in
this section, be or his representatiVes shall on‘ application and
sufficient cause, shown at any time before judgment be allowed to defend the action; and he or his representatives may in
like manner he allowed ‘10 defend after judgment at any time
Within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years
after its rendition, on such terms as shall be just; and if the
defence be successful, and the judgment or any part thereof
shall have been collected or otherwise enforced; such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall direct.

§ 115. Where the‘action is against several defendants, any
one of whom is actually served with the summons, the plaintiff, instead of service of the summons, actually or by pub—
lication, on the others',ras provided by sections 113 and .114,
may proceed as follows: 1. If the action be against several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendant
served, in the same manner, as at present, and with the like
effect, unless the Court shall otherwise direct:

2. In an action against defendants severally liable, he may
amend his complaint, of course, by striking out the name of
the ogher defendants, and may proceed against the defendants
serve .

t) 116. In the cases mentioned in the 114th section, the
service of the summons shall be deemed complete, at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.

§ 117. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the
complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be
as follows:

1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or

2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or

3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or
his foreman, or principal clerk, shewing the same; and an
affidavit of a deposit of a COpy of the summons in the post
office, if the same shall have-been deposited; or

4. The written admission of the defendant:

In case of actual service, the certificate or affidavit shall
state the time and place of the service.

i

TITLE VI.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Caanxn I. The complaint
II. The demurrer.
III. The answer.
IV. The reply.
V. General rules of pleadin .
VI. Mistakes in pleading, an amendment.

CHAPTER I.

THE COMPLAINT.

chrrox 118. Forms of pleadings heretofore existing, abolished.
119. First pleading to be complaint.
120. What it must contain.

§118. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing, are]
abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil ac-{
tions, and the rules by which the sutliciency of the pleadings¢
is to be determined, shall be those which are prescribed byI
this act.

§119. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, is!
the complaint. t i

§ 120. The complaint shall contain : ‘

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of thel
court in which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the
names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant :

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, Without repetition,
and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended : '

3. A demand of the relief, to which the plaintiff supposes
himself entitled: If the recovery of money he demanded,
the amount thereof shall be stated.

' CHAPTER II.

THE DEMURRER.

8mm): 12]. Defendant to demur or answer.

122. When defendant may demur.

123. Demurrer must specify grounds of objection to complaint.

124. Afterdemurrer plaintid' may amend within twenty days.

125. How to proceet if complaint be amended. '126. Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken by answer.

127. If neither, defendant deemed to have waived it except as to
jurisdiction and cause of action. .

§ 121. The only pleading on the part of the defendant, is
either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within;
tWenty days after service of the copy of the complaint.

§ 122. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when.
it shall appear upon the face thereof, either : S

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action ; or

C

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ; or

3. That there is another. action pending between the same
parties, for the same cause 3 or .

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant '; or '

5. That‘ several causes of action have. been improperly
united ; or ' '

6. That the complaint- does. notastate. facts snilioient to
constitute a cause of action.

§ 123. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be
disregarded. '

§124. After ademurrer, the plaintiff'may amend, of
course, and without costs, within twenty days. Upon,the
decision of the demurrer, the court may, if Justice require
it, allow the plainliff to amend, or the: defendant to with:
draw his demurrer and. to answer:

§ 125. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must.
be served, on the defendant, who must. answer it 
twenty days, or the plaintiff upon filing with the.clerk_ 
atlidavit of the service,_and of the defendant’s omission, may
proceed to obtain judgment, as provided by section 202., but
where anapplication to the Court for judgment is necessary,
eight days notice thereof must be given- to the defendant.

§l26. When, any of the matters enumerated in section
‘122, do not appear upon the face of the. complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. . ‘

§ 127. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall, be deemed to have waited,
the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of
the court over the subject of the action; and the objecv
'tion that the complaint does not state facts sutlicient tQCOnstitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER III.

THE Answna.

SECTION 128. Answer, what to contain.
129. May set forth all ath'egnounds of defence.
130. If; no reply. andjudgment on answer, plaintiE'may amend.

§ 1.28, The answer bf the defendant shallcontain;

1'. In respect to each allegation of the complaint contro—
vel‘ted by the defendant, a specific denial thereof, or of~ any.
knowledge thereof. sutlicient to form, a belief ;

'2. A Statement of any new matter constituting a defence,
in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in
such a manner as to enable a‘person of common understand:
ing, to know what is intended. .

§ 129. The defendant may set forth in his. answer, as
many grounds of defence as he shall have. They shall be.
separately stated, and may refer to the tenses of aetion‘
which they are intended to answer, in any manner by which
they may be intelligibly distinguished. ' p '

§'130. If the answer set up' new matter which is not replied to as provided in the next section, and the action be
tried on complaint and answer alone, and judgment be given
thereon for the plaintiff, the court may permit the defendant
to withdraw or amend, the answer, upon such terms as. shall
be just: ‘ '

CHAPTEaIv.

THE REPLY.
Section 131. Reply, when to be put in, and what to contain.

,§—131, When the answer shall contain new matter, the
plaintiff may within twenty days, reply to it, denying par—
ticularly each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge thereof sudicient to form a belief ; and he may allege,
in drdinary and concise language, without repetition, and in
such a manner as to enable a person of common understandi% to know what is intended, any new matter not inconsistent
 the complaint, in avoidance of the answer.

CHAPTER v.

GENERAL, RULES or pLEAnrNc.

8191710): 132. No pleading but complaint, demurrer, answer and reply.
' '- 133. Pleading to be veri ed. ' ‘ '
134. Heed uplt state presumptions of Law. nor mattersjudicially
notice . .
135. How to state an account.
136. To be liberally construed.
137. Irrelevant and redundant matter to be stricken Out.
138. Jud meht's how to be pleaded.
139, Can ‘itions precedent, how to be pleaded.
140. Private statutes, how to he pleaded.
141. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
142. What answer may contain, in‘ such cases.
1513. What causes of action may be'joined in the lame action.
144. Allegatldn not denied, to be eem‘ed true. '

§ 132. No other pleading shall be allowed, than the com- 1
plaint, demurrer, answer and reply.’ 

§ 133. Every pleading mustbe subscribed by the party, or:
his attorney, and the complaint, answer and reply, must be .‘
verified'by the party, his ent or attorney, to the effect that
he believes it to be true, a§3ut the verification may be omitted’, when the party would be privileged fro :u testifying, as
a witness, to the same atter. And no pleading, verified as
herein required, shall be used in a criminal prosecution against
the party, as proof of a fact admitted in alleged in such
pleading. ' ' 

§ 134. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is then, need be stated in a pleading.
' § 135. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in
la pleading, the items of an account therein alleged, where
they exceed twenty in number ; but he shall deliver, to the
adverse party, within'ten days, after a demand thereof in
'writing, a copy of the account verified by his own oath, or
that of his agent, or attorney, to the effect that he believes
it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.

§ 136. In the construction of a pleadin , for the purpose
of determining its effect, its alle ation sha I be liberally construed, with a view to substantiaI justice between the parties.
_ §137. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a
pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby. _

§ 138. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of
a court, or oflicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
, judgment or determination may be stated -to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the par.
ty pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial, the facts
conferring jurisdiction.

§ 139. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts, showing such performance ; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts
showing such performance. '

{)140. In pleading a rivate statute, or a right derived
-therefrom, it shall be su cient to refer to such statute, by its
title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.

§ 141. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be ne.
pessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, fer the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff, of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose ; but
it shall be sufficient to state generally, that the same was
published or spoken concerning the plaintiff, and if such alegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to esta lish, on the trial, that it was so published or spoken.
I § 142. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the de~
‘fendant may, in his answer, allegehoth the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances
legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount of damages ; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§‘143. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in;
the same complaint, where they all arise out of,

1. Contract, express or implied ; or,

2. Injuries by force, to person or property ;' or

3. Injuries without force to person or property ; or

4. Injuries to character ; or

5. Claims to recover real property ;‘ with or without damages, for the withholding thereof ; or,

6. Claims to recover personal prOperty, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof; or,

7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law. ‘

But the causes of action, so 'united, must all belong to one
only of these classes, and must equally affect all the parties
to the action, and not require different places of trial. ‘

§ 144. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
specifically controverted by the answer; as prescribed in section one hundred and twenty-eight ; and every material a1legation of new matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply, as prescribed in'section one hundred
and thirty-one, shall for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true. But the allegation of new matter in a reply, shall not in
any respect conclude the defendant,who may on the trial avail
himself of any valid objection to its sufiiciency, or may countervail it by proofs, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance,

CHAPTER VI.

MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.

Snc'rrox 145. Material variances, how provided for.
146. Immaterial variances, how provided for.
147. What to be deemed variances.
148. Amendments by the party.
149. Amendments by the court.
150. When real name unknown, nctitious name may he used, and
amended afterwards.
151. No error or defect to be regarded, unless it ad‘ect substantial

rights.
152. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.

§ 145. No variance between the alle tion in a pleading
and the proof, shall be deemed materiafunless it have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defence, upon the merits Whenever it
shall be alleged, that a party has been so misled, that fact
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit,
shewing in what respect he has been misled ; and. thereupon,
the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such‘
terms as shall be just. ' '
. § 146. Where the variance is not material, as: provided in
the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.

§ 147. Where, however the allegation of the cause of action or defence to which the proof is directed is un‘proved,
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire
scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a ‘case of variance,
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§148. Any pleading maytbeamended by the party of
Course, without costs, and Without prejudice to the proceed~
ings already had, at any time before the period for answering it shall expire. In 'such case a copy of the amended
pleadin shall be served on the adverse party.

§ 14 . The court may, at any time, in furtherance of 
tice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedi , by addingl or striking out the name of any
party, or a mista e in an at er respect, or by inserting other
allegations, material to t e case, or by conforming the plead—
ing or proceedin to the facts proved, whenever the amendment shall not c ange substantially the cause of action br
defence. , . , ,

§ 150. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of’the. name
of a defendant, such defendant may be designated inany
pleading _or proceeding by any name; and when his true
name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly. '

§g15l. The Court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error, Or defect in the pleadin s or proceedings,
which shall not affect the.substantial rig ts of the adverse
party ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. , '

§152. The plaintiff and defendant respectively, may be
allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the caSe, occurring
after the former complaint, ansWer or reply.

0

TITLE VII.

or ‘r’r‘r‘s rnovx'smNAL nmmms IN cter sorrows.

CHAPTER I. Arrest and bail.
II. Claim and delivery of personal property. '
III. 'Injunction. ‘
IV. other prdvisibnal remotes.

CHAPTER I.

ARREST up BAIL.

8361108 153. No person to be arrested, except as prescribed by this set.
154. Cases in which defendant may be arrested. ' 5
155. Order for arrest, how obtained.
156. Adldayit to obtain order, what to contain.
157. Security by plaintia‘, on obtaining order.
158. Order, when made and its form.

- 159. A'mdavit and order to be deliVered to sherid‘, and copy to be
given to defendant.

1w. Arrest, how made. 7
161. Defendant, how disch’agged.
162. Undertaking or ball.

:3; 2 Surrender of defendant.

165. Bail, how proceeded against.

166. Ball, how exonerated. .

167. Delivery of Order of arrest and undertaking to plaintiff, and
his rejection of the undertaking.

1g. Noticlg of justification.

1 . Qual' canons ot‘ bail.

{go' : Justihcation of ball.

173: Deposit of money with sherin‘.

173. Payment of same into court by shorts.

174. Substituting bail for deposit.

175. Mon? deposited, how applied. . '

176, Sher’ when liable as ball; and his discharge from llablllty.

177. Proceedings on judgment against sherin‘.

178. Bail liable to sheri

 SMOtiOn to vacate order of arrest, oi- reduce bail.

I

I

§ 153. No erson shall be arrested in a civil action, except,
as prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not affect 1
the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, and to punish fraud-f
ulent debtors, passed April 26, 1831, or any act amendirig‘
the same, nor shall it apply to proceedings for contempts.

§ 154. -The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter pre- 1
scribed, in the following cases: I

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of:
action not arising out of contract.

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to
marry, or for moneys collected by a public oflicer, or by an
attorney, solicitor or counsellor, in the course of his employment as such, or by any person in a fiduciary capacity, or for
any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional emplpyment. . ,

3. In an action to recover the possession of ‘personal property unjustly detained, where the property shall not have

been delivered to the plaintiff, or security given therefor as
provided in the next chapter. But no female shall be arrested in an action arising on
contract, or in any other action, except for a wilful injury to
person, character or property.

§155. An'order for the arrest of the,defendant, must
obtained froma judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or from a county judge.

0 § 156: The order may be made, where it shall appear to
the judge by the amdavit of the plaintiff, or of an other

' person,that a sufficient cause of action exists, and excepting in ghe cases mentioned in the second subdivision of section 1 4,) that the defendant is not a resident of the state,
or is about to remove therefrom.

, § 157. Before making the order, the judge shall require a
written undertaking, on the part of the plaintiff, with or
without sureties, to the effect, that if the defendant recover
judgment, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified'in
the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred and tifty dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiB‘,
without sureties, he shall annex thereto an aflidavit that he
is a resident and householder or freeholder within the state,
and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over
all his debts and liabilities. '

§ 158. The order may be made at the timeyof commencing
the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It
shall require the sheriff of the county, where the defendant
may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail
in a specified sum, and to return the same at a time and place
therein mentioned, to the plaintiff or attorney by whom it
shall be subscribed or endorsed.

} ,§ 159. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered
to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliv—
'er to him a copy thereof. ,

§ 160. The sheriff shall execute the order, by arresting the
defendant and keeping him in custody, until discharged by
law; and may call the power of the county to his aid, in the
execution of the arrest, as in case of process.

§ 161. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall
be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or
upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest,
as provided in this chapter. '

§ 162. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more suflicient bail,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenahie tothe process of the court, during the pendency of the
action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment
therein. '

§ 163. At any time before a failure to comply with theirf
undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their1
exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of
the county where he was arrested, in the foilowing manner :

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be
delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his
custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall by a
certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender.

2. Upon the undertaking and sheriff ’s certificate, a judge
of the court or county judge, may, upon notice to the plaintiff, of eight days, With a capy of the undertaking and certificate, order that the bail be exonerated ; and on tiling the
Order .and the papers used on such application, they shall be
exonerated accordingly.

§ 164. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the;
bail, at any time or place, before they are finally charged,1
may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, endors-'
ed on a certified cepy of the undertaking, may empower any
person of suitable age and discretion to do 80.

§ 165. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking”
the bail ma be proceeded against by action only.

§ 166. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of'
the defendant, or by his legal discharge from the obligation
to render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in
execution thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of the action against the ail, or within such further
time as may be granted by the court.

§ 167. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff or attorney
by whom it is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and the
undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may return the undertaking to the sheriff, with a notice that he does not accept it; or he shall be deemed to
have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liabilit .

{$68. On the receipt of the undertaking and notice, the,
sheri or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to'

- the p aintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification of the same or other bail,
(Specifying the places of residence and occupations of the
latter,) before a judge, at a specified time and place; the
time to be not less than live, nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new unAug.

dertaking, in the form prescribed in“ section one hundred'antf
sixty-two. ‘

§ 169. The qualifications of bail must be as follows;

1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or
freeholdel ,‘ within the state.

2.‘ They must each'be worth the amount specified in the
order of" arrest, exclusive of property exempt from etecution ;
butthe judge, on juStifiCation, may allow more than tWo bail
to justif severall in amounts less than that expre58ed in‘ the
order, i the who e justification be eguivalent to that of two
suflicient bail'. A

{)1 170. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, at the time and place mention;
ed in the notice,“ and may ~e examined on oath, on’ the part
of the plaintiff, tOuching his sufficiency, in such manner as
the judge, in‘ his’ discretion, may think proper. The exami—
nation shall be reduced to writing and subseribed by the bail.
' § 171. If the judge find the bail sufficient, he s all annex
.the examinatiOn to' the undertaking, endorse his allowance
thereon, and deliver the same to the plaintiff, or cause them
to be filed; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated
from liability. . _

I § 172. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, de osit with the sherid th'e ammmt mentioned in the order. he sheriff shall thereupon give the
defendant a certificate of the deposit, arid the defendant shall
be discharged out of custody.

§ 173. The sheriff shall within four days after the deposit,
pay the same into court; and shall receive from the clerk
two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall
deliver to the plaintiff, and the other to the defendant. For
any default in making such payment, the same proceedings
may be had on the oflicial bond of thesheriff to collect the
sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

. § 174. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two

’ sections, bail may be given and justified upon notiCe as pre
scribed in section one hundred and sixt -eight,' any timé befOre judgment; and thereupon the ju’ ge before whom the'
justification is had,_shall direct, in the order of allowance,
that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to the
defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly. .

r §175. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it
remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for
the payment of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall under
the direction" of the court, apply the same, in satisfaction
thereof arid after satisf‘in'g the judgment, shall refund the
surplus, if any, to the ' efendant. If the judgment be in fliver of the dafendant, the clerk shall refund to him the whole
sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 1761 If, after being; arrested, the defendant escape or bef
rescued, or bail be not given and 'ustiiied, or a deposit be notl
made instead; thereof, the sheri shall himself be liable asi
bail. But he may discharge himselil from such liability, by:
the giving and: justification of bail as. provided? in sections
one hundred and sixty—eight, one hundred and sixty-nine, one
hundred and seventy, and one hundred and seventy-one, at any
time before process against the person: of the defendant to
enforce an order or judgment in the action;

§ 177. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff,uponl
his liability as- bail, and an execution. thereon be returned un-l
subhediin whole or inpart, the same proceedings may be:
had on the otlicial bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency,
as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 178. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they}
justify, or other bail be giventeand justified, be- liable to the
sheriff, by action, for all damages. which he may sustain by
reason of snch omission. ‘

§ 1'19. A. defendant arrested, may, at any time before the;
justification of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate the order;
of arrest, or to reduce the amount of the bail. l

@180: If the motion be made upon adidavits on the part;
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by amdavits or other proofs, in' addition to those on
.which the o'rder of arrest was made. '

e _ CHAPTER II._

CLAW AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL HROPERTY.

Sumo“ 181. Immediate delivery of personal property may be claimed,
when action is commenced.
182. Amdavit, and its requisites.
183. Requisition to sheriff, to take and deliver the property.
184. Security on the part of plaintiff, and justidcation.
0 185. 0:: failure to justify, sheriff to deliver property to defendant.
186. Defendant entitled to delivery, on giving security.
187. Justification of defendant’s sureties.
188. Qualitlcations and justincntion of sureties. '
189. Pwperty how taken, when concealed in building or enclo. sure.
190. Property, how kept. 0

§ 181. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, may, at the time of commencing the
action, claim the immediate delivery of such prOperty, as
provided in this chapter. .

§ 182. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be
made by the plaintid‘, or by some one in his behalf, showing ;
‘ 1: That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed,
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special preperty therein 5 the
facts in respect to which shall be set forth.:
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant : '
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information and‘belief : .
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment
or fine, pursuant to a statute 3 or seized under an execution
or attachment against the property of the. plaintiff; or if
so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt. from such seizure ;
and ‘
5. The actual value of the property.
§183. The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an endorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, require the sherid‘ of the county where the property claimed may be, to take the same
from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintiff.
§ 184. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
a written undertaking, execut d' by one Or more sufficient
sureties, approved by the sheri , to the effect that they are
bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in the
affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
the prOperty to the defendant,if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as‘may, for any
cause, he recovered against. the plaintiff, the sheriff shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it -be
in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it
in his custody. He shall, also, without delay, serve on the .
defendant, a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking,
by delivering the same to ,him personally, if he can; be found,
or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
uSual place of abode of either, with some person of Suitable
age and discretion, with a notice in writing, that the sureties
will justify before a judge of the court, or a county judge,
at a time and place therein named ; the time to be not less
than four nor more than eight days thereafter.
§ 185. If the sureties do not justify, according to the no:tice, the sherid‘ shall forthwith deliver the property to the
-defendant. If they justify, he shall deliver it to the plaintiff,
' unless the defendant shall entitle himself thereto,as provided
by the next two sections. - ‘
§ 186. At any time before the delivery of the pr0perty to
xthe plaintiff, the defendant may require the return thereof,
upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed
by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are
bound, in double the value of the prOperty, as stated in the
aflidavit of the plaintiff, for the deli\ ery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to

him of such sum, as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the defendant.

§ 187. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the
plaintiff, of not less than four, nor more than eight days,
shall justify before a judge, in the same manner as the sureties given by the plaintiff; and upon such justification, the
sheriff shall deliver the prOperty to the defendant.

‘ 9 188. The qualifications of sureties, and their justihcation,
shall be as are prescribed by sections one hundred and sixtynine and one hundred and seventy, in reSpect to bail upon
an order of arrest.

§ 189. If the property or any part thereof be concealed
in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand
its delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken Open, and take the property
into his possession ; and if necessary, he may call to his aid
the power of his county. ,

§ 190. When the sheriff shall. have taken property, as in
this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his

lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same. ’

CHAPTER III.

INJUNCTION.

SIC‘I‘ION 191. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
192. {pjunctiom in what cases granted.

193. hen granted

194. Notice, when required. Temporary injunction.
1%. Security upon injunction.

196. Order to shew cause.

197. Security upon injunction to suspend business of corporation.
1%, 199. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.

§ 191. The writ of injunction as a provisional remedy is
abolished ; and an injunction, by order, is substituted there-;
for. The order_ may be made by the court in which the ac—;
tion is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by a county judge,l
in the cases provided in the next section ; and when made by
a judge may be “enfgrced as the order of the court.

§ 192. Where it shall appear by the complaint, that the;
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,1
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or}
continuance of some act of the defendant, the commission or
continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce
great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff; or where, during
the litigation, it shall appear that the defendant-is doing,
or threatens, or is about to do, some act in violation of the
plaintiff ’8 'rights, respecting the sugject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ine ectual,a temporary in:
junction may be granted, to restrain such act.

.-‘

 193. The injunctionmay'bergranted at'the time of commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judg'ment, u on its appearing-satisfactorily to .the judge hyathe aftidavit o the plaintiff,or'of any other person, thatsufhcient
grounds existtherefor. A copy of the etiidavit must beseevued withthe injunction. .

§ 194. An injunction shall not be allowed, a’fter the'defendant shall haveansawered, unlessupon notice,-or\upon an
order to show cause ; butinsuch 'case, the defendant may
be restrained, until the decision hf the judge, :granting or
refusing the injunction.

§ 195. Where no provision .is made‘by statute,.as to securityxupon an injunction,:the judgeshall require a written
undertaking, on the part of ‘the*plaintiff, with or without
wsureties, to the effect that'the plaintiff will ‘pay’to the :party
enjoined,such=damages,'not exceedin an amountto be citied, as he ma sustain by reason o the injunction, 7 :the
icourt'shall xtinally decide that the plaintiff wasinot entitled
thereto, The damages may be ascertained by .a reference,
-'or otherwise,“ the court'shall direct.

I §*196. If thefudge deem itproper-that thedefendant, or
'any of several et'endants, should be heard before granting the injunction. he may, by an order, require cause to be
shown, at a specihedrtime andbplace, why the injunction
should not be granted; and he may in the mean time restrain
the defendant. .
§ 197. ~‘An‘injunc’tion to $115 en'd‘thegener-al and ordinary
l business of a corporation, shal not be granted, except by the
,court or a‘judge thereof. ‘Nor shall it be~granted, without
* due notice of the application therefor, to-the proper ofhcers
*of the “Corporation,nnlessthe plaintiffrshall . give a written
undertaking, executed by two suflicient suretres, to be approved'by the court or judge, to the e'Eect'that the plainttd'
will pay all damages, not exceeding the sum to be mentioned
‘in the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain, by
reason of the injunction,‘if the court shall finally decide that
_the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be
ascertained'by a reference or otherwise, as the court‘shall
direct.
. $198. If the injunction be granted by a jud e of the court
.. or by a- county judge, without notice, the ' n'dant, at any
'time before the‘ trial, may apply, upon notice, to the judge of
the court in which the action is bro ht, to ~vacate or medify the same. ‘The application may e made upon them,plaint .an’d ' the afiidavrts on which thewinjunction was greated, or upon. affidavits on the'pat't of the defendant,-mth~or
.without the-answer. ‘ ' '

§199. If the asplication be made upon aflidavits on the
part of the defen ant, .but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
;oppose the same by afiidavits or other proofs, in addition to
those on which the injunction was granted. '

OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

§nqrrqx 200. ,Powers of c as to eceivers deposit of money &c. in
‘ ' " ‘court, ang‘dih’dr pro‘viisioubil remedies.’ ‘ ’ . ’ ’

§ 200. Until the legislature rshall otherwise provide, the
courtmay 39159th freceivérsleudrdirect 'the.déppsit.9f money
or other thingin court, and grant‘the other provisional remedies now existing, according to the present practice, except
as otherwise provided in this act. ‘

TITLE VIII.

‘OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTION‘S.

Cnsnnn 1. Judgment upon failure to answer.
II. Issues and the mode of trial. '

III. Trial by jury.
IV. Trial by the court.
V. Trial by referees.
VI. The manner of entering judgment.

CHAPTER I.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO 41‘8me

Sncrlon 201. Judgment, what. .
202. Judgment, on failure of defendant to answer.

§201. A judgment is the final determination of the rights.
'ofthe parties in the action. ‘
” §202. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to.
answer the complaint, as follows: ‘

1. In‘an action arising on cohtract,-for the recovery of ;
money only, the lainti may file with the clerk thesum.mons and comp aint, with, roof of service, and that no
answer has been received. 3 e‘ clerk shall thereupon enter
judgment for the amount, mentionedinthe summons. ‘

2. In other actions, theplaintiif may, upon the like proof,
apply to the court, at the time and lace specified in the
summons, for the relief demanded in t e complaint. If the
taking 'of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
'to etiable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judg'ment into effect, the court, instead of taking. the account or
,hearing the proof, may in its discretion, order a reference
for that purpose to an person, free from all exception, to.be
named by the plaint' . And where the‘action is for the recovery of money only, the court, if the plaintiff require it,
't'shall order the. damages to be assessed by a gury, or. if .the
‘enamination pf ,a long account be involved”. 'y a,reference
.mebqvérmidedCHAPTER 11.

ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

Brc'rrox 203. The diti‘erent kind of issues.
204. Issues of law.

Issues of fact.
0n issues both of law and hot, the issue of law to be 511!

. 205.
206.
‘ tried.
207. Trial, what.
2%. Issue of fact to be tried by jury, unless waived or reference

ordered. '
209. Other issues to be tried by court.
210. All issues to be tried before a single judge.
211. Either party may give notice of trial; note of issue.
212. Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.

§203. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and

2. Of fact.

§204. An issue of law arises,

1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint: or

2. Upon an allegation of fact in a pleading, by the one
party, the truth of which is not controverted by the other.

§ 205. An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation of the complaint controverted
by the answer: or,

2. Upon new matter in the anéwer controverted by the

'reply: or, '

3. Upon new matter in the reply.
§206. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon the
leadings in the same action. In such case, the issues of
Paw must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.

t §207. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues
between the parties,- whether they be issues of law or of
fact. .

; §208. Whenever, in an action for the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, there shall be
anissue of fact, it must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial
be waived, as provided in section 221, or a reference be or«
dered, as provided in sections 225 and 226.

' §'209. Every other issue is triable by the court, which,
’hOWever, may order the whole issue, or any specific question ‘
of fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury; or may refer

it, asp'rovided in sections 225 and 226. j
' § 210.}‘All issues, whether of law or fact,'triable by ajury
‘ or by the court, shall be tried before a single jt'rdge. Issues

in the supreme court, shall be tried at the circuit courts.

'- §21p1. At anytime after issu‘e; and at least ten days he.‘i‘o‘re tbe‘court, either party may give notice of trial. The

f‘party'givlng'Whe notice shall furnish the clerk, at least four
.days before the court, with a note of the issue, containing

the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the
time when the last pleading was served ; and the clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the
date of the issue.

§ 212. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in
the following order; unless, for the convenience of parties,
or the despatch of business, the court shall otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact, to be tried by a jury;

2. Issues of fact, to be tried by the court;

3. Issues of law. .

CH A PTER III.

‘ TRIAL BY JURY. ‘

Szcrrox 213. Either party may bring issue to trial. o
2141.. Plaintiff to furnish court with copy summons, &c.
215. General and special verdicts, what.

216. When jury may render either general or special verdict, and
when court may direct special tinding.

‘ 217. On special finding and general verdict, former to control.
218. Jury to assess damages and when. ‘
219. Entry of the verdict.

220. Judgment to be given immediately unless, 8w.

§ 213. Either part giving the notice may bring the issue
to trial, and in the a sence of the adverse party, unless the
court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or
judgment, as the case may require. .
. § 214. Tlfe plaintiff shall furnish the court with a c0py of i
- the summons and leadings, with the offer of the defendant,}
if any shall have geen made. ‘ l
§215. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.I
A general verdict, is that by which they pronounce generally}
upon all' or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff ‘
or defendant.’ A s ecial verdict is that by which the jury
find the facts only, lJeaving‘the judgment to the court.
’ § 216. In every action for the recovery of money only, or‘
- specific real or personal propert , the jury, in their discretion, 1
may render a general or specia verdict. In all other cases,:
the court may direct the jury to' find a special verdict in:
writing, upon all or any of the issues; or may instruct them,l
if they render a genera verdict, to find upon particular ques-‘
tions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written
findin thereon. The special ver ict or finding shall be filed
with t e clerk, and entered upon the minutes. :
§ 217. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsis- x
tent with the general verdict, the former shall control the:
latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly. :
§218. When a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff, inr
an action for the recovery of money only, the jury shall also;

assess the amount of the recovery. ‘ .

§ 219. Upon receiving a ,verdict, the court shall direct an
entry to be made, specifying the ,time and place of the trial,
the names of the 'urors and witnesses, the verdicthand either
the judgment to Jbe rendered thereon, or an order that the
case be reserved forrar meat or further consideration.

,§ 220. Judgment sha 1 be entered by the clerk, in conform.ity to the .verdict, after the expiration of four days, unless
the court order the case to bereserved for argumentonfurther
consideration. . CHAPTER 1v.

Tanner run,couar.

SECTION 221. Trial by jury howywaived.
222. On trial by court, judgment to be given in twenty days.

223'. .‘ Exceptions, &c., how taken.
224. On judgment upon issue of law, how.to.proceed.

§._221. The .trial by jurymay zbe .yvaiyed ,by the several
parties, to an issue of fact in-the mannerifollowing;

1. By failing to appear ,at thetrialg A

2. By written consent, in person ortbyattorneyJiled with
the clerk; ‘

3.‘ Byoral consent in Open court, entered in the minutes.

§ 222. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its
,‘decision shall be given in writing, and filed with the.clerk,
withinrtwenty days after the court atwhich .the trial took
place. In giving the decision, the :factsfound shall be 
stated, and then the, conclusiOn of law upon them. Judg.
ment uponthe decisionshall be entered accordingly.
t § 223. Either party may except to a decision on amatter
of law arisingupon such trial, within .ten days after notice
thereof, in the same manner, and with the same effect, as
upon a trial'by jury. And either par desiring 'a review
upon the evidence appearing on the tria , either of the ques.
tions of fact or of law, may at any time within ten days after
notice of the judgment, make a case containingso much of
the eviden'ce as may‘be material tothe question to be raised.
The case shall be settled according to the existing practice.
I {3224. On a 'udgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of
Ilaw, the plaintiti‘ ma proceed. in the same manner as upon
'- the failure of the de endant to answer, as prescribed by section 202. If 'udgment be for. the defendant, .upon an issue
of law, and t e taking of an account or the proof of any
fact be necessaryto enable the court to complete the 

ment, a reference may be ordered as in thatsection spro i

CHAPTER ‘V.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.

SECTION 225. Reference of all issues by consent.
226. Compulsory reference. - r 7 .
227. Report to stand as. decision of the court upon atrial.
228. Referees, how chosen out of the city of'New-York.
229. How chosen .in. the‘city. of.New-.York. '

{3 225. All or any of the issues in the‘action, :whether of J
fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written}
consent of the parties. ' .

§ 226. Where the parties do ngt consent, the court ma_y,§
"upon the application of either, or bf 'its own motion, direct:

a reference in the following cases: ‘

1. Where thetrial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side; ianhichcase,
the referees may be directed to 'hear and decide the whole
issue, or to report upon any specific question of factlinvolved
therein; or, .

" 2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect ; or, '

3. Where aquestion of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
'the action. . - . ’

'§ 227.‘The report of the referees upon the whole'issue,1
shallsstand as the decision-of the court, in the same manner“:
as‘i‘f the action thad‘been 'tried by the court; and their de-a}
cision upon the matter referred,‘may be excepted to and re-'
viewed in like manner.

§' 228. In. all cases of reference, the parties. may agree upon }
a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three; and on.
filing such agreement, the reference shall be ordered accord-l
ingly. .It the parties do not ree, the court shall (except
in the city and county of New- ork,) appoint one or mere
referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free fromyexcep‘
tion, and reside i the county where the ,action is triable.

§ 229. In'the city and county of N ew-York, when the par-~j
ties do not otherwise agree, there shall be three referees, who:
shall be - free from exception and reside in that city. They‘
shall be appointed as follows : ‘Each party shall name one,
and these two shall name the third.’ If they fail to do so
within two days after their own appointment, the name of
the third referee shall be drawn by the clerlr from the . jury

'box,in the manner to be directed by the court on ordering
the-reference. -If either part omit to name a referee,'his

place shall be supplied from t e jury box in the same man.
ner. .

CHAPTER v1.

MARKER OF ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SECTION 21!). Judgment for or against any plaintiR' or defendant.

231. hat relief plaintiff to have.

232. mages, what recoverable.

233. Judgments to be given and entered before a single judge.
2%. .The clerk to keep a judgment book.

235. Judgment to be entered in judgment book.

236. Judgment roll, what to contain.

237. Judgment to be docketed.

§¥0. Judgment may be given, for or against one or more
of se era] plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants, and it mayfd‘eterrnine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side as between themselves.

§231. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no
anSWer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded
in his complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant ‘
him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

§2322 Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may claim and recover, if he shew himself entitled thereto,
any rate of damages, which he might have heretofore recover, ed for the same cause of action.
§ 233. Judgment upon an issue of law or of fact, or upon
{confession or upon failure to answer (exce t where the clerk
ris authorised to enter the same by the first subdivision of
section 202, and by section 337,) shall in the first instance
.be entered upon the direction of a single judge, subject to

review at the general term, on the demand of either party,
as herein provrded.

§234. The clerk shall keep among the records of the
court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
“judgment book.” .

§235. The judgment shall “be entered in the judgment

'book, and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other
determination of the action.

§ 236. The clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,

,shall attach together and file the following papers, which
shall constitute the jud ment roll.

'1. In case the comp aint be not answered, the summons
and complaint, proof of service, and that no answer has been
received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, and a copy
of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the
defendant, case, exceptions, and all orders relating to a
change of parties or in any way involving the merits, and
necessarily affecting the judgment. _ '

§237. On filing a judgment roll upon a judgment direct.
ing in whole or in art the payment of money, it maybe
docketed with the c erk of the county where it was rendert'

ed, and in any other county, upon filing with the clerk thereof
a transcript of the original docket; and shall be a lien on
real property in the county, from the time of ‘docketing the
judgment therein.

TITLE IX.

OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. The execution.
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I.

THE ns'cv'nos. .

Sncrrox 238. Certain judgments may be enforced by executions.
239. After tive years to be issued only by leave of court.
240. Other judgments how enforced.
241. Three kinds of execution; need not be sealed.
242. To what counties may be issued.
243. Against the person, in what cases, and when.
M4. Contents of execution. °
245. To be returned in sixty days. .
246. Existing laws relating to executions, continued until otherwise provided.

§ 238. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments.
as now used, are modified in conformity to this title, and the
party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any time
within five years after the entry of jud ment, proceed to en-‘
force the same as prescribed by this‘ tit e.

§ 239. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an execution may be issued only by leave of the court?
on motion, with notice to the adverse party. Such leave
shall not be given unless it be established by the oath of the
party or other proof that the judgment or some part thereof
remains unsatisfied and due.

§ 240. Where a judgment requires the payment of money
or the delivery of real or personal prOperty, the same may be
enforced in t ose respects by execution as provided in this
title. Where it requires the performance of any other act, a
certified copy -of the judgment may be served upon the party

ainst whom it is given, and his obedience thereto required.

he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.

t) 241. There shall be three kinds of execution; one against,
the prOpert of the judgment debtor; another against hrs person ; and t e third for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property. They shall be deemed the process of
the court, but they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed to section 244.

§ 242. Where the execution is against the property of the
judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where the judgment is docketted. Where it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to the
sheriff of the county where the property, or some part thereof is situated. Executionsmay be'issued,at' the same time,
to‘ different counties.»

§ 243. If the action be one in which the defendant might

have been arrested, as provided in section 154:,- an* execution
against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to
any county' within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of- an execution against his property, unsatisfied in. whole
or in part. .
T § 244. The execution-must be directed to-the sheriff subscribed by the party issuing it or his attorney, and must intelli 'bly refer to the jud ment ; stating the court, the county w ere the judgment ro l: is filed, the names of the parties,
the 'amount. of the judgment if it be for money, andI the
amount act‘ual‘l du‘e thereon, and" time of'd‘ocl‘retin in the
county to whic the execution is issued, and shal require
the sherifi substantially as follows: >

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the
personal property of such debtor, or if suthcient cannot be
found, then out of thereal property belonging to him on the
day when the judgment was docket-ed in the county : or ,at
any time thereafter. ' . i

2. If it be a ainst the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require t e sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county, until he shall pay the judgment,
or be discharged according to law;

3. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the pos.
session of the same (particularly describing it) to the party
entitled thereto.

, § 245. The sheriff shall, in all cases, return the execution
within sixty days after its receipt to the clerk with whom
the record of judgment is filed.

‘ § 246. Until otherwise provided by the legislature, thee:isting provisions of law relatin to executions, and their incidents, including the sale an redemption of property. the
powers and rights of nflicers, their duties thereon, and the
preceedings to enforce those duties and the liabilit of their
‘sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribe by this
chapter.

I CH'A‘PTER IT.

PROCEEDINGS SURPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

SECTION 247. It“ execution be returned unsatisfied, an order for discovery of
~ - property allowed. __ 1
‘ 248. An debtor may pay an execution against his creditor.

249. er for examination of debtor. '
250. Witnesses may be examined. _
251. Party or witness must be examined in the county.
252. Judge may order property to be applied.
253. May appoint a receiver.
254. Adverse claims to prOperty to be tried by action;
256. Judge may order reference. '
256. May allow costs to a party or witness.
257: Disobedience to be punished as centem‘;

§247. When an execution a a'inst pmperty of the judgment debtor, issue to the sheréf of the county where he resides, or if he res out of the state, to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment roll is tiled, shall .be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor may obtain an order from a 'udge of the court or a county judge
of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring
the judgment debtor to appear and‘make discovery on oath,
concerning his. property, before such judge, at a time and
place Specified in the order. _

§ 248. After the issuing of execution against property, any.
person indebted to the 'udgme'nt debtor, may pay to .the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so mu'ch thereof as shall be
necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s receipt
shall be a sufiicient discharge therefor.

§ 249. Upon an atiidavit, that any person has property of
the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the judge may
by an order require such person to appear at a specified-time
and place, and be eXamined, concerning the same.

§ 250. Witnesses may be required to appear a'.n'd testify in
any preceeding under this chapter in the same manner as
uponthe trial of the‘issue.

§ 251. If the arty or witness reside in the county where
the order is ma e, he shall be required to atténd before the
judge ; if in any other county, before a referee, as provided
in section 255. In such case the examination shall be taken
by the referee, and Certified to the judge. .

I} 252. The judge may order any property of the j'ud ent
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands eit er of
himself or at an other person, or due to 'the judgment debtor, to be applied, towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

§253. The judge ma also, by order,- appomt a receiver.
of the property of the ju gment debtor, in the same‘ manner,
and with the like authority,a’s if the appointment Were made
by the court, accordmg to section 200. The 'udge may also,
by order, forbid a tiansfer of the property of1 the judgment
debtor, and any interference therewith.

{)254. If it appear that a person so brought before the
judge, claims an interest in the property of the judgment
debtor, adverse to him, such interest shall be recoverable
’ only in an action by the receiver ; but the judge may by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of suc interest. till a
suflicient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence
the action. ‘ ' : § 255. The jud e may, in his discretion, order a reference
to a referee agree upon or appointed as prescribed in sections 228 and 229, to report the evidence or the facts.

' £9256. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor or
to any party or Wness so examined, his travelling expenses,
and a fixed sum 11 addition, not exceeding thirty dollars as
costs.

.§ 257. If any party or witness dison an order of the
judge, duly served, such party or witness may be punished
by the judge, as for a contempt.

TITLE X.

OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 258. Fee bill abolished. Specific allowances given, termed costs;
259. When allowed of course to plaintiff.
260. “When to defendant.
151. When in discretion of court.
262. Amount allowed. ‘
263. Allowance, in addition, of a’per centage on the recovery or
264. claim.
265. Interest on verdict or report added as part of costs.
266. Clerk to insert costs in judgment.
267. Clerk’s fees.
268. Referee’s fees.
269. Postponement of trial, amount payable thereon.
270. No costs on motion.

§258. All statutes establishing or regulatin the costs or
fees of attorpe 's, solicitors and counsel‘in civi actions, and
all existing rules and provisions of law, restricting or controlling the right of a party to agree with an attorney, solicitor or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed ; and hereafter the measure of such compensation shall be left to the
agreement, exPress or implied, of the parties. But there
may be allowed to the prevailing party, upon the judgment,
certain sums by way of indemnity, for his espenses in the
action; which allowances are in this act termed costs.

§259. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff
upon a recovery, in the following cases : ‘

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when
a claim of title to real property arises'on the pleadings, or is
certified by the court to have come in question at the trial.

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal proert .

p 3.yIn the actions, of which according to section 47, a
court of a justice of the peace has no jurisdiction.

!

4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the
plaintiff shall recover fifty dollars or more. ‘

§260. Costs shall be allowed Of course to the defendant“
in the actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintill' be entitled to costs therein.

§ 261. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, in the
discretion of the court. ~ i

§ 262. When allowed, costs shall be as follows:

1. To the plaintiff, tor all proceedings before notice of trial (including judgment when entered,)

In an action where judgment upon failure to answer, may
be had without application to the court, seven dollars; in an
action where judgment can only be taken on application to
the court, twelve dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars:

2. To the defendant; for all the proceedings before notice
of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before
trial, seven dollars:

3. For the trial of ~ issues of law, if separate from the‘trial of isues of fact,.to the plaintiff, 'lifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve dollars; ‘

4. For the trial of . issues of fact, if separate from the
trial of issues of law, to the plaintiff, fifteen dollars; to
the defendant, twelve dollars:

For the trial of issues of fact and of law, when tried at
the same time, to the plaintiff, twenty dollars; to the defendant,-Efteen dollars:

5. To either party on a peal, excepting to the court of
appeals; before argument, teen dollars; for argument, thirty
dollars: V

6. To either party on appeal to the court of appeals; before a ment, twenty dollars; for argument, fifty dollars:

7. 0 either party, for every circuit or term, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, and not reached or postponed, excluding that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.

§263. In addition to these allowances, if the action be
for the recovery of money, or of real or personal property,
and a trial has been had, the court may in its discretion, in
dillicult or extraordinary cases, make an allowance of not
more than ten per cent. on the recovery or claim, as in the
next section prescribed, for any amount not exceeding five
hundred‘dollars; and not more than five per cent. for any additional amount. ~

§ 264. These rates shall be estimated as follows:

1. If the plaintiff recover judgment, it shall be upon the
amount of money, or the value of the prOperty, recovered.

2. If the defendant recover judgment, it shall be upon the

amount of money, or the value of the property, claimed by
the plaintid‘. 7

Where the action is for real or personal property, the
value thereof must be determined by the jury, court or ref.
erees, by whom the action is tried.

1 §265. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment
be finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added
to the costs of the party entitled thereto. ,

§266. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment on

:the application of the prevailing party, upon two days’ notice to the other, the sum of the charges for costs, as above
provided, and the necessary disbursements, allowed by law,
including the compensation of referees, and the expense 6f
printing the papers upon any appeal. The disbursements
algal; be stated in detail, and verihed’ by amdavit, which shall

ed.

§ 267. The clerk shall receive,

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dollar;

On entering judgment; one ollar.

He shall receive no other fee, for any service whatever in
a civil action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of Eve
cents for every hundred. words.

In addition to the above charges, the clerk of the superior
court of the city of New-York, and the clerk of the court of.
common pleas for the city and county of New-York, shall receive, for the use of the city of New-York, to the creditof
the fund for the pa ment of those clerks, one dollar for the
entry of every jlu gment, in place of the fees now. charged
for services 0 t e judges of those courts, at chambers.

§ 268: The fees of 'referees shall be three dollars to each,
for every day spent in the business of the reference; but
the parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation.

§269. When an application shall be made to a court or
referees, to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse y
of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees 'tnesses, may. be imposed, as the condition of granting the
postponement.

§ 270. No costs shall be allowed on a motion, except the
costs of resisting, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars. ,

TITLE XI.

OF APPEALS 1N CIVIL ACTIONS.

C arms I. Appeals in general.
11. Appeals to the court of appeals.

III. Appeals to the supreme court, from an inferior court.

“I. Appeals in the supreme court, and the superior court and court
of common pleas in the city of N ew-York, from a single
judge, to the general term. V. Appeals to the superior court of the city of N err-York, or to a
county court, from an inferior court.

' CHAPTER 'I.

APPEALS IN GEN ERALSECTION 271. Writs of error abolished.

272. Orders made out of court, how reviewed.
273. "Any party aggrieved may appeal.
274. Parties how designated on appeal. '
275. Appeals made by serving and filing notice with clerk.
276. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.
277. Intermediate ‘orders ali‘ecting the judgment, may be reviewed
on the appeal.
.278. What judgment may be iven.
279. Certain appeals to be wi in two years.
290. Other appeals within ten days.“
281. Appellant to furnish papers to the court.

§ 271. Writs of error and appeals in civil actions, as they ‘
have heretofore existed, are abolished, and the only mode‘ of 1
reviewinga 'judgment, or order, in a civil action, shall, be
that prescribed by this title.

§272. An order, made out of court, without notice to the‘
adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice,‘
by the judge, who niade it, or may be vacated or modified
on notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.

§273 Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in- this title.

§ 274. The party appealing. shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the reSpondent. But the title
of thel action shall‘not be changed, in consequence of the
appea .

§ 275. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice
in Writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk, with
Whom the jud ment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appea from the same or some specified part thereof.

§ 276. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk with whom
the notice of appeal is filed, shall, at the eXpense of the
appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate court a certified capy of the notice of appeal and of the judgment roll.

§277. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review any intermediate order, involving the merits,°and
necessaril affecting the jud ment. ~

§‘278. pon an appeal mm a judgment or order, the
appellate court may reverse, atlirtn or modify the judgment

or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the
notice of appeal, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial.

§ 279. The appeal allowed by the second and third cha
ters of this title, muSt be taken within two years after
judgment. . ' r

§280. The appeal allowed b the fourth chapter of this
title, must be taken, within ten ays, after written notice of
the judgment or order shall have been given to the party apealtng. .
p § 281. The appellant shall furnish tlk court with copies,
of the notice of appeal, and of 'the order 0} judgment roll.
If he fail to do so, the appeal shall be dismissed, unless the

court'shall otherwise direct.

§
' - CHAPTER II.
APPEALS TO THE COURT 0F.APPEALS. SECTION 282. Appeal in what cases taken.

. Security must be given to pay costs and damages. ‘
If judgment for money, security to stay execution.

If to eliver documents, they must be deposited.

If to execute conveyance, it must be deposited.

It“ to deliver property, security for, also on mortgage sale.
Security given, proceedings stayed.

Undertakings in one instrument or several.

Security to be approved, and to Jiustit’y.

Perishable property may be sol . _

. Undertaking to be led. h 282. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals, in
the cases mentioned in section eleven.

§283. To render an appeal effettutil for any purpose, a
written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect, that the
appellant will pay all costs and damages, which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars; or that sum must be deposited with
the clerk, with whom the judgment or order was entered, to
abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking or deposit
may be waived by a written consent on the part of the respondent.

§ 284. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of money,'it shall not stay the execution of the. judgment, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect, that
if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be
aflirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be

paid by the udgment, or the part of such amount as to
which the 'udl ment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only
in part, and al damages which shall be awarded against the
appellant, upon the appeal.

§285. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assign~
ment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the ex§§

@153

ecution of the jud ment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless
the thin 3 require to be assignedor delivered, be brought
into cou , or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver
as the court shall appoint. or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate
court, upon the appeal. ‘

§ 286. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment shall not he stayed by the appeal, until the instrument, shall have been executed and deposited with the
clerk with whom the judgment. is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

§287. If the judgment appealed from, direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the,
same shall not he stayed, unless a written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to
the effect that during the possession of such property by the
appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, an
Waste thereon, and that if the judgment be afhrmed, he wi 1
pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from
the time of the appeal until the deliver of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to ,be fixed
by a jud e of the court by which judgment was rendered,
and whic shall be Specified in the undertaking. When the
judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the ayment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking
shall also rovide for the payment of such deficiency.

§ 288. enever an appeal shall be perfected, as provided by sections 284, 285, 286 and 287, it shall stay all further proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed from,.or upon the matter embraced therein; but the
court below may proceed, upon any other matter included in
the action, and not affected by the jud ment appealed from.

§ 289. The undertakings prescribed y sections 283, 284,
285, and 287, may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant. _ .

§290. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect, unless it be approved in the first Instance by a judge of a
the court below, or a county judge. The respondent may,‘
however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten
days after notice of the a pea]; and unless they or other
sureties justify, before a ju gepf the court below, or a county judge, as prescribed by secttbrrs one hundred and seventy
and one hun red and seventy—Q‘s, withih'nen days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if ti undertaking had
been given. The justification shall be upon a notice of not

less than five days. The sureties must have the same qualifications ‘as bail, pursuantth section 169.

§ 291. In the cases not provided for in sections 284, 2%,
286, 287 and 288, the perfecting of an ap eal, by givingthe
undertaking mentioned ‘in section 283, sha i stay proceedings
in the court below, upon the judgment appea ed from, except, that where it directs the sale of perishable p ,
the court below may order the property to be sold, and the
proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.‘ § 292. The undertaking musthe filed with the clerk, with

whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered.

CHAPTER III.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

Burrow 293. Appeal, in what cases.

294-. Security to be given as on appeal to courts of appeals.
295. Where heard. . A
2915. Papers. by whom furnished.

§293. An appeal may be taken to the supreme com-ta
from the judgment ren ered by a county court, or by the
mayors’ court of either of the cities of Albany, Hudson,
Troy and Rochester, or by the recorders’ court of eitherof
the citiés of Buffalo and Utica.

§294. Security must be given upon such appeal,in the
same manner, and to the same extent, as upon an appeal to
the court of appeals.

{3295. Appeals in the? supreme court shall be heard ata
general term, either in the district embracing the_county
where the judgment or order @pealed from was entered, or
in a county adjoining that county, except that where the
'udgment or order was entered in the city and county-of
{New-York the appeal shall be heard in the first district.

§296. When the appeal is heard in a county other than
that where the judgment roll is filed, the judgment upon the
appeal shall be certified tmthe clerk with whom the roll is
:tiled, to be there entered and. docketed.

I
'

t CHAPTER lV.

APPEALS IN THE SUPREME COURT, AND THE SUPERIOR COURT
AND COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK,
FROM A SINGLE JUDGE, TO THE GENERAL TERM.

Seen. a 297. Appeals allowed from circuits and special terms to same com
in general term; where heard, and security required.
23-8. Decision on facts at general term dual.
299. Orders in certain‘caaes may be appealed from. '

300. Orders at chambers to be entered before appeal.

,, §N297. In the supreme court, the superior court of the city
1 of ew-York, and the court of common pleas for the city

and county of New-York, an appeal, Upon either the law or
. the fact, may be taken to the general term, from a judgment

entered upon the direction of a single judge of the same
court. Security must be given upon such appeal, in the same‘
manner as upon' an appeal to the court of appeals. In the
supreme court, the appeal shall be heard in the same manner
as if it were an appeal from an inferior court.

§ 298. Updn such, appeal, the decision upon the facts shall.
be Snal.

§ 299. An appeal may in like manner, and within the same
time, be taken from an order made by a single judge of the
same court, and may be thereupon reviewed, in the ollowing
cases: 1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional remedy.

2. When it involves the merit of the action, or some part
thereof.

But no appeal under this section, shall be taken, unless a
judge of the same court certify that in his opinion it is prOper
that the question arising on the. appeal should be decided
before the 'ud ment. .

§ 300. The ast section shall include an order made out of
court upon notice; but in such case, the order must be iirst
entered with the clerk. And for the purpose of an appeal,

any party, affected by such order, may require it to he entered with the clerk, and it shall be entered accordingly.

CHAPTER V.

appear. TO THE SUMOR COURT OI" THE CITY OF NEW-YORK,
OR. TO A COUNTY COURT, FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

‘cuox 301. Existing laws for review of judgments repealed, and this
- chapter substituted. '

302. Judgments to be reviewed by superior court, and by county
courts. e
Appellant to make amdavit.
Cepy amdavit and notice of appeal to be served.
. Security to stay execution.
To be approved b jud e of court below.
Order to stay, an secur ty how served.
In case of death of justice, to be tiled.
Counter amdavits allowed.
Appeal may be heard on amdavits.
.311. Return when and how made. and compelled.
312. In case justice be out of once.
313. Amended return may be required.
314. If ’ustice be dead Witnesses to be examined.
, 315. H ing upon return.
«316. Co ies of papers not required on hearing.
317. Judgment‘how given.
. Judgment roll.
'319. If new trial ordered reason to be given.
320. New trial where ha .
321. Costs to whom awarded.
322. Restitution may be entered.
323. Costs set oti‘ in certain cases?
324. What costs allowed.

§ 301. All statutes now in force, providing for the reviewi
'of judgments in civil cases, rendered by courts of justices of 1
_the peace, by the marine court of the city. of N ew-Yerk, by:

§§§§§§§§

the assistant justice’s courts in the city of New-York, by the
municipal court of the cit of Brooklyn, and ,by the justices’
courts of the cities of Al any, Troy and Hudson, and regulatin the practice in relation to such review, are repealed ;
and ereafter, the only mode of reviewing such judgments
shall be an appeal, as prescribed by this chapter.

{)302. When the judgment shall have been rendered by
the marine court of the city of New-York, or by an assistant
justices’ court in that city, the appeal shall be to the superior
court of the city of N ew-York; and when rendered by any
of the other courts enumerated in the last section, to the
aounty court. of .the county- where the judgment was renr

ered. - {)303. The appellant shall, within twenty days after the
judgment, make, or cause to be made, an aflidavit, stating
the substance of the testimony and proceedin before the
court below, and the. grounds upon which t e appeal is
founded.

§ 304. A co y of the affidavit shall, within the same time,
be served on t e respondent, if he be a resident of the city
or county, or if he be not a resident, on the attorney or agent,
if any, who appeai'ed for him on the-trial, or on the justice;
with a notice, stating that the appellant appeals from the
judgment, and that the appeal wil be heard by the appelate
court, at a time and place therein desi ated, either in or out
of term ; which copy and notice shal be served at least ten
days, before the time for hearing the appeal.

§305. 1f the appellant desire a stay of execution of the
judgment, he shall present the ailidavit to a judge of thva
pellate court, or a justice of the supreme court, who may,
thereupon, in his discretion, make an order that all proceedings on the judgment he stayed, upon security being given,
as provided In t e next section.

§306. The security shall be a written undertaking, executed by one or more sufhcient sureties, approved by the
judge making the order, or by the court below, to the effect
that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in pait,
the sureties will ay the amount unsatisfied.

§307. The de ivery of the order and undertaking to the
court below, shall stay the issuing of execution; or if it
have been issued, the service of a copy of the order and undertaking, certified by the court below, upon the officer holding the execution, with payment of his fees, shall stay further proceedings thereon.

§ 308. Where, by reason of the death of a justice of the
peace, or his removal from the county, or any other cause,
the order to stay and the undertakin on the appeal cannot
be delivered to him, they shall be tile with the clerk of the

appellate court, and notice thereof given to the respondent.
They shall, thereupon, have the same effect as if delivered
to the justice. , ' '

§ 309. When the aiiidavit and notice of appeal shall have:
been served, the respondent may supply or correct material 1
omissions or mis-statements therein, by an aflidavit on his
part; a copy of which shall be served on the attornev, if any,
who prosecutes the appeal, or if there be none, on the appellam, or on the attorney or agent, if any, who appeared for
him on the trial, at least four days before the time for hearing the appeal, , ‘

. § 310. The appellate court shall proceed to hear the ap-1
pea], at the time and place mentioned in the notice, or to}
which the hearing may be adjourned, or at such other time 1
as the court shall appoint, of which at least ten days noticeI
shall have been given, and may decide the same upon theI
ailidavits - or if they be contradictory or defective in material

points, ugly order the court below to make a return of the

testimony and proceedings before it, within ten days after

the service of the order and aflidavits, or of capies thereof.

§ 311. The court below shall, thereupon, within the time I
limited by the order, make a return to the appellate court of i
the testimony, proceedin sand judgment, and ‘tile the same i
with thé’ order and afii avits,1n the appellate court; and
may be compelled to do so by attachment. But no justice
of the peace shall be bound to make a return, unless the fee
prescribed by the last section of this chapter, be paid on
service of the order. ‘ .

‘ § 312. When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment1
appealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of otlice, be-l
fore a return is ordered, he shall, nevertheless, make, a re-'
turn, in the, same manner, and with the like effect, as if he
were still in oflice.

§313. If the return be defective, the appellate court may;
direct a further or amended return, as often as may be neces-i
ary, and may compel a compliance with its order, by attachment. '

()314. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is appeal-l
ed from, shall die, become Insane, or remove from the state,]
the appellate court may examine witnesses, on oath, to the}
facts and circumstances of the trial or judgment, and deter-l
mine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned by the
justice. If he shall have removed to another county within
the state, the appellate court may compel him to make the
return, as if he were still within the county where the judgment was rendered.

§ 315. If a return he made, the appeal may be brought to:
a hearing at a general term of the appellate court, upon a}
notice by either party, of not less than eight days. It shall

beplaced upon the calendar, and continue thereon, without
further notice, until finally disposed of ; but if neither party
bring it to a hearing, before the end of the second term, the
court shall dismiss the appeal, unless itcontinue the same,
by special order, for cause‘shown. '

§ 316. The appeal, whether heard on the afiidavits or re
turn shall be heard on the original papers; and no capy
thereof need be furnished for the use of the court.

§ 317. .Upon the hearin of the appeal, either upon adidavits, or upon the return, t e appellate court shall give judgment according to the justice of the case, wijjhout regard to
technical errors or defects, which do not a cot the merits.
In giving judgment, the court may either order a new trial,
or may afiirm or reverse the judgment of the court below, in
whole or in part, and as to any or all the parties.

§ 318. To every judgment upon an appeal,there shall be
annexed the afiidavits ,or return on which it was heard, which
shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and shall tonstitute
the judgment roll.

§ 319. If a new trial he ordered, a concise statement of the
reasons for such order shall be tiled with the clerk. The
court below shall thereupon proceed to try the action, upon
the issue.or'§inally joined therein, or upon amended plead.
ings, in its iscretion ; and for that purpose, on the application of either‘ party, may issue a summons directed to the
other, to appear for such new trial, at a time and place to be
designated therein; the time to be not less than six days
from the servicie of the summons. And the trial may be adjourned from time to time, not exceeding ninety days in all,
in the same manner and on the same terms'as asecond or fur.
ther adjournment may now be granted by courts of 'ustices
of the' peace, or to procure the issuing and return 0 a com-.
mission to take testimony, and the trial and all subsequent
proceedings shall be had therein and condu‘cted in like manner in all respects as in an action originally commenced be»
fore the same justice.

§ 320. If a new trial be ordered, on an ap eal from a
judgment of a justice of the peace, it shall be be are the same
justice, or before any other justice in the same county, in
the discretion of the appellate court.

§ 321. If the judgment be afiirmed, costs shall be awarded
to the respdndent. If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded
to the appellant, unless a new trial be ordered; in which
case, they shall be-in the discretioneof the appellate court.
If it be affirmed in art, the costs, or such part as the court
shall deem just may e awarded to either party.

Q 322. If the judgment below or any part thereof be collected, and the jud ment be afterwards reversed, the appellate court shall or er the amount collected to be restored,

with interest from the time of collection. The order may be
obtained upon proof of the facts made at or after the hearing,
upon a previous notice of six days. ‘

§ 323. If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, 1
and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate court shall:
set off the one against the other, and render judgment for the
balance.

§324. The following fees and costs, and no other, shall‘
be allowed on the appeals mentioned in this chapter: '

To the appellant, on reversal, if upon aflidavit, ten dollars ; if upon a return, fifteen dollars :'

To the respondent, on afiirmance, if upon aiiidavit, seven
dollars ; if upon a return, twelve dollars: ‘

To a justice of the peace, for his return, one dollar. _

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and
affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed
to either party, shall be such sum as the appellate court,
In? award, not exceeding ten dollars.

the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as provided by section 315, up costs shall be allowed to either

pady.

TITLE X11.

0!“ THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS, IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Dunes-n I. Submitting a controversy, without action.
II. Proceedings 9. inst joint debtors, heirs, legatees. devisees and
tenants ho ding under a judgment debtor.
III. Confession o‘judgment without action.

IV. Oti‘ers ot‘ the defendant, to compromise the whole or a part of
the action.
V. Admission or inspection of writings.
VI. Examination of parties.
VII. Examination of witnesses.
VIII? Motions and orders.
IX. Entitling anits.
X. Computation of time.
XI. Notices, and wing and service of papers.
XII.‘ Duties of eheriiih and coroners.
XIII. Accountabilit of guardians.
XIV. Powers of re erees.
XV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY, \VITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 325. Parties may submit controversy without action.
326. Judgment on, same as in other cases, but without costs.
327. Judgment may be enforced, or appealed from, as in an action.

§ 325. Parties to a question in difference, which might be
the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon
a case containing the facts upon which the contrdversy.
'depends, and present a submission of the same, to any court
which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by aiiidavit, that the controversy is real,

and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, at a general term, and render judgment thereon, as
if an action were depending.

§326. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,
as m other cases, but without costs. The case, the submis.
sion, and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the judgment roll.

§ 327. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner,
[as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to
appeal in like manner.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS, HEIRS, DEVISBES,
LEGATEES AND TBNAN'I‘S, HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT

DEBTOR;

SECTION 328. Parties not summoned in an action on joint contract, may be
summoned after jud ment.
329.. If judgment debtor die, is representatives may be summoned.
330. Contents of summons. 1
33!. madam of amount due required. a
332. Party summoned may defend by answer. _
333. Reply and trial as in other actions.
33%. Reply and answer to be veritied

t §398. When a judgment shall be recovered against one
oi' more of several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract,
by proceedings as provided in seetion 115, those who were
not originally summoned to answer the complaint, may be
summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment. in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.
_ §329. In case of the death of a judgment debtor after

' udgment, the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, or
legatees of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real property, owned by him and affected by the judgment, may be
summoned to show cause, why the judgment should not be
enforced, against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands respectively.
§330. The summons, provided in the last two sections,
shall be subscribed by the judo'ment creditor, his representatives, or attorney; shall descn‘be the judgment, and l'€%llll‘e
the person summoned, to show cause, within twenty a. s
after the service of the summbns; and shall be served in lize
manner as the original summons.
F § 331. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit
'of, the person subscribin it, that the judgment has not been
satisfied, to his knowle e, or information and belief, and
shall specify the amount ue thereon.
{)332. Upon such summons, the party summoned may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the jud ment, or setting up any defence which may have arisen sugsequently ; and in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against
according to section 328, he may make the same defence,
which he might have originally made to the action.
§333. The party issuing the summons, may reply to the:
answer, and the issue thereon may be tried and judgmentc
given, in the same manner, as in. an action. i
§ 334. The answer and reply shall be verified in like man-l

her, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and replyi
in an action. '

CHAPTER III.

CONFESSIQN OF JUDGMENT, WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 335. Judgment 0n debt, or liability authorized.
336. Statement, and what it must contain.
337. To be tiled, and clerk to enter judgment.

§ 335. A judgment by confession may be entered, withoutj
action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure:
any person, against contingent liability on behalf of the'
defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

§336. A statement in writing must be made, si ed by:
the defendant and verified by his oath, to the to lowing:
effect: I

1. It must state the amount, for which jud ment may be
entered, and authorise the entry of judgment t erefor.

z 2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose,.and must show that
the sum confessed therefor, is justly due, or to become due.

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and must show, that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same.

§337. The statement may be filed with a county clerk ;‘
who shall endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book.i
a jud ent of the supreme court for‘ the amount confessed,-‘
with ve dollars costs. The statement and affidavit with the
juillgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment
r0 .

1

CHAPTER IV.

0E1" ERS 0F THE,DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A
PART OF THE ACTION.

SECTION 338. Defendant may serve otter to compromige and the proceedings thereon. . .
.339. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
340. It‘ plaintiff accept or refuse, the ed'ect thereof.

§ 338. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may,
at any time before trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff;
an offer in writing, to allow “judgment to be taken against,
him, for the sum, or to the e ect therein specified._ If the;
plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof, Wlthln ten

days, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with
an aflidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk shall
thereupon enter judgment accordin ly.‘ If the notice of
acceptance be not given, the offer sha 1 be deemed withdrawn
and shall not be given in evidence; and if the plaintiff fail
to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

§ 339. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may,
with his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing,
that, if he fail in his defence, the damages be assessed at a
specified sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acce tance
thereof in writing, with or before the notice of trial), and
on the trial have a verdict, the damages shall be assessed
accordingly,

§340. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall
prove his damages,.as if it had not been made, and shall not
e permitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages
assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in
the offer, the defendant shall recover his expenses, incurred
in consequence of any necessary preparation or defence in reSpect to the question of damages. Such expenses shall beascertained at the trial.

CHAPTER V.

ADMISSION OB INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.

Storm): 34!. A party may,be required to admit a paper to be genuine, or

pay expense of p ving it. ‘
 A party may demandrihspection and eOpy of a paper.

t} 341. Either part may exhibit to the'other, or to his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper, material to
the action, and request an admission in writing of its
genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to
give the admission, within four days after the request, and if
the party exhibiting the paper, he afterwards put to expense
in order to prove its genuineness, and the sapie he finally
proved or admitted on the trial, S‘llcll expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission; unless it appear to the satisfaction of the court, that
there were good reasons for the refusal.

§342. The court before which an action it pendin , or- a
judge or justice thereof, may in their discretion, and upon
due notice, order either party to give to the other, within a
Specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take
a copy, of a paper in his possession, or under his control,
Containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or
the defence therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from

Being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or
oth.

l

CHAPTER VI.

EXAMINATION OF PARTIES.

Snc'rrox 343. Abolishes the action for discovery.

344. A party me. call his adversary as a witness.
345. Such exam nation allowed before trial.
346. Party may be compelled to attend.

347. If he refuse, may be punished as for contempt.
348. TestimOny of party may be rebutted.

349. Testimony by a party not reapOnsive to the inquiries, may be
rebutted by the oath of the party canin him.
350. Persons for whom action is brought or do ended.

§ 343. No action to obtain discovery under oath. in aid of;
the prosecution or defence of another action, shall, be allow»:
ed, nor shall any examination of a party be had, on behalf of
the adverse party, except in the. manner prescribed by this
chapter.

§ 344. A party to an action may be examined as a witness“
atthe instance of the adverse party, or of any one of seve-1
ral adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled,f
1n the same manner, and subject to the same rules of ex—
amination, as any other witness, to testify, either at the trial,
or conditionally, or upon commission.
. § 345. The examination, instead of being bad as provided
1n the last section, may be had, at any time before the trial,§
at the Option of the party claiming it,.before a judge of the
court or a county judge, on a previous notice to the party to
be examined, and any omer adverse party, of at least live
days, unless, for good cause shown, the judge order otherWise. But the party to be examined, shall not be compelled
to attend in' any other county than that of his residence, or
where he may be» served with a summons for his attendance.

§346. The party to? be examined, as in the last section
provided, may be compelled to attend, in the same manner as
a witness who is to be examined conditionally; and the examination shall be taken and filed in like manner, and may be
.read byeither arty on the trial.

§ 347. If rty refuse to attend and testify as in the last
three sections provided, besides being punished himself as
for a contempt, his complaint, answer or- reply may be re'ected.
J t} 348. The examination of the party, may be rebutted by
adverse testimony. _ .

§349. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this
chapter provided, may be examined, on his own.behalf, in
respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But-1f he testi—
fy to any new matter, not responsxve to the enquiries put to
him by the adverse party, such adverse party may offer him
self as a witness on his own behalf, in respect to the new
matter, and shall be so received.

§ 350. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is
prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
e examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a_

party.

CHAPTER VII. ’

EXAMINATION 0F WITNESSES.

SECTION  g No witness to be excluded by r0330“ 0‘ mares"

353. Witness not obliged to attend out of his county.
%: 2 Proceedings to examine witness out of his county.
356. Witness disobeying order may be punished as for contempt.

§35l. No erson offered as a witness, shall be excluded,
by reason of is interest in the event of the action. .

f; 352. The last ‘section shall not apply to a party to the action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is'prosecuted or defended, nor to any assignor of a thing in action,
assigned for the purpose of making him a witness.

§ 333. No person residing more than one hundred miles
from the place of examination, shall be obliged to attend as
a witness before any court or judge, except as provided in
section 355. ,

{)354. Whenever either party desires the examination of
a witness, who shall reside more thy) one hundred miles from
thh pla'ce where the‘trial or hearing is to be had, he may apply to wudge of the court for an order to examine such witness. hereupon the judge, on due proof to his. satisfaction,‘
of the materiality of the witness, may make an order for his
examination, at a specified time and place, before the county
Ludge of the county where the examination is to be had, or

efore a justice of the peace or referee residing therein, to be
designated by' the judge making the order.
§ 355. A cOpy of such order shall be forthwith served on
‘the adverse party, and notice of the time an lace of examination given according to the provisions section 374.
The examination may- thereupon be taken by such county
'udge, justice of the peace, or referee ; and being éertilied
by him to have been written and subscribed in. his presence,
and sworn to before him, and being filed with the clerk, may
be read by either party on any trial or proceeding in the action, if the witness be dead, or do not reside within one bun,dred miles of the place of trial, or be unable to attend. But
the court may, on special application, order either party'to
produce his witnesses, and any such witness to attend in open
court, though residin more than one hundred miles from the
place of trial : and a ter such order is made, the written deposition of any witness so ordered to be produced shall nqt

be read. .

§ 356. If any witness served with such order, or an order
for his examination out of court, disobey it, he ma he pun7
ished by the court or judge as for a contempt, an shall be
Qiahle to all the penalties to which a witness is liable, who is
duly served with process for his attendance at a court, and
neglects to attend. «

CHAPTER VIII.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

Gnu-wit 35?. Au order, what.
358. A motion, what.
359. Motions, how made.
360. Orders how made.
361. Motions to be made in the district, or adjoining county.
362. Orders may be made with or without notice to shew cause.
3%. “gheni notice is necessary, it must be served nve days before
ear ng. ,
364. In actions in supreme court county judge ma act.
365. In the absence of judge, motion may be tun erred.
366. Time may be enlarged on cadavit.

§.357. Every direction of a court or judge, made or en-.
‘tered in writing, and not included in .a judgment, is denomi-'
nated an order. ,
§ 358. An application for an order is a motion. .
§ 359. All motions may be made to the court, at a special ]
'term, except upon appeals. l
§360. Motion‘s may likewise ‘he made to a judge or jus-j
tice out of court, except for a new trial on the merits. I
_§ 361. Motions must be made within the district in which:
the action is triable, or in' a county adjoining that in which);
it is triable, except that where the action is triable in the:
£rst judicial district, the motion must be made therein. :
§ 362. Orders may be made upon or without notice, or on:
.an order to show cause, according to the existing practice, ‘
exept as otherwise provided in this act. No order to stay:
roceedings for a longer time than ten days shall be granted:
hy a judge out of court, except upon previous notice to the
adverse part . '
§ 363. When a notice of motion is necessary, it must be!
served hve , days before the time appointed for the hearing; 2
but the court or judge may, by an order to show cause, pre-g
scribe a shorter time. ‘
t 364. In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, I
in addition-to the powers conferred upon him hy this act}
may exercise, within his county, the powers of a judge out:
of court, according to the existing practice, except as other-ii
wise provided in this act. And in all cases where an orderc
is made by a count ' judge, it may be reviewed in the same
manner, as if it ha been made by a judge of the court. 1
§ 365. When notice of a motion 18 given, or an order to
show cause is returnable, before a judge out of court, and at r
rthe time fixed for the motion, he is absent, or unable to hear:

it, the same may; be transferred,by his order, (or if no order
be made, by a notice, from either party to the other, of not
less than five days,) to some other Judge, before whom &
motion might originally have been made, as provided in sect
tion 361;

V 6} 366. The time, within which any proceeding in an
laction must be had, after its commencement, and befone
judgment, except the- time within which an appeal must be
taken, may be enlarged, upon an afiidavit shewing grounds
therefor, by a judge of the court, or if the action be in the

supreme court, by a county judge. The affidavit or a copy

thereof must be served with a copy of the order or the order

may be disregarded. ’

CHAPTER IX.
ENTITLING AFFIDAVITS. '_ '
Sec'rrox 367. Attidavits defective entitled, valid.

§367. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in
the action : but an aiiidavit made without a title, or with a
defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the
action or proceeding in which it is made.

CHAPTER X. ‘ ,

BOMPUTATION OF TIME. .
SECTION 368. Time how computed.

§368. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shalhbe computed, by excluding the first
day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it
shall be excluded.

7

CHAPTER XI.

NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE-OF PAPERS.

Sec'rroN  Notices, how served.

 When and how served by mail.

 Notice when party served resides with-in m‘ty miles Etc.

375. 'Where titefendant has not answered, papers need not be served
on b m.

376. Where party resides out of the state. service may be on clerk.

377.. Summoqs and pleadings to be filed, within ten days after
BerICO.

378. Where party. appears by attorney, service to be on theattorney. .

379. Provisions of this chapter not to apply to process form

' tempt, 8m. 1

§ 369.. Notices shall be in writing; and notices and other
papers may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by thisact.

§ 370. The service may be personal, by delivery, to the‘

party or attorney on whom the service is required to be

tirade, or it may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made, durin his absence
from his oiiice, by leaving the paper with his c erk therein,
or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no
person in the office, by leavin it, between the hours of six
in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous
place in the ohm, or if it be hot open, so as to admit of such
service, then by leaving it- at the attorney’s residence, with
some erson of suitable age and discretion.

‘ 2. upon a party, it may be made, 'by. leaving the paper
at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning and
nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age and
discretion. .

§37l. Service by mail may be made, where the person,
making the service and- the person on whom it is to be made,
reside in different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail. ’

§ 372. In case of service by mail, the paper must be depo-r
sited in the post-ofiice, addressed to the person on whom it is
to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid§ 373. Where a paper is served by mail it shall be double

the time required in cases of personal service.

§374. Notice of a motion, or other proceeding, before a;

court or judge, when personally served, shall--be given at
least five days before the time appointed therefor, if the person to be served reside within tifty miles of the place where
the hearing is to be had, and for every additional fifty miles,
one day shall be added to the time of notice. i

‘ §375. Where a defendant shall not have answered, ser-‘
vice of notices or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an
action, need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned
for want of bail. , .

§ 376. Where a plaintiff, or a defendant who has demurred

or answered, resides out of the state or has no attorney in
the action, the service may be made on the clerk, for the

rt . .

Pal}  'l'he summons, and the several pleadings in an
action, shall be filed with ‘the clerk within ten days after the
service thereof, re' ectively, or the adverse party, on proof
of the omission, shill be entitled, without notice, to an order
from a judge that the same be filed ' within a time to be specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

§378. Where aparty shall have an attorney inIthe action, the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney.
instead of the party. '

, §379. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper
.to bring a party into contempt. '

‘ CHAPTER x11.

norms or SHERIFF‘S AND co RONBRS.
SECTION 380. Duty of sheritt‘and coroner in serving or executing W

§ 380. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be
required to serve or execute any summons or.order, or to‘ do
any other act, he shall be bound to do so,‘ in like manner as
upon process issued to him, and shall bé'equally liable in 11!!
respects for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff be a party,
the coroner shall be bound to perform the service, as‘he
is now bound to execute process, where the sheriE is a

party. ‘
CHAPTER XIII.

ACCOUNTABILITY OF GUARDIANS. .
SECTION 38]. Guardian not to receive prOperty until security is given. § 381. No guardian, appointed for an infant, shall be germitted to receive property of the infant, until he shall ve
given su‘l'licient security, approved by a Judge of the court or
a county judge, to account for and apply the same, under
the direction of-‘the court.

- CHAPTER XIV,

POWERS 0F REFEREES.
SECTION 382. Referees'authorized to administer oaths, are.

t} 382. Every referee, appointed pursuant to this. act shall
have power to administer oaths, in any proceedings before
him, and shall have generally the powers now vested m a ‘

referee by law..

CHAPTER XV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS,

SECTION 383. Dennition ot‘ “ real property.”
384. Definition of “ personal prOperty.”
385. DetinitiOn of “property.”
386. Deliriition ot‘ “ districts.”
333g. Delinition oi‘ “ clerk.”

. Statutory provisions incontinent with this act repealed.
389. Rules and practice inconsistent with this act repealed.
390. This act not to affect certain provisions.

391. This act, when to take cn'ect.

.§ 383. The words “ real property,” as used in this act, ate
co-ext‘ensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments.

§384. The words “personal property,” as used in this
act, include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debts.

§ 385. The word “ property,” as used in this act, includes
pmperty real and personal. § 386. The word “district,” as used in this act, signifies
judicial district, except when otherwise specified.

{)387. The word “clerk,” as used in this act, signifies
the clerk of the court where the action is pending, and In the
supreme court, the clerk in thecounty mentioned in the title
of the complaint, or in another county to which the court
gray have changed the place of - trial, unless otherwise specied.

§388. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act,
are repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or
law which may have been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed. And all rights of action'given or
secured b existing laws, may be prosecuted in the manner,
provided by this act. If a case shal arise in which an action
for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress.
or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this act, the:
practice now in use may be adOpted so far as may be neces—I
83 to prevent a failure of justice. ‘

l€389. The present rules and practice of the courts, inI
civil actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated; but
where. consistent with this act, they shall continue in force}
subject to the powers over the same, of the respective courts,
as they now exist.

§390. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this;
act shall not affect proceedings upon mandamus, prohibition,:
quo warranto, information, scrre facias to repeal letters patent; ‘
nor appeals ftorn surrogates’ courts ;. nor any specia statutory remedy not heretofore obtained by action ; nor any
existing statutory provisions relating to actions, not inconsistent With this act, and in Substance applicable to the actions
hereby provided ; nor any proceedings provided for by chapter five of the second part of the Revised Statutes, or by the
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and eight titles of chapter
five of the third part of those Statutes, or by cha ter ei ht
of the same part, excluding the second and twe fth tit es
thereof, or by the first title of chapter nine of the same part;
except that when in consequence of any such proceedings a
civil action shall be brought, such action shall be conducted
in conformity°to this act; and except also, that where any
particular provision of the titles and chapters enumerated in
this section shall be‘plaintliy inconsistent” with this act, such
provisions shall be deeme repealed. .

§391. This act shall take effect on the first day of July:
next; except that sections 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27, shall take in

edbct immediately.

AN ACT to facilitate the determination of existing suits in
the courts of this state,

.Passed April 12, 1848.

The People of the State of New- York, represented in Se, note and .dssembly, do enact as follows:

§ 1. The act to simplify and abridge the practice, pleadings and proceedings of the courts of this state, passed at
the present session of the legislature, is herein designated as
the “Code of Procedure.” '

TITLE I.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COURTS IN GENERAL.

I
.CHAP‘I‘ER 1. Sections of the Code of Procedure referred to and applied to
existing suits. ~
11. Other provisions relating to existing suits.

CHAPTER I. ~

SECTIONS OF THE CODE OF PROCEDURE REFERRED TO AHD APPLIED TO EXISTING SUITS.

()2. The provisions of the Code. of Procedure. contained
rin the follownng sections thereof, are hereby applied, so far
as the same are applicable, to future proceedings in civil
gsuits, whether at law or in equity, pending when that code

shall take effect, as follows:

1. Sections 65, 101, 145 to 151, both inclusive, 270, 341
and 342, to proceedin s in actions in the supreme court, in
the county courts, int c superior court of the city of NewYork, in the court of common pleas for the city of NewYork, in the ma or’s courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson,
Troy, and Rocliester, and in the recorder’s courts in the
cities of Buffalo and Utica. .

2. Sections 247 to 257, both inclusive, to executions on a
judgment or decree in any of those courts, hereafter issued,
against any person to the sheriff of the county where lie resides, ,or if he reside' out of the state, to the sherid' of the
county where the record of judgment is filed or the decree
enrolled; the word “judgment” in these sections being
taken to include a decree.

3. Sections 271 to‘ 279, both inclusive, 281 to 296, both
inclusive, and 301 to 324, both inclusive, to the review of
judgmentg'decrees, and final orders, from which no writ of
error or ap eal shall, have been already taken, the word
“ judgment ’ being taken to include a decree, and “ judg~
ment roll,” to include the record of judgment and enrollment
«of decree. . r

4. Sections 344 to 356, both inclusive, 367 to 376, both
inclusive, 378 and 379, to proceedings in actions in all the
courts of civil jurisdiction in the state.

5. Sections 360 to 363, both inclusive, to non-enumerated

I motions in the courts mentioned in the first subdivision of
this section.

CHAPTER II.

0mm PROVISIONS RELATING .ro EXISTING SUI'rs.

§ 3. Any suit in equity now pending in the supreme court,
or which may be there pending before the first day of July?
next, or any issue therein, whether of fact or of law, or both,
may be referred upon the written consent of the parties con—
cerned; and upon the like consent, a reference may be or»
dered to take testimony, or to report facts, onto execute any
order or decree.

§ 4. Where the parties do not consent, as in the last sec;
tion mentioned, the court may, upon the application of
either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in such suit,
in the following cases: ,

1. Where the determination of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side; in
which case the reference may be to hear and decide the whole
issue, or to report upon anyspecitic question of fact involved therein; or

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before decree, or for carrying
an orderor decree into effect; or ’ _

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the suit.

()5. The report of the referee or referees upon the whole
cause, or upon the whole of any issue therein, shall stand”
asthe decision of the court, in the same manner as if the
cause or issue had been determined by the court at a special
term, and may be reviewed in like manner.

§ 6. The referee or referees shall be appointed in the man-1'
ner provided in sections 228 and 229, of the code of procedure, and shall have the wers specified in section 382,
and the compensation speci ed in section 268 of that code.

()7. No re-hearing shall take place at a general term of ;
the supreme court, of an order or decree made at a special,1

term, unless the same involve the merits of the suit or ptoceedin , or some part thereof. And further proceedings upon
the or er or decree shall not he stayed, unless security be
given in the same manner, and to the same extent, as would.
required if an appeal were taken to the court of app¢
from the same order or decree, made, of confirmed at
a :eneral term. Nor shall such re-hearing be had, mks:
notice of the same be given, within ten days after notice of
the order or decree re-heard, with the security thus required.
()8. No petition for a re—hearing need be made. W
thereof, it shall only be neeeSsary to serves notice in 
on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the mint
or decree to be re-heard is entered, stating the application
for a rehearing of such order or decree, or some speciGed
part thereof.
§9. Any party aggrieved by an order made at a special ‘
'term of the supreme court, in an action at law, or in a specialproceeding, When it involves the merits of the action or
special proceeding, or some part thereof, may appeal there‘from to the court at a general term; where, upon such appeal, the order may be reversed, aE‘rmed or modihed, according to law. ‘ r ‘ .
§10-. The appeal in the lust sections mentioned, may be
made, by the service of a notice in writin , on the adverse
party, and on the clerk with whom the anger is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or some specified part thereof.
But no such appeal shall be taken, unless a judge of the swpreme court certify, that, in his opinion, it is proper, that die
quelstion arising on the appeal should be decided at the genera term. .

TITLE II.
rnovrsross RELATING TO covers in THE nasr rumour. D3'rmc'r.

§ 11. The general term of the supreme court, appointed
to be held in the first judicial district. on the first Monday of
Aprii 1848, shall be continued from the first Monday of each
'month to the third Saturday thereafter, until and inéluding
the third Saturday after the first Monday of Jul next, or
until all the cases on the calendar be sooner hea , or a sufficient Opportunity be given for the hearing thereof.
§ 12. The special terms and circuit courts appointed to be
held. in the first judicial district at any time hereafter, before
the first day of July next, shall be respectively continued
from-the first Monday of each month to the third Saturday
thereafter, until and including the third. Saturday after the
first Monday of. Jul next, or until ail the cases ready thereat foe hearing or tri be soonenheaiadmr otherwise diposed d.

§ 13. In additon to the courts already required by. law”
there shall be held on the first Monday of September next, a:
general and special term of the supreme court, and a circuit}
court in the first judicial district by such judges, as the gov—j
ernor shallyby appointment, in writing, designate; which]
terms and circuit court shall be exclusively devoted to the‘
determination of suits and proceedings in the supreme court‘
commenced before the first day of July next.
§ 14. The terms and hircuit court, mentioned in the last;
section, shall each be continued in each month, except Octoher and January, from the first Monday to the third Saturday
thereafter, inclusive, until the fourth Saturday in February
next, or until the suits and proceedings mentioned in the last
section, ready for hearing at such courts, shall be sooner determined. '
§ 15. If the judges assigned to hold such general or spe-§
cial terms or circuit courts, or any of them be unable, by rea- 
son of sickness, or 'udicial engagements elsewhere, to sit un-j
til the close thereoll, the governor shall assign other judges,:
not actually engaged in holding court, to take their places‘
respectively.
§ 16. When a cause. placed upon the calendar of a court1
of record in the city of New-York, shall be regularly called:
and passed, without a postponement by the court for good}
. cause shown, it shall thenceforth take its place -on the same1
or any future calendar, as if the date of the 'issue were the
time when it was thus passed.
§ 17. In the case mentioned in the last section, it shall be 1
the duty of the party placing a'cause upon the calendar, for'l
a subsequent term, to state the date of the issue, as above}
prescribed, and if he omit to do so, b reason whereof the!
issue retains its priority on the calen ar, the court, on the}
application of the adverse party, or of its own motion, may
strike the cause from the calendar. §18. This act shall take effect immediately, except thatj
section two shall take effect at the same time with the Code i
of Procedure.

