AN ACT to simplify and abridge the Practice, Pleadings and
Proceedings of the courts of this state.

WHEREAS it is expedient that the present forms of actions and
pleadings in cases at common law should be abolished, that the
distinction between legal and equitable remedies should no
longer continue, and that an uniform course of proceeding, in
all cases, should be established: Therefore,

77w Pe loo _tchtatcofNew York,representsd in Senate
and Ass 3/, enact as follows :

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

Seaman 1. Division of remedies.
2. Definition of an action.
3. Definition of a special proceeding.
4. Division of actions into civil and criminaL
5. Definition of a criminal action. ,
6. Deliuition of a civil action.
7. Civil and criminal remedies, not merged in each other.
8. Subjects embraced in this act.

§ 1. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into,

1. Actions;

2. Special proceedings.

§ 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of 
by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement or
protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the
f punishment of a public offence.
' g 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
r 4. Actions are of two kinds.
3 1. Civil;

2. Criminal. -
r § 5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the people of the state,
as a party, against a person charged with a public offence, for the
punishment thereof.
r 6. Every other is a civil action.
I 7. Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil and
criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in
the other.

8. This act is divided into two parts:
e tirst relates to the murts of justice, and their :

The second relates to civil actions commenced in the courts of
this state, after the first day of July, 1848, except when other-
wise provided therein, and is distributed into fiiieen titles. The
first four relate to actions in all the courts of the state, and the
others, to actions in the supreme court, in the county courts, in the
superior court of the city of New York, in the court of common
pleas for the city and county of New York,.in the mayors’ courts
of cities, and in the remrders’ courts of cities, and to appeals to
the court of appeals, to the supreme court, to the county courts,
and to the superior court of the city of New-Ybrk.

f

PART I.

OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, AND THEIR JU-
RISDICTION.

TITLE I. *“OE TEE COUE'rs IN GENERAL.
II. Or THE COURT or APPEALS.
111. Or THE SUPREME COURT; Cmcmr Covers; AND
Coun'rs OE Orsn AND-TERMINER.
W. OF THE COUNTY Coun'rs.
V. Cr THE SurEsIon Cousr, AND COURT 0? COMMON
PLEAs IN THE cm OF NEW YORK, AND THE
MArous’ AND RECORDEES’ COURTS IN OTHER
CITIES.
VI. OE 'rIIE Couars or Juercss OE THE PEACE.
VII. Or Juercss’ AND O'rIIE E INEEEIOE couu'rs IN
CITIES.

TITLE I.
0f the Courts in general.

SECTION 9. The several courts of this state.
10. Their jurisdiction generally.

§ 0. The following are the courts of justice of this state.
1. The court for the trial of impeachments.
2. The court of appeals. ‘
3. The supreme court. »
4. The circuit courts.
5. The courts of oyer and terminer.
6. The county courts.
7. The courts of sessions.
8. The courts of special sessions.
9. The surrogates’ courts.
10. The courts of justices of the peace.
11. The superior court of the city of New-York.
Y 12. The court of common pleas for the city and county of New
ork.
13. The mayors’ courts of cities.
14. The recorders’ courts of cities.
15. The marine court of the city of New-York.
16. The justices’ courts in the city of New-York.
17. The justices’ courts of cities.
18. The police courts.
§ 10. These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction
now vested in them respectively, except as otherwise prescribed
by this act.

TITLE II.
0f the Court qf Appeals.

Stories 11. Its jurisdiction.
12. May reverse. aflirm or modify judgment or order appealed from.

13. Terms of the court. Preference of causes.

14. Number of judges who may give judgment.
15. Sheridh to provide rooms, &.c., for court.
16. Court may be adjourned to places other tlnn those designated

by law.

§ 11. The court of appeals shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
review, upon appeal, every actual determination hereafter made
at a general term, b the supreme court, or by the superior court
of the city of New- ork, or court of common pleas for the city
and county of New-York, in the following cases and no other :

1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein, or brought
there from another court; and upon the appeal from such judg-
ment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits, and
necessarily affecting the judgment.

2. In a final order, affecting a substantial right, made in a s
cial proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action, 8%
judgment:

But such appeal shall not be allowed in an action originally
commenced in a court of a justice of the peace, or in the marine
court of the city of New-York, or in an assistant justicea’ court.of
that city, or the municipal court of the city of Brooklyn, or in a
justice’s court of any of the cities of this state.

l § 12. The court of appeals may reverse, aiiirm or modify the
judgment or order appealed from, in whole or in part, and as to
any or all of the parties; and its judgment shall be remitted to
the court below, to be enforced according to law.

; § 13. There shall be at least five terms of the court of appeals
in each year, to be held at such time and place as the court may
appoint, and continued for as long a period as the public interests
may require; additional terms shall be appointed and held by
,the court when the public interest requires it. The court may,
by general rules, provide what causes shall have a preference on
the calendar.

§ 14. The concurrence of five judges shall be necessary to pro-
nuouce a judgment. Ifiive do not concur, the judgment or order
appealed from shall be adirmed, unless the court order a re-
hearing. '

§ 15. If at a term of the court of a peels, proper and convex:-
ient rooms, both for the consultation 0 the judges and the hold-
ing of the court, with furniture, attendants, fuel, lights and sta-
tionery, suitable and sudicient for the transaction of its business,
be not provided for it, in the place where by law the court my
be held, the court may order the sheriff of the county to make
such provision, and the eXpense incurred by him in carrying the
order into effect, shall be a county charge.

§ 16. The court of appeals may be held in other buildings them
those designated by law as places for holding courts, and at a dif-j
ferent lace in the same city or town from that at which it is ap-j
pain to he held, and may, in its discretion, adjourn any term;
from the city or town where it is appointed to be held, to any
other city or town. Any one or more of the judges may adjourn
the court, with the like effect as if all were present.

TITLE III. .
0f the Supreme Court, Circuit Courts, and Courts of Dyer and

Termz'ner.

Samoa 17. Existing statutory provisions, as to terms and business of the
courts repealed ; and order of supreme court fixing the terms,
6w. abrogated.

18. General terms prescribed.
19. Number of judges to give judgment.
20. Special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminsr,

prescribed.

21. Circuit courts and oyer and terminer held tOgether.

22. Designation of times and places of holding courts ;how made.

23. Extraordinary general and special terms, and oyer and termi-
ner ; how appointed.

24. Places of holding the courts.

25. Publication of appointment thereof.

26. When judges not assigned may hold the courts.

27. Duties of judges as to business out of court.

28. ‘ Rooms, fuel, &.c. ; how furnished.

, § 17. All statutes, now in force, providing for the designation
of the times and places of holding the general and special terms of
the supreme court, and the circuit courts and courts of oyer and
terminer, and of the judges who shall hold the same, are repealed,
from and after the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred
and forty-eight; and the order of the supreme court, adopted J u-
1y fourteen, one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, prescrib-
ing the times and places of holding the general and special terms
of the court, and the circuit courts and courts of oyer and termi-
ner, during the residue of the year one thousand eight hundred
and forty-seven, and for the years one thousand eight hundred and
forty-eight and one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, and
assigning the business and duties thereof to the several judges of
the court, is, from and after the first day of July, one thousand
eight hundred and forty-eight, abrogated; and ' the provisions of
this title are substituted in place thereof.

§ 18. At least four general terms of the supreme court shall be ‘
held annually in each judicial district, and as many more as the ;
judges in such district shall appoint, at such times and places as a

'ority of the judges of such district shall appoint.

‘ 19. The concurrence of amajority of the judges holding a j
general term, shall be necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a}
majority do not concur, the case shall be re-heard. ‘ 1

§ 20. There shall be at least two terms of the circuit court and
court of oyer and terminer held annually in each of the com“
fof this state, and as many more terms thereof, and as many
.cial terms, as the judges of each judicial district shall
therein, but at least one special term shall be held annually in
each of said counties. Fulton and Hamilton shall be considered
one county for the purposes of this section.

§ 21. Circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, shall he
held at the same places, and commenced on the same day.

§ 22. The governor shall, on or before the first dayof May one
thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, by appointment in writ-
ing, designate the times and places of holding the general and
special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, and
the judges by whom they shall be held; which appointment shall
take effect on the first day of July thereafter, and shall continue
until the thirty-first da of December, one thousand eight hun-
dred and forty-nine. The judges of the supreme court of each
district, shall in like manner, at least one month before the expi-
ration of that time, appoint the times and places of holding dim
courts for two years, commencing on the first day of January, we
thousand eight hundred and fifty, and so on, for every two suc-
ceeding years, in their respective districts.

' 23. The governor may also . appoint extraordinary general
an special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer
whenever, in his judgment, the public good shall require it.

§ 24. The places appointed within the several counties, for
holding the general and special terms, circuit courts and courts of
oyer and terminer, shall be those designated by statute for bold-
ing county or circuit courts. If a room for holding the court in
such place shall not be provided by the supervisors, it may he
held in any room provided for that purpose, by the sherid', as pre-
scribed by section twenty-eight.

§ 25.‘ Every appointment so made, shall be immediately trans-
mitted to the secretary of state, who shall cause it to be published
in the newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal notices are
required to be inserted, at least once in each week, for three
weeks before the holding of any courtin pursuance thereof. The
expense of the publication shall be paid out of the treasury of the
state.

§ 26. In case of the inability, for any cause, of a judge assign-
ed for that urpose, to hold a special term or circuit court, or sit
at a gene term, or preside at a court of oyer and ter'miner, any
other judge may do so.

13‘ 27. The judges shall at all reasonable times, when not en-
gaged in holding court, transact such other business as may be
done out of court. Every proceeding commenced before one of
the judges, in the first judicial district, may be continued before
another, with the same effect as if commenced before him.

§ 28. The supervisors of the several counties shall provide the
courts appointed to be held therein with rooms, attendants, fuel,
lights and stationery, suitable and suflicient for the transaction of
their business. If the supervisors neglect, the court may order
the sheriff to do so; and the expense incurred by him in carrying
the order into effect, when certitied by the court, shall b‘ea county
charge. ‘

TITLE IV.
0f the County Courts.

810110): 29. Repeal of existing statutes, defining their jurisdiction.
30. Their jurisdiction.
31. General terms, when held. Notice to be published“

32. Jurors, how drawn and summoned.

§ 29. All statutes now in force, conferring or deiiningthe juris-'
diction of the county courts, so far as they conflict with this act,
are repealed; and those courts shall have no other jurisdiction
than that provided in the next section. But the repeal contained
in this section shall not affect any proceedings now pending in
those courts.

§ 30. The corn courts shall have jurisdiction in the following
actions and proce ’ngs:

1. The exclusive power to review, in the first instance, a judg-
ment rendered in a civil action within their respective counties, by
a court of a justice of the peace, or by the justices’ courts in
cities; .

2. For the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and the
sale of mortgaged premises situated within the county;

3. For the partition of real prOperty situated within the
county;

4. For the admeasurement of dower in real property situated
within the county;

5. For the sale of the real property of an infant, when the proper-
ty is situated within the county;

6. To compel a specific performance by an infant heir,.or other
person, of a contract made by a party who shall have died before
the performance thereof.

7. For the care and custody of the person and estate of a luna-
tic or person of unsound mind, or an habitual drunkard residing
within the county;

8. For the mortgage or sale, on the appplication of a religious
wrporation, of its real property situated within the county, and
the appropriation of the proceeds thereof; , '

9. o revive judgments entered in the late courts of common
pleas in their respective counties, and to exercise the power and
authority heretofore vested in such courts of common pleas, over
judgments rendered by justices of the peace, transcripts of which
have been tiled in the oilices of the county clerks in such coun-

ha. .

10. In easesin which jurisdiction was vested by them
Statutes, in the late courts of common pleas, under the provisions
relating to attachments against abscbnding, concealed or non-resi-
dent debtors; to voluntary assignments, made pursuant to the
application of an insolvent and his creditors; to voluntary assign—
ments by persons imprisoned on execution in civil cases, and the
licencing and regulation of ferries, and the regulation of Males
in their respective counties until the first day of January, 1850.

11. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances, in the same
cases and in like manner as such power was given by law to
courts of common pleas. L

§ 31. At least two general terms of each county com-t, and as
many more as the county judge shall appoint, for the tinal ’
of actions or proceedings pending therein, shall be held in each year

at, the places in the counties respectively designated by statute for
ll(_|l1llllgt‘{)llill}’ or circuit courts, on such days as the county judge
shall from time to time appoint, and may continue 88 long as 1%
court deem necessary. Notice of such appointment shall be 
liahud in the slate paper atleast four weeks before any such term,

and ulsta in :1 newspaper, if any, printed in the county; so many
or such terms as the county judge shall designate for that pur-
pose. in 911911 nulit‘t'. may be held for the trial of issues of kl,
and hearing and decision of motions and other proceedings at
which no jury shall be required to attend. '2’
§  Jurors for the county courts and courts of sessions shall
be drawn from the jury box of the county, and summonedin die

samemannerasforthetrialofissuesatacircuitcourt. .- 4'

TITLE V.

0] the Superior court and Court of Common Pleas, in the 
of .New- Yark, and the Mayor-3’ and Recorders’ 008m in other

cities.

Samoa 33. Jurisdiction of the Courts named in this title.
34. Court of Common Pleas for New-York has power to review
judgments of the Marine and Justices Courts.

35. General and special terms of the Superior Court and Common
Pleas to be appointed.

36. By whom held.

37. Judgments where given.

38. Concurrence of two judges necessary.

39. Criers. how appointed. Salaries, how fixed.
40. Superior Court, of whom to consist.

41. Three justices of Superior Court to be elected.
42. How voted for.

$3. How clamilied.

44. Expiration of terms and vacancies how oiled.
45. Powora‘of Judges and their salaries.

46. Terms of Superior Court and by whom held.

47. Certain civil suits may be transferred from the Supreme to the
Superior Court.

48. Jurisdiction of the Superior court in such cases.
49. Judges to hear for two years, grits transferred horn Sum
court.

50. Appeal to‘the Court ‘of Appeals.
51. Section 28 applied to Superior Court.

§ 38. The jurisdiction of the superior court of the city of New‘
York, of the court of common pleas for the city and county of
New-York, of the mayors’ courts of cities, and of the recorders‘
conrts of cities, shall extend to thefollowing actions:

1. To the actions enumerated in section one hundred and-twen-
ty-three and one hundred and twenty-four, when the cause of
actionrshall have arisen, or' the subject of the action; shall be
situated, within those cities respectively;

2. To all other actions where all the. defendants shall reside, or
be personally served with the summons within those cities res-
pectively, except in the-case of mayors’ and recorders’ courts of
cities, which courts shall only have jurisdiction where all the de-
fendants shall reside within the cities in which such courts are
respectively situated. The supreme court shall have power and
authority to remove, by order, into the said supreme court, and
the same power and authority to change the place of trial to
my other county of this state, of any transitory action pending
in said superior court, or court of common pleas for the city and
county of N ew-York, which it would have, had such anion been
commenced in said supreme court; such orda' for removal and
hr change-of place for trial-shall be made in the supreme court
upon motion and on tiling a certified copy of such order in the
once of the clerk of the said superior court, or of the said court
of common pleas, such cause shall be deemed to be removed into
the supreme court, which shall proceed therein as if the same
had originally been commenced there; and‘the clerk of either of
said courts in which such order shall be filed, shall forthwith de-
liver to the clerk of the county in which, by such order, the trial
isorderedtobe hadtobe dledinhisodice, allprocess, pleadings,
and proceedings relating to such cause.

8. To actions against corporations, created under the laws of
this state, and transacting their general business, or keeping an
othce for the transaction of business, within these cities, respect—
ively, or established by law therein, or created by or under the
laws of any other state, government or country, for the recovery
of any. debt or damages, whether liquidated _or not, arising upon
contract made, executed, or delivered within the state, or upon
any cause of action arising therein. I

§ 34. The court of common pleas for the city and county of
New-York shall also have power to review the judgments of the.
marine court of the city of New-York, and of the justices’ courts.
in that city.

§ 85. The superior court of the city of New-York, and the
court of common pleas, for the city and county of N ew-Yorls,
shall, within twenty days, a point general-and special terms of
these courts respectively, an prescribe the duration thereof; and
they may, from time to time, respectively, alter such appoint.
ments; and hemahernwfeeshall be paid for any service of a
judge of either of those courts.

§ 36. A general term shall be held by at least two of the jud-
ges of those courts respectively, and a special term by a single

u . .
J ($8637. Judgments upon appeal shall be given at the gene-a1
lterm; all others, at the special term.
§38. The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to
pronounce a judgment at the general term. If two do not con-
cur, the appeal shall be re-heard.
§ 39. A crier shall be appointed by the superior court of the
city of N ew—York, and by the court of common pleas for the city
and county of N ew-York respectively, to hold his omce during
the pleasure of the court. He shall receive a salary to be had
by the supervisors of the city and county of New-York, and paid
out of the county treasury. '
§ 40. The superior court of the city of New-York shall from
the first day of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine,
consist of six justices.
§ 41. Three justices of such superior court, in addition to the
justices now holding odice, shall be elected by the electors of the
city and county of New-York, at the annual charter election to
be held in that city on the second Tuesday of April, one thou-
sand eight hundred and forty-nine.
§ 42. Such justices shall be voted for together on one ballot,
which shall be distinct from any other ballot at the same election,
and deposited in a separate box, marked “ superior court.” The
votes shall be canvassed and certified in the same manner as
votes for the recorder of the city of Nets-York, and a certihcate
thereof shall be filed with the secretary of state.
§ 43. The justices so elected shall, immediately after the votes
are canvassed, be classified by lot, to be publicly drawn by the
register and clerk of the city and county of N ew-York, in the
presence of the mayor or recorder of the city of New-York, and
the certificate of such drawing and classification shall be signed
by such register and clerk and by the attending mayor or re-
corder, and filed in the offices of the register and clerk. The
classes shall be numbered first, second, and third, according to
the term 'of service of each; the first class being that whichhas
the shortest time to serve. The term of offices of each of such
justices shall commence on the first day of May one thousand
eight hundred and forty-nine, and the term of the justice of the
first class shall expire on the thirty-first day of December, one
thousand eight hundred and titty-one; of the justice ,of the se-
cond class, on the thirty-first day of December, one thousand eight
hundred and titty-three; and of the justice of the third class, on
Eh; tlgirty-ilrst day of December, one thousand eight hundred and
- ve.
44. After the expiration of the terms of otiice under such
classification, the term of otiice of all the justices of the superior
court of the city of NewéYork shall be six years; and any va-

:ancy occurring in the oilices created by this title, shall be filled
n the manner prescribed for filling vacancies in the otlices of the
present justices.
§ 45. The justices elected pursuant to this title, subject to the
)rovisions contained in section forty-nine, shall have the same
powers, and perform the same duties, in all respects, as the pre-
sent justices of such superior court, and shall receive the same
salaries payable in like manner.
§ 46. A general term of the superior court may be held by
any two of the six justices thereof, and a special term by any one
of them; and a general and special terms, one or more of them,
may be held at the same time.
§ 47. All civil suits at issue at the time of the passage of this
act, that from and after the iirst of May, 1849, shall be placed
upon the calendar of the supreme court at' any general or special
term thereof, to he held in the city of New-York, and which shall
be in readiness for hearing on questions of law only, or are equity
cases, may by an order of that court or of the judge holding such
special term he transferred to the said superior court of the city
of New-York, and to be heard at the general terms thereof,
hereinafter provided for. .
§ 48. The said superior court shall have jurisdiction of every
suit so transferred to it, and may exercise the same powers in res-
pect to every such suit, and any proceedings therein, as the su-
preme court might have exercised, if the suit had remained in
that court. ‘
49. It shall be the special duty of the three justices to be elected
:1 er the provisions of this title and of their successors, to devote
their time and labors, for the term of two years, from the first of
May one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, to the hearing
and determination of the suits transferred from the supreme court
and for that purpose they, or any two of them, shall hold a ge-
neral term of the said an rior court, of at least two weeks in
duration, in each month 0 the year, except the month of Au-
t.
gag 50. Appeals from the judgments of the superior court in
such suits,“ may be taken to the court of appeals, in the same man-
ner as from the judgments of the superior court in action origin-
ally commenced therein.
§ 51. The provisions of section twenty-eight of this act, shall
apply to the said superior court.

TITLE VI.

0f the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

830110! 52. Repeal of certain existing provisions.
53. Jurisdiction of these courts.
54. Jurisdiction in civil actions limited.
55. Answer of title to land.
56. Undertaking therein.
57. Butt before justice to be discontinued. Costs.

LAWS OF NEW¢YOBK.

Wit underutilcnot given.

The name.

New action in supreme court; pleadings therein.

Costs of action in supreme court.

. Proceedings‘where several asses of action. and answer J title
as to one.

Docketing justices’ judgments, and sheet thereof.

Rules in jmtioes’ courts.

The leadings.

Pleadings, how put in.

Complaint.

Answer. '

Pleading, what to contain.

Demurrer. '

Proceedings in demurrer. '

Plain'tif to prove his case, if defendant do not appear.
Proceedings in action on account or instrumsm-for the man
of money only.

Variance, when disregarded.

Amending pleadings.

. Execution, when issuable and returnable.
l8. Execution on justlces’ judgments doubted.
14. Requiring party to exibit his account.

15. Certain provisions applicable to these courts.

§ 52. The provisions contained in sections two, three and four,
rof the article of the Revised Statutes, entitled “Of the 
tion of justices’ courts,” as amended by sections one and two, of
the act concerning justices’ courts, passed May 14, 1840, and m
provisionscontained in section's 59 to 66, oftbe semen-tide,
both inclusive, are repealed, and the provisions of this title ub-
stitute‘d in place thereof. But this repeal shall not ad‘eet any
action heretofore commenced in a court of a justice of the peace.
63. Justices of the peace shall have civil jurisdiction in the
fa owing actions, and no other:

1. An action arising on contract for the recovery of money

only, if the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars;
2- An action for darnages for an iajnrytothsperson, ortored

property or for taking detaining, or‘injuring property
if the damages claimed,do not exceed one beam; ,

8. An action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred dollars,
given by statute;
4. An action commenced "by attachment of property, as not

provided by statute, if the debt or damages claimed do not exceed
one hundred dollars;

5. An action upon a bond, conditioned for the payment of
money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty
exceed that sum, the judgment to be given for the sum woolly
due. Where the payments are to be made by instalments, an
action may be brought for each instalment as it shall become
due; . '

6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them, though the
penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dollars;

:6
F5 99$9999PE$§ 33355

H
CO

7. .Anactienonajudgment mnderedinacourtof ajusticeof
the  or of a justice’s or other inferior court in a city where
such action is not prohibited by section seventy-one;

8. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defen-
dant, where the amount confessed shall not exceed two hundred
and fifty dollars, in the manner prescribed by article eight, title
four, chapter two, of part three of the Revised Statutes.

§ 54. But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance of a;
civil action, 1‘

1. In which the peeple of this state are a party, excepting for
penalties not exceeding one hundred dollars; A

2. Nor where the title to real property shall come inquestion,
as provided by sections fifty-five to sixt -two, both inclusive;

3. Nor of a civil action for an assa t, battery, false imprison-
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation,
or seduction; ' . v

4. Nor of a matter of account, where the sum total of the ac-
counts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice,‘
shall exceed four hundred dollars;

5. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator, as
such.

§ 55. In every action. brought in a court of a justice of the peace
where the title to real property shall come in question. the defen-‘
dent may, either with or without other matter of defence, set
forth in his answer, any matter showing that such title will come
in question. Such answer shall be in writing, signed by the de-
fendant or his attorney, and delivered to the justice. The justice
shall thereupon countersign the same, and deliver it to the plain-
§ 56. At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver to1
the justice a written undertaking, executed by at least one sufli-w
cient surety, and approved by the justice to the eEect that if the
plantifi' shall, within thirty days thereafter, deposit with the jus-
tice a summons and complaint in an action in the supreme court,
for the same cause, the defendantwill, within ten days after such
deposit, give an admission in writing of the service thereof.
Where the defe dant was arrested in the action before the justice,
the undertaking further provide, that he will, at all times,
render himself amenable to the process of the court, during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein. In case of failure to comply with the un-
dertaking, the surety shall be liable, not exceeding one hundred
dollars.

§ 57 . Upon the delivery of the undertaking, to the justice, the j
action before him shall be discontinued, and each party shall pay.
his own costs. The costs so paid by either party shall be allow-1
ed to him, if he recover costs in the action to be brought for the
same cause in the supreme court. If no such action be bmught
within thirty days after the delivery of the undertaking, the (le-
fendant’s costs before the justice may be recovered of the p 11-
tid‘.

t

§,58. If the undertaking be not delivered to the justice, he
shall have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed therein;
and the defendant shall be precluded, in his defence, from draw-
ing the title in question.
§59. If, however, it appear on the trial, from the plaintiff’s
own showing, that the title to real property is in question, and
such title shall be disputed by the defendant, the justice shall.
dismiss the action, and render judgment against the plaintiff for
the costs.
§ 60. When a suit before a justice shall be discontinued by the
dehvery of an' answer and undertaking, as provided in sections
titty-five, fifty-sixty and fifty-seven, the plaintiff may prosecute an
action for the same cause, in the supreme court, and shall com-
plain for the same cause of action only, on which he relied before
the justice; and the answer of the defendant shall be the same
which he made before the justice.
- § 6]. Ifthe judgment in the supreme court be for the plain.
,tilf, he shall recover costs. If it be for the defendant, he shall
recover costs; except that upon a verdict, he shall pay costs to
the plaintiff, unless the judge certify that the title to real proper-
ty came in question on the trial. ,
§ 62. If, in an action before a justice, the plaintiff have sev-
eral causes of action, to one of which the defence of title to real
Iproperty shall be interposed, and as to such cause, the defendant
shall answer and deliver an undertaking, as provided in sections
fifty-five and iifty-six, the justice shall discontinue the prooedings
as to that cause, and the plaintiif may commence another action
therefor in the supreme court. As to the other causes of action,
the justice may continue his proceedings
§63. A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party in
whose favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a
transcript thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the o$ce
of the clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered.
The time of the receipt of the transcript by the clerk shall be
noted thereon and entered in the docket; and, from that time, the
judgment shall be a judgment of the county court. A certilied
transcript of such judgment may be filed and dbcketed in the
clerk’s ofllce ‘of any other county, and with the like effect, in
every respect, as in the county where the judgment was render-
ed; except that it shall be a lien, only from the time of filing
and docketing the transcript. But no such judgment for a less
81:3, than twenty-five dollars, ezftclusive of costs, hereaRer dock-
e , shall be a lien upon, or en orced agam' ts real to .
§ 64. The following rules shall be observed in pthepecliyurts of
justices’ of the peace:

1

The pleadings in these courts are;
l. The complaint b the laintilf;
2. The answer by e ‘de ndant.

2

The pleadings may be oral, or in writing; if oral the substance
of them shall be entered by the justice in his docket; if in writ-
ing, they shall be tiled by him, and a reference to them shall be
made in the docket.

3.

The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the
facts constituting the cause of action.

4.

The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of any
part thereof, and also notice in a plain and direct manner, of any
facts constituting a defence.

5

Pleadings are not- required to be in any particular form, but
must be such, as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended.

. 6..
Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or any
part thereof, when it is not sutiiciently explicit to enable him to

understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defence, although
it be taken as true.

7.

If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and, if the party refuse to amend, the de-
fective pleading shall be disregarded.

8

In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the plantif
cannot recover, without proving his case.

9.

In an action or defence, founded upon an account or an instru-
ment for the payment of money only, it shall be sumcient for a
party to deliver the account or instrument to the court, and to
state, that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a
specified sum, which he claims to recover or set 011‘.

10.

A variance between the proof on the trial, and the allegations
in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court;
shall be satisfied, that the adverse party has been misled to his
prejudice thereby.

\ 11.

The‘pleadings may be amended, at any time before the trial, or
during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by sua amendment, sub-
stantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after
the joining of the issue, and it be made to appear to the ssh'shc-
tion of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the
adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment

shall be granted. The court may also,in itsdiscmtiomrequire as
a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs, to the adverse
party, to be fixed by the court; but no amendment shall be allow-
ed after a witness is sworn on a trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary.

12.

Execution may be issued on a judgment heretofore orheredher

frendered in a justice’s court, at any time within five years after the

rendition thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days fro m the date
of the same. .

13

If the judgment be docketed with the county clerk, the execu-
tion shall be issued by him to the sheriff of the county, and have
the same effect, and he executed in the same manner as other ex-
ecutions and judgments of the county court, except as provided in
section sixty-three.

14.
The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party, at
:- the request of the other, at that or some other specified tine, to
‘exhibit his account on demand, or state the nature thereof as far
forth as'may be in his power, and in case of his default preclude
him from giving evidence of such parts thereof as shall not have
been so exhibited or stated.

15.

,. The provisions of this act, res cting forms of action, parties to
" actions, the rules of evidence, an the times of commencing actions,
s. shall apply to these courts. '

TITLE VII.

0f Justiccs’ and other Inferior Courts in 

Can-m 'I. The marine court of the city of New-York.
II. The justices courts in the city of New-York
III. The justices’ courts of cities.
IV. General provisions.

ersn 1.
He‘Martlns Court of the City of Mao-York.
Samoa 65. Its jurisdiction.

t g 65. The marine court of the city of New-York shall have
jurisdiction in the following cases, and no other:

1. Inactionssimilartothoseinwhichcourtsofjustices ofthe
peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sections fifty-three and
fifty-four. .

2. In an action upon the charter or a by-law of the corporation
of the city of N ew—York, where the penalty or forfeiture shall ex-
ceed twenty-live dollars, and not exceed one hundred dollars.

3. In an action between a person belonging'to a vessel in the
merchant service, and the owner, master or commander thereof,
demanding compensation for the performance, or damages f0r the
violation of a contract for services on board such vessel, during a
voyage performed, in whole or in part, or intended to be perform-
ed, by such vessel, though the sum demanded exceed‘one hundred
dollars. -

4. In an action by or against any person belonging to or on
board of a vessel in the merchant service, for an assault and bat-
tery or false imprisonment, committed on board such vessel, upon
the high seas, or in a place without the United States, of which
the ordinary courts of law of this state have jurisdiction, though
the damages demanded exceed one hundred dollars. But nothing
in this or the last preceding Subdivision of this section, shall give
the court power to proceed in any of the casestherein referred to,
as a court of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction.

Cumin II.
The Justice! Courts in the Gig, of New- York.
Section 66. 'Their jurisdiction.

§ 66. The assistant justices’ courts in the city of New-York,
shall hereatter be styled the justices’ courts in the city of New-
York, and shall have jurisdiction in the tbllowing-cases:

]. In .actions similar to those in which justices of the peace
have jurisdiction, as provided by sections tidy-three and titty-four.

2. In an action upon the charter or a by-law of the corporation
of the city of N ew-York, where the penalty or forfeiture shall not
exceed one hundred dollars.

, CHAPTER III.
The Men, C’oum of 
Section 67. Their jurisdiction. .
‘ 67. The justices’ courts of cities, shall have jurisdiction in the‘

fo wing cases, and ‘no other :

1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the peace have
jurisdiction, as provided by sections titty-three and titty-four.

2. In an action upon the charter or by-laws of the corporations
of their respective cities, where the penalty or forfeiture shall not
exceed one hunch-ed dollars.

CHAPTER IV.

General  _
SECTION 68. Sections 55 to 64 applied to the courts embraced in this title.

§ 68. The provisions of sections fifty-live to sixty-four, both in-
clusive, relating to forms of tion, to pleadings, to the times of
commencing actions, to the ru es of evidence, to filing and docket-
ing transcripts of judgments, to their effect and the mode of en-
forcing them, and to proceedings where title to real property shall
come in question, shall apply to the courts embraced in this title ;
except that after the discontinuance of the action in the inferior
court, upon an answer of title, the new action may be brought
either in the supreme court, or in any other cOurt, having jurisdic-
tion thereof; and except, also, that in the city and county of New-
York, a judgment, for twenty-five dollars or over, exclusive of
costs, the transcript whereof is docketh in the allies of the clerk of
that county, shall have the same effect as a lien, and be enforced
in the same manner as a judgment of the court of common plea
for the city and county of N ew-York.

PART 11.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE I. Or TEEIE FOEM.
II. OF THE TIME or COMMENCING TEEN.
III. Or THE PARTIES. ‘
IV. Or THE PLACE or TEIAL.
V Os TEE MANNEE or COMMENCING TEEN.
. VI. OF THE PLEADINGS. '
VII. OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.
VIII. OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
IX. Or TEE EXECUTION or TEE JUDGMENT.
X. OF THE Cosrs.
XI. OF APPEALS.
XII. OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
XIII. ACTIONS IN PAETICULAE CASES.
XIV. PROVISIONS RELATING To EXISTING SUITS.
XV. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

TITLE“ I.
1 0f the Form of Civil Actions.

SECTION 69. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity. and form
of such actions and suits, abolished.
70. Parties to an action, how designated.

71. Actions on judgments, when and how to he brought.
72. Feigned issues, abolished and order for trial substituted.

g 69. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity,
an the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are

abolished; and, there shall be in this state, hereafter, but one form

of action, for the enforcement or protection of private rights and
the redress of private wrongs, which shall be demoninated a civil
action.

§ 70. In such action, the party complaining shall be known as:
the plaintiE and the adverse party as the defendant. ‘1

§ 71. No action shall be brought upon a judgment rendered in ;
any court of this state, except a court of a justice of the peace, be- u
tween the same parties, without leave of the court for good cause:
shown, on notice to the adverse party; and no action on a judg-
ment rendered by a justice of the peace, shall be brought in the
same county within five years after its rendition, except in case of
his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the coun-
ty, or that the process was 'not personally served on the defendant,
or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of some of the
parties, or where the docket or record of such judgment is or shall
have been lost or destroyed.

§ 72. Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof, in the]
cases where the power now exists to order a feigned issue, or when:
a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be tried!
by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating, distinctly'
and plainly, the question of fact to be tried, and such order shall
be the only authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.

' 0f the time of commencing can Actions.

Cwm I. Actions in general. a
II. Actions for the recovery of real property. ,
III. Actions other than for the recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.

. Crux-ran I.
The time of commencing actions in general.

Sac'rm 73. Repeal of existing limitations.
74. Time for commencing civil actions.

§ 73. The provisions contained in the chapter of the Revised
Statutes entitled “of actions and the times of commencing them,” are
repealed, and the provisions of this title are substituted in their
stead. This title shall not extend to actions already commenced,
- or to cases where the right of action has already accrued; but the
statutes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according
to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.
§ 7 4. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed
by statute, and in the cases mentioned in section seventy-three.

CHAPTER II.

The time of commencing actions for the recovery of real

m

Ssc'rtozt 75. When the people will not sec.
76. When action cannot be brought b grantee from the state.

77. When actions by the peeple or tr grantees to be brought
within twenty years.
78. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action for real

property-_
7‘9. Seisin within twenty years, when M in action or de-

fence founded on title to or rents of real 9 .

80. Action must be commenced within one ymu entry, or
within twenty years after right of entry.

81. Possession when resumed. Oompation deemed under legal

title, unless adverse.

82. Occupantd d 'on under written Instrum' ant or judgment,th decal.
e a verse.

83. What constitutes adverse pouession, under written instrument

or judgment.
84. Premises actually oeonpied,undsr dalmni titls,desmed to be

held adversely. .
85. What constitutes adverse Mon, under claim of title not

written.
86. Relation of landlord and tenant, as an'ecting adverse panelists
87. Right of possession not affected by descent cast.
88. Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence action.

§ 75. The peeple of this state will not sue anyperson for or in
respect to any real property, or the issues or pronts thereof, by
reason of the right or title of the people to the same unless,

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years be-
fore any actionor other proceeding, for the same shall be com-

menced; or unless,
2. The pe0ple, or those from whom they claim, shall have re»

ceived the rents and profits of such real property, or of some part
thereof, within the space of forty years.
n § 76. No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, seal
propertfy, by any person claiming by virtue of letters patent, or
agrants rent the people of this state, unless the same night have
been commenced by the people, as herein specified, in case such
patentorgranthadnotbeenissuedormade.
§ 77. When letters patent, or grants of real property shall have
vbeen issued or made by the people of this state, and the same-
shall be declared void by the determination of a competent court,
rendered uponan allegation of a li‘audulent suggestion, or conceal.
.ment, or forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or
wrongful detaining, or defective title, in such case, an mtion for '
the recovery of the premises so. conveyed, may be brought either
by the people ofthis state, or by any subsequent patentee or
grantee of the same premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty
years alter such determination was made; but not after that

period. '

578. Noacdcnforethe recovery of real property, or fer the:
recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it,»
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or tor, was:
aeised or possessed of the premises in question, wi ' twentyn

before the commencement of such action. "
§79. No cause of action or defence to an action founded upon:
the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same”
shall be effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the:
action, or making the defence, or under whose title the action is 1"
prosecuted or the defence is made, or the ancestor, predecessor:
or grautor of such person, was seised or essed of the premises '
in question, within twenty years before committing of the act!
in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defence made. I!
§80. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed schient, or:
valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within:
one year m‘ter the making of suchrentry, and within twenty years :
from the time when the right to make such entry, descended or:
accrued. ,

§ 81. In every action ibr the recovery of real property, or the.

possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the‘
premises, shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof was:
in the time required by law; and the occupation of such premises:
by any other person, shall be deemed to have been under and in:
subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such premisesl
have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for
twenty years before the commencement of such action.

82. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those‘
an or whom he claims, entered into the possession of premiseé
under claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such]

-claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the?
premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a com-
petent court; and that there has been a continued occupation and

'on of the premises included in such instrument, decree or
Judgment, or-  some part of such premises, under such claim,
for twenty years, the premises so included shall be deemed to
have been held adversely, except that where the premises so in-
cluded consist of a tract divided into lots, the possession of one
lot shall not he deemed a possession of any other lot of the same
tract.

§ 83. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by
any person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or
a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been pos-
sessed and occupied in the following cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure;

3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the sup-
ply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry,
or the ordinary use of the occupant;

4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly im-
proved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left

notcleMornotenclosedaccording tothensualcourseandcus-

tom of the adjoining country, shall be deemed to have been oceuo
pied for the same length of time as the part improved and culti-
vated.

§ 84. Where it shall appear that there has been an actual con-
tinued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of
any other right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or a
judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied and no
other, shall be deemed to have been held adversely.

§ 85. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession,
by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument,
or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been pos-
sessed and occupied in the following cases, only:

1. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosnre;

2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 86. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have
existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant shall
be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of
twenty years from the termination of the tenancy ; or where there
has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty years
from the time of the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that
such tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed
to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumption shall
not be made after the periods herein limited.

.§ 87. The right of a person to the possession of any real pro-
perty, shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast in
consequence of the death of a person in possession of such
property.

5 88. If a person entitled to commence any action for the re-
covery of real property, or to make an entry or defence founded
on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same,
be at the time such title shall first descend-or accrue either;

1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or,

2. Insane; or '

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon con-
viction of a criminal ofence, for a term less than'for life, or

4. A married woman ;

The time, during which. such disability shall continue, shall not
be deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the
commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or de-
fence; but such action may be commenced, or entry or defence
made, after the period of twenty years, and within ten years after
the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled
who shall die under such disability: but such action shall not be
commenced, or entry or defence made after that period.

CHAPTER III. .

The time of commencing actions other than for tlto recovery of

. real property.
Sac-non 89. Periods of limitation prescribed.
90. Within twenty years.

91. Within six years.
92. Within three years.
93. Within two years.
94. Within one year.

95. When cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current ac-
count.

96. Actions for penalties, &c.,by any person who will sue, when to
be brought.

97. Actions for relief, not before provided for.

98. Actions by the people,subject to the same limitation.

§89. The periods prescribed in section seventy-four for the}
commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real,
property, shall be as follows:

§ 90. Within twenty years: ,

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the!
United States, or of any state or territory within the United1

2. An action upon a sealed instrument. '

§ 91. Within six years : ' t

1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express or!
implied; excepting those mentioned in section ninety.

2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture.

3. An action for trespass upon real property.

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property.

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not
hereinafter enumerated. .

6. An action for relief, on the ground of fraud - in cases which
heretofore were solely cognizable by the court oi‘ Chancery ; the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued,
until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts censtitu-
tin the fraud.

g 92. Within three years: 1

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable upon a lia- ‘
bility incurred by the doing of an act in his oiiicial capacity, and
in virtue of his oihce, or by the omission of an official duty ; in-
cluding the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
But this section shall not apply to an action for an escape.

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and
the people of this state, except where the statute imposing it pre-
scribes a different limitation.

§ 98. Within two years:
1. Anactionforlibehslander,assanlt,battery,orfalseimpris-
onment.
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the
people of this state.
§ 94. Within one year:
1. An action against a sheriff or other odicer, for the escape of
a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
a § 95. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
' mutual, open and current account, where there have been recip-
rocal demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be
deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item proved in
the account on either side.
§ 96. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture,
given in whole or in part to any person who will prosecute forthe
same, must be commenced within one year after the commission
of the od'ence; and if the action be not commenced within the
year b a private party, it may be commenced within two years
thereaii'er, in behalf of the people of this state, by the attorney-
general or the district attorney of the county where the ofenee
was committed.
§ 97. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, must
be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall
' have accrued. ,
§ 98. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
actions brought in the name of the people of this state or for
their benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

CHAPTER IV.
General Provisions as to the time of commencing Actions.

Scenes 99. When action deemed to have been commenced.
100. Exception, where defendant is out of the state.
101. Exception, as to persons under disabilities.
102. Provision where person entitled, dies before the limitation ex-
pires.
103. In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
104. Provision, where judgment has been reversed.

105. Time of stay of action by injunction or statutory prohibition to
be deducted.

106. Disability must exist when right of action accrued.

107. Where two or more disabilities, limitation does not attach, till
all removed. '

108. This title not applicable to bills, dam, of corporations, or to
bank notes.

109. Nor to actions against directors or stockholders of monied cor-

porations or banking associations. Limitations in such cas-
prescribed.

110. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in 

§99. An action shall not be deemed commenced, within its
{meaning of this title, unless it appear:

1. That the summons or other process therein was duly served
upon the defendants, or one of them; or,

2. That the summons or other process was delivered, with the
intent that-it should be actually served, to the sheriff or other of-
ficer of the county in which the defendants, or one of them, usual-
ly or last resided; or if ' a corporation be defendant, to the sheriE
or other oiliCer of the county in which such corporation was estab-
lished by law, or where its general business was transacted, or
where it kept an ethos for the transaction of business.

But an action shall be deemed commenced for all purposes, at
the time the complaint is verified, provided that the summons or
other process thereupon issued, be delivered to the sheriff or
other officer, on the same or next iive succeeding days, and be fol-
lowed by the actual service thereof, on the defendants or one or
more of them.

§ 100. If, when the cause of action shall accrue, against a per-
son, he be out of the state, the action may be commenced within
the term herein limited, after his return to the state; and if after
the cause of action shall have accrued, he depart from the state,
the time of his absence shall not be part of the time limitedIfor the
commencement of the action.

§ 101. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the
last preceding chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or
against a sheriff or other oilicer for an escape, be at the time the
cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years ;‘or

2. Insane; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life;
or

4. A married woman: -

The time of such disability shall not be a part of the‘time lim-
ited for the commencement of the action.

§ 102. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the}
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and1
the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his
representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within onel
year from his death. If a person against whom an action may
be brought die before the expiration of the time limited for the
commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action
may be commenced against his executors or administrator after
the expiration of that time, and within one year after the issuing
of letters testamentary, or of administration. ‘

§ 103. When a person shall be an alien, subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance,
of the war shall not be part of the period limited for the com-1
mencement of the action.

§ 104. If an action shall be commenced within the time pre-i
scribed therefor, and a judgment therein for the plaintiff be re-:
versed, on appeal, the plaintiff, or if he die and the cause of action:
survive, his heirs or representatives may commence a new action
within one year after the reversal.

: § 105. When the commencement of an. action shall he stayed
by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance
,of the injunction, or prohibition, shall not be part of the time
limited for the commencement of the action.
- § 106. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unles it
_existed when his right of action accrued. .
. § 107. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist, at thetilne
'the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until
1they all be removed. 7:
i § 108. This title shall not effect actions to enforce the payment
}of bills, notes or other evidences of debt issued by monied corpo-
.rations, or issued or put in circulation as money.

§‘109. This title shall not ad'ect actions against directors or
stockholders of a monied corporation, or banking associations, to
,recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a ' ' '
created by law ; but such actions must be brought within six
years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts up-
;on which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was
created.
, § 110. No acknowledgment or promise shall be suiiicient evi-
Edence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case
out of the Operation of this title, unless the same be contained in
some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this
section shall not alter the eii‘ect of any payment of principal or
interest. -

TITLE III.
0f the parties to civil actions.

.Sacrtos. 111. Action to be-in the name of the real party in interest.
112. Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defence.
113. Executor or trustee may sue without the persons bene5cially
interested.

114. When married woman is party, her husband to be joined, ex-
cept, &.c. ‘ .

115. Infant to appear by guardian.

116. Guardian how appointed.

117. Who may be. joined as plaintiffs.

118. Who may be joined as defendants.

119. Parties united in interest, when to be joined. When one or
more may sue or defend for the whole.

120. Plaintiff may sue in one action the different parties to com-
mercial paper.

121. Action when not to abate by death, marriage, or other dia-

‘ bility, &.c. Proceedings in such case.

122. Court when to decide controversy. or to order other parties to

be brought in.

‘ § 111. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of thereal
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section one
hundred and thirteen. ‘

I ‘§ 112. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
’action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set of or
other defence existing at the time of or before notice of the assign-

ment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good
consideration, before due. 1

§ 113. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express:
trust, ‘or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue with-;
out joining with him the person for whose benefit the suit is pro-t
scented. ‘

§ 114. When a married womanisa party, her husband mustbe‘
joined with her, except that, I

1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone:

2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she'
may sue or be sued alone.

§ 1'15. When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian
who may be appointed by the court in which the action is prose-‘j
cuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county judge.

§ 116. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: ,

1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the petition of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age, upon'
the petition of some other party to the suit, or of a relative or
friend of the infant: ‘

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the petition of. the in-
fant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twen-
ty days after the service of the summons. If he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglect so to a ply, then upon the petition of
pny other party to the action, or o a relative or friend of the in-

ant.

§ 117. All persons having an interest in the subject of the ac-
tion, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plains
titi's, except as otherwise provided in this title.

§ 118. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims
an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a‘

necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein.

§ 119. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in in-
terest must be joined as plaintiEs or defendants: but if the con-
sent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff, cannot.
be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof be-
ing stated in the complaint; and when the question is one of a
common or general interest of many persons, or when the
parties are very numerous and it may be impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of the whole.

§ 120. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or in-
strument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promisso-
ry notes may, all or any of lhem, but included in the same action,
at the Option of the plaintiff.

§ 121. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death, mar-

nage or other disability of a party, the court, on motion, at any

?

i,time within one year thereafter, or aflerwards on a supplemental
complaint may allow the action to becontinued by or against hi
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in she name of
the original party; or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

a § 122. The court may determine any controversy between pur-

, ties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights

I of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete deter-

t mination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of
other parties, the court shall order them to be brought in.

TITLE IV.
0f the place of trial of Civil Actions.

81mm 123. Certain actions to be tried where the subject or some part
thereofissitunted.
124. Other actions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.
125. Other actions according to the residence of the parties.
126. Action may be tried in any county unleu defendant domnd

trial in proper county.

§ 123. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the

,county in which the subject of the action or some part thereof is

rsituated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial, in the cases provided by statute.

1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such right or in-
terest, and for injuries to real property:

2. For the partition of real property:

3. For the foreclosure ‘of a mortgage of real prOperty :

4. For the recovery of personal property, distraiued for any
cause.

§ 124. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the

;c0unty where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the
like power of the court, to change the place of trial in the cases
provided by statute: '

1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by sta-
tute; except, that when it is imposed for an offence committed on
a lake, river or other stream of water, situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on
such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the place where the
offence was committed: ‘

2. Against a public oilicer or person specially appointed to ex-
ecute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his oflice, or
against a person who by his command or in his aid, shall do any-
thing touching the duties of such oilicer.

§ 125. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county
in which the parties or any of them shall reside at the commence-
ment of the action; or if none of the parties shall reside in the
state, the same may be tried inany county which the plaintif

O

shall designate in his complaint; subject, however, tothe powerof
the courtto change the place of trial, in the cases provided by
statute.

§ 126. If the county designated for that purpose in the com-i
plaint, be not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding:
he tried therein, unless the defendant shall, before the time for}
answering expire demand in wryting that the trial be had in the1
proper county” . 1

TITLE v.
0f the manner of commencing 0w Actions. ‘

Smart 127. Actions how commenced.
128. Summons, requisites of.
129. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.
130. ‘ Complaint need not be served with summons. In such case

what to be stated in summons and proceedings thereon.
131. Defendant unreasonably defending, when to pay costs.

.132. Notice of pendency of action affecting title to real property.
133. Summons, by whom served. .

134. Summons, how served and returned.
135. Publication when defendant cannot be found.

136. Proceedings when there are several defendants, and part only
served.

137. When service deemed made in case of publication.
138. Service of summons how proved.

139. When jurisdiction of action acquired.

§ 127. Civil actions in the courts of record of this; state, shall
be commenced by the service of asummons.

§ 128. The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintiff or his
attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require him to
answer the complaint, and 'serve a copy of his answer on the per-
son whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within
the state, to be therein specified, in which there is a post-adios,
within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of
the day of service.

§ 129. The plaintid' shall also insert in the summons a notice,
in substance as follows:

1. In an action, arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, ifthe
defendant fail to answer the complaint in twenty days after the
service of the summons.

2-. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the
complaint within twenty days after service of the summons,
the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded in the
complaint.

§ 130. A copy of the complaint need not be served with the
summons. In such case, the summons shall state where the
complaint will be filed; and if the defendant, within ten days
thereafter, in person or by attorney, demand, in writing, a copy of
the complaint, specifying a place within the state where it may be
served, a copy thereof shall be served accordingly, and aner such

service the defendant shall have twenty days to answer; but on-
ly one copy need be served on the same attorney. In the case of
a defendant against whom no personal claim is made in an action
for the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mos-to
gage, the plaintid‘ may deliver to such defendant, with the sum-
mons, a notite subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the
property affected by it, and that no personal claim is made against
such defendant, in which case no copy of the complaint need he
served on such defendant unless withm the time for answering he
shall in writing demand the same.

§ 131. If a defendant, on whom such notice is served unrea-

’ sonany defend the action, he shall pay costs to the plaintid‘.
§ 132. In an action affecting the title to real preperty, the
fplaintid‘, at the time of commencing the action, or at any time af-
terwards, may file with the clerk of each county in which the pro-
" perty is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, contain-
ing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a de-
scription of the property in that county affected thereby; and if
the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must
be filed twenty days before judgment, and .must contain the date
of the mortgage, the parties thereto and the time and place of re-
cording the same. From the time of filing only, shall the pen-
dency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incum-
braucer of the property affected thereby. '

§ 133. The summons may be served by the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found, or by any other per-
son not a party to the action. The service shall be made, and
the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the person
whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence.
The person subscribing the summons, may, at his option, by an
endorsement on the summons, £1: a time for the service thereof,
and the service shall then be made accordingly.

§ 134. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, as follows:

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof;

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or
if there be none within the state, then to any person having the
care and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside,
or in whose service he shall be employed;

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence
of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been ap-
pointed, to such committee, and to the defendant personally;

4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

‘

§ 135. Where the person on whom the service is to be made,
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the state, and that fact
shall appear by ailidavit to the satisfaction of a court or a judge
thereof, or a county judge, and it shall in like manner appear that
a cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to whom
the service is to be made, or that he'is a necessary or proper par-
ty to an action, relating to real property in this state, such court
or judge may grant an order that the service be made, by the
publication of a summons, in either of following cases:

7 1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation;

2. Where the defendant being a resident of this state, has de-
parted therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein,
with the like intent, and the action arises out of contract, or the
non-feasance or mis-feasance complained of, is a breach of con-
tract ; . , .
3. Where he is a noncresident, but has property therein, and
the action is on contract, and the court has jurisdiction of the
subject of the action; '

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property
in this state, and the defendant has, or claims, a lien or interest,
actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists,
wholly or partly, in excluding the defendant from any interest
therein; ‘

5. Where the action is founded on a mortgage upon pr0perty
in this state, and the defendant is personally chargeable with the
debt for which the mort e is a security;

6. Where the action is or divorce, in the cases prescribed by
law. ' ‘

The order shall direct the publication to be made in two news-
papers, to be designated, as most likely to give notice to the per-
son to be served, and for such length of time, as shall be deemed
reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks. In case of
publication, the court or judge shall also direct a copy of the
summons and complaint, to be forthwith deposited in the post
oilice, directed to the person to be served, at his place of resi-
'dence, unless it appear that such residence is neither known to
the party making the application, nor can with reasonable dili-

gence be ascertained by‘him. When publication is ordered, per-
sonal service of a cepy of the summons and complaint, out of the
state, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
odice. If the summons shall not be personally served on a de-
fendant, nor received by such defendant through the post odice,
in the cases provided for in this section, he or his representatives,
shall on application and sudicieut cause shown, at any time be.
fore judgment, be allowed to defend the action; and except in:
actions for divorce, the defendant or his representatives, may in
like manner, he allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time
within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years after
its rendition, on such terms as shall be just, except in actions for

divorce, and if the defence be successful, and the judgment, or
any - part thereof, shall have been collected or otherwise enforced,
such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall
direct. And in all cases, where publication is made, the com-
plaint shall be first died, and the summons, as published, shall
state the time and place of such tiling.

§ 136. Where the action is against two or more defendants,

and the summons is served on one or more, but not onall of them,
the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
, 1. If the action be against several persons jointly indebted up-
on a contract, he may proceed against the defendant se in
the same manner as at present, and with the like ed‘ unless
the court shall otherwise direct; or,

2. In an action against defendants severally liable, he my
proceed against the defendant or defendants served in the same
manner as if such defendant or defendants were the only parties
proceeded against;

3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintif
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defen-
dants, if the action had been against them or any of them alone.
When an order shall be made extending the time to answer be-
yond the time for which the application for the relief demanded
in the complaint shall have been noticed, if the defendant fail to
answer, the application for judgment may be made without further
notice.

§ 137. In the cases mentioned in section one hundred thirty.
Hive, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete, at
the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publica-
tion.

§ 138. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the com-
plaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be as fol-
lows: ‘

-I. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or

2. If any other person, his amdavit thereof; or

3. In case of publication, the ailidavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an adidav'it:
of a deposit of a. cepy of the summons in the post odice, if the
same shall have been deposited; or

4. The written admission of the defendant:

In case of actual service, the certificate or amdavit shall state
the time and place of the service.

_ § 139. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
-action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court shall

be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all
the subsequent proceedings.

TITLE VI.
0f the pleadings in Civil Action.
CW 1. The complaint.
II. The demurrer.
III. The answer.
IV. The reply.

V. General rules of pleading.
VI. Mistakes in pleading and amendments.

Crimea I.
7710 Complaint.

Sam-ton 140. Forms of pleadings inconsistent with this act abolished.
141, First pleading to be complaint.
142. Complaint, what to contain.

§ .140. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing, inconsis-
tent with the provisions of this act,- are abolished; and hereafter,
the forms of pleading in civil‘actions, in courts of record, and the
rules by which the sudiciency of the pleadings is to be determin-
ed, are modified as prescribed by this act.

§ 141. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiii', is the
complaint.

§ 142. The complaint shall contain:

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in
which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the
plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties
to the action, plaintiff and defendant;

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a
manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended;

8. A demand of the relief, to which the plaintiif supposes him-

self entitled. If the recovery of money he demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.

CHAPTER II.
The demurrer.

Smart 143. Defendant to demur or answer.
144. When the defendant may demur.

145. Demurrer must specify grounds of objection to complaint.
146. How to proceed if complaint be amended.

147. Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken by answer.
148. Objection, when deemed waived. ‘

§ 143. The only pleading on the part of the defendant, is either
a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within twenty dayEl
aRer the service of the c0py of the complaint.

§ 144. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when it
shall appear upon the face thereof, either:

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defen-
dant, or the subject of the action ; or,

2. That the plaintid' has not legal capacity to sue ; or,

8. That there is another action pending between the same par-
ties, for the same cause; or,

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united;
or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sutlicient to consti—
tute a cause of action.

§ 145. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of
'objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregar-
ded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the
alleged causes of action stated therein.

§ 146. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must be
Iserved on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days,
or the plaintiff upon filing with the clerk on proof of the service,
and of the defendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain judgment,
as provided by section two hundred and forty-six, but where an ap-
plication to the court for judgment is necessary, eight days notice
,thereof must be given to the defendant.

§ 147. When any of the matters enumerated in section one
hundred and forty-four do not appear upon the face of the com-
plaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
| § 148. If no such objectioh be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sudicient to
constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER III.
The Answer.

Smart 149. Answer what to contain.
150. May set forth as many grounds of defence as exist.

151. Demurrer as to some causes of action, and answer as to others.
152. Sham defences to be stricken out.

§ 149. The answer of the defendant shall contain:

1. In repect to each allegation of the complaint controverted
by the defendant, a general or specific denial thereof, or a denial
thereof according to his information and belief, or of any know-
ledge thereof suilicient to form a belief;

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a
manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended.

§ 150. The defendant may set forth by answer, as many de-
fences as he shall have. They shall each be separately stated,
and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to an.
swer, in any manner by which they may be intelliginy distin-
guished.

§ 151. The defendant may demur to one or more of several}:
causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer the residue. at

§ 152. Sham answers and defences may be stricken out on mo:
tion. a
O u

31

CHAPTER IV.
772a reply.

Sumo: 153. Reply, when to be put in, and what to contain.

154. When defendant may move for judgment upon an answer.
155. Demurrer to reply.

§ 153. When the answer shall contain new matter, the plaintiff 11
may within twenty days, reply to it, denying generally or parti-:
cularly each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge c
or information thereof sufficient to form a belief; and he may al-
lege, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in
such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended, any new matter not inconsistent with
the complaint, in avoidance of the answer; or of any defence set
up therein; or he may demur to the same for insuliiciency stating
in his demurrer the grounds thereof. And the plaintiff may de-
mur to one or more of several defences set up in the answer and
reply to the residue. '

§ 154. If the answer contain a statement of new matter con-l
stituting a defence, and the plaintid‘ fail to reply or demur thereto:
within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move on a 1
notice of not less than ten days for such judgment, as he is entitled}
to upon such stdement, and if the case require it, a writ of in.
quiry of damages may be issued,

§ 155. If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by the]
answer of the defendant be insuliicient, the defendant may demur'
thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.

Cnar'rnn V.
General Rules of Pleading.

Sscnon 156. No pleading but complaint, answer, reply and demurrers.
157. Verification of pleadings.
158. How to state an account in pleading.
159. Pleadings to be liberally construed.
160. Irrelevant or redundant mattter to be stricken out.
161. Judgments how to he pleaded.
162. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
163. Private statutes how to be pleaded.
164. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
165. Answer in such cases.
166. In actions to recover property distrained for damage, answer
need not set forth title.
167. What causes of action may be joined in the same action.
168. Allegation not denied ; when to be deemed true.

§ 156. No other pleading shall be allowed than the complaint,
answer, reply and demurrers.

. § 157. Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed

'- by the party or his attorney, and when any pleading in a case
shall be verified by atiidavit, all subsequent pleadings, except de-
murrers, shall be verified also; and in all cases of the verification
of a pleading, the adidavit of the party shall state that the same
is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are
therein'stated on his information or belief, and as to those matters
that he believes it to be true. And where a pleading is verified,
it shall be by the atlidavit of the party, unless he be absent from
the county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his attorney
or other person verifying the same. When the pleading is veri-
fied by the attorney, or any other person except the party, he
shall set forth in the adidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of
his belief on the subject, and the reaso'ns why it is not made by the
party. When a corporation is a party the verification may be
made by any officer thereof; and when the state or any odicer
thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification may be made by
any person acquainted with the facts, except that in actions pm-
secnted by the attorney general in behalf of the state for the
recovery of real property, the pleadings need not be verified.

I § 158. It shall be necessary for a party to set forth in a plead-
ing the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall deliver
to the adverse party, within ten days, after a demand thereof in
writing, a copy of the account verified by his own oath, or that of
his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true,
or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a
judge thereof, or a county judge, may order a further or more
particular bill. .

§ 159. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of de-
termining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

§ 160. If irrelevent or redundant matter be inserted in a plead-

:ing, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved
.thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so inde-
finite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or de-
fence is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be
made definite and certain, by amendment.

§ 161. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a
court, or oliicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferrting jurisdiction, but such judgment or de-
termination may be 3 d to have been duly given or made. If
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound
to establish on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 162. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in
a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts, showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally, that the party
duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such alle-
gation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to es-
tablish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

§ 163. In pleading a private status, or a right derived there- 1
from, it shall be sudicient to refer to such statute, by its title and:
the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judi-
cial notice thereof. .

§ 164. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be neces-1
sary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose:
of showing the application to the plaintiff, of - the defamatory mat-‘
ter out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be suflia
cient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken
concerning the plaintih', and if such allegation be controverted,
the plaintiff shall be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so
published or spoken.

§ 165. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and any 'mitigating circumstances, to reduce the
amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 166. In action to recover the possession of property distrain-
ed doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by
whose command he acted was lawfully possessed of the real pro-
perty upon which the distress was made, and that the property

distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good,
without setting forth the title to such real property.

§ 167. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint, where they all arise out of,

1. Contract, express or implied; or,

2. Injuries with or without force, to the person; or,

3. Injuries with or without force, to property; or,'

4. Injuries to character; or, o ‘

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages,
for withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or,

6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without dam-
ages, for the withholding thereof; or,

a 7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by oper-
ation of law. ‘

But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one only
of these classes, and must ad'ect all the parties to the action, and
not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

§ 168. Every material allegation of the complaint, not speci-
fically controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section one
hundred and forty-nine; and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply,
as prescribed in section one hundred and fifty-three, shall for the
purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allegation oi
new matter in a reply, shall not in any respect conclude the de-
fendant, who may on the trial countervail it by proofs, either in

- direct denial or by way of avoidance.

Guam-an VI.
Matches in Pleading, and Amendments.

83011011169. Material variances, how provided for.
170. Immaterial variances, how provided for.
171. What to be deemed a variance.
172. Amendments of course.
173. Amendments by the court.
174. Amendment, after demurrer.
175. Suing a party by a fictitious name, when allowed.

176. No error or defect to be regarded, unlem it affect substantial
rights.
177. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.

I, § 169. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and
av the proof, shaIl be deemed material, unless it have actually mis-
" led the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action
or defence, upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged, that
. a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satis-
faction of the court, and in what respect he has been misled;
and thereupon the, court may order the pleading to be amended,
upon such terms as shall be just.
§ 170. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the
last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according
to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without
costs.
§17l. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action
or defence to which the proof is directed is unproved, notin some
particular or particulars only, but in its entire amps and mean.
ing, it shall not be deemed a case of variance, within the last two
sections, but a failure of proof. .
§ 172. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings
already had, at any time before the period for answering it shall
expire or within twenty days after the answer to such pleading
shall be served. In such case a copy of the amended pleading
‘ shall be served on the adverse party.
§ 173. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice,
'and on such terms as may be prOper, amend any pleading or pm-
ceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or. a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an an-
swer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time
limited by this act, or by an order enlarge such tims and may
also at any time within one year after notice thereof relieve a
party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against
him through his mistake, inadvertance, surprise, or excusable
neglect; and may supply an omission, in any proceeding; and
whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any
respects to the provisions of this act, the court shall have powa
to permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it
conformable to law.

§ 174. After demurrer, either party may amend any pleading
demurred to of course, and without costs, on serving a copy 01
the same as amended within twenty days on the adverse party,
who shall have twenty days to answer, reply or demur thereto, ii
the pleading amended be a complaint or answer, or demur there-
to, it it be a reply; but a party shall not so amend more than
once. Upon the decision of a demurrer the court may, upon such
terms as shall be just, allow any party to withdraw the same and
plead over.

175. When the plaintid' shall be ignorant of the name of a

d endant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding, by any name; and when his true name shall be dis-
covered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 17 6. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error, or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall
not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no
judgment shall be reversed or atfected by reason of such error or
defect.

§ 177. The plaintid‘ and defendant respectively, may be
allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or
reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former
complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party was ignorant
when his' former pleading was made.

' TITLE VII.
0f provisional remedies in Civil Actions.

Curran I. ~Arrest and hail.
II. Claim and delivery of personal property.
111. Injunction.
IV. Attachment.
V. Provisional remedies.

CHAPTER I.

Arrest and boil.

Sermon 178. No person to be arrested, except as prescribed by this set.
179. Cases in which defendant may be enacted.
180. Order for arrest, by whom made.
181. Affidavit to obtain order. To what actions this chapter ap-
pl icable.
182. Security by plaintiff, before order for arrest.
183. Order, when made and its form.
184. Adidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to de-
fendant.
185. Arrest, how made.
186. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
187. Bail, how given.
 z Surrender of defendant.
190. Bail, how proceeded against.
191. Bail, how exonerated.
199. Delivery of undertaking to plsintiE, and its acceptance or re-
jection by him.

193. Notice of junilication. New undertakingif other hail.
194. Qualifications of bail.‘ '

 zlustitication and allowance of bail.

197. Deposit of money with sherii

198. Payment of money into court bysherin'.

199, Substituting bail for deposit.

200. Money deposited how applied, or disposed of. -

201. Sherifi', when liable as bail ; and.his discharge from liability.
209. Proceedings on jud ent against sherili'.

203. Bail liable to sherig.m

204. Motion to vacate, order ,of arrest, or reduce bail.
205. Affidavits on motion. ' "

§ 178. No person shall be arrested in a civil action except as.
prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not atfect theach
abolish iniprisonment for debt, and to punish fraudulent debtors,
passed April 26, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, or
any act amending the same, nor shall it apply to proceedings for
contempts. 7

§ 179. The defendant may be arrested, ashereinafter prescrib-
ed, in thefollowing cases:

1. Inanactionfortherecoveryofdamages,onacauseof ac-
tion not arising out of contract, where the defendant is not a resig
dent of the state, or. is about to remove therefrom, or where the ac!
tion is for an injury to person or character, or for injuring, or for.
wrongfully taking, detaining, or converting property:

2. In an action for a linear penalty, or on a promise to ,
or for money received, or, property embezzled or fraudulently
misapplied, by a public oliicer or by an attorney, solicitor, or coun-
sellor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking asso-
ciation, in the course of his employment as such, or by any factor,
agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any
misconduct or neglect in otiice, or in a professional employment;

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, where the property or any part thereof has
been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found
or taken by the sherid': ,

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud. in con
ing the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action '3
brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the
taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brought:

5. When the defendant has removed, or disposed of his proper-
ty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.

But no female shall be arrested, in any action except for a wil-

-ful injury to person, character or property.

,. § 180. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must be ob-
tained from a judge of the court in whch the action is brought,
or from a county judge.

- § 181. The order may be made, where it shall appear to the
judge by the affidavit of the plaintili', or of any other person,
that a sumcient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of
those mentioned in section one hundred and seventy-nine.

The provisions of . this: chaptershall apply to all-actions includ-
ed within the provisions of section one hundred and seventy-nine,
which shall have beenlcommenced since the thirtieth day of June,
one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, and in which judg-
ment shall not have been obtained.

§ 182. Before making the order, the judge shall require a writ-
ten .undertakingron the part of the plaintiE', with or without sure-
ties, to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the plain-e
tiE will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not-ex-
ceeding the sum specided in the undertaking, which shall be at
least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed. by
the plaintili‘, without'snreties, he shall annex thereto an athdavit
that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the
state, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over
all his debts and liabilities. _

§ ,183. The order may be made, to accompany the summons, or
at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall require the
sheriff of the county, where the defendant may be found, forth-
with toarrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to
return the: order at a time and place therein mentioned, to the
plaintiff or attorney-by whom it shall be subscribed or endorsed.

§ 184. The afiidavit andorder of arrest shall be delivered to
the sherid‘, who, upon arresting- the defendant, shall deliverto him
aeopy thereof.

5 .185. The sheriff shall execute the order, by arresting thede-h
fendant and keeping him in custody, until discharged by law ; and
may call the power of the country to his aid, in the execution of
themestas injeaseofprocess. .

§ 186. The defendant at any time before} execution, shall be]
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving ball, or upon. tie-j
positing the mount mentioned in the order of meet, as provrded.
in this chapter. .

§ 187. The defendant may give bail, by causing a wntten un-1
deran to be executed by two or more sumcient bail, stating1
their places of. residence and occupations, to the effect that the de-
fendant shall at all times render himself amendeble to the process
of the court, during the-pendency ofthe action, and to such as
may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or If he be arrest-
ed for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section
one hundred and seventy-nine, and undertaking to the same effect
' assthat provided by. sectiontwohundred and eleven...

§ 188. At any time before a failure to comply with their un-E
den-taking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exonera- '1
tion, or he may surrender himself to. the sheriff of the county
where he was arrested, in the following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be de—
livered to the sherid’, who-shall detain the defendant in his custo-
dy thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall by a certiicate
in writing, acknowledge the surrender.

2. Upon the production of a cepy of the undertaking and sher-
iff’s certificate, a judge of the court or county judge, may, upon a
notice to the plaintiii', of eight days, with a copy of the certificate,
order that the bail be exonerated; and on filing the order and pa-
pers used on such application, they shall be exonerated accord-
' l .
mgByiit this section shall not apply to an arrest for the cause men-
tioned in the third subdivision of section one hundred and seventy-
mne.

§ 189. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may them-
selves arrest him, or by a written authority, endorsed on a certi-
fied copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable
age and discretion to do so.

§ 190. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail may he proceeded against by action only;

g 191. The bail may be exonerated. either by the death of the
de endant or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the
process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the
commencement of the action against the bail, or within such furs
ther time as may be granted b the court.

§ 192. Within the time ' ' ed for that purpose the sheriff shall
deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff or attorney by whom it
is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and a certified copy of the
undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter,
may serve upon the sheriff, a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sherid‘
shall be exonerated from liability.

§ 193. On the receipt of such copy of the undertaking and no-
tice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give
to the plaintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is sub-
scribed, notice of the justification of the same or other bail, (speci-
fying the places of residence and occupations of the latter,) before
a judge of the court, or county judge, or justice of the peace, at. a
specified time and place; the time to be not less than live, nor
-more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there
' shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in section one
hundred and eighty-seven. ~

§ 194. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or free-
holder, within the state;

2. They must each be worth the amount specitied in the order
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but the
judge, or a justice of the peace on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that ex-

pressed in the order, if the whole justitication be equivalentto that
of two sutiicient bail.

§ 195. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall at- .1
tend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the time and °
place mentioned in the notice; and may be examined on oath, on
.the part of the plaintiE‘, touching his suliiciency, in such manner
as the judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may think
prOper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and sub-
scribed by the bail, if required by the plaintiff.

§ 196. If the judge or justice of the peace find the bail sufficient, I
he shall annex the examination to the undertaking, endorse his c
allowance thereon, and cause them to befiled with the clerk; and
the sherif shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

§ 197. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of 1
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the:
order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certifi-
cate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of
custody.

§ 198. The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay]
the same into court; and shall take from the oflicer receiving the:
same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall:
deliver to the plaintiff, and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment, the same proceedings may be
had on the odicial bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited,
as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 199. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two see- I
tions, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in'
section one hundred and ninety-three, any time before judgment ;I
and thereupon the judge before whom the justification is bad, shall
direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refund-
ed by the sheriif to the defendant, and it shall be refunded accord-
in l .

g§y2’00. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of
money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the
court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying
the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If thejudgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund
to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 201. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be res-
cued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made in-
stead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail. But he,
may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justi-

‘ fication of bail as provided in sections one hundred and ninety-
three, one hundred and ninety-four, one hundred and ninety-five,
and one hundred and ninety-six, at any time before process against
the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in
the action.

§ 202. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the
oflicial bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency, as in other cases
of delinquency.

m § 203. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, atlas they justify,
or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff, by ac-
tion, for damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

- § 204. A defendant arrested, may, at any time before the jus-

gtitication of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of ~arrest,or
to reduce the amount of bail.

m § 205. If the motion be made upon adidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by
aliidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which: the order of

arrest was made.
Cnsr'rna II.

Claim and delivery ‘of Personal Property.

Smart 206. Delivery of personal property, when it may be claimed.
207. Adidavit and its requisites.
208. Requisition to sheriff, to take and deliver the property.
209. Security on the part of the plaintiii, and justitication.
210. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon or on failure to
except.
211. Defendant when entitled to re-delivery.
212. Justification of defendant’s sureties.
213. Qualilication and justification of sureties.
214. Property, how taken when concealed in bailing or enclosure.
215. Property, how kept.
216. Claim of property by third person.
217. .Notice and atlidavit, when and where to be filed.

31’ § 206. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of

:personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such pro-
perty as provided in this chapter.

(I § 207. Where a delivery is claimed, an atiidavit must'be made

'by the plaintiii', or by some one in his behalf, showing,

'1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the'property claimed, (par-
ticularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect
to which shall be set forth ;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained 1by thetdefendant;

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief ;

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or
dine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or at-

;tachment against the property of the plaintid'; or-if so seized, that
it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and,

5. The actual value of the property.

g 208. The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an endorsement in
?wnting upon the adidavit, require the sheriff of the county where
-:the preperty claimed maybe, to take the same from the defendant,
and deliver it to the plaintiff.

.,_ § 209. Upon the recept of the atiidavit and notice, with a writ-
ten undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the chest that they are bound, in double
the value of the property as stated in the athdavit, for the prose-

cation of the action, for the return of the pmperty to the defen-
dent, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the paymentto him of
such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintiff,
the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the was
davit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, an
retain it in his custody. He shall, also, without delay, serve on
the defendant a copy of the amdavit, notice, and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, it he, can be found, or to his
agent, from whose possession the property is taken ; or if neither
can be found by leaving them at the usual place of abode ofeithor
with some person of suitable age and discretion. _
§ 210. The defendant may within three days after the service
of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice tothe sheriff
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do
so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on‘ notice
in like manner, as upon bail on arrest. And the shend' shall be
responsible for the sutiiciency of the sureties until the objection to
them is either waived as above provided, or until they shall justify,
or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided
in the next section.
§ 211. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintid‘, the defendant may if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintiff require the return thereof, upon giving to the sherid'
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sudicient sureties
to the effect that they are bound, in double the value of the pro-
perty, as stat ed in the adidavit of the plaintiii,for the delivery there-
of to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the pay-
ment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so re-
quired within three days after the taking and service of notice to
the defendant, it shall be delivered to theplaintid‘, except as provi-
ded in section two hundred and sixteen.
§ 2l2. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintid'
of not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify before a
judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail on
arrest; upon such justitication, the sheriff shall deliver the proper-
tyto the defendant. The sheriff shall be reSponsible for the de-
fendant’s sureties, until they justify, or until justificatiOn is com-
pleted or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that
time, but if they or others in their place, fail to justify’at the time
and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.
§ 213. The qualifications of sureties and their justilication shall be
'as are prescribed by sections one hundred and ninety-four and one,
hundred and ninety-live, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
5214. If the property, or any part thereof 'be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery.
If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to'be

broken open, and take the property into his possession 3¥“w
cessary, he may call to his aidthe power of his one“

§215. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in th's
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliverit
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees mt
taking, and hfs necessary expenses for keeping the same.
§ 216. If the prOperty taken be claimed by any other persm
. than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make am-
davit of his title thereto and right to the possession thereof, as.
ting the grounds of such right and title and serve the same upon
the sherid' ; the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or
deliver it to the plaintiff unless the plaintiff on demand at him or
his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an un-
dertaking, executed by two sutiicient sureties accompaned by their
adidavits, that they are each worth double the value of the pro-
perty as specified in the affidavit, of the plaintiff, and freeholders
and householders of the county. And no claim to such property
by any other person than the defendant orhis agent, shall be val-
id against the sheritl' unless made as aforesaid, and notwithstand-
ing such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a rea-
sonable time to demand such indemnity.
. § 217. The sheriff shall file the notice and athdavit withhia
proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending within twenty days after taking the property
mentioned therein.

CHAPTER III.
Injunction.

Sac-non 218. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
219. Injunction, in what cases granted.
220. At what time it may be granted.
221. Notice, when required. Temporary injunction.
222. Security upon‘ injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
223. Order to shew cause why injunction should not be granted.
224. Security. upon injunction to suspend busine of corporation.
225. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
226. Adidavits, on motion.

§ 218. The writ of injunction as a provisional remedy is abol-
ished; and an injunction, by order, is substituted therefor. The
order may be made by the court in which the action is brought,
or by a judge thereof, or by a county judge, in the cases provided
in the next section; and when made by a judge may be enforced
as the order of the court.

§ 219. Where it shall appear by the complaint, that the plain-
tiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of
some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the liti-
gation, would produce injury to the plaintiff, or when during the
litigation it shall appear that the defendant is doing, or threatens,
or is about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to be done in
violation of the plaintiff ’3 rights, respecting the subject of the ac-
tion, and tending to render the judgment inefectual, a temporary

injunction may be granted, to restrain such act. And where dur-
ing the pendency of an action, it shall appear by at’ridavit, that
the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dispose of his
property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunc-
tion may be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.

§ 220. The injunction may be granted at the time of commen-
cing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon
its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit
of the plaintiff, oi- of any other person, that sufficient grounds
exist therefor. A cepy of the aflidavit must be served with the
injunction.

221. An injunction shall not be allowed, after the defendant
she. I have answered, unless uponnotice, or upon an order to show
cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained, until
the decision of the court or judge, granting or refusing the in-
Junction.

§ 222. Where no provision is made by statute, as to security
upon an injunction, the court or judge shall require a written un-
dertaking, on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties, to
the effect that the plaintih‘ will pay to the party enjoined, such
damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sus-
tain by reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide
that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be
ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the cunt shall direct.‘
§ 223. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defend-i
. ant, or any of several defendants, should be heard before grantingi
the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be ‘
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction should
not be granted; and the defendant may in the mean time be res-
trained.
§ 224. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary bu-
siness of a corporation, shall not be granted, except by the court
or a judge thereof. Nor shall it be granted, without due notice
of the application therefor, to the proper officers of the corpora-
tion, except where the people of this state are a party to the pro-
ceeding, and except in proceedings to enforce the liability of
stockholders in corporations and associations for banking purposes,
after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
fifty, as such proceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless
the plaintiff shall give a written undertaking, executed by two
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court or judge, to the
ed‘ect that the plaintiff will pay all damages, not exceeding the
sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation
may sustain, by reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally
decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages
gay be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court shall
'rect. ‘
2525. If the injun‘ction be granted by a judge of the court, or
by a county judge, without notice, the defendant, at any time be-‘
fore the trial, may apply, upon notice, to a judge of the court in}

which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint and the affidavits on
which the injunction was granted, or upon afiidavits on the part
the defendant, with or without the answer.

3 § 226. If the application be made upon atiidavits on the part
of the defendant, butnot otherwise, the plaintiii‘ may oppose the
same by atiidavits or other proofs, in addition to, those on which
the injunction was granted. -

CHAPTER IV.

Attachment.

SECTION 227. Property at threigl corporations and of non-resident or ab-

‘sconding or concealed defendants may be attached.

228. Warrant by whom granted.

229. In what cases warrant may be granted.

230. Security in obtaining warrant.

231. Warrant, to whom directed, and what to require.

232. Mode of proceeding in executing warrant.

233. Proceeding in case of perishable property or vessels.

234. Interest in corporations or amoeiations, liable to attachment.

235. Atéacbment, how executed on property incapable of mantll

elivery.

236. Certificate of defendant’s interest to be fhmished by corpora-
tion.

237. Judgment, how satisfied.

238. When action to recover notes, &c., of defendant may be pro-

ecuted by plaintiff in the action in which the attachment in
sued. ’
239. Bond to sheriff on attachment, how disposed of, on judgment
for defendant
240. Discharge of attachment and return of property, or its pro-
. ceeds, to defendant, on his appearance in action.
241. Undertaking on the part of the defendant.
242. When sheriff to return warrant and proceedings thereon. ,
243. Sheriti‘s fe¢s.

r § 227. In an action for the recovery of money, against a cor-
poration created, by or under the laws of any other state govern-
’mcnt or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of
this state, or against a defendant who has absCondcd or concealed
1himself as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff at the time of is-
suing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the pro-
perty of such defendant attached, in the manner hereinafter pre-
scribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintiff may recover.

I § 228. A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a judge
of the court in which the action is brought, Or from a county
judge. 1
-_  229. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear
'by affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defendant,
specifying the amount of the claim, and the grounds thereof, and
that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resi-
dent of this state. or has departed therefrom with.intent to de-
fraud his creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps

himself concealed therein with the like intent.

l
1

§ 230. Before  the warrant, the judge shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiii', with sutiicient
surely, to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that maybe awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain, by reason of the attach-
ment, not exceeding thesum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least two hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 231. The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county in which property of such def ndant may be, and shall re-
quire him to attach and‘safely keep a the property of such de-
fendant within his county. Several‘warrants may be issued at
the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.

§ 232. The sheriff to whom such warrant of attachment is di-
rected and delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects, in the
manner required of him by law in case of attachments against
absent debtors, shall make and return an inventory, and shall keep
the property seized by,him,.or the proceeds of such as shall have
been sold, to answer any judgment which may be obtained in
such action, and shall, subject to the direction of the court or
judge, collect and receive into his possession all debts, credits and
effects of the defendant. The sheriff may always take such legal
proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of such de-
fendant, as may be necessary for that purpose, and discontinue
the same at such times and on such terms as the court or judge
may direct.

§ 233. If any property so seized shall‘be perishable, or if any
part of it be claimed by any other person than such defendant, or.
if any part of it consist of a vessel, or of any share or interest,
therein, the same proceedings shall be'had in all respects as are
provided by law upon attachments against absent debtors.

§ 234. The rights or shares which such defendant may have in:
the stock of any association, or corporation, together with the in—j
terest, and profits thereon, and all other property in this state of 1
such defendant, shall be liable to be attached and levied upon and]
sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ 235. The execution of the attachment uponany such rights”
shares, or any debts or other preperty incapable of manual de-l
livery to the sheriff, shallbe made by leaving a certified copy of 1
the warrant of attachment with the president or other head of 1
the association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or mana-i
g'ing-agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding such
property, with a notice showing the property levied on.

§ 236. Whenever the sheriff shall, with a warrant of attach-4

ment, or execution against 'thedefendant, apply to such oilicer,;
debtor or individual, for the purpose of attaching, or levying uponl
such property, such odicer, debtor, or individual, shall furnish him'
with a certificate under his hand, designating the'number of rights
or shares of the defendant in the stock of such association or cork
poration, with any dividend, or any incumb'rance thereon, or the
amount and description of the preperty held by such association,

A

corporation or individual, for the benent of, or debt owing to the
defendant. If such otiicer, debtor or individual refuse to do so,
he may be required by the court or judge, to attend before him,
and be examined on oath concerning the same, and obedience to
such orders may be enforced by attachment.

§ 237. In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff, in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property at-
tached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that purpose ;

1. By paying over to spch plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property, and 0 any vessel, or share, or interest in any
vessel sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy‘such judgment ;

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall havebecn
issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell under such exe-
cution, so much of the attached property, real or personal, except
as provided in subdivision four of this section, as may be neces-
sary to satisfy the balance, it eitough for, that purpose shall re-
main in his hands ; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares
in the stock of a corporation or association, the sheriff shall exe-
cute to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the pur-
chaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in res-
pect thereto, which were bad by such defendant ;

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant,
shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having
been sold or converted into money, such sheritf shall re-
himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all the au-
thority which he had to seize the same under the attachment, and
any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold such property
from the sheriff, shall be liabile to double damages at the suit of
the party injured ; _

4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the
sheriff may proceed to collect the notes, and other evidences of
debt and the debts that may have been seized or attached under
the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he may
have taken in the course of such proceedings, and apply the pro-
ceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment.

When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have
been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over
to the defendant the residue of the attached property or the pro-
ceeds thereof.

. § 238. The actions herein authorized to be brought by the

rsheriff, may be prosecuted by the plaintiff, or under his direction,
upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking execu-
‘ted by two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will

‘indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs and expenses on
account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any
action. Such sureties shall in all cases, when required by the
sheriff, justify, by making an affidavit that each is a householder,
and worth double the'amount of the penalty of the bond, over and
above all demands and liabilities.

§ 289. If the foreign corporation or absent or absconding or!
concealed defendant, recover judgment agzn'nst the plaintiti‘, in:
such action, any bond taken by the sherid‘, except such as arel
mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and monies;
collected by him, and all the pmperty attached remaining in his‘
hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent on
request, and the warrant shall be discharged, and the property re-
leased therefrom.
§ 240. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in suchl
action, he may apply to the ofiicer who issued the attachment, or:
to the court, for an order to discharge the same, and if the
same be granted all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by
him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, shall?
be delivered or paid by him to the defendant or his agent, and re-i
leased from the attachment. .
§ 241. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to;
the court or ofiicer an undertaking executed by at least two sure-t
ties, resident and freeholders in this state, approved by such court
or officer, to the effect that the sureties will on demand pay to
the plaintiff, the amount of the judgment that may be recovered
against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum speci-
fied in the undertaking, which Ashall be at least double the amount
claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint. .
§ 242. When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged,
the sheriff shall return the same with his proceedings thereon, to
the court in which the action was brought. ‘
§ 243. The sheriff shall be entitled to the same fees and com-
pensation for services, and the same disbursements under this ti-
tle, as are allowed by law for like services and disbursements un-
der the provisions of chapter five, title one, and part two of the
Revised Statutes.

CHAPTER V.

Provisional remedies.

Batman 244. Pom-rs of court as to receivers, deposit of money, &c., in court
and other provisional remedies.

§ 244. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the court
may appoint receivers, and direct the deposit of money or other
thing in court, and grant the other provisional remedies now ex-
isting, according to the present practice, except as otherwise pro-
vided in this act. '

TITLE vm
0ft)» mat and Judgment in can Actions.

Cm. I. Judgment upon failture to Wt.
II. Issues and the mode of trial.
III. Trial by jury. '
IV. Trial by the court.
V. Trial by referees.
VI. The manner of entering judgment.

Camera 1.
Judgment upon failure to armour.

Samoa 245. Judgment, what.
246. Judgment on failure of defendant to louver.
247. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.

§245. A judgment is the final determination of the righm of
the parties in the action.

§ 246. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to met-
the complaint, as follows:

1. In any action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk, proof of personal ser-
viceof the summons and commaint, on one or more of the defend-
ants, or of the summons, according to the provisions. of- am
one hundred and thirty, and that no answer has been. received.
The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount men—
tioned in the summons, against the defendant or defendants, or
against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided
for in section one hundred and thirty-six. But if .the complaint
be not sworn to, and such action is on an instrument for the pay-
ment of money only, the clerk, on its production to him, shall as-
sess the amount due to the plaintiff thereon ; and in other cases
shall ascertain the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recov-
er in such action, from his examination under oath, or other proof
and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed or ascertained.
In case the defendant give notice of appearance in the action he
shall be entitled to five days notice of the time and place of such
assessment:

2. In other actions, the plaintid‘ may, upon the like proof, apply
to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for.the
relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking anaccountor the
proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judg.
ment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court, instead of
taking the account or hearing the proof, may, in its discretion, an
der 9. reference for that purpose to any person, free from all ex-
ception, to be named by the party. And where the action is for
the recovery of money only, or of specific, real or personal prop-
erty, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may is-
sue a writ of inquiry, or order the damages to be assessed by a
jury, or if the examination of a long account be involved, by a
reference as above provided. In case the defendant give notice

of appearance in the action before the expiration of the time for
answering, he shall be entitled to eight days notice of the time

and place of application to the court for the relief demanded by
the complaint in such actions:

2. In actions where the service of the summons and complaint
was not personal, the plaintiff may in like manner apply for judg-
ment, and the court shall thereupon cause proof 'to be taken of the
demand mentioned in the complaint, and in case the defendant is
a non-resident shall cause the plaintiff or his agent to be examin-
ed on oath as to any payments that‘have been made tosuch plaine
tifor to any one to his use on account of such demand, and may
render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover,
and may in its discretion require the plaintiff to cause to be filed
satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching the
restitution of any estate or effects which may be directed by such
judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution, of any
money that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives, shall apply and be ad-
mitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such defence.

. § 247. If a demurrer, answer, or reply be frivolous, the party
prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, may ap-
ply to a judge of the court, either in or out of the court, for judg-
ment thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.

CHAPTER, IL

Issues, mdtbamodc oan'aL

Smart 248. The different kinds of issues.
249. Issue of law. ' '
250. Issue of fact.

251. -Onissues of both law and fact, the intro of law to he first
tried.
2252. Trial, what.

253. Issue of fact to be tried by jury, unless waived or reference or-
dered.

254. Other issues tobe tried by the court.
. 255. All issues to be tried before a single judge.

256. Either party may give notice of trial. Note of imue.
257. Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.

§ 248. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclu-
sion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and

2. Of fact. '

§ 249. An issue of law arises,

1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or tc
some part thereof.

§ 250. An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted b3
the answer; or, \

2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply
or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is
rjoined thereon.

,  251. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
'parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases, the is-
sues of law must be first tried unless the court otherwise direct.

. § 252. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact. .

§ 253. Whenever in an action for the recovery of money only,
or of specific real or personal property, there shall be an issue of
fact, it must be tried by a jury unless a jury trial be waived, as
provided in section two hundred and sixty-six, or reference be
ordered, as provided in sections two hundred and seventy and two
hundred and seventy-one.

§ 254. Every other isgie is triable by the court, which, howev-
er, may order the wholeissue, or any Specific question of fact in-
volved therein, to be tried by a jury ;or may refer it, as provided
in sections two hundred and seventy and two hundred and seven-

-one.
ty§ 255. All issues, whether of law or fact, triable by a jury or
by the court, shall be tried before a single judge. Issues of fact
in the supreme court, shall be tried at the circuit courts, issues of
law in the first instance at a circuit court or special term.
' § 256. At any time after issue, and at least ten days before the
court, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the
notice shall furnish the clerk at least four days before the court
with a note of the issue containing the title of the action, the names
of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was served;
and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar,
according to the date of the issue.

§257. The issues of the calendar shall be disposed of in the
'following order; unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dos-
patch of business, the court shall otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;

2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court;

3. Issues of law.

CHAPTER III.
Trial by Jury.

Samoa 258. Either party may bring issue to trial.
259. Plaintiff to furnish court with copy summons, pleadings, &c.

260. General and special verdicts defined.
. 261. Verdict in action for recovery of specific personal property,when

in action for recovery of money only, or real property, jury
may render either general or special verdict; and when court

may direct special finding.
262. On special finding, w th general verdict, former to control.
263. In actions for recovery of money only, jury to assess damages.
264. Entry of verdict.
265. Judgment when to be entered.

§ 258. Either party giving the notice may bring the issue to
trial, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for
goodcause,otherwisedirect,mayproceedwithhiscase,andtake

a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or judgment as the case
ma require. .

g 259. The plaintiff shall furnish the court with a copy of the
summons and pleadings, with the offer of the defendant, if any
shall have been made.

§ 260. A general verdict, is that by which the jury pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plain-
tid‘ or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only leaving the judgment to the court.

§ 261. In an action for the recovery of specific personal pro-
perty, if the pr0perty have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or
the defendant by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury shall
assess the value of the property, and if their verdict be in favor oi
the plaintiff, or if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is
entitled to a return thereof; and may at the same time assess the
damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which
the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the detention or
taking and withholding such property.

In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury in their discretion, may render a general
or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct
the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or
any of the issues ; and in all cases may instruct them, it
they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of
fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written tinding there-
on. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes.

§ 262. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and
the court shall give judgment accordingly.

§ 263. When a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff, in an ac-
tion for the recovery of money only, the jury shall also assess the
amount of the recovery.

§ 264. Upon receiving a verdict, the court shall direct an entry
to be made, specifying the time and place of the trial, the names
of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment
to be rendered thereon, or an order that the case be reserved for

ment or further consideration.

§ 265. Judgment shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity
to the verdict, which shall be final after the expiration of four days,
unless the court or a judge thereof order the case to be reserved
for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceed.

was»

Cums IV.

MbyOourt.

Section 266. Trial by jury, how waived.
267. On trial by the court, judgment to be given in “rent, days.
268. Exceptions,how and when taken.
269. Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law.

. § 266. .Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties, to
'an issue offset, in actions on contract and with the assent of the
court, in other actions in the manner following:
1. Bg failing to appear at the trial.
01 2.k y written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
or . .
8. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
I § 267. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its de-
,cision shall be given in writing, and filed with the clerk, within
{ twenty days after the court at which the trial took place. Judg-
ment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.
’ § 268. Either party may except to a decision on a matter of
law arising upon such trial, within ten days after notice of the
'judgment in the same manner, and with the same efect as upon a
trial by  And either party desiring a review upon the evi-
dence appearing on trial, either of the questions of fact or of law,
:3, at any time within ten days after notioe‘of the judgment,
e a case containing so much of the evidence as may be mate-
rial to the question to be raised. The case shall be settled accord-
ing to the existing practice.
§ 269. On a judgment for the plaintid‘ upon anissue of law, the
plaintiff may proceed in the same manner prescribed by section
' two hundred and forty six, in cases where the summons or sum-
‘mons and complaint are personally served and the complaint sworn
to, upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If judgment be
for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the taking of an account
or the proof of any fa’ct‘be necessary to enable the court to com-
plete the judgment, a reference may be ordered, or writ of inquiry
issued, as in that section provided.

Curran V.

mat by Rm.

Section 270. All hues referrable by consent.
271. When reference may be compulsorily ordered.
272. Report to stand as decision of the court.

273. Referees, how chosen.

270. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of factor
Vof w, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the
parties.
- § 271. Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
° the application of either, or of its own motion, except where the
' investigation will require the decision of diacult questions of law,
directareferenceinthefollowingcases:

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examin-
ation of along account on either side; in which case, the referees
may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report
upon any specific question of fact involved therein ; or,

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary, for the
information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judg-
ment or order into effect; or, .

8. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall
arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

§ 27 2. The report of the referees upon the whole issue. shall
stand as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the
court ; and their decision may be excepted to and reviewed iner
manner, or a rehearing may be granted by the court in which the
judgment is entered.

§ 273. In all cases of reference, the parties may agree upon a
suitable person or persons, not exceeding three ; and the reference
shall be ordered accordingly. If the parties do not agree, the
court shall, except in the city and county of New-York, appoint
one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from
exception, and reside in the county where the action is triable.

In the city and county of N ew-York, when the parties do not
otherwise agree, there shall be three referees, who shall be free
from exception and reside in that city. They shall be ap ointed
as follows: Each party shall name one, and these two shal name
the third. If they-fail to do so within two days after their own
appoidtment, the name of the third referee shall be drawn by the
clerk from the jury box, in the manner to be directed by the court
on ordering the reference. If either party omit to name a re-
feree, his place shall be supplied from the jury box in the same
manner.

, CHAPTER VI.
Manner of entering Judgment.

Salmon 274. Judgment may be for or against any of the parties.
275. The relief to be awarded to the plaintili.

276. Rate of damages, where damages are recoverable. ,

277. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.

278. Judgment upon iuue of law or of fact, to be upon direction of
a single judge, or on report of referees, subject to review at
general term.

279. Clerk to keep a judgment book.

280. Judgment to be entered in judgment book.

281. Judgment roll.
982. Judgment, in what cases and how to he docketed.

§ 274. Jud ent may be given, for or against one or more of
several plaintitlgs,In and for or against one or more of several defen-

dants, and it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on
each side, as between themselves. In an action against several
defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judgment
against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against

D

l.

P

the others, whenever a several judgment may be proper. The
court ma also dismiss the complaint, with costs, in favor of one or
more degendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the
plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed
in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.

§ 275. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no an-
swer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him any
relief consistent with the case made by the complaint and em-
braced within the issue.

§ 276. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may
claim and recover, if he show himslf entitled thereto, any rate
of damages, which he might have heretofore recovered for the
same cause.
§ 277. In an action to recover the possession of personal prOperty,
ju gment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or for the
recovery of possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery
cannot be had, and of for the detention. If the property
have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of
the pr0perty, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had,
and damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 278. Judgment upon an issue of law or of fact, or upon con-
fession, or upon failure to answer, (except where the clerk is an-
thorized to enter the same by the first subdivision of section two
hundred and forty-six, and by section three hundred and eighty--
four.) shall, in the first instance, be entered upon the direqion of
a single judge, or report of referees, subject to review at the
general term, on the demand of either party, as herein provided.

§ 279. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court, a
all: for the entry of judgments, to be called the “judgment

280. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,
an shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination
of the action.

§ 281. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judg-
ment roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,
shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall
constitute the judgment roll;

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment;

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof,
and a cop of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer
of the de endant, case, exceptions, and all orders relating to a
change of parties, or in any way involving the merits, and neca-
sarin affecting the judgment.

When the defendant shall be entitled to judgment, if the plain-
tiff shall not have have filed the summons, with proof of :ervice
and the pleadings on his part, the copies of summons and plead-
ings, served on the defendant, may be substituted therefor, in
making the judgment roll, or the plaintiff may, at the instance
of the defendant, be ordered by a judge forthwith to tile such pa-

rs.
pe§ 282. On tiling a judgment roll, upon a judgment directing.
in whole or in part the payment of money, it may be docketed;
with the clerk of the county where it was rendered, and in any!
other county upon filing with the clerk thereof a transcript of the
original docket; and shall be a lien on real prOperty in the county
from the time of docketing the judgment therein.

TITLE IX.
0f the execution of the  in GM! Actions.

Cums I. The execution.
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I.
. The creation.

Sacrton 283. Execution within five years, of course, as prescribed by this
title.

284. After live years. to be issued only by leave of court. Leave,
how obtained. Execution on judgment of justices' or other
inferior courts when docketed, how issued.

285. Other judgments, how enforced.

286. The ditierent kinds of execution.

287. To what counties execution may be imad.

288. Execution against the person, in what cases, and when.

289. Form of the execution.

290. To be returnable in sixty days.

291. Existing laws relating to execution continued, until otherwise
provided.

§283. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments
as now used, are modified in conformity to this title, and the party
in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter
be given, may at any time within five years after the entry of
judgment, proceed to enforce the same as prescribed by this title.

§284. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judg-
ment, an execution may‘be issued only by leave of the court on
motion, with notice to the adverse party. Such leave shall not
be given unless it be established by the oath of the party or other
proof that the judgment or some part thereof remains unsatis-
ded and due.

When the judgment shall have been rendered in a court of
justice of the peace, or in a justices’ or other inferior court in a
city, and docketed in the odice of the clerk of the county, the
application for leave to issue execution must be to the county
court of the county where the judgment was rendered, or in the
city and county of New-York to the court of common pleas of
that city and county.

, § 285. Where a judgment requires the payment of money or
' the delivery of real and personal property, the same may be en-
forced in those respects by execution, as provided in this title.
Where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified
copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against
whom it is given, or the person or ofiicer who is required thereby,
or by law to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.
If he refuse he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.

§ 286. There shall be three kinds of excution; one against the
property of the judgment debtor; another against his person;
and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or
sonal property, or such delivery with damages for withholm
the same. They shall be deemed the process of the court, but
they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in
section two hundred and eighty-nine.

§ 287. Where the execution is against the pro rty of the
judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff 0 any county
where the judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery
of real or personal property, it must be issued to the sherid‘ of
thecounty where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.

§ 288. If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in section one hundred and seventy-
nine and section one hundred and eighty-one, an execution against
the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county
within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of an execn~
tion against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part.

§ 289. The execution must be directed to the sheriE, or coro-
ner, when the sheriff is a party, or interested, subscribed by the
party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelliginy refer to the
judgment, stating the court, the ecunty where the judgment roll
or transcript is tiled, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon,
and the time of docketing in the county to which the execution
is issued, and shall require the oilicer substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the oiiicer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal
property of such debtor and if suiiiCient personal preperty cannot
be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time thereaher ;

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees‘, legatees, tenants of real
property or trustees, it shall require the otlicer to satisfy the judg- .
ment out of such property;

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the
jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment, or be discharged
according to law;

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the otiicer~ to deliver the possession of
the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto,

It

andmayatthesametimerequiretheomcer tosatisfyanycosts,
damages or rents and profits recovered by the same judgment
out of the personal property of the part against whom it was
rendered, and the value of the property or which the judgment
was recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof can-
not be had, and if sullicient personal property cannot be found,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
the judgment was docketed or at any time thereafter, and shall
in that respect be deemed an execution against property.

§ 290. The execution shall be returnable within sixty days‘
after its receipt by the emcer to the clerk with whom the record:
of 'udgment is filed

291. Until otherwise provided by the legislature, the exist-J

ing provisions of law not in conflict with this chapter, relating to:
executions, and their incidents, including the sale and redemption:
of property, the powers and rights of officers, their duties thereon,1
and the proceedings to enforce those duties and the liability of ‘
their sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this
chapter.

CHAPTER II.

Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

Bwrrort 292. When execution returned unsatistied, order for discovery 11'
property allowed. Also when judgment debtor refuses to

apply property to satisfy judgment. Manner of proceeding
to examine judgment debtor.

£93. Any debtor we pay execution against his creditor. -

594. Examination 0 debtors of judgment debtor or of those hav
ing property belonging to him.

295. Witneu required to testify.

296. Compelling party or “witnemes to attend. Examinations when
to be on oath.

3397. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.

298. Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer, 614:. of pro-

perty. -
999. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on de-
nial of indebtednem to judgment debtor.

300. Reference by judge.
301. Costs of proceeding.
302. Disobedience of prder, how punished.

§292. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment}
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do}
not reside in this state, to the sheriff of the county where the.
judgment roll or a transcript of a justice’s judgment is filed, shall‘
be returned unsatisfied in whole or_ in part, the judgment creditor,
at any time after such return made, on proof of such return, shall
st any time be entitled to an order from a judge of the court or
a county judge of the county to which the execution was issued,
requiring such judgment debtor to appear andoanswer, concern-
ing his roperty, before such judge or a referee appointed by a
judge o the court, at a time and place specified in the order.

After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by atiidavit to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge there-
of, or county judge, that any judgment debtor has property, which
he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg-
ment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment
debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concern—
ing the same, and such proceedings may thereupon be had, for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor tawards
the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided, upon the return
of an execution.

Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, as provided in this section, the judge may, if it appear to
him that there is danger of the debtor’s absconding, issue a war-
rant under his hand, requiring the sherid‘ of any county where
such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such
judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he may be exam-
ined on oath, and ordered to enter into an undertaking with one
or more sureties, that he will attend from time to time before the
judge or referee, as he shall direct, during the pendency of the
proceeding, and until the final determination thereof, and will not
in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not ex-
empt from execution. In default of entering into such under-
taking, he ma be committed to prison, by warrant under the
hand of the judge.

§293. After the issuing of execution against property, any

person indebted to the judgment debtor, may pay to the sherid
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be n
to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sumo
cient discharge for the amount so paid.
, § 294. After the issuing or return of an execution against
property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon an afhdavit, that any person or
corporation has property of suchjudgment debtor, or is indebted
to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may by an
order require such person or corporation, or any othcer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and answer con-
cerning the same. The judge may also, in his discretion. require
notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to the action,
in such manner as may seem to him proper.

§ 295. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the
trial of an issue.

§ 296. The‘party or witness may be required to attend More
the judge, or before a referee, appointed by the court or judge;
if before a referee, the examination shall be taken by the referee
and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before
a judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except
that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath
of an otheer thereof.

§ 297. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 298. The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and with
the like authority as if the appointment were made by the court,
according to section two hundred and forty-four. The judge may
also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property
of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, and any
interference therewith.

§ 299. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to
have property of the judgment debtor or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property, adverse to him, or denies the debt,
such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action
against such person or corporation by the receiver; but the judge
may by order forbid a transfer or other disposition of such pro-
perty or interest, till a sutiicient opportunity be given to the re-
ceiver to commence the action and prosecute the same to judg-
ment and execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved
by the judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as
he shall direct.

§ 300. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to
a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence
or the facts.

§301. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to
any party so examined, whether a party to the action or not, wit-
nesses' fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not
exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.

§ 302. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the
judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness, may
be punished by the judge, as for a contempt.

TITLE X.

0f the costs in civil actions.

Burton 303. Free bill abolished. Allowances given, termed costs.

304. When allowed, of course, to plaintiff.

305. When allowed to defendant.

306. When allowed to either party in the discretion of the court.

307. Amount of costs allowed.

308. Allpwance, in addition, of a per centage on the recovery OI
c am.

309. Per centage, how computed.

310. Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.

311. Costs, how to be inserted in judgment.

312. Clerk’s fees.

313. Referees’ fees;

314. Costs on postponement of trial.

315. Costs on a motion.

316. Costa against intant plaintiff.

317. Costs in an action by or against an executor or admintrstor

. trustee of an express trust, on person expressly autho rise:

by statute to sue.

318. Costson review ofadecisionof an infesiorcoannaspecial
proceeding.

319. 320. Costs in actions by the people.

321. Costa against assignee of cause of action after action brought.

322. Costa on a settlement.

§ 303. All statutes establishing or regulating the costs of fees
of attorneys, solicitors and counsel in civil actions, and all exis-
ting rules and provisions of law, restricting or controlling the
right of a party to agree with an attorney, solicitor or counsel, for
his compensation, are repealed; and hereaRer the measure of
such compensation shall be left to the agreement, express or in.
plied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the prevail-
ing party, upon the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity,
for his expenses in the action; which allowances are in this act
termed costs. .

' § 304. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff upon a
recovery, in the following cases: .

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a
claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is cer-
'titied by the court to have come in question at the trial;

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property;

3. In the actions of which, according to section fifty-four, a
court at a justice of the peace has no jurisdiction;

4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintif
shall recover iifty dollars or more. But in an action for assault,
battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution,
criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover lea
than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than
damages. And in an action to recover the possession of personal

roperty, if the plaintiff recOver less than fifty dollars damages

e shall recover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers
also property, the value of which with the damages amounts to
fifty dollars. Such value must be determined by the jury, court,
or referee, by whom the action is tried. ~

When several actions shall be brought on one bond, recogni-
zance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in
writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of action, against
several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the
same action, no costs other than disbursements shall be allowed
to the plaintiil‘. in more than one of such actions, which shall be
at his election, provided that the party or parties proceeded against
in such other action or actions, shall at the time of commence-
ment of the previous action or actions have been within this state,
and not secreted.

§ 305. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the
actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintitl‘ be enti-
tled to costs therein.

§ 306. In other actions costs may be allowed or not, in the

discretion of the court.

When there are several defendants, not united in interest, and
making separate defences by separate answers, and the plaintiff

fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs
to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any

of them. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be
in the discretion of the court: ‘

1. Where a new trial shall be ordered;
2. Where a judgment shall be atiirmed in part and reversed

in art.
g 307. When allowed, costs shall be as follows: ;

1. To the plaintiff, for all proceedings before notice of trial.
(including judgment when entered,)

In an action where judgment upon failure to answer may be
had without application to the court, seven dollars; in an action
where judgment can only be taken on application to the court,

twelve dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven
dollars ;

2. To the defendant; for all the proceedings before notice of
trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial,
seven dollars;

‘ 3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the trial of
issues of fact, to the plaintid‘, fifteen dollars; to the defendant,
twelve dollars; .

4. For the trial of the issues of fact, if separate from the trial
of the issues of law, to the plaintiff fifteen dollars; to the defend-
ant twelve dollars; .

5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, when tried at
the same time, to the plaintiff twenty dollars: to the defendant
fifteen dollars;

6. To either party on appeal, excepting to the court of ap-
E‘asls; before argument, fifteen dollars; for argument, thirty doi-

: but this provision shall not apply to appeals in cases other
than those mentioned in section three hundred and forty-nine;

7. To either party on appeal to the court of appeals; before
argument, twenty-live dollars; for argument, fifty dollars ;

. To either party, for every circuit or term, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, and not reached or is post-
poned, excluding that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.

§ 308. In addition to these allowances, if the action be for the:
recovery of money, or of real or personal property, and .a trialu
has been had, the court may in didicult or extraordinary cases,:
make an allowance of not more than ten per cent, on the recovery c
or claim, as in the next section prescribed, for any amount not
exceeding five hundred dollars; and not more than five per cent
for any additional amount.

Such allowance may likewise be made, upon the recovery of
judgment in any action for the partition of real property, or for
the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in which a warrant of attach-
ment has been issued, or or the construction of a will or other in-
strument in writing, and in proceedings to compel the determin-

ation of claims to real property, and also in any case where the
prosecution or defence has been unreasonably or unfairly condw
ted.

§ 309. These rates shall be estimated as follows:

1. If the plaintiff recover judgment, it shall be upon the
amount of money, or the value of the property recovered, or
claimed, or attached, or affected by the construction of the will,
or sought to be partitioned, or the amount found due upon the
mortgage in an action for foreclosure;

2. If the defendant recover judgment, it shall be upon the
amount of money, or the value of the property claimed by the
plaintiff, or attached or affected by the construction of the will, or
of the defendant’s interest in property sought to be partitioned, or
the amount claimed in an action for foreclosure.

Such amount of value must be determined by the jury, court,
or referees, by whom the action is tried, or judgment rendered,
or the commissioners appointed to make partition in an action
therefor.

§ 310. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, inter-
est from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be final-
ly entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added to the costs
of the party entitled thereto.

§ 311. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the
application of the pervailing party, upon two days notice to the
other, the sum of the charges for costs, as above provided, and the
necessary disbursements and fees of otiicers allowed by law, in-
cluding the compensation of referees, and the expense of print-
ing the papers upon any appeal. The disbursements shall be
stated in detail, and verified by afiidavit, which shall be filed.

§ 312. The clerk shall receive,

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dollar; on
entering a judgment by filing transcript, six cents;

On entering judgment, fifty cents; except in courts where the
clerks are salaried otlicers, and in such courts one dollar.

He shall receive no other fee, for any services whatever in a
civil action, except for capies of papers, at the rate of five cents
for every hundred words. -

§ 313. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each, for
every day spent in the business of the reference; but the partia
may agree in Writing upon any other rate of compensation.

§314. When an application shall be made to a court or re-
ferees, to postpone a trial the payment to the adverse party of a
sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may
be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement.

§ 315. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of

the court, not exceeding ten dollars.
t § 316. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintim
'the guardian by whom he appeared in the action, shall be respon-
sible therefor, and payment thereof may be enforced by attach-
ment. '

§317. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,<
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly',
authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by‘
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right,i
but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected of the;
estate, fund or party represented, unless the court shall direct the]
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant, personally, for mis—l
management or bad faith in such action or defence. But thisl
section shall not be construed to allow costs against executors orI
administrators, where they are now exempted therefrom by sec-
tion forty-one, of title three, chapter six, of the second part of the
Revised Statutes.
§ 318. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in
a special proceeding, shall be brought before the supreme court
for review, such proceeding shall, for all purposes of costs, be
deemed an action at issue, on a question of law, from the time the
same shall be brought into the supreme court, and costs thereon
shall be awarded and collected in such manner as the court shall
direct, according to the nature of the case.
§ 3l9. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the peo-
ple of this state. by an oilicer duly authorized for that purpose,
the pe0ple shall be liable for costs in the same cases, and to
the same extent, as private parties. If a private person be joined
with the people as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance
for the defendant’s costs; which shall not be recovered of the peo-
ple, till after execution issued therefor against such private party
and returned unsatisfied.
§ 320. In an action prosecuted in the name of the pe0ple of
this state for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a
right or claim, for the benefit of any county, city, town, village,
corporation or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff, shall be
a charge against the party for whose beneht the action was prose-
cuted, and not against the pe0ple.
§ 321. In actions, in which the cause of action shall, by assign-
ment after the commencement of the action, or in any other
manner, become the property of a person not a party to the action,
such person shall be liable for the costs, in the same manner as if
he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attach-
ment.
§ 322. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action
mentioned in section three hundred and four, no greater sum shall
he demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the rates pre-
scribed by that section.

TITLE XI. 
. 0f appeals in Oivt'l Actions.

0mm: 1. Appeals a: general.
11. Appeals to the court of appeals.
III. Appeals to the supreme court from an inferior coon.
IV. Appeals in the supreme court, and the superior court, and the
court of common pleas of the city of New-York, from a u‘ngle

judge to the general term.

V. Appeal to the court of common pleas for the city and county of
New-York, or to a county court, from an inferior court.

CHAPTER I.
Appeals in general.

Batman 323. Writs of error abolished, and appeals substituted.
324. Orders made out of court, how vacated or modified.

325. 'Who may appeal.

326. Parties how designated on appeal.

327. Appeal how made.

328. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.

329. Intermediate orders affecting the judgment, may be reviewed

on the appeal.

330. Judgment on appeal.
331. Certain appeals to be within two years.
332. Other appeals within thirty days.

§ 823. Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore
existed, are abolished, and the only mode of reviewing a judg-
ment, or order, in a civil action, shall be that prescribed by this
title. ‘
§ 324. An order, made out of court, without notice tothe ad.
averse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the

‘ judge who made it, or may be vacated or modded on. notice, in

the manner in which other motions are made.
§ 325. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases preset-med
in this title.

r § 326. The party appealing, shall be known as the appellant,
and the adverse party as the respondent. But the titleof the ac-
tion shall not be changed, in consequence of the appeal.

.  327. The appeal must be made by the service of a notice in
writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk, with whom the
judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal
from the same or some specified part thereof. When a party shall
give in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or order,
and shall omit through mistake, to do any other act- necessary to
perfect-the appeal or to stay proceedings, the courtmay permitau
amendment on such terms as may be just.

, § 328. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and third chap-
ters of this title, being perfected, the clerk with whom the notice

'of appeal is tiled, shall, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith
transmit to the appellate court a certified copy of the notice of

.ap and of the judgment roll.

$3129. Upon an appeal from'a judgment, the court may re-
view any intermediate order, involving the merits, and m
ly ad'ecting the judgment.

§ 330. Upon an appeal from a judgmentororder, the appellate.
court may reverse, alhrm or modify the judgment or order appeal-'
ed from in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as
to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, or-
der a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modided, the
appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and
rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

§ 331. The appeal allowed by the second and third chapters'
of this title must be taken within two years after the judgment. 1

§ 332. The appeal allowed by the fourth chapter of this title,;
must be taken, within thirty days, alter written notice of the judg-:
ment or order slnll have been given to the party appealing. ‘

Crur'rna II.
signals to the Court qf Appeals.

Baas-ton 333. In what cases.

334. On any appeal security mut be given to pay coats and dam-
ages. not exceeding $250, or deposit made, unless waived.

335. On judgment {or money, security, to stay execution.

336. If judgment be to deliver documents, they must be deposited.

337. If to execute conveyance, it must be executed and deposited.

338. Security where judgmentis to deliver property, {or a sale of
managed premises. .

339. Stay of proceedings upon security given.

340. Undertakings may be in one instument, or several.

341. Security to be approved and to justify.

342. Perishable preperty may he sold, notwithstanding appeal.

343. Underaking must be tiled.

§ 333. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals, in the
cases mentioned in section eleVen.

334. To render an appeal ed‘ectual for any purpose, a written
un ertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, to the effect, that the appellant will pay all
costs and damages which may be awarded against him on the ap-
peal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars; or that sum
must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgmentor or-
der was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such under-
taking or deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part
of the respondent.

§ 335. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the pay-
ment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be.executed on the part of the ap—
pellant, by at least two sureties, to the ed‘ect, that if the judgment
appealed from, or any part thereof, be amrmed, the appellant will
pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part
of such amount as to which the judgment shall be adirmed, if it
be amrmed only in part, and all damages which shall be awarded
against the appellant, upon the appeal.

 336. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assignment
or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of
the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal unless the things re-

quired to be assigned or delivered, be brought into court,” placed
in the custody of such odicer or receiver as the court shall appoint,
or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of the ap-
pellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court
or a judge thereof, or county judge shall direct, to the ed'ect that

the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court, upon the

a pea].
p§ 337. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of
a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
shall not be stayed by the appeal, until the instrument shall have
been executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judg-
ment is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§ 838. If the judgment appealed from, direct the sale or deliv-

' cry of possession of real property, the execution of the same
- shall not be stayed, unless aWritten undertaken be executed on
.the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that du-

-ring the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not

commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if
the judgment be athrmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the
delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not ex-
ceeding a sum to be fixed by a judge of the court by which judg.

ment was rendered, and which shall be specified in the nude

king. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises,
and the payment of a deticiency arising from the sale, the under-

taking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.
§ 339. Whenever an appeal shall be perfected, as provided by

:sections three hundred and thirty-live, three hundred and thirty-

six, three hundred and thirty-seven and three hundred and thirty-
eight, it shall stay all further proceedings in the court below, up-
on the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced
therein; but the court below may proceed, upon any other matter
included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed

from.
§ 3510. The undertakings prescribed by sections three hundred

and thirty-four, three hundred and thirty-five, three hundred and

thirty-six, and three hundred and thirty-eight, may be in one in-

strument or several, at the Option of the appellant; and a capy,
including the names and residence of the sureties, must be served
on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit
is made as provided in section three hundred and thirty-four, and

notice thereof given.

§34l. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no ed‘ect,
unless it be accompanied by the ailidavit of the sureties, that they

are. each worth double the amount specitied therein. The res-
pondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties,
within ten days after notice of the appeal; and unless they or
other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
county judge, as prescribed by sections one hundred and ninety-

h've, and one hundred andninety-six, within ten days themaaer,
the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been given.
The justification shall be upon a notice of not less than five days.
§ 342. In the cases not provided for in sections three hundred
and thirty-five, three hundred and thirty-six, three hundred and
thirty-seven, three hundred and thirty-eight, and three hundred
and thirty-nine, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the under-
taking mentioned in section three hundred and _ thirty-four, shall
stay proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed
from. except that where it directs the sale of perishable preperty,
the court below may order the property to be sold, and the pro-
ceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the judgment
of the appellate court.
- § 843. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk, with
- whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered.

CHAPTER HI.

Appeal to the Supreme Court from an inferior Court. i

Burton 344. In what cases.
345. Security must be given as open appeal to the court of appeals.
346. Appeal where heard.
347. J udgment on appeal where entered and docketed.

§ 344. An appeal may be. taken to the supreme court from the
judgment rendered by a county court, or by the mayors’ courts,
or the recorders’ courts of cities. But no appeal shall be allowed
from a judgment of a county court in a case arising in a justice’s
court, unless the party desiring to appeal shall within thirty days
after notice of the judgment, present to a judge of the supreme
court the return of the justice, or a cOpy thereof, with the decis-
ion of the county court, and obtain from such judge a certificate
that he has examined the case, and in his opinion an appeal to
the supreme court should be. allowed.
§ 345. Security must be given upon such appeal, in the same.
manner, and to the same extent, as upon an appeal to the court
of appeals. -
§ 346. Appeals in the supreme court shall be heard at a gen?
eral term, either in the district embracing the county where the
judgment or order appealed from was entered, or in a county ad-
joining that county. except that where the judgment or order was
entered in the city and county of N ew-York, the appeal shall be
heard in the tirst district.
§ 347. Judgment upon the appeal shall be entered and dock-:
eted with the clerk in whose oilice the judgment roll is filed“
When the appeal is heard in a county other than that where the:
judgment roll is tiled, or is not from a judgment of a county
court, the judgment upon the appeal shall be certihed to the
clerk with whom the roll is filed, to ,be there entered and dock-

Cranmer:~ IV. "

 Osmandtheéhpen'oraomaadarm
.of 09mm. of the city of New-York, from a ninja .
,hdggtothegeneraltem ‘

Simon 348. Appeals from circuits and special terms to same court in gu-
sral term. Security on appeal.
349. Orders by'a single judge, may be appealed from in certain
cases.
350. Orders at chambers to be entered before appeal.

§ 8.48. In the supreme court, the superior court of the city 'of
I New-York, and the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New-York, an appeal, upon the law may be taken to the gin-
eralrterm, from a judgment entered upon the direction d‘ n single
judge of the same court. Security must be given upon such up-
pealinthesamemannerasuponan appeal to the court of ap-‘
peals. In the supreme court, the appeal shall he heard 'in the .
same manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court. p
. § 349. An appeal may in like manner, and within the same s
time, be taken from an order— made by a single * judge of the same
court, and may be thereupon reviewed, in the'following cases :
1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional remedy;
2. When it involves the merits of the action, or some put
thereof;
3. When the order decides a question of parties which in ef-
fect determines the action without a trial, or precludes an appeal;
4. ‘When the order is'mnde, upon a summary application in an
action after judgment, and affects a substantial right. ‘
§ 350. The last section shall include an order made out of ‘
Docourt upon notice; but in such case the order must be that entered ‘
with the clerk. And for the purpose of an appeal, any party,
ad‘ected by such order, may require it to be entered With *me
clerk, and it shall be entered accordingly.

Guam-an V.
Appeal to the Court of Common Plea: for the city and court, of
Court.

I

New- York, or to a county Court, from an infeftor

Secures. 351. Existing laws repealed, and this chapter substituted.

352. By what courts judgments to be reviewed.

353. Appellant to make amdavit.

354. Copy affidavit and notice of appeal to be served.

35. Security to stay execution.

356. Form of undertaking.

357. Execution, how stayed.

358. In case of death of justice, undertaking to be Eled.

959. Counter aaidavits allowed, and when andhow served.

360. Return when and how made, and compelled.

'36]. How made if justice be out of adios.

362. Further return my be ordered.

363. If justice be dead, insane or absent from state, m
to be examined. If in another county, return may he

coupelled.

I‘-
x

13“. Huang,“ return. Dis-1mg appeal, if not brought on.
365. To be heard on original papers.

366. Judgment how given.

367. Judgment roll.

368. Costa, how awarded.

'369. Ordering restitution .

310. :Setting (:5 command recovery.
371- The tween appal-

351. All~statutes,enow in force, providingfor the review of}
.‘ gments in civil cases, rendered ‘by a. courts of-justices of the:
peace, by the marine ‘court of the city of N ew-Ycrry the jus-«
tices’ courts in the city of New-York, by the mnni al ‘ court of
the city of Brooklyn, and by the justices’ courts of cities, and
regulating the practice-in relation to such review, are repealed;
and hereafter, the only mode of reviewing such judgments shall
he an appeal, as prescribed by this chapter.

§ 852. When the judgment shall have been rendered by the:
marine court of the city of New-York, or :bya justice’s court in 3
that city, the appeal shallbe to the eourtof commonpleq for the}
city and county of New-York; and when rendered by any of the
other courts enumerated in the last section, to the county court of
the county where the judgment was rendered. ‘

§ 358. The appellant shall, within twenty days after the judg-.
ment, make, or cause to be made, an ailidavit, stating the sub?
stance of the testimony and proceedings before the court below,
-and the grounds upon which the appeal is founded.‘
‘ § 354. A cepy'af the atlidavit and a notice of appeal, shall,
within the same time, be served on the justice and on the res-
pondent, if hebe a resident of the city or county, personally or
by leaving it at his residence, with some person of suitable . age
and discretion, or if he be not a resident, on the attorney or agent,
if any, who is a resident of such city or county, who appeared for
him on the trial.

§ 355. If the appellant desire a stay of execution of the judg-
ment, he shall give security as provided in the next section.

§ 856. The security shall be a written undertaking, executed
by one or more schient sureties, approved by the county judge,
or by the court below, to the eh‘ect that if judgment be rendered
against the appellant, and execution thereon be returned unsatis-
hed,-in whole or in part, the’ sureties will pay the amount unsat-

§ 857. The delivery of the undertaking to the court below,
shall stay the issuing of execution; or if it have been issued, the
service of a copy of the undertaking, certilied by the court be-
low, upon‘the oihcer holding the execution, shall stay further pro-
ceedings thereon.

358. Where, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace,
or ' removal from the county, or any other cause, the under-
taking on the ap cannot be delivered to him, it shall be filed
with the clerk the appellate court, and noticethereof given to
the respondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in sectipn

three hundred and titty-four, it shall, thereupon, have thesame
effect as if delivered to the justice.

§ 359. When the aihdavit and notice of appeal shall have been
served, the respondent may supply or correct material omissions
or mis-statements therein, by an afiidavit on his part, a copy d
which shall be served on the justice, and also on the attorney, if
any, who prosecutes the appeal, or if there be none, on the ap-
pellant, within ten days after receiving notice of the appeal.

§ 360. The.court below shall, thereupon, after ten days and
within thil days after service of the notice of appeal, make a
return to appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and
judgment, and tile the same, with the ailidavits, in the appellate
court, and may be compelled to do so by attachment. But no
justice of the peace .shall be bound to make a return, unless the
fee prescribed by the last section of this chapter be paid on ser-
vice of the notice of appeal-

§ 361. When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment
appealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of toflice, home
a return is ordered, he shall, nevertheless, make a return, in the
same manner and with the like effect as if he were still in omen.

§ 362. If the return be defective, the appellate court 
direct a further or amended return, as often as may he necesnry,
and may compel a compliance with its order, by' attachment.

§ 363. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is appealed
from, shall die, become insane, or remove from the state, the ap-
pellate court may examine witnesses, on oath, to the facts and
circumstances of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal,
as if the facts had been returned by the justice. If he shall
have removed to another county within the state, the appellate
court may compel him to make the return, as if he were still
within the county where the judgmentwas rendered.

§ 364. If a return he made, the appeal may be brought to a
hearing at a general term of the appellate court, upon a notice by
either party, of not less than eight days. It shall be placed upon
the calendar and continue thereon without further notice until
finally disposed of ; but if neither party bring. it to a hettring be-
fore the end of the second term, the court shall'dismiss the appeal,
unless it continue the same, by special order, for cause shown.

§ 365. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers, and
no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of the court.

§ 366. Upon the hearing of the. appeal, the appellate court
shall' give judgment according to the justice of the.case, without
regard to technical errors or defects, which do not affect the mer-
its. In giving judgment, the court may aflirm or reverse the
judgment of the court below, in whole or in part, and as to any
or all the parties, and for errors of law or fact.

§ 367. To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be an-
nexed the aflidavits or return on which it was heard, which shall
be filed with the clerk of the court, and shall mnetitute the judg-
ment roll.

§ 368. If the judgment be allirmed, mats shall be awarded to
the reSpondent. If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to the
appellant. If it be ailirmed in part, the costs, or such part as to
the court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party.
- § 369. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be collect-
ed, and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the appellate court
shall order the amwnt collected to be restored with interest from
the time of collection. The order may be obtained upon proof
of. the facts made at or after the hearing, upon a previous notice
of six days. ’

§ 370. If, upon an appeal, a recovery he had by one party,
and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate court shall set off
the one against the other, and render judgment for the balance.

§ 871. The following fees and costs, and no other, except fees
of ofhcers, shall be allowed on appeals:

.To the appellant, on reversal, fifteen dollars.

To the respondent, on ailirmance, twelve dollars.

To a justice of the peace, for his return, one dollar.

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and allirm-
ed aslto the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either party,
shall be such sum as the appellate court may award, not exceed-
ing ten dollars. .

If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as provided
by section three hundred and sixty-four, no costs shall be allow.
ed to either party. '

TITLE XII.

0f the miscella‘leous proceedings, in civil actions, and general
provisions. ‘

Cums I. Submitting a controversy, without action.
II. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legstees, devisees, and
tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
III. Confession of judgment without action.
IV. Offers of the defendant, to compromise the whole“ or a part of
the action.

V. Admission or inspection of writings.
VI. Examination of parties.
VII. Examination of with.
VIII. Motions and orders.
IX. Entitling aliidsvits.
X. Computation of time.
XI. Notices, and tiling and service of papers.
XII. Duties of sheriffs and coroners.
XIII. Accountability of guardians.
XIV. Powers of referees.
XV. Miscellaneous provisions.

Curran I.
Submitting a controversy, without action.

33011010372. Controversy how submitted without action. .
373. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs.
374. Judgment may be enforced, or appealed hum, as in action.

,3 372. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
“subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the. controversy depends, and
present a. submission of the some, to any court which would have
jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But. it must appear
by allitlavit, tl'tut. the controversy is real, and the proceeding in
good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall
thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general term and
render judgment. thereon, as it" an uction were depending.

 .373. J udgtnent shall he entered in the judgment book, as in
other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to notice
of trial. The ease. the sulnniwion, and a copy of the judgment
shall constitute the. judgment roll.

 371. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner, as
if. it had been rendered in an action and shall be subject to ap-
peal in like manner.

CHAPTER II.

Proceedings- against joint debtors, heirs, am , (59mm mud
tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
Storms 375. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract, may be
summoned after judgment. ,
376. If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be mound.
37 7. Form of summons.
378. To be accompanied by amdavit of amount due.

379. Party summoned may answer and defend.
380. Subsequent pleadings and proceedings same as in an action.
381. Answer and reply to be verified as in an action.

5 375. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, by
uproceeding as provided in section one hundred and thirty-six,
gthose who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint
may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound
by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been origin-
ally summoned. V

§ 376. In case of ,the death of a judgment debtor after judg-
ment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor or
the tenants of real prOperty, owned by him and affected by the
'jugdment, may after the expiration of three years from the time
of granting letters testamentary, or of administration upon the
estate of the testator or intestate, be summoned to show cause,
why the judgment should not be enforced, against the estate of
the judgment debtor in their hands reapectively, and the personal '
representatives of a decease judgment debtor, may be so summon-
ed, at any time within one year after their appointinent.

§ 377. The summons provided in the last two sections, shall be
subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representatives, or at-
torney; shall describe the judgment, and require the person sum-
moned, to show cause, within twenty days alter the service of the
summons; and shall be served in like manner as the original
summons.

§ 878. The summons shall be accompanied by an amdavit of 1
the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been 
tied, to his knowledge or information and belief,- and shall specify o
the amount due thereon. ‘ d

379. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer;
wi '_n the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or set-:
ting up any defence which may have arisen subsequently; andd
in addition thereto, if he he proceeded against according to sec-
tion three hundred and seventy-five, he may make the same de-
fence, which he might have originally made to the action except
the statute of limitations.

§ 380. The party issuing the summons, may demur or reply:
to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply:
and the issues may be tried and judgment may be given, in the t

same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the
application of the property charged to the payment of the judg-
ment, may be commlled by attachment, if necessary.

3 381. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases;
an manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and:
reply in an action. 1

Guam III.

Confession qf Judgment, without action.

83011016 382. Judgment may he confessed for debt due or contingent liability.
383. Statement in writing. and form thereof.
384. Filing same, and entering judgment.

§ 382. A judgment by confession may be entered, withouti
action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure any!
person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or:
both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter. 1

§ 383. A statement in writing must be made, s' ed by the:
defendant and verified by his oath, to the following exit: 1

1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be enter-
ed, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor;

2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state con-
cisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the
sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become due;

3. If it be for the purpose ‘of securing the plaintiff against a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting
the liabili , and must show, that the sum confessed therefor does
not excee the same.

g 384; The statement may be filed with a count clerk, or with:
the clerk of the superior court of the city of ew-York, who!
shall endorse upon it, and enter in the jud ent book, a judg-'
ment of the supreme or said superior court or the amount can-
fessed, with tive dollars costs. The statement and afddavit with

the judgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment
mil. r .

CHAPTER IV.

Qfers of the Defendant to compromise the whole or a part of
the Action.

Sacrron 385. Defendant may serve offer to compromise and the proceedings
thereon.
386. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
387. Ed'ect of acceptance or refusal of offer.

§ 385. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may at
any time before trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff, an
lviotl'er in writing to allow judgment, to be taken against him, for
:the sum, or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept
the offer, and give notice thereof, within ten days, he may file the
summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of ac-
ceptance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accord-
ingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the od'er shall
be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence and if .
the plaintid‘ fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall
pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.
§ 386. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may,
Ewith his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, that
1- if he fail’ in his defence, the damages be assessed at a specified
sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing,
with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict,
the damages shall be assessed accordingly.
.- § 387. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove his
{damages, as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to
give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favor shall
not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall re-
cover his expenses, incurred in consequence of any necessary pre-
paration or defence in respect to the question of damages. Such
expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

Curran V.
Admission or hapection of Writings.

Storm! 388. A party may be required to admit a paper to be genuine, or

pay expense of proving it. Inspection and copy of books,
papers and documents, how obtained.

l § 388. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney,
at any time before the, trial, any paper, material to the action, and
'request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse
party or his attorney fail to give the admission, within four days
after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper, be after-
wards put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the
same be finally proved or admitted on the trial. such expense to
be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the
admission; unless it appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that
there weregood reasons for the refusal. The court before which
an action is pending, or a judge or justice thereof, may in their
discretion, and upon due notice, order either party to give to the

other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permis-
sion to take a copy, of any books, papers and documents in his
possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action, or the defence therein. If compliance with
the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper
from being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing or both.

CHAPTER VI.

Examination of Parties.

8501108 389. Actions for discovery abolished.
390. A party may examine his adversary as a witness on the trial.
391. Such examination also allowed before trial. Proceedings then--

for.
392. Party, how compelled to attend.

393. Testimony of party may be rebutted.

394. Effect of refusal to testify.
395. Testimony by a party not responsive to the inquiries, may be

rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.
396. Pemonsdfor whom action is brought or defended, may be ex-
amine . -
397. Examination of co-plaintifi' or co—defendant.

§ 389. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the.
prosecution or defence of another action, shall be allowed, nor shall 1
any examination of a party he had, on behalf of the adverse party,
except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

§ 390. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at,
the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse‘
parties, and for that purpose .may be compelled, in the same man-.
ner, and subject to the sanie rules of examination, as any other
witness to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon com-
. mission.

§39l. The examination, instead of being had at the trial as2
provided in the last section, may be had, at any time before the:
trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before a judge of the!
court or a county judge, on a previous notice to the party to be;
examined, and any other adverse party, of at least five days, un-
less, for good cause shown, the judge order otherwise. But the
party to be examined, shall not be compelled to attend in any other
county than that of his residence, or where he may be served with
a summons for his attendance.

§ 392. The party to be examined, as in the last section provid-I
ed, may be compelled to attend, in the same manner as a witness;
who is to be examined conditionally; and the examination shall
be taken and tiled by the judge in like manner, and may be read
by either party on the trial.

§ 398. The examination of the party thus taken may be rebut-i
ted by adverse testimony. }

§ 394. If a party refuse to attend and testify as in the last four;
sections provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and his :
complaint, answer, or reply, may be stricken out.

§395. A party examined byan adverseperty, asin this chap-
ter provided, may be examined on his own behalf, in respect to
any matter pertinent to the issue. But if he  to any new
matter, not responsive to the enquiries put to him by the adverse
party, or necessary to explain or qualify his answers thereto, or
discharge when his answers would charge himself, such adverse
party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf, in reapect
to such new matter, and shall be so received.

§ 396. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is pros-
ecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be ex-
amined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules of examination, as if he were named as a party.

§ 397. A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintif
or a co-defendant; but the examination thus taken shall not be
used on behalf of the party examined, And whenever, in the case
mentioned in sections three hundred and ninety and three hundred
and ninety-one, one of several plaintid‘s or defendants, who are
joint contractors, or are united in interest, is examined by the ad-
verse party, the other of such plaintid‘s or defendants may od‘er

themselves as witnesses to the same cause of action or defence, and
shall be so received. 7

CHAPTER VII.
Examination of Witnesses.

Session 398'. No witnea to be excluded by reason of interest.
399. To whom last section inapplicable.

§398. No person offered as a witness, shall be excluded by
reason of his interest in 'the event of the action.

§ 399. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action,
nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted or -

defended, nor to any assignor of a thing in action assigned for the
purpose of making him a witness.

- Curran VIII.
Mariam and\ Orders.

Slams 400. Definition of an order.
401. Definition of a motion. Motions, how and where made. _
402. When notice is necessary, it must be eight daysbefore hearing.
403. In actions in supreme court,county judge may act at chambers.
His orders, how reviewed.

404. In absence of judge at chambers, motion may be transferred by
him to another judge.

405. Enlarging tinie for proceedings in an action.

§ 400. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in
writing, and. not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 401. An application for an order is a motion.

Motions may be made in the first  district to a judge or
justice out of court, except for a new trial on the merits.

Motions must bejmade within the district in which the action is
triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable, except that
where the action istriableinthe drst judicial district, the motion must
be made therein. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be
made by any judge of the court in any part of the state ; and they may
also be made by a county judge of the county where the action is
triable, except to stay proceedings after a verdict.

No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty
days shall be granted by a judge out of court, except upon previous
notice to the adverse . .

§ 402. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be serv-
ed eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the

court or judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a short

or time. 7

§ 403. In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, in addi-
tion to the powers conferred upon him by this act, may‘exercise,
within his county, the powers of a judge of the supreme court at
chambers, according to the existing practice, except as otherwise
provided in this act. And in all cases where an order is made by
a. county judge, it may be reviewed in the same manneras if it had
been made by‘ a judge of the supreme court. ‘
§ 404. When notice of a motion is given, or an order to show
cause is returnable, before a judge out of court, and at the time
t fixed for the motion, he is absent, or unable to hear it, the same
may be transferred, by his order, to some other judge, before,j
whom the motion might originally have been made. 1
§ 405. The time within which any proceeding in an action must
be had, after its commencement, except the time within which an.
appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing
grounds therefor, by a judge of the court, or if the action be in the
supreme court, by a county judge. The ailidavit, or a copy there-
of, must be served with a copy of the order, or the order may be-

disregarded.
‘ Cnmsa IX.
Mag Am

Stator 406. Affidavits defectiver entitled, valid.

' § 406. It shall not be necessary to entitle an adidavit intheacs
tion; but an aiiidavit made without a title, or with a defective
title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose, as- if it}

were duly entitled, if it intelliginy refer to the action or proceed-
ing in which it is made.

Bremen 407. Time, how computed. . _
§407. The timo within whiehan actistobe done, as hereing

Ended, shall be computed, by excluding we first day and inelu-t
' gthe but If the lastday be Sunday, itshallbe excluded.

CHAPTER XI.
Notices, aadjilt'ag and service of papers.

3MP"  Notices and other papers, how served on party or attorney.

 When and how served by mail.

412. Double time when served by mail.

413. Eight days notice of motion, &c., before-court or judge, when
personally served.

414. Where papers need not be served on defendant.

415. Service of papers where party resides out of State.

416. Summons and pleadings to be tiled within ten days after aer-
Vlce.

417. Service, where party appears by attorney.
418. This chapter not to apply to summons or prooes, or to paper.
to bring party into contempt.

§ 408. Notices shall be in writing; and notices and other pa-
pers may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner pre-
scribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided
by this act.

§ 409. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party
or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may
be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his oiiice, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or
with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no person
in the ofiice, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the mom-
ing and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the adios,
or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leav-
ing it at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable
age and discretion :

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at
his residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine
in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 410. Service by mail may be made, where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in
dili'erenlt places, between which there is a regular communication
by mai . ‘

§ 411. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited
in the 'post odice, addressed to the person on whom it 'is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.

‘§ 412. Where the service is by mail, is shall be double the
time required in cases of personal service.

§ 413. Notice of a motion, or other proceeding, before a court
or judge, when personally served, shall be given at least eight
days before the time appointed therefor. .

§ 414. Where a defendant shall not' have demurred or answer-
ed, service of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an
action, need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for
want of bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney, if notice
of appearance in the action has been given.

0

§ 415. Where a plaintiff or a defendant who has demurred or Be

answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the state, $
and has no attorney in the'action, the service may be made by r:
mail,'if his residence be knoWn, if not known, on the clerk fer‘

the party.

§ 416. The summons, and the several pleadings in an action, 8:
shall be sled with the clerk within ten days after the service :2
thereof, respectively, or the adverse party, on proof of the omis- :1;
sion, shall be entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge
that the same be filed within a time to be specitied in the order,

or be deemed abandoned.
§ 417. Where a party shall have an attorney in the action, the 8.
service of papers shall be made upon the attorney, instead of the:
M

y.

§ 418. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the:
service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring:
a party into contempt. ' 5
CHAPTER XII. ii

Duties of  and Uoroners.

Samoa 419‘. Duty of sheriff and coroner in serving or executing proces,
and how enforced.

§ 419. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be re-l
quired to serve or execute any summons, order, or judgment, or:
to do any other” act, he shall be bound to do so, in like manner asi
upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all res-i
pects for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff be a party, the com-l
- ner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is now bound to
execute process where the sheriff is a party; and all the provis-
ions of this act relating to sheriiis, shall apply to coroners .when
the sherid‘ is a party.

Curran XIII.

Accountability of Guardians.
Samoa 420. Guardian not to receive property until security givenn

§ 420. Nb guardian appointed for an infant, shall be permitted
to receive property of the infant until he shall have given suffi-
cient security, approved by a judge of the court or a county
judge, to account for and apply the same under the direction of
the court.

CHAPTER XIV.
Powers of Referees.

Samoa 421, Referees authorized to administer oaths and to exercise powers
now vested in referees by law.

§ 421. Every referee appointed pursuant to this act, shall have
wer to administer oaths, in any proceeding before him, and shall
ve generally the powers now vested in a referee by law.

LAWS OF NE W—YOR‘K.

Cnsrrsn ‘ XV.
Minnow Mains.
8301'on 429. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
423. Where undertakings to be filed.

4.24. Judgment on bond and warrant of attorney. executed before

July 1, 1848. .
425. Time for publication of notices how computed.
426. Laws of other states and governments; how proved.

§422. If anoriginalpleadingorpaperbelostorwithheld by
I an person, the court may authorize a copyathereof tobe madam!
llused instead of the original.
§ 423. The various undertakings required  be given by this
oact, must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless the court ex-
pressly provides for a diii'erent disposition therwf, except that the
undertakings provided for by the chapter on the claim and delivery
of personal property, shall, after the justification of the aunties,
be delivered by the sheriff to the parties respectively, for whose
benefit they are taken. ‘
, § 424. Upon any bond and warrant of attorney executed and
delivered before the first day of July, one thousand eight hun-
.dred and forty-eight, judgment may be entered in- the rum
provided by sections three hundred and eighty-two, three hun-
died and eighty-three, and three hundred and dghtyJour, up-
on the plaintiff ’s hling such bond and warrant of attorney, and
a statemsnt signed and verified by himself, in the form M .
ed by section three hundred and eigh -two. ‘
§ 4:25. The time for publication of egal notices, shall be m-
: puted so as to exclude the first day of publication, and. include
the day on whichthe act or event, of which notieeis ' en, in to
happen, or- which completes the full period required or publica-
tion.
I § 426. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other
,written law, enacted by any other state, or territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published by the
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence
of the existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such
state, territory, or government, shall be admitted by the courts
and oiiicers of this state, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence
of such laws. The unwritten, or common law of any other state
or territory, or foreign government, may be proved as facts by
parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adqu in
{heir courts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such
w.

0

TITLE XIII.

Actions in Particular Cases.

Omar-ran I. Actions against foreign corporations.

II. Actions in place of scire facias, quo warranto, and of infamo-
tions in the nature of quo warranto.
III. Actions for the partition of real property.

IV. Actions to determine conflicting claims to real property, andtfor
waste and nuisance.

V. .General provisions relating to actions concerning real property.

CHAPTER I. ‘
Actions against Foreign Corporations.
Samoa 427. Where and by whom brought.

§ 427. An action against a corporation, created by, or under
the laws of any other state government, or country, may he
brought in the supreme court, the superior court of the city of
N ew-York, or the court of common pleas forthe city and county
of New-York, in the following cases:

1. By a resident of this. state, for any cause of action;

2. By a plaintitf not a resident of this state, when the cause of
action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be sit-
uated within this state.

Curran II.

Actions in place of sct'refact'as, qua warranto, and of informa.
 the nature of qua wan-ante.

Sam-ton 428. Scire {accilas and quo warranto abolished and this chapter sub«
stitute .

499. Action may be brought by attorney general to vacate a char-
'ter, bv direction of legislature. ’
430. Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought by at.

tomey general, by leave of supreme court.
431. Leave, how obtained. ‘

432. Action upon information or complaint, of course.

433. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.

434. Relator when to be joined as plaintiff. .

435. Complaint and arrest of defendant, in action for usurping an
office.

436. Judgment in such action.

437. Assumption of 05cc, &.e., by relator, when judgment is it
his favor.

438. Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to deliver books 01
papers. ‘

439. Damages, how recovered.

440. One action against several persons claiming omce orfran-
chise

441. Penalty for an ' adios orfranchise, how awarded.

442. Judgment of fo iture against a corporation. 1

443. Costs against corporation or persons claiming to be such, ho“
collects .

444. Restraining corporation and appointment of receiver.
445. Copy of judgment roll against corporation, where to he died.

446. Entry of judgment relating to letters patent in records of com
missioners of land oiiico. '

o 447. Muenster-forfeiture of property to the people. ' '

§428. Thewritof sdmfaciathewritofquo wan-Into, and
proceedings by information in the nature of . quo warranto, an
abolished, and the remedies, heretofore obtainable in those form,
.may be obtained by civil actions, under the, provisions‘ of th'l
chapter. But any proceeding heretofore commenced, or judg
ment rendered. or right acquired, shall not be affected by and:
abolition.

§ 429. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
.the name of .the people of this state, whenever the legislature
shall so direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating
or anulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its cos-po-
rate existence, on the ground, that such act or renewal was pro-
cured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a ma-
terial fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them, or
with their knowledge and consent.

§ 430. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the pe0ple of this state, on leave granted by the su-
preme court, or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the
charter or anulling the existence of a corporation, other than mu-
nicipal, whenever such corporation shall,

1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts crea-
ting, altering, or renewing, such corporation ; or,

2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such carport»
ticn shall have forfeited its charter, by abuse of its powers; or

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privilegs or franchises,
by failure to exercise its powers; or ‘ '

4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act, which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and
franchises ; or

5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege, not con-
ferred upon it by law. '

And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, whenever he
shall have reason to believe, that any of these acts or omissions
can be established by proof, to apply for leave, and upon leave
granted, to bring the action in every case of public interest, and
also in every other case, in which satisfactory security shall be
given, to indemnify the people of this state, against the costs and
expenses to be incurred thereby.

.§ 431. Leave to bring the action may be granted, upon the ap-
plication of the attorney-general; and the court or judge may, at
discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to the cor-
poration or its oiiicers, previous to granting such leave, and may
hear the corporation in opposition thereto. -

§ 432. An action may be brought by the attorney-general in
the name of the people of this state, upon his own information, or
upon the complaint of any private party, against the parties of-
flé'nding in the following cases:

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise, any public odice, civil or military, or any fran~
chise within this state ;or any otiice in'a corporation created bythe
authority of this state; or, ‘ . .

-~2. -»When any: public oBcer. civil. or military, shall have done
.or suEeredan act which, bythe provisions of. law, shall make a
. forfeiture of ; his oilice; or,
3. .When any association, or number of persons, shall act with-
win this state as a corporation. without beingduly incorporated.
§ 433. An action may be, brought by~ the attorney-general”
inthe name of the people of this state, for the purpose of trace-1
ting or annulling letters patent, granted by the people of this state:
in the following cases : I
1. When heshallihave reason to believe that such letters pa-
tent were obtained by means of some. fraudulent. suggestion or
concealment of a material. fact, made by a ,person. to whom the
. name were issued or made, or. with his consent or knowledge tor,
2.; .W hen he shall have reason to believe, that such..letters pa-
tent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material
«fact 6 or.
I 3. When he shall. have reason tobelieveuthst the. patentee, or
. those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in viola-
tion of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were
granted, or have, by any other means, forfeited the. interest ac-
quired under .the same. '
§ 434. ~When an action shall be brought by the. attorney-gene-
ral, by virtue of this chapter, on the. relation .or information of a
person having an interest in the question, the name of such per-‘
son shall be joined with the people, as plaintiff.
§ 435. Whenever such action shall be brought against a person
L for. usurping an odice, the attorney-general, in addition to the
statementof the causeof action, mayalso set forth. in the com-
plaint, the name of the person rightfully entitled to the otiice,
with a statement of hisright thereto, and in such case, upon proof
by adidavit, that the defendant has receivedfees or emoluments
belonging to the .ofiice, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an
order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for..the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail, and thereupon
. he shall be arrested and held to bail, in the manner, and with the
same .eti'ect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in
other civil actions, where the defendant is subject to.- arrest.
§ 436.. In every such case judgment shall be rendered upon
thoright of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party,
sozallegedto be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant,
as justice «shall require.

. § 437. If .the judgment be rendered upon the right of the per-
son so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such
person, he shall be entitled,.atter taking the oathof cilice and ex-

. coating such otheial bond as may be required by law, totake upon
himself the execution .of the oEce, and it shall be his duty, im-

,me_diately- thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action,
all the books and papers in his custody or within his power, be-
longing to the oilice, from which he shall have been excluded.

§438. If thedefendantshallrefuseorneglectto deliver ova
such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be dean-
ed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings shall be
'had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery of such books
and papers, as are prescribed in article ave, title six, chapter six,
of the first part of the Revised Statutes.

§ 439. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover,
by action, the damages which he shall have sustained, by reasm
of the usurpation by the defendant of the oilice from which such
defendant has been excluded.

§ 440. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the me
oilice or franchise, one action may be brought against all such
'persons in order to try their respective rights to such omee or
franchise.

§ 441. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corpo-
ration, against whom such action shall have been brought, shall
be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding or exercising any ofiice, franchise or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from such adios,
franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover cosh
against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion,
line such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand (1on
which hne, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
state.
" § 442. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation, against which
an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter, has
by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights,
privileges and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the
corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges and
franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.
r § 443. If judgment be rendered in such action against acorpo—
ration, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court
may cause the costs therein to be collected, by execution agaimt
the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment or pro-
cess against the directors or other oilicers of such corporation.

§ 444. When such judgment shall be rendered against a corpo-
ration, the court shall have the same power to restrain the corpo-
ration, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an ac-
count and mak'e distribution thereof among its creditors, as are
given in article three, title four, chapter eight, of the third part
of the Revised Statutes; and it shall be the duty of the attorney
general, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to in-
stitute p edings for that purpose.

§ mfgpon the rendition of such judgment against a corpo-
ration, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it shall
be the duty of the attorney general to cause a copy of the judg-
'ment roll to be forthwith tiled in the allies of the secretary of
state.

§ 446. Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to
letters patent, make an entry in the records of the commissioners

of the land allies, of the substance and effect of such judgment,
and of the time when the record thereof was docketed, and the
real property granted by such letters patent, may thereafter be
disposed of by such commissioners, in the same manner as if such
letters patent had never been issued.

§ 447. Whenever, by the provisions of law, any preperty, real
or personal, shall be forfeited to the people of this state, or to any
ofhcer for their use, an action for the recovery of such property,
alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the
proper emcer, in the supreme court.

Curran III.‘ ,
.Actt'on for the Partition of Real 

Samoa 448. Provisions of Revised Statutes, applicable to actions for par-

‘ tition.

§ 448. The provisions of the Revised Statutes relating to the
partition of lands, tenements and hereditaments, held or possessed
by joint tenants or tenants in common, shall app] to actions for
such partition brought under this act, so far as t 6 same can be

so applied to the substance and subject matter of the action, with-
out regard to its form.

Curran IV.
Actions to determine conflicting claims to real property, and for

waste and nuisance.

Samoa 449. Actions to determine claims ,to real property, how prosecuted:
450. Action of waste abolished. Waste how remediable.
451. Provisions of Revised Statutes applicable to actions for waste
under this set.
452. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.

453. Writ of nuisance abolished.
454. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance.

§ 449. Proceedings to compel the determination of claims to
real preperty, pursuant to the provisions of the Revised Statutes,
may be prosecuted by action under thi. act, without regard to the}
forms of the proceedin as they are prescribed by those statutes.;
5 450. The action 0 waste is abolished, but any proceeding.
heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired]
shall not be affected thereby. Wrongs heretofore remediable by‘
action of waste, are subjects of action as other wrongs, in whichI
action there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the

estate of the party offending, and eviction from the premises.
§ 451. The provisions of the Revised Statutes relating to the:
achon of waste shall apply to an action for waste, brou ht under:
this act, without regard to the form of the action, so ar as the:
same can be so applied. 1
I

§-452. dudgment of Meiture and eviction sweaty be 
in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant
in' possession, when the injury-to the estate in reversion shalt be
adjudged in the action to be equal to ‘the value of the We
estate, or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

§ 453. The writ of nuisance is abolished; ’but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or any judgment ‘ rendered, or right ac-
quired, shall not be affected there‘lag,‘I

§ 454. ' Injuries heretofore rem " me by writ of nuisance, are
subjects‘ot‘ action, as other injuries, and-in such action there‘mny
be judgment for’damages, or for the removal of the nuisance, or
both.

:Cnsr'rnn V. ' 0
General  relating to actions concerning Teal Hopes-t3.
Bsc'rtox. 455. ’ Provisions of Revised Statutes applicable thereto.

§ 455. .The general provisions of the Revised Statutes relating
to actions concerning real property, shall apply to actions brought
under this act, according to the subject matter of the action, and
:without regard to its form.

TITLE: XIV.
Envision: relating to existing suits.

series 456. Appeal from‘order at a special term, on summary application,

after judgment.

457. ‘ Writ of error in all cases abolished. Appeal substituted.

458. Executietzg when issuable on a judgment docketed before July

- 1, 1 .

459. Proceeding by‘re- hearing abrogated.

460. Appeals from nual decrees, by a single judge, in supreme court,
in suits in equity pending on July .1, 1847, when to be taken.

461. Issues of fact in county court or common pleas before July 1,
1848, how tried.

1  456. The appeal-mentioned in section 9, of the act to facili~
tate the'determination of existing suits in .the courts of thisstate,
may also be taken, from an order, made at a special term, on a
summary application  an action after judgment, when such
order involves the meri of the application, or some part thereot

r § 457. No writ of errorshall be hereafter issued, in any case
whatever. Wherever a right now exists to haveareview of a
judgment rendered, or order or decree made before the first day
of J uly, 1848, such review can only be had upon an appeal taken
in the manner provided 'by this act, and all appeals heretofore
taken from ,such judgments, orders or decrees, under the pro-
visions of" the code of procedure, which are still pending in an
appellate court, and not dismissed, shall be validand eEeetnal.
But this section shall not extend the right of review, to any use
or question to which it does not now extend, nortthe time for
appealing, nor shall it apply to a case where a writ of error has
been already issued.

§ 458. An execution may be issued without leave of the court]
upon a, judgment docketed before the first day of July, 1848, or;
now or hereafter to be rendered in an action pending on that day,l
at. any time within 6ve years after the rendering of the judgment. I
§ 459. The proceeding by re—hearing, provided for in the act 11
in relation to the judiciary, passed May 12, 1847 and modified in:
sections seven'and'eight of the act to facilitate the determination:
of existing, suits in the courts of this state, passed April .12, 1848,
is hereby abrogated, so far as it relates to the appeals provided
for in this section.
§ .460. An appeal, may be taken from any final decree, entered 1
upon the direction-of a single judge, in any suit in equity, pend-r.
ing in the supreme court on the first day of. July, . one .thonsund‘i
eight hundred and forty-seven, within ninety days. from the time.
this act shall take effect; but this section shall not apply to cases“I
where a re-hearing has already been had or ordered, and such;
appeal shall be taken in the manner provided in section three.
hundred and twenty-seven and three hundred and forty-eight.
§ .461. Anissue of. fact joined. in a county court, or court of,:
common pleas, before the tirst day of July, one thousand eightl
‘ hundred and forty-eight, . or then pending in that court on appeal,
shall be tried by a jury, unless the parties “otherwise. 

TITLE xv.
General Revisions.
Sac-mos. 462. Dehnition of “ real property.”
463. Definition of “ personal property.”
464. DeEnition of “property.”
465. Definition of “ district."
466. Delinitlon of “ clerk.”
467. Rule of strict construction of statutes inapplicable to this set.-
468. Statutory provisions inconsistent with this act repealed.
469. Rules and practice inconsistent with this act abrogated.
470. Judges of supreme court to make general rules.
471.  set not to affect certain proceedings and statutory pro-
Visions.

472. Certain parts of revised and other statutes not repealed.
473. This act, when to take effect. 3

§ 462. The words “ real property,” as, used inthis act are co-
extensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments.

§ 463. The words “personal property,” as used in this act, in-
clude money, goods, chattels, things in action, and, evidences of
debt-

§ 464. the .word “ property,” as used inthis set, includes pro-
perty real and personal.

§ 465. The word “ district,” as used in this act, sipifies judici-
al districhexceptwhen otherwise specified.

§ 466. The word “ clerk," asrused in this act, signifies the clerk
of the court where the . action is pending, and in the supreme
court, the clerk in the county mentioned in the title of the com-
plaint, or in another county to which the court may have changed
the place of trial, unless otherwise specified.

z § 467. The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of
that law are to be strictly construed, has no application to this
act.

§ 468. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act, are
repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which

:may have been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby
repealed. And all rights of action given or secured by existing
laws, may be prosecuted in the manner provided by this act. If
a case shall arise in which an action for the enforcement or pro-
tection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot
be had under this act, the practice heretofore in use may be ad-
opted so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

§469. The present rules and practice of the courts, in civil
actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated; but where con-

Lsistent with this act, they shall continue in force stilject to the
power of the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the
same.

§ 470. The judges of the supreme court shall meet in general
session at the capitol, in the city of Albany, on the first Wednes-
day of August, 1849, and at such session mali'e general rules to
carry into eti'ect the provisions of this act, and such other rules as
they deem proper not inconsistent with this act. The rules so
made shall govern the superior court of the city of N ew-York,
the court of common pleas of the city and county. of N ew-York,
and the county courts, so far as the same may be applicable.
Until such general session of the supreme court, the general
terms respectively of that court, and of the other courts men-
tioned in this section, may make temporary rules in like cases, to
continue in force until the first day of September next, and no
longer; and from and'after the first day of September next, the

existing general rules of the supreme court, adopted in July, 1847,
so far as the same remain now in force shall be abrogated.

‘ § 47L Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this act
shall not affect proceedings upon mandamus, or prohibition; nor
appeals from surrogates’ courts; nor any special statutory remedy
not heretofore obtained by action; nor any existing statutory
provisions relating to actions, not inconsistent with this act, and in
substance applicable to the actions hereby provided; nor any
proceedings provided for by chapter five of the second part of the
Revised Statutes, or by the sixth and eighth titles of chapter ave
of the third part of those statutes, or by chapter eight of the same
part, excluding the second and twelfth titles thereof, or by the
drst title of chapter nine of the same part; except that when in
consequence of any such proceeding a civil action shall be brought,
such action shall be conducted in conformity to this act , and ex-
cept also, that where any particular provision of the titles and
chapters enumerated in this section shall be plainly inconsistent
with this act, such provision shall be deemed repealed.

5 472. Nothing in this act contained shall be taken to repeal
section twenty-three of article two of title dve of chapter six, part
third of the Revised Statutes, or to repeal an act to extend the
exemption of household furniture and working tools from distress
for rent and sale under execution, passed April 11, 1842.

§.473. This act shall take effect on the first day of July, 1848;
except that sections twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four and
twenty-five shall take ed‘ect immediately.

 

Chap. 439.

ANACT toamend anact entitled “Anacttofacilitatethede-
termination of existing suits in the courts of this State.”

Passed April 11, 1349.

The P of the State of New York, represented in Senate
and Ass do enact as follows .-

The act entitled “ An act to facilitate the determination of ex-
isting suits in the courts of this State,” passed April 12, 1848, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:

1. The act to simplify and abridge the practice, pleadings
an proceedings of the courts of this state, passed April 12, 1848,
and amended at the present session of the Legislature, is herein
designated as the “ Code of Procedure.”

TITLE 1'.
Provisions relating to the Courts in general.
Cums 1. Sections of the Code of Procedure referred to and applied to ex-
isting suits.
II. Other provisions relating to existing suits.

CHAPTER. 1.

Sections of the Code of Procedure referred to and applied to ea:-
. irting suits.

§ 2. The provisions of the Code of Procedure‘, contained in
the following sections thereof, are hereby applied, so far as the
same are applicable, to future proceedings in civil suits, whether
at law or in equity, pending on the hut day of July, 1848, as
ibllows: .

1. Sections seventy-two, one hundred and twenty-one, one hun-
dred and sixty-nine to one hundred and seventy-six, both inclusive,
three hundred and fifteen and three hundred and eight-eight, to
proceedings in actions in the supreme court, in the county courts,
in the superior court of the city of New-York, in the court of com-
mon pleas for the city of New-York, in the mayors’ courts of the
cities of Albany, Hudson, Troy and Rochester, and in the recor-
ders’ courts in the cities of Buffalo and Utica.

2. Sections two hundred and ninety-two to' three huddred ind
two, both inclusive, to executions on a judgment or decree inan‘y
of those courts, hereafter issued; against any person'to the shes-if
of the county where he resides, or if he reside out of 'the state to-
the sheriff of the county where the record of ‘ judgment is filed‘or
the‘ decree enrol-led '; the word “ judgment” in these sections being
taken to include a decree. .

3. Sections three hundred and twenty-three tothree-hundrcd
and thirty-one, both inclusive, three hundred and thirty-three to
three hundred and forty-seven, both inclusive, and three hundred
and titty-one to three hundred and seventy-one, both inclusive, to
the review of judgments, decrees, and final orders, from which no
writ of error or appeal shall have been already taken, the word
“judgment” being taken to include a decree, and “judgment ’roll'"
to include the record of judgment and enrolment of decree; '

4. Sections three hundred and ninety to three hundred and
ninety-nine, both inclusive, four hundred and six to four hundred
and fifteen, both inclusive, fOur'hundred and seventeen and four
hundred and eighteen, to proceedings'in' actions in all the cool-B
of civil jurisdiction in the state.

5. Section four hundred and two, to non-enumerated motions in
the courts mentioned in the first subdivision of this section.

03mm II.
Other provisions relating to existing Shite.

. § 3. Any suit in equity now pending in the supreme court, or'
"which may be there pending before the first day of July next, or
pany issue therein, whether of fact or‘ of law, or both, may be re-
'ferred upon the written consent of the parties concerned; and
upon the like consent, a reference may be ordered to take testi-
mony, or to report facts, or to execute any Order or decree.

§ 4.‘ Where the parties do not consent, as in the last section
'mentioned, the court may, upon the application of either, or of its
own motion, direct a reference in such suit, in the following uses:

1. Where the determination of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of along account on either side ; in which case the
reference may be to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report
upon an specific question of fact involved therein ; or

2. here the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the court, before decree, or for carrying an order or
decree into effect; or q

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the suit.
. § 5. The report of the referee or referees upon the whole cause,-
Ior upon the whole of any issue therein, shall stand as the decision
of the court, in the same manner as if the‘cause or issue had been

determined by the court-at a special term, and may be reviewed
in like manner.

§ 6. The referee or referees shall be appointed in the manner:
provided in sectiOn two hundred and seventy-three, of the code of:
procedure, and shall have the powers speeiiled in ' section four
hundred and twentyaone, and the compensation specified in section
three-hundred and thirteen, of that code.

§.7; No re-hearing shah take-place at a general term of tlzm
supreme cOurt, of an order or decree made at a special term, un-
less :the same involve the“ merits of the suit or proceeding, or
some part thereof. And further proceedings upon the" order or:
decree shalt not he stayed, unless security be given in the same
manner, and to the same extent, as would be required if an appeal.
were taken to the court of appeals from the same order or decree,
made,‘or coniirmed at a general term. Nor shall such re-hearingl
be had, unless notice of the same be given, within ten days after!
notice of the order or decree ~re-heard, with'the security thus re-
quired.

§ 8. No petition for a re-hearing need be made. Instead there-1
of, it shall only be necessary to serve a notice in writing on the’
adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the order or decree to
be re-heard is entered, stating the application for a rezhearing of
such order or decree, or some specified part thereof. '
' § 9. Any party aggrieved by an order made at a special term.
of the supreme court, in an action at. law, or in‘ a special proceed-‘
ing, when it involves the merits of the action or special proceed-
ing, or some part thereof, may appeal therefrom to the court at a'
general term ; where, upon such appeal, the order may be reversed,-
amrmed or modified, according to law. '

§ 10. The ap in the last section mentioned, may be made, I
by the service 0 a notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on!
the clerk with whom the order is entered, stating the appeal from
the same, or some specided part thereof. But no such appeal
shall be taken, unless a judge of the supreme court certify, that, in
his opinion, it is proper, that the question arising on the appeal
should be decided-at the general term.

TITLE II.

Provisions relating to Courts in the First Judicial District.

§ 11. The general term of the supreme court, appointed to be,
held in the first judicial district, on the first Monday of April,‘
eighteen hundred and forty-eight, shall be continued from the first:
Monday of each month to the third Saturday thereafter, until and
including the third Saturday after the first Monday of July,
eighteen hundred and forty-eight, or until all the cases on the ca-
lendar be sooner heard, or a sutiicient opportunity be given for the
hearing thereof. .
§ 12. The special terms and circuit courts appointed to be held
in the first judicial district at any time hereafter, before the first
day of July, eighteen hundred and forty-eight, shall be respective-
] continued from the first Monday of each- month“ to the third
urday thereafter, until and including the third Saturday after

the drst Monday of July, eighteen hundred andforty-eight, or un-
til all the cases ready thereat for hearing or trial be sooner heard,
or otherwise disposed of. ’

§ 13. In addition to the courts already required by law, there
'shall be held on the first Monday of September, eighteen hundred
and forty-eight, a general and special term of the supreme court,
and a circuit court in the first judicial district by such judges, as
the governor shall, by appointment, in writing, designate; which
terms and circuit court shall be exclusively devoted to the deter-
mination of suits and proceedings in the supreme court commenced
before the first day of July, eighteen hundred and forty-eight

§ 14. The terms and circuit court, mentioned in the last sec-
tion, shall each be continual in each month, except October and
January, from the first Monday to the third Saturday thereafter,
inclusive, until the fourth Saturday in February, eighteen hundred
and forty-nine, or until the suits and proceedings mentioned in the
last section, ready for hearing at such courts, shall be sooner de-
termined.
' § 15. If the judges assigned to hold such general or special
terms or circuit courts, or any of them be unable, by reason of
sickness, or judicial engagements elsewhere, to sit until the close
thereof, the governor shall assign other judges, not actually engag-
ed in holding court, to take their places respectively. ,

§ 16. When a cause, placed upon the calendar of a court of re-
cord in the city of N ew-York, shall be regularly called and passed,
without a postponement by the court for good cause shown, it shall
thenceforth take its place on the same or any future calender, as
if the date of the issue were the time when it was thus passed.
. § 17. In the case mentioned in the last section it shall be the
'duty of the party placing a cause upon the calendar, for a subse-
quent term, to state the date of the issue, as above prescribed; and
if he omit to do so, by reason whereof the issue retains its priority
on the calendar, the court, on the application of the adverse party,
or of its own motion, may strike the cause from the calendar.
. § 18. This act shall take effect immediately, except that section
'two shall take effect at the same time with the Code of Procedure,

