PART II.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE I. 01 their iorm.

II. 01 the time oi commencing them.
III. or the parties.

IV. 0! the place oi trial.
7. 0! the manner oi commencing them.
VI. 0! the pleadings.
VII. 0! the provisional remedies.
VIII. or the trial and judgment.

II. or the exec ntion oi the judgment.
I. 0! the costs.

II. or actions in particular cases.
III. 0! appeals.

IIII. 0! the miscellaneous proceedings and general
provisions.

XIV. Provisions respecting snits heretoiore commenced.

TITLE I.

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Samoa 564. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and forms of

such actions and suits, abolished.
555. Parties to an action, how designated.
556. Feigned issues, abolished and order for trial substituted.

§554. The distinction between actions at law and

suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and
suits, heretofore existing, are abolished ; and, there shall

be in this state, hereafter, but one form of’ action, for

the enforcement or protection of private rights and the
redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be

denominated a civil action.

See aimended Code, (369. The references do not always
indicate that the provision referred to and that reported are
precisely the same, though we have intended to note the substantial differences.

§555. In such action, the party complaining is
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the

defendant.
./imended Code, § 70.

§ 556 There can be no feigned action or issue, but a
question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may
be tried by a jury, upon an order for the trial, stating,
distinctly and plainly, the question of fact to be tried,
and such order is the only authority necessary for a

trial.
ufmended Code, § 72.

TITLE II.

OF THE TIME 01-‘ COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Olnrrnn I. Actions in general.
II. Actions for the recovery of real property.
111. Actions, other than for the recovery of real property.

IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

‘ran TIME or oomn-zscmc ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

§ 557. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, except where in special -cases
adifferent limitation is prescribed by statute.
Jmended C’ » ~

CHAPTER II.

THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY 01-‘ REAL
PROPERTY.

Szcrxox 558. When the people will not sue.
559. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the state.

560. When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought within
twenty years.

561. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action for real
property.

562. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defence
founded on title to or rents of real property.

Action must be commenced within one year after entry, or within
twenty years after right of entry.

Possession when resumed. Occupation deemed under legal title,

unless adverse.
Occupation under written instrument or judgment, when deemed
adverse.

What constitutes adverse possession, under written instrument or
judgment.

Premises actually occupied, under claim of title, deemed to be held
adversely.

What constitutes adverse possession under claim of title not written.

Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse possession.
Right of possession not affected by descent cast.

Certain disabi.lities.exclnded from time to commence actions.

§ 558. The people of this state will not sue any per-‘
son for or in respect to any real property, or the issues

or profits thereof; by reason of the right or title of the
people to the same, unless,

1. Such-right or title shall have accrued within forty
years before any action, or other proceeding, for the

same is commenced; or unless,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real property, or at some part thereof, within the space of forty

./intended code, C; '75.

§ 559. No action can be brought for, or in respect to
real property, by any person claiming under letters

patent, or grants from the people of this state, unless
the same might have been commenced by the people,

as herein specified, in case such patent had not been

issued or grant made.

./Qmended Code, § 76.

§'560. When letters patent, or grants of real property, issued or made by the people of this state, are declared void by the determination of a competent court,

rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion,
concealment, forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a

material fact, or Wrongful detaining, or defective title,
in such case, an action for the recovery of the property,
so conveyed, may be brought either by the people of
this state, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of

the same property, his heirs or assigns, within twenty
years after such determination; but not after that period.

uimended Code, § 77.

§ 561. No actionfor the recovery of real property, or
for the recovery of the possession thereof, can be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor,
predecessor, or grantor, was seised or possessed of the

property in question, within twenty years before the
commencement of the action.

Jmended Code, § 78.

§ 562. No cause of action or defence to an action arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, can be effectual, unless it appear

that the person prosecuting the action, or making the
defence, or under whose title the action is prosecuted

or the defence is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or

grantor of such person, was seised. or possessed of the

property’ in question, within twenty years before the
commission of the act in respect to which such action
is prosecuted or defence made.

.«9mended Code, § 79.

§ 563. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufiicient
or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced
thereupon within one year after the making of the entry, and within twenty years from the time when the '

right to make it descended or accrued.

./Ymended Code, § 80.

§564. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the possession thereof’, the person establishing Z

a legal title to the property is presumed to have been
possessed thereof within the time required by law; and
the occupation of the property by any other person, is
deemed to have been under and in subordination to the
legal title, unless it appear that the property has been
held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for
twenty years before the commencement of the action

Amended Code, (381.

§ 565. When it appears that the occupant, or those

under whom he claims, entered into the possession of
land under claim of title, exclusive of other right, making such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of the land in question, or upon the
judgment of a competent court; and that there has
been a continued occupation and possession of the land
included in such instrument, or judgment, or of
some part of the land, under such claim, for twenty
years, the land so included is deemed to have been held

adversely, except that when it consists of a tract divided
into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a possession of any other lot of the same tract.

Amended Code, § 82.

‘£2566. For the purpose of constituting an adverse

possession, by any person claiming a title founded upon

a written instrument or a judgment, land is deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following

03888 2

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved:

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure:

3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used
for the supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant:
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been
partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that

may have been left not cleared, or not inclosed according to the custom of the adjoining country, is deemed
to have been occupied for the same length of time as

the part improved.
ufmended Code, § 83.

§ 567. Where it appears that there has been an actua1 continued occupation of land, under a claim of title,

exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a

written instrument, or judgment, the land so actually
occupied and no other, is deemed to have been held
adversely.

.I9m¢nded Code, § 84.

§ 568. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon

a written instrument, or a judgment, land is deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following

cases only, viz:

1. Where it has been protected by a permanent enclosure :

2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improyed

Jfmended Code, § 85.

I; 569. When the relation of landlord and tenant
has existed between any person, the possession of
the tenant is deemed the possession of the landlord,
until the expiration of twenty years from the termina-;
tion of the tenancy; or where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the

time of the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that
such tenant may have acquired another title, or may

have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But
such presumption can not be made after the periods

herein limited.

Amended Code, § 86.

§ 570. The right of a person to the possession of real
property, is not impaired or affected by a descent cast,
in consequence of the death of a person in possession

of such property.
./Imended Code, (387.

§ 571. If a person entitled to commence an action for

the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or

defence founded on the title to real property, or to rents
or services out of the same, be at the time such title

first descends or accrues, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or

' 2. Insane, or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offence, for a term less

than for life, or
4. A married woman;

The time, during which such disability continues, is.
not deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or defence; except that the disabiliities cannot extend the period of limitation, so as to allow such ‘action to be commenced, or entry or defence

made, more than thirty years after the right accrued.

Jlmended Code, § 88.

The qualification at the end of this section is new. There
seems no reason at the present day, for extending the limitation further than is here proposed. Actions can be brought
by persons under disability, and the rights of persons in possession require that they should be brought or abandoned. It
will be remembered, that the operation of this provision is
prospective, and affects no rights already accrued.

CHAPTER III.

THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE BIGJVEBY OF
REAL PROPERTY.

Bscrrox 572. Periods of limitation prescribed.
1573. Within twenty years.
574. Within six years.

575. Within three years.

576. Within two years.

577. Within one year.

578. When cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current account.
579. Actions for penalties, &.c., by any person who will sue, when to be

brought.

5&1. Actions for relief, not before provided for.
581. Actions by the people, subject to the same limitation.

§ 572. The periods prescribed in section 557, for the’

commencement of actions other than for the recovery
of real property, are as follows:

aimendcd Code, §89.

§ 573. Within twenty years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court

of the United States, or of any state or territory within’

the United States :

2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

Jlmended Code, § 90.

§ 574. Within six years:

1. An action upon a contract, or other obligation,

express or implied ; excepting those mentioned in the

last section :

2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or forfeiture:

3. An action for trespass upon real property:

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including actions for the specific recovery, thereof:

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any
other injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not hereinafter enumerated:

6. An action for relief; on the ground of fraud; the

cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have
accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of

the facts constituting the fraud.
./Imended Code, (3 91.

§ 575. Within three years:

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable
upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his
official capacity, and in virtue of his ofiice, or by the

omission of an oflicial duty; including the failure to
pay money collected upon an execution; but this section does not apply to an action for an escape:

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to the party aggrieved,
or to such party and the people of this state, except

where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation.

.dmended Code, §92.

§ 576. Within two years:

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or

false imprisonment:

- K

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people of this state.

Amended Code, § 93.

§ 577. Within one year:

1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the

escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on eivil

process.

‘.dmended Code, § 94.

§ 978. In an action brought to recover a balance due
upon a mutual, open and current account, where there

have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the

cause of action is deemed to have accrued, from the
time of the last item proved in the account, claimed, or
proved to be chargeable, on the adverse side.

./Qmended Code, § 95, modified as it seems to us it ought
to be.

§ 579. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, iven in whole or in part to the person who
prosecutes for the same, must be coznmenced within
one year after the commission of the offence; and if
the action be not commenced within the year by a private party, it may be commenced within two years
thereafter, in behalf of the people of this state, by the
attomey-general or the district attorney of the county

where the offence was committed.

afmended Code, § 96.

§ 580. An action for relief; not hereinbefore provided
for, must be commenced within ten years after the

cause of action shall have accrued.

./Imendcd Code, § 97.

§ 581. The limitations prescribed in this chapter apply to actions brought in the name of the people of this

state, or for their benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

./imended Code, § 98.

CHAPTER IV .

GENERAL PROVIIIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

8zc'noN 582. When action deemed to have been commenced.
583. Issuing summons in certain cases to be deemed a com meneernent.
584. Exception, where defendant is out of the state.
585. Exception, as to persons under disabilities.
586. Provision where person entitled, dies before the limitation expires.
587. In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
588. Provision, where judgment has been reversed.
589. Time of stay of action by injunction or statutory prohibition to be
deducted.
. Disability must exist when right of action accrued.
removed.
. This title not applicable to bills &.c., of corporations, or to bank
notes. .
. Nor to actions against directors or stockholders of monied corporations or banking associations. Limitations in such cases prescribed.

594. Acknowledgment, or new promise must be in writing.
5%. Existing causes of action not afected.

590
59 Where two or more disabilities, limitation does not attach, till all
592

593

§ 682. An action is commenced as to each defendant
when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in
interest, with him.
aimended Code,§ 99. This section and the next are changed in phraseology, so as to avoid the incongruity of the former provision, which allowed two modes of commencing an

action inconsistent with each other.

§ 583. An attempt to commence an action, is deemed

equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the

meaning of this title, when the summons is delivered,
with the intent that it shall be actually served, to the

sheriff or other ofiicer of the county, in which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided ; or if

a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff, or other officer, of the county, in which such corporation was established by law, or where its general business was
transacted, or where it kept an oflice for the transaction

of business. But such an attempt must be followed by 1

the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof within sixty days.

§ 584. If; when the cause of action accrue against a
person, he be out of the state, the action may be commenced Within the term herein limited, after his return
to the state; and if, after the cause of action accrues,
he depart from the state, the time of his absence is not

part of the time limited for the commencement of the

action.

.&mended Code, § 100.

§ 585. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape,
be at the time the cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or
2. Insane ; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution

under the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less‘

than his natural life; or

4. A married woman:

The time of such disability is not a part of the time

limited for the commencement of the action, except

that the period within which the action must be brought,
cannot be extended more than five years, by any such

-disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in

any case longer than one year after the disability ceases.

./Rmended Code, §]O1. Moditied, so as to limit the time,
according to the views expressed in the note to section 571.

§ 686. If a person, entitled-to bring an action, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an
action may be commenced by his representatives, after
the expiration of that time, and within one year from
his death. If a person, against whom an action may

be brought, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof‘, and the cause of

action survive, an action may be commenced against
his representatives after the expiration of that time,

and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary, or of administration.

./Rmended Code, §102.

§ 587. \Vhen a person is an alien subject, or citizen

of a country at war with the United States, the time of

“the continuance of the war is not part of the period

limited -for the commencement of the action.

Jlmended Code, § 103.

§588. If an action be commenced within the time
prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein for the plaintiff be reversed on appeal, the plaintid‘, or if he die,
and the cause of action survive, his representatives

may commence a new action, within one year after

the reversal.

Jimended Code, § 104.

§589. When the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition, is
not part of the time limited for the commencement of

the action.

./Qmended Code, (}105.

§590. No person can avail himself of a disability,
unlesss it existed when his right of action accrued.

./Imended Code, §106.

§ 591. When two or more disabilities co-exist, at the
time the right of action accrues, the limitation does
not attach, until they are all removed.

uimended Code, §107.

§ 592. This title does not affect actions to enforce the

payment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by monied corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.

Amended Code,§ 103.

§ 593. Actions against directors or stockholders of a
monied corporation, or to recover a penalty or forfeiture
im sed, or to enforce a liabili - created b law, must

be brought within six years after the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty or
forfeiture attached, or the liability was created,

uimended Code, §109.

§594. No acknowledgment or promise is sutlicient
evidence of a new or continuing contract, by which to

take the case out of the operation of this title, unless

the same is contained in some writing signed by the
party to be charged thereby; but this section does not

alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.

./Ymcnded Code, §110.

§595. This title does not extend to actions already

commenced, nor does any part of it, except section
583, extend to cases where the right of action has already accrued: but the statutes now in force are applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the

action, and without regard to the form.

Jmended Code, (}73.

TITLE 111.

OF THE PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

. Who may be parties.

Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defence.

Executor or trustee may sue without the persons beneficially interested.

When married woman is a party, her husband to be joined, except.
Wife may defend if husband refuses.

Infant to appear by guardian.

Guardian how appointed.

Unmarried female may sue for her own seduction.

Father may sue for seduction of daughter.

Father may sue for death of child.

Wife may sue or defend if deserted.

Who may be joined as plaintiffs.

Who may be made defendants.

Parties united in interest, when to be joined. When one or more

may sue or defend for the whole. _
. Plaintiff may sue in one action the diferent parties to commercial
paper.

12. Action when not to abate by death, marriage, or other disability.
Proceedings in such case.

613. Court when to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be
brought in.
614. Another person may be substituted for defendant.

615. Associates may be sued by name of association.

§
2
§§§§

3 :3'.§§§§§.§.§.§§§i§

I §596. The people of this state, in their political or
corporate capacity, the United States of America, every
sister state of the United States, every organized territory of the United States, every foreign state or sovereign prince in amity with the United States, all other

corporations, foreign or domestic, and all natural persons, not alien enemies, or adjudged civilly dead, may
be parties, plaintiffs, in the courts of this state; every
state, sovereign, and body politic mentioned in this section, and every other corporation and natural person
may he a party, defendant.

New, for the purpose of defining who may be parties to
actions in our courts,

v U U U U \

of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 599.

..a—

9./imended Code, § 111.

§598. In the case of an assignment of a thing in

action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice
to any set-ofl" or other defence existing at the time of, or

before notice of, the sssignment ; but this section does
not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good considerations, before due.

afmended Code, § 112.

§ 599. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorised by statute,

may sue without joining with him the persons for

whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with
whom, or in whose name, a contract is made, for the

benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section.

aimended Code, § 113. The last sentence is added to remove a doubt which has been expressed. '

§ 600. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except that,

1. When the action concerns her separate property,

she may sue alone:

2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued‘ alone.

./Hmended Code,§ 114.

§ 601. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband

neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

See 2 R. 8., 340, sections 4 &. 5. There is no reason why
the provision should not be extended to all actions as well as

those concerning real property.

§ 602. When an infant is a party, he must appear by

guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which
the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof

Jlmended Code, § 115.

§ 603. The guardian must be appointed as -fbllows:

1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application

of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if
under that age, upon the application of some other party
to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant:

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application

of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
apply within twenty days after the service of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect

so to apply, then upon the application of any other

party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.

Jimended Code, § 116.

§ 604. An unmarried female may prosecute, asp1aintiff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover

therein such damages as shall be assessed in her faV01‘.

The purpose of this section and the next is to wipe away
from our law a reproach, to which it has long been subject,

that of giving no adequate remedy for one of the greatest
offences against society, which a man can commit, that of seduction. At present the law gives only an action to the
parent, or to one who stands in his relation, founded upon
the notion, that he has suffered a pecuniary injury by the
loss of service of the person seduced. Now the seduction of
a woman, by which is meant inducing her, by persuasion,
threats, or fraud, to consent to the sacrifice of her virtue, isan

injury to herself and to her relations, of the gravest character. For this injury the law should provide a remedy, not
by means of a fiction, but open and direct, in favor of the
person injured.

The objection, that will be made to an action by the woman,

is that she has consented to the act. That however does not
seem to us an answer, for two reasons. First, there are many

other cases, where the law does now give an action for an
injury to a party consenting; as for example, in the case of
property obtained by false representation or other fraud,

money lost upon stocks, at play, or borrowed upon usury.
Secondly, the woman and her seducer do not stand upon
equal grounds; she is the weaker party, and the victim of
his arts.

With this short statement of our own views, and the following passage from Paley, we submit these sections to the
judgment of the legislature.

“The seducer practices the same stratagems to draw a
woman’s person into his power, that a swindler does to get
possession of your goods or money; yet the law of honor,
which abhors deceit, applauds the address of a successful intrigue ; so much is this capricious rule guided by names, and

with such facility does it accommodate itself to the pleasures
and conveniency of higher life.
Seduction is seldom accomplished without fraud; and. the

fraud is by so much more criminal than other frauds, as the

injury effected by it is greater, continues longer, and less admits reparation.

This injury is threefold; to the woman; to her family;
and to the public.

1. The injury to the woman is made up of the pain she
suffers from shame, or the loss she sustains in her reputation
and prospects of marriage, and of the depravation of her
moral principle.

"‘ This pain must be extreme, if we may judge of it from
those barbarous endeavors to conceal their disgrace, to which
women, under such circumstances, sometimes have recourse ;
comparing also their barbarity with their passionate fondness
for their otlspring in other cases. Nothing but an agony of
mind the most insupportable can induce a woman to forget her
nature, and the pity which even a stranger would show to a
helpless and imploring infant. It is true, that all are not

urged to this extremity ; but if any are, it affords an indicartion of how much all suffer from the same cause. What shall

we say to the authors of such mischief ’l

‘ The loss which a woman sustains by the ruin of her
reputation,almost exceeds computation. Every person’s happiness depends in part upon the respect and reception which
they meet with in the world ; and it is no inconsiderable mortification, even to the firmest temper, to be rejected from the
society of their equals, or received by them with neglect and
disdain. But this is not all, not the worst. By a rule of

life, which it is not easy to blame, and which it is impossible

to alter, a woman loses with her chastity the chance of marrying at all, or in any manner equal to the hopes she had been
accustomed to entertain. Now marriage, whatever it be to

a man, is that from which every woman expects her chief '

happiness. And this is still more true in low life, of which
condition the women are, who are most exposed to solicitations
of this sort. Add to this, that when a woman’s maintenance
depends upon her character, (as it does in a great measure,
with those who are to su ort themselves b service little

' crvrr. rsocsnunn. 247

sometimes is left to the forsaken sufferer, but to starve for"

want of employment, or to have recourse to prostitution for
food and raiment.

3. As a woman collects her virtue into this point, the loss
of her chastity is generally the destruction of her moral principles; and this consequence is to be apprehended, whether
the criminal intercourse be discontinued or not.

II. The injury to the family may be understood, by the

application of that infallible rule, “of doing to others, what '

we would that others should do unto us.” Let a father or
brother say, for what consideration they would suffer this injury to a daughter or sister ; and whether any, even a total
loss of fortune, could create equal atlliction or distress. And
when they reflect upon this, let them distinguish, if they can,

between a robbery, committed upon their property by fraud
or forgery, and the ruin of their happiness by the treachery of
a seducer. t

III. The public at large lose the benefit of the woman’s

service in her proper place and destination, as a wife and
parent. This to the whole community may be little; but it
is often more than all the good,which the seducer does to the
community, can recompense. Moreover prostitution is supplied by seduction; and in proportion to the danger there is
of the woman betaking herself, after her first sacrifice, to a

life of public lewdness, the seducer is answerable for the

multiplied evils to which his crime gives birth.

Upon the whole, if we pursue the e6'ects of seduction
through the complicated misery which it occasions, and if it
be right to estimate crimes by the mischief they knowingly
produce, it will appear something more than mere invective
to assert, that not one half of the crimes, for which men suffer
death, by the laws of England, are so tlagitious as this. '.

Yet the law has provided no. punishment for this offence,
beyond a pecuniary satisfaction to the injured family; and
this can only be come at, by one of the quaintest fictions in
the world; by the father’s bringing his action against the seducer, for the loss of his daughter’s service, during her pregnancy and nurturing.” Paley’s Moral Philosophy, p. 199.

C C
I
ol ; :1’ 0 1 .“o I I':no 0"‘ an

for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for
the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or
ward be not living with, or in the service of} the plaintilt; at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service.

§ 606. A father, or in case of his death or desertion

of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for
the injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the
injury or death of his ward.

To settle a question of some doubt.

§ 607. When a husband and father has deserted his
family, the wife and mother may prosecute or defend,
in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and

rights therein as he might have had.

To provide for cases of great hardship, that sometimes
happen.

§ 608. All persons having an interest in the subject

of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
may be joined as plaintiffs, except when otherwise provided in this title.
Jmended Code, § 117.

§609. Any person may be made a defendant, who
has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to
the plainti&', or who is a necessary party to a complete
determination or settlement of the question involved
therein.

./Imended Code, § 118.

§610. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one, who should have
been joined as plaintiff, cannot be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the complaint: and when the question is one of a
common or general interest of many persons, or when
the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to

bring them all before the court, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.

Jimended Code, §119.

§ 611. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same
or separate instruments, may, all or any of them, be
included in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.

Amended Code, §l20, amended.

§612. An action does not abate by the death, marriage or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, if the cause of action survi've' or’
continue. In case of the death, marriage, or other disabilityof a party, the court on motion, may allow the

action to be continued by or against his representative
or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action may be continued in the name
of the original party; or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in
the action.

dmended Code, § 121.

§ 613. The court may determine any controversy between pilrties before it, when ‘it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property. a person, not a party to the action, but
having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made a party, it may order

him to be brought in by the proper amendment.

-; - Jimended Code, § 122.

§ 614. A defendant, against whom an action is pending, upon a contract, or for specific, real, or personal
property, may, at any time before answer, upon ailidavit, that a person, not a party to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand
for the same debt or property, apply to _the court for an
order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the
property or its value to such person as the court may
direct. And the court, after notice to the plaintiff and
such person, may, in its discretion, make the order;

crvrr. pnocnnuasz. ' l

and thereupon the substituted defendant shall stand in
the place of the original defendant, and the latter be

discharged from liability to either party.

The object of this section is to save the necessity, in most

cases, of an action to compel two parties, claiming the same
thing, to settle the controversy between them by interpleading. The interpleader act in England was passed for the same

purpose.

{} 615. When two or more persons, associated in any

business, transact such business under a common name,
whether it comprise the names of such persons or not,
the associates may be sued by such common name, the
summons in such case being served on one or more of

the associates; and the judgment in the action shall

bind the joint property of all the associates in the same _
manner as if all had been named defendants, and had i

been sued upon their joint liability. Any one of the

associates may also be sued for the obligation of all.

See Laws of 1836, chap. 385.

TITLE IV.

0!‘ THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

8s:c'rrox 616. Certain actions to be tried where the subject or some part thereof is

situated.
617. Other actions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.

618. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
619. Action may be tried in any county unless defendant demand trial In

proper county.
m. Place of trial may be changed in certain cases.

§ 616. Actions for the following causes, must be tried
inthe county in which the subject of the action, or

the court to change the place of trial, as provided in
section 620:

1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate
or interest therein, or for the determination, in any
form, of such right or interest, and for injuries to real

property:
2. For the partition of real property:

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:

4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained,

for any cause.

.&mcnded Code, § 123.

§ 617. Actions for the following causes, must be tried

in the county where the cause, or some part thereof
arose, subject to the like power of the court, to change

the place of trial, as,

1. Forthe recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offence committed on a lake, river, or other stream of
water, situated in two or more counties, the action may

be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offence

was committed :

2. Against a public oflicer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him
in virtue of his oflice, or against a person, who by his
command or in his aid, does any thing touching the

duties of such otlicer.
1' 11 6nd! ' 00d - \

§ 618. In all other cases, the action must be tried in
the county in which the parties or some of them reside

at the commencement of the action; or if none of the
parties reside in the state, the same may be tried in any
county which the plaintiff may designate in his complaint; subject, however to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, as provided in section 620.

.Hmended Code, § 125.

§619. If the county designated for that purpose in
the complaint, be not the proper county, the action
may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant before the time for answering expire, demand

in writing that the trial be had in the proper county,
and the place of trial he thereupon changed by consent
of parties, or by the order of the court, as provided in

the next section.
./imended Code, § 126.

§ 620. The court may change the place of‘ trial on the

application of all the defendants, who answer in the
following cases:

1. When the county designated for that purpose in
the complaint is not the proper county:

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein:

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends
of justice would be promoted by the change.

New, for the purpose of declaring the cases in which the
place of trial may be changed by order of the court.

TITLE V.

OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Bscnon 621. Actions, how commenced.
622. Summons, requisites of.
624. N otico to be inserted in certain actions.
624. Complaint need not be served with summons in certain cases.

625. Defendant unreasonably defending, when to pay costs.
626. Notice of pendency of action affecting title to real property.

627. Summons, by whom served.

628. Summons, how served and returned.
629. Publication when defendant cannot be found.

630. Manner of publication.
63!. Defendant may be afterwards let in to defend.

632. Proceedings when there are several defendants,and part only served.
633. Service of summons, how proved.
634. When jurisdiction of action acquired.

§ 621. Civil actions in the courts of this state must
be commenced by the service of a summons.

./Imended Code, § 127.

§622. The summons must be subscribed by the

plaintiff, or his attorney, and directed to the defendant,
requiring him to answer the complaint, and serve a

copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the state,

therein specified, in which there is a post otiice, within
twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.

Jmended Gods, § 128.

§ 623. The plaintiff must also insert in the summons
a notice, in substance as follows:

1. In an action, arising on obligation for the recovery of money only, that he will take judgment for a

sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint:

2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, the plaintiff will apply to the court

for the relief demanded therein.

Jmended Code, § 129.

§ 624. A copy of the complaint must be served with
the summons, unless the complaint itself be already on

the files of the court. In the latter case, the service of

a copy with the summons may be omitted, but then the

summons must state where the complaint is filed; and
if the defendant, Within ten days thereafter, in person

or by attorney, demand in writing, a copy of the complaint, specifying a place within the state where it may .

be served, a copy thereof must be served accordingly,
and after such service the defendant has twenty days to

answer; but only one copy need be served on the same
attorney.

Amended Code, § 130.

It will be seen, that this section differs from the code as
amended in this important respect, that while the latter permits a plaintiff to commence an action without filing or serving his complaint, the former requires it to be either filed or

served.
The reason for the change is this. If a defendant be

served with a summons, requiring him merely to answer a
complaint, which will be filed, he must, almost as a matter of
necessity, employ a lawyer, to see that no advantage is taken
of him. But if the summons inform the defendant that the

complaint against him is on file, and where he may find it,

or, what is better, if it be accompanied by a copy, he can determine for himself in most cases, whether there be any occasion
for him to make a defence. If it be desirable to relieve defendants, as far as possible, from the necessity of employing a
lawyer, then the section, as we have it, ought to stand.

If it be objected, that there are cases of great urgency, not
admitting of the delay incident to the preparation of a complaint, it is to be answered, that such cases are very rare,
that an arrest or other provisional remedy cannot in any case
be had, without an affidavit, which requires as much time as
a complaint, and that formerly no serious embarrassment resulted from requiring a bill to be filed before an injunction

was issued.

§ 625. In the case of a defendant against whom no
personal claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to him
with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff
or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the

‘action, a brief description of the property, affected by
it, if it effect specific real or personal property, and that
no personal claim is made against such defendant, Ifa

defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably defend the action he must pay costs to the plaintiff.
./Qmended Code,{} 130. Changed, so as to embrace every

action instead of confining it, as before, to actions for partition‘

of real property or foreclosure of mortgages.

§ 626. In an action affecting the title to real property,
the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at

any time afterwards, may file with the clerk of each
county in which the property is situated, a notice of the

pendency of such action, containing the names of the
parties, the object of the action, and a description of

. D
-a'onxn o 0: can .1‘ ‘a !‘t| e

action be for the tbreclosure of a mortgage, such no»
tiee must be filed twenty days before judgment, and
must contain the date of the mortgage, the names of the

parties thereto, and the time and place of recording the
same. From the time of filing, and for two years ‘thereafter only, the pendency of the action is constructive

notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property
affected thereby, but the notice may be reiiled from

time to time with the same effect.

./lmended Code, § 132.

§ 627. The summons may be served by the sheriff of
the county where the defendant is found, or by any
other person, not a party to the action, The service
must be made, and the summons returned, with proof
of the service, to the person whose name is subscribed
thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person sat»
scribing the summons, may, at his option, by an endorsement on the summons, fix a time for the servicti
thereof, and the service must then be made accordingly.

Amended Code, § 133.

§ 628. The summons must be served by delivering 1;

«copy thereof, as follows:

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof:

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother,

or guardian, or if there be none within the state, then
to any person having the care and control of such minor, or with whom he resides or in whose service he is
employed:

‘ 3. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and for
whom a committee has been appointed, to such committee, and to the defendant personally:

4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.
£mended Code, §1:-:4.

§ 629. Where the person on whom the service of the
‘summons is to he made, cannot, after due diligence, be
found within the state, and that fact appears by ailidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge thereof} and it in like manner appears that a cause of
action exists against the defendant, in respect to
whom the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to an action, relating to real
property in this state, such court or judge may grant
an order that the service be made, by the publication

of a summons, in either of the following cases:
I. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation:

_ 2. Where the defendant being a resident of this state,
has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his. creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein, with the like intent.

3. Where he is not a resident of this state, but has
property therein, and the action arises on obligation, and
the court hasjurisdiction oi the subject of the action :

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal
property in this state, and the defendant has, or claims,
a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the
relief demanded consists, wholly or partly, in excluding
the defendant from any interest therein:

5. Where the action arises upon a mortgage on property in this state, and the defendant is personally

chargeable with the debt for which the mortgage is
security:
6. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by law.
./Imended Code, § 135. ~

§ 630. The order must direct the publication to be

made in two newspapers to be designated, as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for

such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not
less than once a week, for six weeks. In case of publication, the court or judge ‘must also direct a copy of
the summons and complaint, to be forthwith deposited
in the post ofhce, directed to the person to be served,
at his place of residence, unless it appear that such
residence is neither known to the party making the application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is ordered, personal

service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out

of the state, is equivalent to publication, and deposite in the post office. In either case the service of the
summons is to be deemed complete, at the expiration
of the _time,prescribe,d by the order for publication.

./Imended Code,-§ 135.

§ 631. If the summons be not personally served on a
defendant, nor received by him through the post office,
in the cases provided for in the last two sections, he or
his representatives, on application and sufficient cause
shown, at any time before judgment, must be allowed
to defend the action; and, except in an action for divorce,
the defendant or his representatives, may in like manner, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time
within one year after notice thereof, and within seven
years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just;
and if the defence be successful, and the judgment, or
any part thereof, have been collected or otherwise

enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled

’ as the court directs.

./Ymended Code,  135.

§ 632. VVhere the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or moreo

but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as
follows:

1. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon an obligation, he may proceed against the
defendants served, unless the court otherwise direct,

and if he recover judgment,» it may be entered against»
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as
that it may be enforced against the joint property of? 9:11,.
and the separate property of the defendants served,-andp

if they are subject to arrest, against their persons: or,

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

.f1men'ded' code,§ 136. Modified so asto explain the mode

of proceeding without reference to the former law.
§ 633. Proof of the service of the summons, and of
the complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same

must be as follows :

1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or

2. If by any other person, his‘ athdavit thereof; or
3. In case of publication, the aflidavit of the printer,

or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same ;
and an affidavit of— a‘ deposit of a eopy of the summons
in the post-ofhce, if the same shall have been deposited -: or
4. The written admission of the defendant:

In case of. service, otherwise than by publication,
the certificate, ailidavit or admission must state the time
and place of the service.

Jimended Code, § 138.

§ 634.. From the time of the service of the summdnsi ’

in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction,
and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.

A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him.

.8mended Code, § 139. Enlarged, so as to include a voluntary appearance without service of process.

TITLE V1.

017' THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Clurrna I. The pleadings in general.
11. The complaint.

III. The demurrer.

IV. The answer.

V. The reply.
VI. General rules of pleading.

VII. Mistakes in pleading and amendments.

CHAPTER I.

THE PLEADINGS IN GI'.NER.AL.

Blcnox 635. Definition of pleadings.
636. Former system of_ pleading abolished.

631. What pleadings are snowed.

§ 635. The pleadings are the formal allegations by

the parties of their respective claims and defences, for
the judgment of the court.

§ 636. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing,
are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in

civil actions, and the rules by which the sufliciency of

the pleadings ‘is to be determined, are those prescribed
in this code.

Original Code, § 118.

§ 637. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the
plaintiff are

1. The complaint,

2. The reply; and on the part of the defendant,

1. The demurrer, or
2. The anwer.

./fmended Code, § 141-143 and 156.

CHAPTER II.

THE COMPLAINT‘.

Bnc-new 638. First pleading to be complaint.
' 639. Complaint, what to contain.

§ 638. The iirst pleading on the part of the plaintiff,
is the complaint.

Jlmended Code, § 141.

§ 639. The complaint must contain:

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court in which the action is brought, the name of the

county in which the plaintiff desires the trial to be

had, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant:

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of

action, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person

of common understanding to know what is intended :‘

3. A demandof the relief, to which the plaintiff supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money he‘.
demanded, the amount thereof must be stated..

Amended Code, § 142.

CHAPTER. III.

THE DEMURBEB.

IICTION 640. When the defendant may demur.
641. Dernurrer must specify grounds of objection to complaint.
642. How to proceed if complaint be amended.

643. Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken by answer.
644. Objection, when deemed waived.

{} 640. The defendant may demur to the complaint,

within twenty days after the service of a copy thereof;
when it appears upon the face thereof, either,

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person,o.fr
the defendant, or the subject of the action: or,

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue:

or,

3. That-there is another action pending between thesame parties, for the same cause: or.

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or de-_

fendant : or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperlyunited: or,

6. That the complaint does not state facts suflicient
topconstitute a cause of action.

Amended Code, § 144.

In the Code, as originally reported, a demurrer was only
allowed to a complai -t. Demurrers to answers and replies

are allowed by an amendment made at the last session. The
Commissioners adhere to their former system, and recommend
that there should not be a demurrer to an answer or reply.

The question is important as a question of time. Demurrers
are considerable hindrances to the progress of a cause. Let

the defendant put in his. answer at his peril; the risk of

misc-hance is small. If he havea defence, it is scarcely pos-.
sible he should lose it. But_if demurrers be allowed, they

will become fruitful sources of expense and delay. A demurrer to an answer was not allowed in chancery, and no harm
ever came from its exclusion. II the restoration we propose
be not made, not only will demurrers often be interposed to

answers, as a means of harrassing defendants and subjecting
them to vcxpense, but demurrers to replies will be resorted to
by defendants who desire delay.

§ 641. The demurrer must distinctly specify the
grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, ,or to any
of the causes of action alleged therein.

.8mended Code § 14.5.

§642. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof

must be served on the defendant, who must answer it‘

within twenty days, or the plaintiff, upon filing with
the clerk proof of the service, and of the defendant’s
omission may proceed to obtain judgment, as in- other.
casmof failure to answer, but where an application to.
theoaurt for judgment is necessary, eight days’ names
thereof must be given to the defendant.

Jlmended Code, § 146.

_ § 643. When any of the matters enumerated in section 640 do not appear upon the face of the complaint,
the objection may be taken by answer.

Jimended Code, § 147.

§ 644. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant must be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the
complaint does not state facts sufhcient to constitutela
cause of action. r

j uimended Code, § 148.
CHAPTER IV.

THE ANSWER.

lncrrox 645. Answer, what to contain.
646. When counterclaim may be set up.
647. counterclaim precludes another action for the same cause.
648. Counter-claim not barred by death or assignment.
649. Answer may contain several grounds of defence.

650. Amendment allowed after trial, on complaint and answer.

§ 645. The answer of the defendant must contain:

1. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief:

2. A statement of any new matter, constituting 11

defence or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to
enable a person of common understanding to know

what is intended.

Jmended Code, § 149.

§ 646. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and

against plaintiff, between whom a several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising out of one of

the following causes of action:

1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or

transaction set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintiff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the action:

2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause
of action arising also on obligation, and existing at the

commencement of the action.

In what cases a cross-demand should be litigated in the
same action with the original claim, is a question of some importance. On one tide it is said, that there is great inconvenience in having several distinct controversies thrown together into one trial 3 while on the other it is answered, that
there is a greater inconvenience in having several law—suits,
where one would answer the purpose.

The statute of set-off was the first innovation upon the common law. That, however, was quite limited in its operation.
Of late years, the courts have let in a new set of cross-demands,
under the name of recoupement. We propose in this section
to open the door still wider, and to admit many cross-demands,
now excluded. Further experience may show, that the door
should be opened wider still.

The first subdivision of this section is intended to remove

a doubt which has been sometimes expressed, whether affirmative relief can be given, upon an answer setting up a defence which heretofore would have been accounted equitable
only. For example, in the case of an action to dispossess an

occupant of land; the defendant claims to occupy under a
contract to purchase, and asks on his part for a judgment

that the plaintiff give him a conveyance. It is the intention
of the code, that the whole controversy between the parties

should be settled in one action, mad that either plaintiff or defendant should have such relief, as the nature of the case requires. It is as easy to do this, as it is to decide upon what

was considered a mere equitable defence to a legal demand,
and there is no difficulty in either.

Suppose an action upon a written agreement to recover
damages for not performing it. The defendant answers that’
thewriting does not express the intention of the parties, and
that he did perform it according to the real agreement between them. Is such a defence admissible under the code?
That question involves another, which is this; is the agreement by the law of the land binding upon the defendant as~it'
stands, or is it not ’I

Now if it be not binding upon him, that is, if before the

code he could by any form of action get rid of it, he can do’

so now in the action prosecuted under the code. The effect
of the code is to open the door to remedies without disturbing rights. It has not changed the rights of the parties. It
has simplified and shortened their remedies.

It should be borne in mind that the rules of courts of equity
are already in numberless instances administered by courts of
law, even in those states where courts of equity exist, and uniuersally in those states where there are no courts of equity,
to far as the strict forms of common law courts will allow.
Take the case of Pennsyivania. The common law courts
have from time immemorial administered equity law. The
only embarrassment that has attended it, has arisen from the
imperfect machinery of the courts of law. If they had enlarged their forms, as our code has enlarged them, their system would have been excellent. Their courts of law have always held that the defendant may set up an equitable defence .
In the case of Jordan & Cooper 3, S. & R. 578, Chief Justice
Tighlman said, “That equity is a part of the law of Pennsylvania, has never been disputed, and that a defendant

may put in a plea founded upon equity only, is equally clear.”
A jurist of Pennsylvania, in an edition of an English work
on Equity, uses the following remarkable language :
“The rules of equity being consolidated with those of law,
it is evident that our only deficiency is in the special machinery
of chancery, where that machinery is better adapted than the

forms of law to the due attainment of justice. Whether it is
not more consistent with judicial perfection, that there should
be a single rule of action for every subject matter, serving all
courts alike, and whether the better mode of improving the
jurisprudence of the state, would not be to foster the growth
of a mixed system, that may in time combine the advantages
of law and equity with amendments of their known imperfections, are great problems that have occupied the most dietitguished jurists of all ages, and are not likely soon to receive
an acknowledged solution.” (1 F onhlanque’s Equity, 4th
Am. edition, p. 20.)

Indeed it may now be considered an inevitable tendency of
the times, to obliterate the distinction between legal and equitable forms, and to administer law and equity, in one tribunal and one action. Even in England, the country where

the resistance to innovation is strongest, there appear to be
indications of a movement in that direction. In a late number of the Law Magazine, a journal of authority in that country, there is an article on English and Scottish judicature, in
which the following language is used-—“ The system,” that
is, the administration of law and equity separately, “is not
one, that can, in any absolute and conclusive sense, try, hear,
and determine the merits of any cause. It does not begin at
the beginning and go on to the end. It moves here and it
moves there, with ever and anon some by-battle on extrinsic
questions, by such edifying enlightners of the merits qf a
cause as demnrrers on the ground of duplicity, demurrers
for want of equity, rlemurrers to the jurisdiction and the like,
for which of course the litigants have to pay-but it does not
by its direct and immediate operation ascertain the truth of
the controversy. It does not profess to do so. The several
courts 7m'm'st*e-r to but do not administer justice. They may
exhaust all their judicial powers, but something will be left
behind. The law courts will not deal with ‘the equities,’
the courts of equity will not interfere where law has jurisdiction, and thus the suitor is tossed about from court to court—it is a sort of battledore and shuttlecock litigation—-and the
unfortunate litigant has to incur the costs of both courts, and
that, be it observed, for one single remedy, demandable with
. . . . . ' . , . . m

And again p. 67, “In this country however, equity decides
equity, and law decides law. But is there, we ask, for it
comes to this, is there in all England a single tribunal which
ADMINISTEBS JUSTICE? Would it be presumptuous in us,
would it be untrue to say there is NOT ’l”

§647. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the cases mentioned in the first sub—division
of the last section, he cannot afterwards maintain an
action against the plaintiff therefor.

{}648. When cross demands have existed between
persons, under such circumstances, that if one had

brought an action against the other, a counter-claim
could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the

benetit thereof} by the assignment or death of the other,
but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so

far as they equal each other.

§649. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as
many defences and counter-claims as he may have.

They must each be separately stated, and the several.

defences must refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they
may be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may
also answer one or more of the several causes of action
alleged in the complaint and demur to the residue.

./9mended Code, {}15().

§650. If the answer set up new matter, which is not
replied to as provided in the next section, and the

issue he tried on complaint and answer alone, and judgment be given thereon for the plaintiff, the court may

permit the defendant to withdraw or amend the answer,

upon such terms as may be just.

See (3 130 of original code.
CHAPTER V.

THE REPLY .

8:01:02: 651. When the answer contains a counter-claim, a reply may be put in,
and what it may contain.

§ 651. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter-claim, the plaintiff may within
twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying each
allegation eontroverted by him, or any knowledge or
information thereof sufficient to form a belief; and he

may allege, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person

of common understanding to know what is intended,
any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint,

constituting a defence to the counter-claim.
Jlmmded C'ode,§l53. ’

In respect to the reply, we propose this modification ; that
it shall only be required, when the answer sets up a counterclaim. 'When the answer is drawn by a very wary or a very
unskilful hand, the sentences become sometimes so involved,
and the admissions or denials so clogged with qualifications,
that it is not easy to separate the new matter from that which
is strictly responsive to the complaint. If the pleader would
confine himself to facts pertinent to the case, and would state
these in distinct allegations separately numbered, there would
be no difliculty. When this is not done, and the answer is
loosely drawn, the reply under the existing rule may occasion

some embarrassment. To obviate this, we propose, that the
reply be confined to the case of a counter-claim ; in which

case it seems indispensable, for the cross demand is of the
nature of a new action by the defendant against the plaintiff,

CHAPTER VI.

GENERAL RULES or PLEADING.

8r:c1'1oN 652. Verification of pleadings.
653. How to state an account in pleading.

654. Pleadings to be liberally construed.
655. Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out.

656. Description of real property in a pleading.
657. Judgments how to be pleaded.

658. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
669. Private statutes how to be pleaded.

660. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
661. Answer in such cases.

662. In actions to recover property distrained for damage, answer need
not set forth title.
663. What causes of action may be joined in the nape action.
664. Allegations not denied; when to be deemed true.
665. A material allegation defined.

-§ 652. Every pleading must be subscribed  the
party, or his attorney, and the complaint, answer and
reply, must be veritied by the party, his agent or ‘attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The
verification must be made, by the aflidavit of the party,
or, if there be several parties united in interest and

pleading together, by one at least of such parties,
if such party be within the state and capable of making
the atlidavit; otherwise the atiidavit may be made by

the agent or attorney of the party. The aflidavit may
also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or

defence be founded upon a written instrument for the

payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal
knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the afIida'vit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set forth

the reason of his making it.

The verification may be omitted, ‘when an admission

of the truth of the complaint might subject the party
to prosecution for felony. And no pleading, verified as
herein required, can be used in a criminal prosecution
against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged
in such pleading.
Amended C'ode,§ 157.

This section, it will be perceived, is changed from the form
which it bears, in the amended code, to that substantially
which the Commissioners recommended in their second report.
The original code required the pleadings to be verified in all
cases, except when theiparty would be privileged from testifying as a witness to the same matters; the amended code
requires it only in those cases wherethe previous pleading
has been verified. So that the plaintiff may in all cases verify his complaint or not, as he pleases; if, however, he do
verify it, then the answer must be verified, otherwise it need
not. Still the defendant may, if he choose, verify his
answer, and in that case the reply must be verilied. The
diderenoe between the two schemes is ‘this, that the one
does not permit a party to make an allegation, when he is
not willing to make oath of his belief in it; the other permits him to make what allegations he pleases, whether he
believes them or not.

Ought these solemn allegations of the parties, which are
called pleadings, and which set forth the cause of action and
defence, to be verilied or not? The solution of this question depends upon two others: first, whether a party should
be allowed to aver what he does not believe; andasecond,
whether there be any better test of his belief, than his own
aflidavit. Both questions admit of easy answers.

There are several reasons why a party should not be permitted to aver, in a court of justice, what he does not believe:

Icrvu. comm] 18

First. The courts are, or should be, schools of morals. D
becomes them to set virtuous examples. Of all the institutions of society, they should be most sacred to truth. Whenever, therefore, they sanction, connive at,. or open the door to

_ untruths, they falsify their own professions, and beer me the
corrupters, rather than the teachers of mankind.

Second. Men should be protected, as far as possible, against

false charges. It is signally unjust, that any person should
vex another with a claim, founded upon statements which he

does not believe. Nay more, it is the highest duty of society,
to protect every member of it in the enjoyment of his rights.
What sort of protection does it afford, if it allows these rights
to be assailed by every adventurer, even though he furnishes,
not only no security against his misconduct, and no proofs of

his charge, but no test of his sincerity, not so much even as
his atlidavit of belief in it.

Third. Lawsuits are a disadvantage to society at largeThey require a large array of public officers. They require
the attendance of citizens, either as jurors or as witnesses,
to the detriment of their own affairs. It seems consequently
most fit, that a check, at least as great as this, should be interposed to the prosecution of frivolous or fictitious lawsuitsIburt/3. If the party be not confined in his pleading to
what he believes, no adequate reform in pleading can ever be
effected. Should the rule adopted by the last legislature be
retained, plaintiffs may put in the old form' of declarations as
complaints under the code ; defendants then must answer every
allegation specifically, or it will be taken as true. Will this
be tolerated any considerable length of time '1 It will not;
and then either the oath will be required, or this rule of
pleading will be abrogated, and the general issue, as formerly
brought into use.

If then it be clear, that no party should be allowed to
aver in a court of justice what he does not believe, the re, maining inquiry is, whether there be any better test of one’s
belief than his aflidavit. Here there seems no room for
question. The oath is the universal test applied to the consciences of witnesses. If it be good for the witnesses, it is
equally good for the litigants.

What reason. is there, that the adidavit should not be required? The multiplication of oath, says one. Then abolish oaths altogether. Let witnesses be no more sworn. But

so long as you administer the oath to the witness, require it
also of the party. Requiring it of him, so far from multiplying oaths, diminishes them. For every oath required of a party
more than two witnesses are dispensed \'.'ith. Who that is
at all conversant with the courts, but knows, that every day

in court sees numerous witnesses brought, at great inconvenience to themselves, to swear to facts, which the parties
would not dare deny, if they were put to their oaths. Can
there be a doubt which is better, to harrass the witnesses, or to

purge the consciences of the parties’!

§ 653. It is not necessary foria party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged, where
they exceed twenty in number, but he must deliver to

the adverse party, within ten days, after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account verified by his

own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect

that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof}
or a county judge, may order a further account, when
the one delivered is defective.

Amended Code, § 158.

§ 654. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice

between the parties.

./Qmended Code § 159_.

§ 655. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted

in a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any

person aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations‘
of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or defence is not apparent, the
court may require the pleading to be made definite and
certain, by amendment.

./fmended Code, § 1,60.

§ 656. In an action for the recovery of real property,

it must be described in the complaint with such convenient certainty, as to enable an officer upon execution

to identify it.
2 R. S.,304, .9. 8.

- »§ 657. In pleading a judgment, or other determinao

.tion, of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is
not necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction.
but such judgment or determination may be stated to
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading must establish on the
trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

./Imendcd Code, § 161.

§ 658, In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the
facts, showing such performance; but it may be stated
generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part ; and if such allegation be controverted,

the party pleading must establish on the trial the facts
showing such performance.

./lmended Code, § 162.

§.659.. In pleading a private statute, or a- right derived therefrom, it is. su.$cient to refer to such stat-ate;
by its title and the day of its passage, and the court

must thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

Ammded Code, § 163.

§ 660. In an action for libel or slander, it is not necessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts,
for the purpose of'sl1owing the application to the plaintif, of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose; but it is sutliizient to state generally,
tliatrthei mne was-publislred or‘ spoken - c'onee12n‘ing the
plaintiff,   such= allegations be controverted, the-'»
plaintiff must establish, on the ‘trial, that it wasso: published or spoken.

Amended Code, § 164.

§.661. In the actions mentionedjn. the lastsectien,
the defendant may in_ his answer, allege both the truth
of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitiga-A
ting circumstances, to reduce the amount of, ' damages ;

and whether he prove the justification or not, he may“

give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

./dmended Code,  165.

§ 662. In an action to recover the possession of pro -distrained for» doing damage; .an:*‘answer thatthe
 orsperson by wliosewomimand: he acted, wane
lmwfulzly p.ossessed:of.the  real p1>perty'upon‘which'the?
distress was made, and that the property distrained

was at the time doing damage thereon, is suflicient
without setting forth the title to such real property.

./Qmended Code, § 666.

§ 663. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, where they all arise out of
1. Contract, express or implied: or,

2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or
without damages, for the withholding thereof, and the
rents and profits of the same: or,

3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with

or without damages, for the withholding thereof: or,

4. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law: or,

5. Injuries to character: or,
6. Other injuries to person and property, or either:

But the causes of action, so united, must all belong
to one only of these classes, and must affect all the

parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial, and must be separately stated.

Jimended Code, § 167, altered,so as to allow some causes
of action to be united, which can not be united under that
section.

§ 664. Every material allegation of the complaint not

specifically controverted by the answer, as prescribed
in section 645; and every material allegation of new

matter in the answer constituting a counter claim, not
Qecifically controverted by the reply, as prescribed in
section 651, must for the purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the

answer not relating to a counter claim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial, or avoidance as

the case may require.

aimended Code, § 168.

§665. A material allegation in a pleading, is one
essential to the claim or defence, and which could not

be stricken from the pleading, without leaving it insufiicient.

New.

CHAPTER VI.

MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.

Blcrrox 666. Material variances, how provided for.
'667. Immaterial variances, how provided for.
668. What to be deemed a variance.

669. Amendments of course, and after demurrer.
670. Amendments by the court.

671. Suing a party by a fictitious name, when allowed.
672. N 0 error or defect to be regarded, unless it afeot substantial rights.
673. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.

§ 666. No variance between the allegation in a pleading andthe proof; is to be deemed material, unless it

have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice
in maintaining his action or defence, upon the merits.

Whenever it is alleged, that a party has been so misled
that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court

and it must be .s_.I1o,Wn.iu,wh,at respect he h,as.been. misled 5 andthereupon the court may order t_he.plead_ing,
to_be:arne_n.ded,. upon such ter_m1s as may be jnst,

'al“."'da"ds C°d.‘a §.- 15.9’,

§ 667. 'Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to

be found according to the evidence, or may order an
immediate amendment, without costs.

Jimended Code, § 170.

§;-668. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
or defence to. which the proof is. directed: is. unproved;
not in some par_ticnlar_ or particulars only, but in its,
general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemedas
case of variance, within the last two sections, but a

failure of proof.
Jimended Code, § 171.

§669. Any pleading may be once amended by the
party of course, without, costs,’ and. without; prejudice
to the proceedings already had, at any time before the
period for answering it expires, or, if it do not delay the
trial; it can be so amended at any time within twenty
days after service of the answer to such pleading. In
such case a copy of the amended pleading must be
aervedono the adverse party. After the decision of a
demurrer, either at a general or special term, the court
may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed. in good faith, allow the defendant to answer,

upon suchterms as to trial by the court or referees, or:

as to costs, or otherwise, as-may be just.

./imended Code, § 172.

§ 670. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend
any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out
the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect,
or by inserting other allegations material to the case,
or, when the amendment does not change substantially
the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading or
proceeding to the facts proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be

made, after the time limited by this act, or by an order‘.
enlarging such time, and may also, at any time within

one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from~a

judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect ; and may supply an omission, in any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken by a

party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions
of this code, the court may permit an amendment of

such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

./Ymended Code, §1’73, modified in the latter part of the tirst
sentence.

§ 671. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of
a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any

pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his

true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding
may be amended accordingly.

Amended Code, § 175.

§672. The court must, in every stage of an action,

disregard any error or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights

of the adverse party ; _and no judgment can be reversed

or affected by reason of such error or defect.

Jmended Code, § 176.

§ 673. The plaintiff and defendant respectively, may

be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the

case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or
reply.

Jimended Code, § 177, omitting an addition made at the last
session, which relates rather to an amendment of a pleading,

than to a supplemental pleading.

TITLE VII:or me PROVISIONAL mzm-:n1r.s IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTIR I. Arrest and bail.

Ii. Claim and delivery of personal property.
11] . Injunction.
IV. Attachment.

V. Receivers.
VI. Deposit in court.

CHAPTER I.

ARREST AND RAIL.

Shcriou 674. No person to be arrested, except as prescribed by this code.

675. Cases in which defendant may be arrested.
676. Order for arrest, by whom made.

677. Amdavit to obtain order.
678. Security by plaintif, before order for arrest.
679. Order, when made and its form. .

680. Aflidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to defendant.
681. Arrest, how made.

6252. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

683. Bail, how given.

684, 680. Surrender of defendant.

686. Bail, how proceeded against.

687. Bail, how exonerated.

683. Delivery of undertaking to plaintiff, and its acceptance or rejeoo

tion by him.
689. Notice of justidcation. New undertaking, if other ball.
690. Qualiiications of bail.

691, 692. J ustitication and allowance of bail.

693. Deposit of money with sherim

694. Payment of money into court by sherif.

695. Substituting bail for deposit.

696. Money deposited, how applied, or disposed of.

697. Sheriff, when liable as bail; and his discharge from liability.
698. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.

699. Bail liable to sherif.

700, Motion to vacate order of arrest or reduce bail.
7Ul. Amdavits on motion.

§ 674. No person can be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this chapter; but this provision

does not apply to proceedings for contempt.

.dmended Code, § 178. It has been sometimes doubted
whether this section abolishes the writ of ne exeat. Why it
should be doubted we cannot understand. The language appears to us as explicit as it can be made. Nothing certainly
was farther from our intention than to leave any mode of arrest not provided for in this chapter, except upon proceedings for contempt, and under. the act to abolish imprisonment

for debt. As it is now proposed to repeal the latter, this section is intended to embrace every case. of arrest in a civil action, except for contempt.

{} 675. The defendant may be-arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a,

cause of action arising on an obligation, where the defendant is not a resident of the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action. is for a wilful injury to person, or to property knowing the property to
belong to another:

2. In an action for a fine, or penalty, or ‘on a’ promise
to marry, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently -missapplied», or converted to his own use, by a
public oflicer, or an ofhcer. of? atcorporation, or: an attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of
his employment as such, or by any other person in a
fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office or in a professional employment:

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal

property unjustly detained, where the property or any
part thereof has been concealed, removed or disposed
of, so that iticannot be found or taken by the sheriff:

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud, in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for
which the action is brought, or in concealing or dispo-sing of the property, ‘for the taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brought:

5. \}Vhen the defendant has removed, concealed or

disposed of, his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors:

6.. When the arrest of the defendant is expressly authorized by special statutes, in an action for a fine or

penalty, or for a wilful violation of duty. But no female
can be arrested, in any action, except fora wilful injury
to person, character or property: .

.r9mended Code, {} 1'79. Varied in expression and enlarged,
so as to include the cases mentioned in subdivision 6.

’ § 676. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must
be obtained from a judge of the court in which the "action is brought, or if the action be in the supreme court

from a county judge.

flmended Code, § 180.

§ 677. The order may be made, whenever it appears
to the judge by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or of any
other person, that a sultic-ient cause of action exists,
and that the case is one of those mentioned in section

675.
ufmended Code, § 181.

§678. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff,

w1t or wit out sureties, toteeect,t at1 te e enant recover judgment, the plaintiff will pay allcosts and
charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all

damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiff, without sureties.
he must annex thereto an aflidavit, that he is a resident

and householder or freeholder within the state, and
worth double the sum specitied in the undertaking,

'over all his debts and liabilities.

./imendeti Code, § 182.

§679. The order may be made, to accompany the

summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.

It must require the sheriff of the county, where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold

him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order
at a time and place therein mentioned, to the plaintiff

or attorney by whom it is subscribed or endorsed.

./imended Code, § 183.

§ 680. The aflidavit and order of arrest must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant,

must deliver to him a copy thereof.
./Ymended Code, § 184.

§ 681. The sheriff must execute the order, by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody, until
discharged by law.
./fmended Code, § 185.

§ 68 2. The defendant, at any time before execution,
may be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving

bail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the
order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

aimended Code, C} 186.

§683. The defendant may give bail, by causing a
written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect, that the defendant shall at all

times render himself amenable to the process of the
court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as

may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he
be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 675, an undertaking to the same effect
as that provided by section 707.

ufmended Code, § 187.

§ 634. At any time before a failure to comply with

their undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant

in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to
the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in the
following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail
must be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the

defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of
arrest, and by a certificate in writing acknowledge the

surrender:

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking
and sheriff ’s certificate, a judge of the court or, if the
action be in the supreme court, a county judge may,
upon a notice to the plaintiff, of eight days witha copy
of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated:
and on filing the order and the papers used on such application, they shall be exonerated accordingly.

But this section does not apply to an arrest for the
cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section
 I

Jimendcd Code, § 188.

§ 685. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant-,
the bail ; at any time or place, before they are finally
charged, may themselves arrest him, or ‘by a written
authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

ufmeaded Code, §'1s‘9.

§ 686. In case of failure to ‘comply with the undertaking, the bail can be proceeded ‘against by action

only. ‘

.Hmended Code, § 190.

§687. The bail may be exonerated, either by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state
prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to thesher-iii‘ of the county where he wasarrest ed, in execution thereof, within twenty days after thecommencement of the action against the bail, or within
such further time as may be granted by the court.

aimendcd Code, §l91.

§688. Within the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff
or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return
endorsed, and the undertaking of the bail or a copy
thereo£ The plaintiff, within ten days thereof, may
serve upon the sheriff, a notice that he does not accept
the bail, or he must be deemed to have accepted it, and
the sherid" shall be exonerated from liability.

Jmended Code, § 192.

$689. On the receipt of the undertaking or copy

and notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten.

days thereafter, give to the plaintiff or attorney by
whom the order of , arrest is subscribed, notice of the
justification of the same or other bail, (specifying the
places of residence and occupations of the latter,) before a judge of the court, or county judge, or justice of

the peace, at a specified time and place; the time tebe

not less than five, nor more than ten days thereafter. '

In. case other bail be given, there must be a new under
taking. in the ibtrm prescribed in section 683.

./zmmded Code, § 193.

§690. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a‘ resident, and householder
or freeholder, within the state:

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in
the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, but the judge, or a justice of the peace, on
justification, may allow more than two bail to justify
severally in amounts less than that expressed in the
order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of
two suflicient bail.

.z9mended C'ode,‘§ 194.

§691. For the purpose of justiflcation, each of the

bail must attend beforethe judge, or a justice of the
peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,

and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufliciency, in such manneras the
judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination must be reduced to

writing and subscribed by the bail, if required by the '

plaintiff.

.dmend¢d'C‘ade, §l95.

— § 692. If the judge or justice find the bail sutiicient,
he must annex the examination to the undertaking,

endorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be

filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.

£mended Code, §l96.

§ 693. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the
amount mentioned in the order. The sheriff must

thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody. .

./Qmended Code, § 197.

§ 694. The sheriff must, within four days after the
deposit, pay the same into’ court; and take from the

officer receiving the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the plaintiff
and the other to the defendant. For any default in

making such payment, the same proceedings may be‘

hadon the ofhcial bond of the sheriff to collect the
sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

Jmended Code, § 198.

§ 695. If money be deposited, as provided in the last
two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section 689, at any time before‘

judgment; and thereupon the judge before whom the '

justilication is had, must direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the
sheriff to the defendant, and it must be refunded accordingly.
Amended Code, § 199.
§ 696. Where money shall have been so deposited, if

it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to the plaintiff, the

clerk must, under the direction of the court, apply the
same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfyingthe
judgment, refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk
must refund to him the whole sum deposited, and re»
maining unapplied.

Jimended Code, § 200.

§ 697. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape
or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified; or a deposite be not made instead thereof} the sheriff shal-1 himself be liable as bail. But he may discharge himself?
filom such liability, by the giving and justincation of
bail as provided in sections 689, 690, 691, and 692, at
any time before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action.

Jimended Code, § 201.

§698; If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff,
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be

returned unsatimfied, in whole or in part, the same pro~
ceedinga may be had on the official bond‘ of the sheriff,
to« collect the deficiency, as in other cases of delineqncncyz. ,
Jimended Code, § 202.

§699. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless
they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable
to the sheriff, by action, for the damages which he may

sustain by reason of such omission.

Jmatded Code, § 293.

‘I ':o'e1-no: , '5'§ 700. A defendant arrested may at any time before
the justification of bail, apply, on motion to vacate the

order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.
.&mended Code, § 204.

§ 701. If the motion be made upon atlidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff

may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, 

addition to those on which the order of arrest was
made. ‘

Jmended Code, §206.

CHAPTER II.

CLAIM #1“) e~D$M<V'_CRY OF PR3-BONAL P39PlW1'Y- -§ne1'um~.702. Delivery pfpegsppal proper”; when it.\ppy»_§e elsimerl. .

703. Amdavit and its requisites.

704. Requisition to sherif, to take uId.d‘eli.,ver»the property. ' = '5
706. Security on the part of the plaintitl‘, and justilicatlon. ‘
706. Exceptiomto suneties and pr1oeee4iqp,therqqner,on allure to except.

70!. Defendant when entitled to re-delivery.

7(B. Justitlcatlon of defendant’: sureties.

709. Quallllcation andjmtmcation of suretjes.

710. Property how taken when concealed in buildtng or enclosure.

71]. ‘Property, how kept.
712. Claim of property by third person.

713. Notice and amdavit, when and where to be «tiled.

§ 702. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delivery of such property as provided in
this chapter.

§ 703. Where a delivery is claimed, an aflidavit must

be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf,
showin ‘

1.' That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special

property therein, the facts in respect to which must be
set forth:

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant: J

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best knowledge, information and belief.

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute ; or seized under
an execution or attachment against the property of the
plaintiff; or if so seized, that it is, by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,

5. The actual value of the property.
ufmended Code,§ 207.

§ 704. The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an endorsement in writing upon the atiidavit, require the sheriff

'of the county where the property is claimed may be, to

take the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the
plaintiff.
Jimended Code, § 208.

§ 705. Upon the receipt of the atlidavit and notice,
with a written undertaking, executed by one or more

sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff to the effect

that they are bound, in double the value of the property as stated in the aflidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if
return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him

of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the plaintiff, the sheriff must forthwith take the property described in the aflidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He must also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking,
by delivering the same to him personally, if he cambe
found, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving
them at the usual place of abode of either, with some
person of suitable age and discretion.

aimended Code, §209.

§ 706. The defendant may within three days after the

service of a copy of the aflidavit and undertaking,
give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he mustbe
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When

the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in like manner, as upon bail on arrest. And the

sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties until the objection to them is either waived as

above provided, or until they justify. Ifthe defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property,
as provided in the next section.

Amended Coc’o, §210.

§'7~0'7. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return

thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a Written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the

' effect that they are bound, in double the value of the
‘ property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for

‘the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be
*'hdj'udged, and for the payment to him of such sum as

u may, -for anyca-use, be recovered against the defendMilt. If a return of the property be not so required
*Within three days after the taking. and service of notice
to the defendant, it must be delivered to the plaintiff,

except as provided in section 712.

Jmended Code, §2ll .

§708. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the
plaintiff of not less than two nor more -thansix days,

must justify before a judge or justice of the peace, in
the same -manner as upon bail on arrest; and -upon
such justihcation, the sheriff must deliver the property

to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for
the defendant’s sureties, until they justify, or until the

justification is completed or expressly waived, and may

' retain the property until that time, but if they «or others in their place, fail to justify, at the time and place
appointed, he must deliver the property to the plaintiff.

Amended Code, §2l2.

72,?

M 0 ‘II N "'

§ 709. The qualification of sureties and their justification, must be such as are prescribed by sections 690
and 691, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

aimended Code, {}213.

§ 710. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he_ must
cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and

take the property into his possession, and if necessary,
he may call to his aid the power of+his county.

./9% de'd Oode, § 214. . ' " "

1 § 711. When the sherilf shall have taken property,

as in this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure

place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon

receiving his lawful fees ier taking, and his necessary
expenses for keeping, the same.

./Qmended Code, § 215.

§ 712. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his agent, and such

person, make afhdavit of his title thereto or right to
the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title
or right and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver
it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him

or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim,
by an undertaking, executed by two suflicient sureties,
accom anied b their affidavits, that the are each

worth double the value of the property as specified in
the atiidavit of the plaintiff, and freeholders and householders of the county. And no claim to such property
by any other person than the defendant or his agent,
shall be valid against the sheriff unless so made and

notwithstanding such claim, when so made, ‘he may
retain the property a reasonable time to demand such

indemnity.

./imended Code, § 216.

f 713. The sheriff must file the notice and affidavit
with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the

court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein.

Amended Code, § 217.

CHAPTER IH.

INJUNCTION.

SICTION 714. Injunction by writ or order.
715. In what cases granted by order.
716. At what time it may be granted.
717. Notice, when required. Temporary injunction.

718. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
719. Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.
720. Security, upon injunction to suspend business of corporation.

721. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
722. Amdavits, on motion.

§'714. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a
person to refrain from a particular act. When granted
as a provisional remedy, it is by order. T he order may
be made by the court in which the action is brought,
or by a judge thereof, in the cases prescribed in the

-IV" JUI I I

next section; and when made by a judge, may be enforced as theorder of the court.

./Qmended Code (}218.

§715. Where it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such

relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation,
would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff, or when during the litigation, it appears that the

defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is

procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation
of the plaintiff's rights, respecting the subject of the
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual,
a temporary injunction may be granted, to restrain such
act. And where, during the pendency of an action,
the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dis_pose of, his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such removal or disposition.

\

./Imended Code, §2l9. Inserting before “injury,” the words
“great or irreparable,” which were omitted at the last session.

§ 716. The injunction may be granted at the time of
issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court
r judge, by the afiidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other

person, that sutiicient grounds exist therefor. A copy
of the affidavit must be served with the injunction.

./Qmended Code, §220.

§717. An injunction cannot be allowed, after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon

an order to show cause; but in such case, the defendant may be restrained, until the decision of the court

or judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

J

Jimended 1 Code, ‘§ 224.

§ 718. Where no provision is rnade by special statute,
. - ~  2" - .,p-:1:-*'1~ 
as to security upon an injunction, the court or judge
must require a written undertaking, on the __part of the

plaintiff, with or without sureties, to the effect that the
plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may

sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court, finally
decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The

damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court may direct.

./Ymended Code, § 222.

§ 719. If the court or judge deem it proper that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should be
heard before granting the injunction, an order may be
made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time

and place, why the injunction should not be granted;
and the defendant may in‘ the mean time be restrained.

aimended Code

§ 720. An iqiunotiou to smpend the general and ordeinary business of a corporation must not be granted
except by the court. Nor must it be granted, without due notice of the application therefor, to the proper oflicers of the corporation, except where the people of this state are a party to the proceeding, and

except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in corporations and association for banking purposes, after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, as such proceedings are or
shall be provided by law, unless the plaintiff give a
written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court, to the effect that

the plaintiff will pay all damages not exceeding the
sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which

such corporation may sustain, by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintiff was

not"-entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained
by a reference, or otherwise, as the court directs.

Jmended Code, § 224.

§ 721. -If the injunction be granted by a judge with
out notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,

may apply, upon notice, to any judge of the court in
which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the

same. The application may be made uponethe‘ compltlint and the affidavits on which the injuction was
granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

Jmcnded Code, §225.

z § 722. If the application be made upon afiidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the

plaintiff may oppose the same by afiidavits or other

evidence, in addition to those on which the injunction

was granted.

.x9mended Code, § 226.

an-non 723.

724.
725.
726.
727.

SE?!‘

§
hi

.§§§éE‘.

.i‘Es’.§§

740.
74! .

742.
743.

CHAPTER IV_.

ATTA CHME NT .

Property of foreign corporations and of non-resident or abaconding or concealed defendants may be attached.
Order for attachment by whom granted.
In what cases order may be granted.
Security in obtaining order.

Order, to whom directed, and what to require.

Interest in corporations or associations, liable to attachment.
Mode of proceeding in executing order.

Certiticate of defendant’s interest to be furnished by corporation.
Proceeding in case of perishable property.

Property claimed by a third person to be delivered upon security.
Defence in action on the security.

Sherin‘ may summon jury to try claim.

Defendant or claimant may be required to give information.
Disposition of property after judgment‘.

Action to recover debts attached may be prosecuted by plaintil.
Securities to be delivered to defendant in case of recovery by him.
Property may be released upon security. ~

What security sumcient.

Attachment may be vacated on motion.

Amdavits to be used on motion.
8heriH' to make return.

6; 723. In an action for the recovery of money against
a corporation, created by or under the laws of any other

state government or country, or against a defendant’

who is not a resident of this state, or against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff, at the time of issuing

the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the
property of such defendant attached, in the manner

hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction

of such judgment as the plaintiff may recover.

./9mended Code, § 227.

§ 724. An order for the attachment must be obtained
from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, '
or if the action be in the supreme court, from a county
judge. ‘
ufmended Code, § 228, substituting an order for a warrant
of attachment, as more in conformity with the three previous chapters. '
§ 725. The order may be made whenever it appears
by affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such
defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and the
grounds thereof; and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this state, or has

departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein with the like intent.

Jlmended Code, § 229.

—

§ 726. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff,
with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defendII -1' I'° AIAIALI IE, A’!

and charges that may be awarded to tm defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain, by reason of

the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified inthe
undertaking, which must be at least two hundred and
fifty dollars.

aimended Code, § 230.

§ 727. The order must be directed to the sheriff of

any county in which property of such defendant may
be, and require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of such defendant within his county and not

exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be

sufficient to satisfy the plaintiiI"s demand, the amount

of which must be stated, in conformity with the complaint. Several orders may be issued at the same time,
to the sheriffs of different counties.

aimended Code, § 231.

§ 728. The rights or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation, together with
the interest and profits thereon, and all other property

in this state of such defendant, may be attached’ and
sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

Amended Cdde, §234.

§ 729. The sheriff, to whom the order is directed and
delivered, must execute the same without delay, as follows:

1. Realproperty must be attached, by leaving with
the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a

conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order certified
by the sheriff :'

2. Personal property, capable of manual delivery to

the sheriff must be attached by taking it into his custody:
3. Other personal property must be attached by leaving a certitied copy of the order, and a notice specifying the property attached, with a person holding the
same, or as to a debt with the debtor, or as to stock or

interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or __

managing agent thereof. The sheriff must make a full
inventory of the property attached, and return the same
with the order of attachment.

Amended Code, §232 and 235, altered, so as to prescribe

the sheriff ’s mode of proceeding without referring to existing
statutes.

6; 730. Whenever the sheriff, with an order of attachment, or with an execution against the defendant, applies to any person mentioned in the third subdivision

of the last section, for the purpose of attaching or levying upon the property mentioned therein, such person

must furnish him with a certificate, designating the
number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock
of the corporation, with any dividend or incum[crvrr.. 00112.] 20

brance thereon, or the amount and description of the
property held by such corporation or person, for the benefit of the defendant, or the debt owing to the defendant. If such person refuse to do so, he may be required by the court or judge to attend before him, and be
examined on oath concerning the same, and disobedience to the order may be punished as a contempt.

aimended Code, § 236.

§ 731. If any of the property attached be perishable,

the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which
property is sold on execution, and immediately deposit

the proceeds with the clerk of the court. He must also

collect, and if necessary, in his name of office, sue for
the debts and credits attached, and deposit the amount

collected with the clerk. Other property attached by

him, must be retained by him to answer any judgment
hat may be recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment.

Jmended Code, § 233, altered, so as to dispense with a reference to existing statutes. §732. The sheriff may deliver any of the property
‘attached to the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his giving a written undertaking therefor, executed by one or more sutlicient sureties,
engaging to re-deliver it or pay the value thereof to the sheriff, to whom execution, upon a judgCIVIL PROCEDURE.

ment obtained by the plaintiff in that action, may be
issued.

See 2 R. s.,5, §§ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,21 and
231. {;§ 33 and 34.

§733. If an action be brought upon -such undertaking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a
defence, that the property for which the undertaking
was given, did not, at the execution of the order of attachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was
issued.

See 2 R. 8., 5, § 17 and 231. § 36.

§ 734. If the property attached, be claimed by a
third person as his property, the sheriff may summon
a jury to try the validity of such claim and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the like effect, an
in case of seizure upon execution.

See 2 R. S., 4, §§ 10 and 11.

§ 735. The defendant or claimant may be required to
attend before the court or judge, for the purpose of giving any necessary information respecting the property
attached, and may be thereupon examined on oath
concerning the same.

.dmended Code, {}236.

§ 736. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff
in such action, the sheriff must satisfy the same out of
the property attached by him, if it be sutiicient for that

- THE CODE OF

. 1. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales
of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or
ipterest therein, sold by him, or of any debts or credits
collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to

satisfy the judgment: _

2. If any balance rernain clue, and an execution shall
have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under
the execution so much of the attached property, real or
personal, except as provided insubdivision four of this
section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of
a corporation, the sheriff ‘must execute to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon have allithe rights and ‘privileges in

“respect thereto which were had by the defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the
gheritf, without having been sold or converted into money, the sheriff must re-possess himself of "the same,
and for that purpose shall have. all the authority, which
he had to seize the same under the attachment, and

any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold such
property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party injured.

‘O 4. Until the ..judgment against the defendant be paid,
the sheriff may collect the notes, other evidences of

debt, and debts that mayihave been attached, and may
prosecute any bond he may have taken inthe course of
such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the
payment of the judgment; or, upon the order of the

court, he may sell such notes, evidences and ‘debts, and
apply the proceeds in like manner.

When the judgment and costs shall have been paid,
the sheriff upon reasonable demand, must deliver over
to the defendant the residue of the attached property

or the proceeds thereof.

./Qmended Code, § 237.

§ 737. The actions authorised by sections 731 and 736,
to be brought by the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the
plaintiff, or under his direction, upon the delivery by
him to the sheriff of an undertaking executed by two
sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the plaintiff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs and charges

on account thereof; not exceeding two hundred and
fifty dollars in any‘one ‘action. Such sureties shall in

allcases, when required by the sheriff, justify,_by making an aflidavit that each is ahouseholder, and worth

double the ‘amount of the-penalty: of the bond, over and
above all debts "and liabilities.

./zmended Code, §23s;

i 6; 738. Ifthe foreign corporation, or absent, or abscouding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against

the plaintiff, in such action, any undertaking received
by the sheriff, except such as is mentioned in the last

section, all the proceeds of sales and money collected
by him, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, must be delivered by him to the defendant or

his agent on request; the order of attachment must be
discharged, and the property released therefrom.

aimended Code, § 239.

§ 739. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may apply to the judge who issued the

attachment, or to the court, for an order to discharge the
same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section ; and if the application be granted,
all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by the

sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, must be released from the attachment and delivered to the defendant.
Jlmended Code, § 240.

§ 740. Upon such application, the defendant must

deliver to the court or judge an undertaking‘ executed
by at least two sureties, resident and freeholders in this

state, approved by such court or judge, to the effect,
that the sureties will on demand pay to the plaintilf,

the amount of the judgment that may be recovered
against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at

least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his
complaint.

Jimended Code, §24:.

§ 741. The defendant may also, any time before the
time for answering expires, apply on motion to vacate

the order of attachment.

Conformable to the provision, in similar cases made in previous chapter.

§ 742. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintif
may oppose the same by afiidavits or other evidence, in
addition to those on which the order of attachment
was made.

Conformable to the provision, in similar cases in previous
chapters.

§ 743. When the order of attachment is fully executed or discharged, the sheriff must return the same
with his proceedings thereon, to the court in which
the action was brought.

./Imended Code, § 242.

CHAPTER V.

RECEIVERS.

Sumo: 74-1. Receiver of property in litigation, my be appointed.
746. Power: of a receiver.

§ 744. In the cases mentioned in the first subdivision
of section 546, the court may provisionally appoint a

receiver of property; and may protect and. support him

in ‘the proper discharge of his duties.

This chapter and the next, with sections 545, 546, and 547,
are designed to fill up the space left in our first report, and
there indicated by section 200. The chapters explain themselves, and will be found, we think, to answer the purposes
designed.

§ 745. A receiver, subject always to the control of
the court, has power to bring and defend actions;

to take and keep possession of property; collect debts;
receive the rents and protits of real property; and

generally to do such acts in respect to the property
committed to him, as the court may authorize.

CHAPTER VI.

DEPOSIT IN (DURT.

Bncnon 746, When court may order a payment or deposit of the subject of litiga, tion. .
747. Manner of enforcing the order.

f § 746. When it is admitted by the pleading, or examination, of a party, that he has in his possession, or under
his control, any money or other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held
by him as trustee for ‘another ‘party, or which belongs,
or is due, to another party, the court may order the same
to be deposited in court, or delivered to_ such party,
with or without security, subject to the further direction
of the court. A . . . ..

. §« 747. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
court shall have ordered the deposit, or delivery, of
money or other thing‘, and the order ‘is disobeyed, the
court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an
order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing,

and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court.

TITLE VIII.

OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT  CIVIL ACTIONS.

Currzn 1. Judgment in general.

II. Judgment upon failure to answer.
III. Issues and the mode of trial.

IV. Trial by jury.
V Trial by the court.

.71. Trial by referees. ~
VII. Provisions relating to trials in general.

VIII. The manner of giving and entering judgment.

CHAPTER I.

JUDGMENTS IN GENERAL.

Bzcnon 748. A judgment defined.
149. When several defendants, judgment may be, for or against any.
750. Judgment may be given as to some, and action continued asto

others.
751. Judgment except upon failure to answer not limited to the relief

asked in complaint.
752. J ndgment dismissing actions when given‘.
753, All other judgments are on‘the merits.
764. Judgments when several.

§ 748. A judgment is the final determination of i the;
rights of the parties in the action, '

./Qmended Code, § 245.

'§ 749. Judgment may be given, ‘for ‘or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or ‘against one or
more of several defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determinethe ultimate rights
oi‘ the parties on each side, aslbetween themselves.‘ Vi

5::

./Imended Code, §274.

~ 750. an action agatns seve : e enan , In

court may, in its discretion, render judgment against
one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed

against the others, whenever a several judgment is
proper.
./Imended Code, § 274.

§ 751. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be
no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the
court may grant him any relief consistent with the

case made by the complaint, and embraced within the
issue.

uimended Code, § 275.

§ 752. The action may be dismissed without a final
determination of its merits, in the following cases:

1. By the plaintiff himself at any time before trial,
if a provisional remedy has not been allowed, or counter claim made :

2. By either party, with the written consent of the
other:

3. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the
final submission of the case the plaintiH' abandons it:

4. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the

dismissal :

5. By the court, on the application of some of the

defendants, when there are others whom the plaintiff
fails to prosecute with diligence. All other modes of
dismissing an action by non-suit, or otherwise, are

abolished.

The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions
is made by an entry in the clerk’s register, and a notice

served on the adverse party. Judgment may thereupon
be entered accordingly.

§'753. In every case, other than those mentioned in

. the last section, the judgment must be rendered on the
merits.

The three last sections are new, and designed as a substitute for a portion of the old practice, not supplanted by the
existing code.

§754. Though all the defendants have been served
with the summons, judgment may be taken against

any of them severally, when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendants, if the
action had been against them alone.

Jlmended Code, § 136, sub. 3.

CHAPTER II.

JUDG3IEN‘l' UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§755. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail
to answer the complaint, as follows:

1. In an action arising an obligation, for the recovery of money only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk,
proof of personal service of the summons, and that no

answer has been received. The clerk must thereupon
enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons, against the defendant, or against one or more of
several defendants, in the cases provided for in section
632;

2. In other actions, the plaintiff‘ may, upon the like
proof, apply to theicourt, after the expiration of the
time for answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account or the proof of any
fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment,

or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may

take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its

.discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And
where the action is for the recovery of money only, or

of specific, real or personal property, with damages for
the withholding thereof; the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of

a long account be involved, by a reference as above

provided;

3. In actions, where the service of the summons was
by publication, the plaintiff may in like manner apply
for judgment, and the court must thereupon require
proof _to be made of the demand mentioned in the
complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of
the state, must requirethe plaintiff or his ‘agent’ to be
examined on oath, respecting any payments that have
been made to the plaintiff or to any one for his use. on
account .of such demand, and may render judgment for
the. amount which he is -entitled to recover. Before

judgment the plaintiff must give satisfactory security,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution
of any property‘ collected or received under the judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives are
admitted to defend the action, and succeed in the defence.

uimended Code, §246, changed in some respects;

. CHAPTER III.

ISSUES, AND THE Mont: or TRIAL.

S1'.c'r1oN 756. Issues defined.
757. Issues of law.
758. Issues of fact. Both on same pleadings.
759'. Trial donned.’ ‘
760. Issues of law to be tried by court or referred.
761. Certain issues of fact to be tried by jury, or referred.
762. Other issues tried by court or referred.

763. Issues triable by court to be before one judge.

764. Either party may give notice of trial, and place case on calendar.
765. Order in which issues must be tried.

766. Either party may bring on trial.

767. When several defendants, separate trials allowed.

768. Amdavit to put over trial. ‘

769. Plaintiii‘ to furnish copies of summons and pleadings.

. § 756. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a_£a,ct
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party

and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,

" 2. Of fact.
.‘/imended Code, § 248.

' § 757. An issue of law arises,

er

1. Upon a <_l_e_1rn.u_rrer  the complaint, .01‘ to some
part thereof.

./imended Code, {}249._

§ 758. An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer: or,

2. Upon new matter in the answer constituting a
counter-claim, controverted by the reply; or, upon other
new matter in the answer: or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply: Issues both of law

and of fact may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action.

./Ymended Code, §250, 251.

§ 759. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues

bctween the parties, whether they be issues of law or of

fact.
./Imended Code, § 252.

§ 760. An issue of law must be tried by the court,

unless it be referred, as provided in sections 335 and
336.

./Yended Code, § 253 and 254.

§ 761. An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery
of money only, or of specific real or personal property,

or for a divorce from the marriage contract on the
ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a
jury trial be waived, as provided in section 796, or a

reference be ordered, as provided in sections 335 and
336.

§ 762. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the
court, subject, however, to the right of the parties to
consent, or of the court to order, that the whole issue,

or any specific question of fact involved therein, be

tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided in sections
335 and 336.

Jmended Code, {}254.

§ 763. All issues, whether of law or fact, triable by
a jury or by the court, must be tried before a single
judge. Issues of fact in the supreme court, must be

tried at the circuits, issues of law in the first instance
at a circuit, or special term, or before a single judge, as
provided in section 49.

./zmmzed Code, §255.

The provision allowing an issue of law to be tried before
a single judge, at any time, is designed to prevent the delay
which now sometimes arises from a demurrer, put in for that
purpose alone.

§ 764. At any time after issue, and at least ten days
before the court, either party may give notice of trial.
The party giving the notice must furnish the clerk, at

least four days before the court, with a note of the issue,
containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was

served; and the clerk must thereupon enter the cause
upon the calendar, according to the date of the issue.

The issues, once placed upon the calendar of a circuit
or :- cial term if not tried at the circuit or term for

which the notice was given, need not‘ be noticed for a
subsequent circuit or term, but must remain upon the
calendar, from court to court, until finally disposed of.
But when an issue of law is to be tried before a judge

out of court, no calendar need be made or note! of issue furnished.
./Qmended Code, § 256.

An important change is proposed by the alteration of this
section. It is to save the necessity of repeated notices of
trial. If a cause he not tried, as it ought to be, at the firs

term, it must remain upon the calendar at subsequent terms,

until reached. A similar practice exists in many of the
states, where no incovenience results from it.

§ 765. The issues on the calendar must be disposed

of in the following order; unless, for the convenience

of parties, or the despatch of business, the court otherwise direct ;

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury:

2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court:

3. Issues of law.

aimended Code, § 257.

§ 766. Either party, after the notice of trial, whether
given by himself, or by the adverse party, may bring
the issue to trial, and in the absence of the adverse
party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed ;with his case, and take, a dismissal
of the action, or a verdict, or judgment, as the case
may require.

Amended Code, § 253.

§ 767. A separate trial, between the plaintiff and any
of several defendants, may be allowed by the court,

whenever, in its opinion, justice will be thereby promoted.

New. It may sometimes be highiy just to parties, between

whom an issue is joined, and who are ready for trial, to have
their controversy dete'.mine(l, without waiting for the movements of other parties, over whom they have no control.

§ 768. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence
of evidence, can only be made upon atlidavit, showing
the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained,
and that due dilligence has been used to procure it,
The court may also require the moving party to state
the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the

adverse party thereupon admit, that such evidence

would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial, or offered and everruled as improper,

the trial must not be postponed.

New; to prevent parties from obtaining delay by the unfounded pretence of absent witnesses.

§ 769. The plaintiff must furnish the court before the
trial begins with a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the offer of the defendant, if any shall have

been made.

Jimended Code, § 259.

lcxvn. conn]

CHAPTER W. l

TRIAL BY JURY.

Arrxcu: I. Formation of the jury.

II. Conduct of the trial.
III. The verdict.

0
ARTICLE I.

FORMATION OF THE JURY.

Bncnox 770. Clerks to draw jury ballots.
771. .When byetandercmay be summoned.
772. Ballots to be returned to box.
‘H3. Challenges to jurors-how! nude andlrind.

§ 770. ’When the‘ action is called for trial by jury, the
cl’er’k must draw from the trial jury box ot‘ the court,
theiballots containig the names of jurors, until the jury

is completed or the ballots are eithausted. If the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the
sheriff, under the direction of the court, must summon
from the bystanders or the body of the county, so many
qualified persons as to complete the jury.

The provisions of this chapter, for the most part, explain
themselves. Those relating to challenges depend upon the
same principles as in criminal actions. ' In the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have given all the eirplanatidns which appear to be necessary.

§ 771. As soon as the drawing of the jury is completed, an oath must be administered to each juror, that

he will well and truly try the matter in issue between

the plaintiff and the defendant, and a
true verdict give, according to the evidence.

§772. When the jury is completed‘ and sworn, the

ballots containing the names of the jurors sworn must

be laid aside, till the jury so sworn is discharged, and
then they must be returned to the box ; and every ballot drawn containing the name of a juror not so sworn
must be returned to the box as soon as the jury is completed.

§773- Either party may challengs the jurors, but

when there are several parties on either side, they must
join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenges are to the panel and to individual jurors, as in

criminal actions, except that there can be but two peremptory challenges on each side. And the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the subject off
challenges, and the disposition thereof, omitting sction

3
415, are to apply, so far as in their nature applicable

and consistent with the provisions of this code, to challenges in civil actions and thedisposition thereof; sublgtituting a“ plaintiff ” fpr “ people” and for “person alleged to be injured by the qtfenee charged, or on whqas
complaint the prosecution was instituted.”

ARTICLE II.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

Btcnox 774. Order of proceedings on trial.
. When a view may be ordered.
. Manner of keeping jury.
. If juror be taken sick, jury discharged.
. The charge to the jury.
. Manner of keeping jury while deliberating.
Court may order food and lodging for jurors, when deliberating.
. What papers jury may take.
. After retiring jurors may return for information.
. If jury cannot agree, may be discharged.
. If jury is discharged, 9. new trial to be had.
Court to be open until verdict or discharge.
786. If any jury is absent on return, the jury must be discharged.
787. Manner of announcing verdict.
788. Jury may be polled, or insumcient verdict corrected.

789. Verdict to be entered, and read to jury.

§ 774. When the jury has been completed and sworn,

the trial must proceed in the following order, unless the
court, for special reasons, otherwise directs:

1. The plaintiff after stating the issue, must open the
case and produce the evidence on his part:

2. The defendant may then open his defence and
oEer his evidence in support thereof:

3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the court for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to offer evidence upon

their original case:

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case
is submitted to the jury on either side, or on Both sides,

without argument, the defendant must commence, and
the plaintiff conclude the argument to the jury:

5. If several defendants, having separate defences,

appear by different counsel, the court must determine

their relative order in the evidence and argument:

6. The court may then charge the jury.

The length to which trials are now protracted is a matter

of great and just complaint. The remedy lies cbietly with
the courts. If they would adhere intlexibly to the rule, that

a question once decided shall not be debated anew ; and would
stop the examination of a witness when he has been already
sufliciently examined, a vast deal of time might be saved.
It is a rule in the English courts, and in the courts of some of
our states, that a counsel shall stand while he is examining a
witness. The same rule would be useful here. As trials are

now sometimes conducted, the counsel sits leisurely in his
seat, writing down at length all the questions and answers,
and the court meeting at ten and adjouming at three, a single
witness remains under examination from day to day, and the

trial lasts for weeks, when it should be ended in as many
days.

By a provision in another place, we propose that counsel
shall be limited in their arguments to a fixed time. With
resolution on the part of the courts, and a few rules, such
as they should adopt, we are persuaded that more than half

the time now spent in trials might be saved.

§ 775. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is

proper that the jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of the litigation, or of the

place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of
proper oflicers, to the place, which will be shown to

them by the judge, or by a person appointed by the
court for that purpose While the jury are thus absent,
no person, other than the judge or person so appointed.

must speak to them on any subject connected with the
trial.

§ 776. The jurors may be kept together in charge of
proper oflicers, or may, in the discretion of the court,
at any time before the submission of the cause to the
Twry, be ,permitted to separate. In either case, they

‘may be admonished by the court, that it is their duty
not to converse with any other person or among themselves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to
"form or express any opinion thereon, until the cause is

‘finally submitted‘ to them.

{}777. If, after the impaneling of the jury, and before verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to '

"perform his duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that case a new juror may be sworn, and
the trial begin anew, or the jury may be discharged,

‘and a new jury then or afterwards impanelled.

{} 778. In charging the jury, the court must state to
them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for
"their information ‘in giving their verdict: and if it
present the facts of the case, it must also inform 'tHe
 that they are the exclusive judges‘ of all questions
or fact.
§ 779. After hearing the charge, the jury may either
decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they rettire, -they must be kept togelher in a room provided for

them, or some other convenient place, under the charge

of one or more oiiicers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by the court, The officer must,
to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus togeth.er, separate from other persons, without drink except
water, and without food, except ordered by the court;
;he must not suffer any communication to be made to
them, not make any himself, unless by order of the
court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict, and he must not, before the verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their
deliberations or the verdict agreed on.

§780. If‘, while the jury are kept together, either
during the progress of the trial or after their retirement ‘for deliberation, the court-order them ‘to be provided with suitable and snflioient food and lodging,
they must be soprovided by thesheriif, at -the expense
of the county, or if the trial be in a city court, at the
expense of the city.

§781. Upon retiring for deliberation,‘ the jury may
take with them all papers, (exceptdepositions,) which
have been received as evidence in the cause,’ or copies
of such parts of public records or private documents,
given in evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the
court, to be taken from the person having them intpossession; and they -may also takewith them notes of the
testimony or=other proceedings on the trial, taken by

rthemselves ‘or any .of' them, but nonettakaen by any
other ,person..

' § 782. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part
of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of
any point of law arising in the cause, they may require

the oflicer to conduct them into court. Upon their
being brought into court, the information required must
be given, in the presence of; or after notice to the parties or counsel.

§783. Except as provided in sections 777 and 786,

or in case of some accident or calamity, requiring their
discharge, the jury cannot be discharged after the cause

is submitted to them, until they have agreed upon their

verdict, and rendered it in open court, unless by the

consent of both parties entered upon the minutes, or
unless at the expiration of such time as the court deem
proper, it satisfactorily appear, that there is no probability of an agreement. 8

§ 784. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or
other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried,
immediately, or at a future time, as the court directs.

§ 785. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business;
but it is nevertheless to be deemed open, for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury,
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A
Enal adjournment.of the court discharges the jury.

§ 786. \Vhen the jury have agreed upon their verdict,

they must be conducted into court by the oiiicer having
them in charge. Their names must then be called;

and if all do not appear, the rest must be discharged

without giving a verdict.

§ 787. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the

court or the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their
verdict; and if the foreman answer in the affirmative,

they must, on being required, declare the same.

§ 788. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded, the jury may be polled on the request of

either party; for which purpose each juror must be
asked whether it be his verdict; if any one answer in
the negative, the jury must be sent out for further deliberation. If the verdict be informal or insuflicient, it
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the

court, or the jury may be again sent out.

§ 789. When the verdict is given, and is such as the
court may receive, the clerk must immediately record

it in full in the minutes, and must read it to the jury
and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any

juror disagree, the fact must be entered in the minutes,
and the jury again sent out; but if no disagreementbe
expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury mustbe
discharged from the case.

ARTICLE III. ‘

THE VI-ZRDTCT.

Sscrron 790. Definition of verdict, general and special.
791. Discretion of jury to give general or special verdict. '
792. Special verdict controls general.
793. Jury must assess damages.

794. Must assess value of property in certain cases.
795. Minutes trial and verdict to be made.

§ 790. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict, is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues either

in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict
is‘ that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court. It must present the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the

evidence“ to prove them, and those conclusions of fact
‘m'ust*b'e so presented, as that nothing remains to the
‘court but to draw from them conclusionsof law.

Amended Code, § 260. Changed so as to be more conformable to the’ original cede.

§791. In every action‘ for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all
other cases, the court may direct the jury to find aspecial verdict in Writing, upon all or any of the issues;
and in all cases may instruct them if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to
be stated in writing, and may direct a Written finding
thereon. The special verdict or finding must be’ nled

with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.

Jmendcd Code, § 261.

§792. Where a special finding‘ of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the
latter, and the court must give judgment accordingly.

./Qmended Code, § 262. 5

§ 793. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant,
when a counter claim for the recovery of money is established, beyond the amount of the plaintiff's claim

as established, the jury must also assess the amount of
the recovery.

Amended Code, §263.

§ 794. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property have not been delivered
to the plaintiff, or the defendant by his answer claim
a return thereof, the jury must, if their verdict be in
favor of the plaintiff, or if being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return
thereof; must assess the value of the property, and may

at the same time assess the damages, if any are

claimed in the complaint or answer, which the pretrailing‘ party has sustained by reason of the taking or
detention of such property.

./imended ‘code, § 264.

§795. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must be
made, in the minutes of the court, specifying the time
and place of the trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be rendered thereon, or when the court is in doubt what judgment ought to be given, . it may order that the case be

reserved for argument or further consideration.

./Imended Code, § 267.

CHAPTER V.

TRIAL BY THE (DUBT.

Sncrxox 796. Jury trial may be waived.
797. On trial by court, decision on questions of fact and of law to be see
parate.

7&3. Proceedings after determination of issue of law.

6} 796. The trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties, to an issue of fact, in actions arising on obligations, and with the assent of the court, in other actions,
in the manner following:

1. By failing to appear at the trial :

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the clerk:

3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the
minutes.
Jimended Code, § 266.

§ 797. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the
court, its decision must be given in writing, and filed
with the clerk, with twenty days after the circuit or

term at which the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found, and the conclusions of law,

must be separately stated. Judgment upon the dccision must be entered accordingly.

Jimended Code, § 267. Changed so as to be more conformable to the original code.

§ 798. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue
of law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two sub-divisions of section 755,
upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the

summons was personally served. If judgment be for
the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the taking of

an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference

may be ordered, as in that section provided.

uimended Code, § 269.

CHAPTER VI.

TRIAL BY BEFEREI-Z8.

Bncnox 799. Trial by refereee. ,
800. Judgment to be entered on report of referees.

§ 799. Atrial by referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court.

The sections referred to are conformable to the existing
code.

§ 800. The report of the referees upon the whole issue

stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may
be entered thereon in the same manner, as if the action

had been tried by the court; and their decision may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner. When

the reference is to report the facts, the report has the

effect of a special verdict.

Amended Code, § 272.

CHAPTER VII.

PROVISIONS. RELATING TO TRIALS IN GHTF-EAL‘.

Arrrcu 1. Exceptions.

II. New trials.
‘III. General provisions.

ARTICLE I.

EXCEPTION B.

Sncrxox 80]. Exceptions denned,
802. Manner of taking and settling exceptions.
803. What exception contains.

§ 801. An exception is an objection taken at the trial

to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial
he by the jury, court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, the
production of evidence, the charge to a jury, or at any
other time from the calling of the action for trial to the
rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception
is to be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an
appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect

substantial rights of the party.

This chapter and the next are new_, and fill up a space left
in the former code. The provisions explain themselves.

§ 802. The point of the exception must be particularly Stated, and either delivered in writing to the judge,
or entered in his minutes, and immediately corrected

I

or added to, until made conformable to the truth, or it A

may afterwards be settled, in a statement of the case,

as provided in section 807.

§803. No particular form of exception is required.
The objection must be stated, with so much of the
evidence as is necessary to explain it, but no more,
and the whole as briefly as possible. If the decision excepted to be verbally made, it must, upon
the exception being taken, be reduced to writing, and
entered either in the judge’s minutes, or the minutes of

the court, or in the statement.

It has been too often the practice to encumber exceptions with details of the evidence, to an unreasonable
length. In most cases, with a little care, all the evidence
necessary to explain the exception can be given in a narrow

compass. The following is ,a bill of exceptions, taken in M88sachusetts, which, for its shortness, is worthy of imitation ;

Berkshire ss.—C'ommon Pleas, June Term, 1849.

Commonwealth,

vs.
Robert Walden .

The defendant was indicted for malicious
mischief, under that branch of § 39, ch. 126, of rev. statutes,
which prohibits the wilfully and maliciously destroying or injuring the personal property of another, in any manner, or by
any means not particularly described or mentioned in said
chapter. .

The indictment is made a part of the case. The court defined the word maliciously, in said part of said section, to
mean the wilfully doing of any act prohibited by law, and-for

which defendant had no lawful excuse——that moral turpitude
of mind was not necessary to be shewn, and so instructed the

jury.
To this instruction the defendant excepts, and prays that his
exceptions may be allowed.

By H. W. B.

His ./Ittorney.

The foregoing exceptions being found conformable to the
truth, are allowed.

H. B.,
Just. 0. C. Pleas.

ARTICLE II.

NEW TRIALS »

Bncrrcm 804. New trial denned.

815. In what cases may be granted.
806. On what papers moved for.
807. Manner of settling a case on exceptions.

8(B. Application to be heard at special term.
809. Notice in certain cases when to be given.

' § 804. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of
fact, in the same court, after a trial and decision by a
jury, court, or referees. '

§ 805. The former verdict or other decision may be
vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of

the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes,

materially affecting the substantial rights of such party :

l. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
or prevailing party, or any order of the court, or abuse

of discretion, by which either party was prevented from
having a fair trial:

2. Misconduct of the jury, or of the prevailing party:-:

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence

could not have guarded against:

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given,
under the influence of passion or prejudice:

5. Insufliciency of the evidence to justify the verdict:
or other decision: or that it is against law:

6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party

making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the
trial:

7. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the party making the application.

-§ 806. When the application is made for a cause,
mentioned in the fourth, fifth, and seventh subdivisions

of the last section, it is made either upon the judge’s

minutes, or a statement of the case, preparedzas prescribed in the next section; for any other cause it is

made upon afiidavit.

§ 807. The party preparing a statement is to propose a
draft of it, and, within five days after the trial, serve it

upon the adverse party, who may within iive days
thereafter, propose amendments to it If no amendment be proposed, the draft is adopted; if proposed,
the statement and amendments may be submitted for
settlement to the judge, or referee, before whom the
trial was had, upon a notice of five days: if . such notice

HQ‘ OJ I

be notserved within five days after the amendments

are proposed, they are adopted.

It is our wish to substitute for the present cases and‘ bills of
exceptions, a simple statement of the exception or other part

of the case suflicient to present the question.

6; 808. The application for a new trial must, in the
first instance, be made at a special term, except when

made upon an appeal.

,. § 809; The application for a cause mentioned in the

4th and -5th subdivisions of section 805 can only be
made, when notice thereof, oral or written, was given
inopen court, immediately after the verdict or other
decision rendered ; and thereupon if the adverse party

consent, the court must appoint a day in the same
"term for hearing the application upon the judge’s min-‘
utes. If however the application be not heard at the

same term, or if an appeal be taken, a statement of ‘the
case must be made.

ARTICLE III.

GENERAL PROV ISIONB.

Bncrrox 810. Rate of damages recoverable.
811. On trial, parties to submit distinctly the points.

812. Certain provisions applicable to other cues.

§ 8-10. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plain» may claim and recover any rate of damages, to

which he may be entitled, for the cause of action estdblished.

.:9mcnded Code, § 276:

§ 811. Any party may, and if required by the court,
must when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct

and concise propositions, the conclusions of fact which

he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law, _

which he desires to have adjudged, or both; they may
be written and handed to the court, or at the option or
the court, oral and entered in the judge’s minutes; but
in either case they must be entered with any exceptions that may be taken, if either party require it.

The design of this section is to enable the court referee or
jury to have before them in a definite form the result which

the party seeks to establish. It will be found especially convenient in those cases, where the court or referee is required

to find separately on the conclusions of fact and of law, with
a view to their separation, when necessary upon.an appeal.

The practice here proposed is but applying to trials on
questions of fact, what. the courts have long since required
on appeals, whether they include questions of fact, or those of
law only. The points which each party produces, before argument, are the same thing as here intended to be made applicable to the first trial. Although no provision for the practice exists in -any rule of the court, as applicable to the original trial, yet in point of fact it has long been used in the oral
summary, which counsel usually present to the court or jury
on the conclusion of a trial.

In some states, it has become a part of the recognized
system of procedure, and with results very beneficial. The
object of this section is to give to the practice a legal sanction, and to introduce it in definite form, with a view to facilitate a more logical analysis of the results of a legal controversy than has sometimes been bad.

When the conclusions of fact are distinctly pointed out by
counsel, it will necessarily relieve the court from some labor
in preparing qa summary of the facts, inasmuch as it will be
able to decide either in the affirmative or negative, upon the

several points, or it can easily modify them to its own conclusions.

§ 812. The provisions of this title, respecting trials
by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court or referees, and, in the same
manner, the provisions respecting trials by the court
apply to trials by referees.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MARKER OI‘ GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

llcnox 813. Judgment to conform to verdict.

814. I1‘ judgment reserved, when and how given.

816. Judgment when counter-claim is established.

816. May include specine property and damages.

817. Judgment to be entered on direction 0! single judge.
818. Clerk to keep a judgment book.

819. Judgment must specify the relief granted.

8%. If a party die after verdict, judgment may be given.
821. Judgment roll, how made and exemplined.

@. Judgment, a lien from the time of doeketing in the county only.
%. All judgment liens to cease after 18m.

834. What the (locket must contain.

825. Satisfaction of judgment how entered.

§ 813. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for
argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of

proceedings.

afmended Code, § 265.

§ 814. When the case is reserved for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last section,
on the ground that judgment ought not to be given in

conformity to the verdict, or that it is doubtful what

judgment shouldjbe given, the questions reserved may
be decided by the court, and judgment thereupon rendered without further argument, or if not so decided
they may be brought before the court for judgment, at
a special term, upon notice; and judgment thereupon
rendered.
New.

§ 815. If acounter-claim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifl’s demand so established, judgment for
the defendant must be given for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

see 2 R. S., 355, §22.

§ 816. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment.for the plaintiff may be for
the possession, or the value, thereof, in case a delivery
cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If

the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and
the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the

defendant may be for a return of the property, or the

value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

Jmended Code, {}277.

§ 817. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact, or
upon confession, or upon failure to answer, (except

where the clerk is authorised to enter the same by the

000 O I O
I‘ SUI! ill! C‘ II III I I‘ I3 I__

stance, be entered upon the direction of aeingle judge,
or the report of referees upon the whole issue, subject
to review at the general term, on the demand of either

party, as provided in this code.
odmended Code, §278.

§ 818. The clerk must keep among the records of the

court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called
the “judgment book.”

ufmended Code, {}279.

*§ 819. The judgment must be entered in the judgment book, and must specify clearly the relief granted,
or other determination of the action.

./Qmended Code, {}280.

§ 820. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon
an issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may
nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment

is not a lien on the real property of the deceased party,
but is payable in the course of administration on his

estate.

1 § 821. Immediately after entering the judgment, the

clerk must attach together and tile the following papers,
which constitute the judgment roll:

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any

defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies
thereof‘, proof of service, and that no answer has been

received, ‘the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, on
copies thereof, and a copy of the judgment with any.
verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions,
and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in

any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. If a statement of the case be made,
the same may be attached to the judgment roll, on the

request of either party, and thenceforth forms a part
thereof.

When the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the
plaintiff shall not have filed the summons, with proof

of service and the pleadings on his part, the copies ‘of

summons and pleadings served on the defendant, may
be substituted therefor in making the judgment roll, or

the plaintiff may, at the instance of the defendant, be
ordered by a judge forthwith to file such papers.

Upon an exemplification of a judgment, as evidence

only that part of the roll which consists of the summons,
pleadings, and judgment need be given.

./fmended Code, § 281. Slightly changed in respect to the
time of filing the case or exceptions. '
§ 822. On tiling a judgment roll, upon a judgment

requiring the payment of money, the judgment may
be docketed with the clerk of the county where it was

rendered, and in any other county, upon filing with the
clerk thereof a transcript of the original docket ; and

thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real property in the county, from the time of docketing it therein.

Amended Code, § 282.

§823. The lien, mentioned in the last section, errtends to all the real property of the judgment debtor in

thezcounty, owned by him at the ti me of the judgment,

or afterwards acquired, and continues till the first day

of.July, 1860, on all unsatisfied judgments rendered
But after

the first ‘day of January, 1860, there can be no such
lien.

or which may be rendered before that time.

See 2 12. s., 355, sz; 3, 4, 5.

This section proposes an important change in respect to the
lieu of judgments. We believe that the multiplication of liens
upon real property has come to be a serious evil. They are
but embarrassments in the way of the transfer of property. If
all the money collected annually out of real property, upon
judgments a year old, could be ascertained, we believe it would
not equal half the expense paid in the same year upon searches for the liens.

The liens of existing judgments cannot be cut off, and
since they are to continue, it seems proper that subseqeunt

judgments should be put upon the same footing, and the liens of
all cease at the same period. That it may be seen at a glance
how many of these incumbrances upon real property, every

purchaser and every borrower upon mortgage must search

for, we present the following list of them, as they exist in
the city of New-York :

General Liens:
Judgments, U. S. circuit court.

U. S. district court. 1

Suppreme, to June, 1840.

Superior, “

Common pleas, to April 1, 1844, Laws,
1845, p. 91.

Transcripts since June, 1840, Laws, 1840,
p. 334, § 26.
Surrogate’s Decrees, 2 R. S. 46.
Laws of 1837, p. 535.

“ 1844, p. 91.

Insolvent Assignments, 1 R. S , ch. 5, arts. 1 to 10.
Insolvent Notices, 2 R. S., p. 8, sections 32, 33.
Collectors’ Bonds and their sureties.

Laws, 1838, p. 184.
Laws, 1843, p. 314.
Forfeited Recognizances, Laws, 1844, p. 475.
Bonds of receiver of taxes, and deputy, and sureties,

to be tiled in comptroller’s ollice, 1843, p. 315.
Notes given to Mutual Insurance Company, 1836, p.
91, which is a pattern act, and including others

framed upon it.

Specific Liens :

Convcyances, 1 R. S., 762, § 38.

Mortgage to U. S. lcan commissioners, 1837, p. 121.
Mechanics’ liens, 1844, p. 339.

Notice of action pending, 2 R. S., 1'74, {}48.
Certificates of sheriff and U. S. marshal sales, 2 R. S.,

370.
Taxes and sales for unpaid taxes.
Assessments and sales for unpaid assessments.

Water rents, 1849, p. 542

§ 824. The docket mentioned in section 822 is a book,
which the clerk must keep in his oflice, and in which

he must enter alphabetically, under the name of each

person,

1. The names of the parties to the judgment:
2. The amount of the judgment: and

3. The precise time of his entry.

See 2 R. -S. 359 §6, &. 36l,§ 13.

§ 825. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
the clerk’s register and docket, upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an

acknoxvledgmentof a conveyance of real property, by

the judgment creditor, or within two years after the

judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation of his
authority is previously entered upon the register. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon

an execution, it is the duty of the party or attorney to

give such acknowledgment, and upon motion, the court

may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to
be made without it. And whenever a judgment is satistied in fact as to any one of several defendants, an
entry to that effect may be made in the register and

docket.
See 2 R. s. 382, §§ 22, 23, 24, 25, 26.

TITLE IX.

OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. The execution.
11. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I.

THE EXEEUTION.

8lC‘l'1oN 826. Execution within five years, of course, as prescribed by this title.
827. The diiferent kinds of execution.
828. Contents of the execution.
829. To be returnable in sixty days.
830. Bpecinc judgments, how enforced.

831. After five years, to be issued only by leave of court. Leave how
obtained.

Execution after death of debtor.

To what counties execution may be issued.

Execution against the person, in what cases and when.
Persons arrested on execution to be imprisoned.

After arrest, another execution not to issue.

What property may be levied on.

When property is claimed by a third person, sherid' may summon

jury to try the claim.

What property is exempt from execution.

Manner of executing against property.

Notice of sale of property.

Penalty for selling without notice.

Manner of conducting sale.

Certitlcate of sale of real property.

How real property may be redeemed.

Redemption may be by payment to purchaser.

The purchaser if a creditor may redeem.

The evidence of the lien must be produced.

Sheriii‘ must execute deed after expiration of time.
Injunction allowed to stay waste after sale.

When title fails, purchaser may have restitution.
When execution against several, is enforced against one, he may

have contribution, or if a surety, restitution.

3

839.
834.
836.
836.
837
838
839
840.
841.
842.
843.
844.
845
846.
847.
848

§ 826. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may at any time within iive years after the entry there' of; proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in this
title.

§ 827. There are three kinds of writs of execution;

one against the property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; and the third for the delivery

of the possession of real or personal property, or such
delivery with damages for withholding the same.
They are issued in the name of the people and are
deemed the process of the court, but they need not be
sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in the next

section.

./?mended Code, § 286.

§ 828. The writ of execution must be directed to the
sheriff, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating
the court, the county where the judgment roll or
transcript is iiled, the names of the parties, the amount
of the judgment, if it be for money, the amount actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county
to which the execution is issued, and must require the
sheriff substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, '

with interest, out of the personal property of such
debtor, and if suflicient personal property cannot be
found, out of his real property, or if the judgment be a
lien on real property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was

docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter, or

if the judgment be entered pursuant to the first subdivision of section 632, the execution must conform to

such judgment:

2. If it be against real or personal property, in the
hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
out of such property:

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it must require the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and

commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the
judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to

law :

4. If it be for the delivery of the-possession of real
or personal property, it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing

it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same
time require the sherilf to satisfy any costs, charges, damages, rents or profits recovered by the same judgment,
out of the personal property of the party against whom
it was rendered, and the value of the property for
which the judgment was recovered, to be specified
therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of
real property, as provided in the first subdivision of this
section, and in that respect it is to be deemed an execution against property.
Amended Code, {}289.

§ 829. The execution must be made returnable witli+
in sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed.

Amended Code, §29o.

§‘830. Where a judgment requires the payment of

money or the delivery of real or personal property, the

same is enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in the last three sections. Where it requires the

peribrmance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom
it is given, or upon the person or oflicer who is required

thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished. by
the court, as for a contempt.

Amended Code, § 286.

§ 831. After the lapse of five years from the entry of
judgment, if no execution have been already issued,
-an execution can be issued only by leave of the court
on motion, upon notice to the adverse party. Such
leave must not be given unless it be established by the

oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment, or
some part thereof; remains unsatisfied and due.

When the judgment has been rendered in a justicds
court, and docketed in the office of the clerk of the

county, the application for leave to issue execution

must be to the county court of the county where the

judgment was rendered, or in the city and county of
New-York, to the court of common pleas of that city,

and such court has jurisdiction over the judgment and

execution.

uimended Code, § 284.

§ 832. Notwithstanding the death of a party after
judgment, execution thereon against his property may

be issued and executed in the same manner and with
the same effect, as if he were still living, except that

such execution cannot be issued within a year after his
death, unless upon permission granted by the surrogate.

See 2 R. S., 368, § 27.

§ 833. Where the execution is against the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff

of any county where the judgment is docketed. Where
it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it

must be issued to the sheriff of the county where the

property or some part thereof, is situated. Executions
may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.

.Hnumdcd Code, § 287.

§ 834. If the action be one in which the defendant
might have been arrested, as provided in the iirst three

subdivisons of section 675, an execution against the .

person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any
county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the

return of an execution against his property, unsatisfied

in whole or in part. An execution against the person
may likewise be issued, after such return, in the cases
mentioned in the fourth and fifth subdivisions of that

section, where the defendant has been provisionally arrested in the action, and the order for his arrest has not

been vacated, or upon an order of arrest obtained in the
same manner as for a provisional arrest.

Jlmcnded Code, § 288, modified.

(3 836. A person arrested on execution must be imprisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and

there kept at his own expense, until satisfaction of the
execution, or his legal discharge.

1 R. s., 376, § 76.

§836. When a defendant has been once imprisoned upon execution, no other execution can issue upon

the same judgment, unless he escape or die, while
charged in execution, or unless he be discharged without the consent of the judgment creditor.

2»R. S., 36, and  7 and 8.

§ 837. All property liable to an attachment is liable

to execution. It must be levied on, in the same manner as similar property is attached, pursuant to section
729. Until a levy, property is not affected by the excution.

New.

§:.838. If the property levied on_be,claime.<l, by a third
person as his property, the sherifl' rnay_su,mInpn,fror_1}
his county any twelve persons, qualilied as ju_rors between the parties,_ to try the validity of the claim. They
and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff, and if

their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may

relinquish the levy, unless the judgment cnditor give
him a suflicient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The

fees of the jury must be paid by the claimant, if the
verdict be against him, otherwise by the plaintiff. ‘

§839. The following property owned by a householder, and in actual use, or ‘kept for use by and for his
family, or when being removed from one habitation to
another upon a change of residence, is exempt from

execution, except as herein otherwise specially pro»
vided:

1. Books,’ pictures, and, musical instruments, to the
value of fifty dollars:

2. Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture,
including stoves, stove pipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, provisions
actually provided for family use, sumeient 1231' six
months. including meat, &sh, vegetables, dour and
meal, with fuel for sixty: days, one cow, ten sheep, twp
swine, and food for them for three months:

3. The seat or pew occupied by the debtor or his
family, in a, house of public Worship:
fexvn. own] 93

4. The tools and implements of’ a mechanic, necessary to carry on his trade:

5. A horse, harness, and cart or other vehicle, by

the use of which a physician, constable, cartman, team_st_er, or other laborer, habitually earns his living. But
the aggregate value of all the property so exempt, cannot exceed two hundred and iifty dollars; nor is any
article exempt from an execution issued on a judgment for its price.

2 R. S., 367, § 22, modified and extended. Whether the
exemption should be carried still further, so as to save the
homestead of a family, is a high question of public policy,
which it is for the legislature alone to entertain.

§840. The sherid‘ must execute the writ against the
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting the things in action, as prescribed by
section 731 and the fourth subdivision of section 736,
selling the other property, and paying to the plaintiff
the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy the
execution.

if 841. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof must be given as follows:

1. In case of personal property, by posting written
‘notice of the time and place of sale, in three public

places of the town where the sale is to take place, six
,.days successively:

2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice describing the property with the certainty prescribed by section 656, for six weeks successively, in
three public places of the town where the property is
situated, and also where the property is to be sold, and
publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same
period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one,
or if there be none, and the property is not occupied by
the judgment debtor, or by a tenant or purchaser under

him, then in the state paper. After the iirst of July,
1860, such notice shall be a lien upon the property
until the sale thereof, and the tiling the certificate of
the sale with the clerk of the county.

2 R. S., 366, {)2}, 368,{; §34 and 35.

» § 842. A ofhcer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars
to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages, and a person, taking down or defacing the notice
posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the
execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall

forfeit titty dollars; but the validity of the sale is not
affected by either act.

See 2 R. S., 369, § 37 and 39, and 40.

§ 843. A sale must be made by auction, between
nine o’clock in the morning and sunset; after suflicient
property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more
must be sold; neither the oflicer holding the execution
nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold

in' suchparcelsas are likely to bring the’hig.he‘st'price‘-;‘i
and when the sale is of real property, and cohmstinga df
several known‘ lots, or parcels, they must be sold- sepav.
rately, or when a- portion of such real property» is
claimed by a third person; and he requires it to be’ sold
separately, such portion must be thussoldr
2: R. S.,*3‘67,'§l23',* 369, amt §336, 

§ 84.4‘. Upon‘ a sale of real’ property’, v's‘rlie're the estate:

l‘e's‘s'tl-ran’ a lieaseholidi of tv(ro' years unexpired: term,
the sale is’ zdysolufez  all other cases the property
sold is subject to redemption as‘ provided‘ in the next
five sections ; the ofhcer must give’ to the purchaser a
certificate of the sale,» proved or acknowledged so’ that
it may be 1‘ecorded,'corrtaini’ngs,~

1. A particular description of the property sold:

2. The’ price bid for each distinct lot or parcel :3.‘ The whole price paid:

4*." When‘ subject to redemption, it must besd stafétl,
a: duplicate of which certificate must be filed by the 
ficer with the clerk of the county.‘

2 R. S., 370, §(; 42, 43,» 44.

§ 845.‘ Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the’ last section; or any part sold separately;
may be redeemed; in the manner provided in the next
four sections, by the following persons or their successors in interest:

1.‘ Tlle judgment debtor, or His‘ successor in interest;
hi the whole or any part or the stapes».' -2. LA creditor,-having a lien -by judgment or mortgage on ;the property sold, or on.some shareor part
thesreotf, suhseqnent.to -that on which the property was
sold. -,The—. persons mentioned .in the last t’our.subdivi—
gigps,‘ .,are, in this ehapter termed redemptioners.

§846. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may
redeem -the property -from the purchaser within sixty

days after the sale, on paying him the amount of his
purchase, and if he be also a creditor having a lien prior

to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien,
with interest.

@847. ‘ If} the property be so redeemed; by a redemptioner, either the judgment ‘debtor or another redemptioner, may within thirty days after the last redemption,
again redeem it from the last redemptioner on paying
the sum paid on his redemption, with interestnand,

unless hiszlien be prior to that of the _Aprec,e‘d‘ing§_redernptioner, the amount of such _ lien, ‘with _interest.
'T.he,.Pr9p¢rtY; maxbe, again» and %18.0,f.*.e;1.§}-:_t,hedeb,t.9r
or owner, or any redemptioner is so disposed, redeem1=.d:.f.r.9Jm any xedemntipner ~With.iI1 thirty» dara9f}.er. .1.Iimlemptien. .and..n9ti9er t,her¢9f filed ,Wi.t1itbe.811¢1:if1'~

If no redemption is mml.e.in .8i¥?Y=d,3}’=S@3?l' thecnssle.
the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, .whenever= thirty -days’ have elapsed, and no

redemption has been made and notified therein, the

time for redemption has expired, and the last redemptioner is entitled to a sheriff ’s deed. If the debtor or

A owner redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the etfects of the sale are terminated, and

he is restored to his estate.

{} 848. The payment mentioned in the last two sections, may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner,
as the case may be, or for him, to the officer who made

the sale; and a tender of the money is equivalent to

payment.

{} 849. A redemptioner must produce to the oflicer or

person from Whom he seeks to redeem, and file with

his notice in the sheriff ’s ofiice.

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under
which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the

clerk of the court or of the county, where the judgment

is docketed, or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other
lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the clerk:

' 2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the aflida-vit of himself or of a
subscribing witness thereto: and

3. An affidavit by/himself or his agent showing the

amount then actually due on the lien.

It has been for some years the policy of our laws to allow

a redemption of real property upon sales on execution. 2 R.

S. 370, § 45-62. Whether this policy is founded in sound
principles, or even affords any benelit to the debtor, has been
seriously questioned by judicious men. The Commissioners
do not deem it expedient for them to propose to abolish redemptions, but there are some features in the existing system

which are unnecessary, and so clearly indefensible that they
have felt it a duty to endeavor, by a change, to make it more
conducive to the. real policy of the law ; favor to an unfortunate debtor, and the appropriation of his properiy in such
manner as to pay the largest possible amount of his debts. The existing system presents the following, among other
results:

It, in effect, delays the collection of a debt out of real property, for fifteen months after the sale ;

It suspends the remedy of all junior judgment creditors
against the same property for the same period ;

If redeemed upon judgment or other lien, the redemption
eiects no payment on the lien debt, but the creditor takes the
debtor’s land by redemption, and keeps his debt against him
also in full force, and may sell other property upon it in the
same manner as if he had not redeemed ; even if paid afterwards, the payment does not restore the land .

Although the provisions proposed by the Commissioners do
not wholly obviate these objections, they at least have that
tendency.

There seems no good reason for the great lapse of time
heretofore allowed, nor for preventing the debtor from redeeming his land at any time while it is open for redemption
to a creditor. The uncertainty whether the holder of the

oldest lien will redeem, and the advantage of waiting until
the last hour, in case he fails, has often led to subsequentlitigation. The plan the Commissioners offer, partially obviates
at least these objections.

 850. Until the expiration of the time allowed for

redemption,‘the court may restrain the commission of

1 new execution.

Waste o'nthe property by order granted with or without
notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not waste for the person in
‘possession of the -property at the time of sale, or enti-v
tled to possession afterwards during the period allowed
forredemption, "to continue to use -it in the same man‘tier’ in which it was previously used, or to use it in the
ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary
repairs of buildings thereon, or to use wootl or‘timber

on the property therefor, or for the repair of fences, or
for fuel in*his-family, while he occupies the property.

2 12. s., 336," §§2o, 21, 22, 23, 24,25, 26, 27, 23 and 29.

§ 851. If ‘the purchaser of real property sold on exe‘cution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom

‘in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the
judgment, hemay recover the price paid with interest
"from the judgment creditor. Such judgment creditor,
if the recovery was in consequence of the irregularity,
"shall thereupon be entitled to a new execution on the
judgment, for the price paid on the sale with interest;
and f'or‘that -purpose the judgment shall be deemed
‘valid against the judgment debtor,‘ his personal‘ representatives, heirs, or devisees, but not against a purchaser in good faith, or an incumbrancer, whose title or
‘ineumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such

2 R. s., 375, 9 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73 and 74.

§ 852. When property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due

proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property
of one of them, or one of them.pays -withouta sale

more than hisproportion, he may. compel contribution
from the others. And when a judgment isagainst

several, and is upon an obligation of one of them, as
security for another, and the surety pays the amount

or any part thereof‘, either by ‘sale of his property or before sale, he may compel repayment from the principal.
In such eases the person -so paying, or- contributing, is
entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his
payment he tile with the clerk of the court, where the

judgment was rendered, ‘notice of his payment and
claim ' to-‘contribution ‘or repayment. 'Upon the tiling

of-such notice, the clerk must make an entry thereof
‘in the ‘margin of the docket.

2 R. S., 375, § '70, extended.

It «will be observed; that the provisions of» .thi chapter-ere
tend the execution, so as in all cases to reach the property
which can be reached by attachment. In a case where an
attachment has been issued, the execution is as extensive in its

. nperatien as-the attachment,‘ and there seems no, good reason
for making one execution against propertysmore extensirqe
than another.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS BUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

83¢-non 853. When execution returned unsatisfied, order for discovery of proWhen judgment debtor refuses to apply property to satisfy judgment.
. Manner of proceeding to examine judgment debtor.

. Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.
’ . Examination of debtors of judgment debtor or of those having

property belonging to him.
. Witness required to testify.
Compelling party or witnesses to attend. Examinations when to
be on oath.
. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.
Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer, &c. of property
Procsedings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial
of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
Reference by judge.
. Costs of proceeding.
Disobedience of order, how punished.

§853. When an execution against property of the

judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in

the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county
where he resides, or if he do not reside in this state, to

the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll, or
a transcript of a justice’s judgment, is filed, is returned

unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor,
at any time after such return made, is entitled to an
order from a judge of the court, or a county judge of
the county to which the execution was issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer, concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by a judge of the court, at a time and place
specified in the order.

Jimended Code, § 292.

§ 854. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof by aflidavit; of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof;
or county judge, that any judgment debtor has property, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may,

by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at
a specified time and place, to answer concerning the

same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had, for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor

towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided, upon the return of an execution.

./Imended Code, § 292.

§ 855. Instead of the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge may, upon proof by aflidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction that there is danger of the
debtor’s leaving the state, or concealing himself, issue

a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where
such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before
such judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he
may be examined on oath, and ordered to enter into an
undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will attend from time to time before the judge or referee, as

he shall direct, during the pendency of the proceeding,
and until the final determination thereof‘, and will not

in the meantime dispose of any portion of his propvrty,
not exempt from execution. -In default of entering into

suchv undertaking, he .may;be committed -to,-prison, tby
svarrantof the judge.

J3mended Code, § 292.

.§ 356. _After the issuing of execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor. m_a.y, pay
to the sheriifthe amount of‘ hisdebt, or,so_rnuch therepf

as may be necessary to satisfyrthe executio.n,.a_n_d the
_sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufiicient discharge for the

amount so paid.

-(Tmended. Code, .§ 293.

{}857. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one

of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon

proof by affidavit, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the judge, that any person or corporation, has property
of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an

amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may by, an ,order require such person or corporation, or any officer or

member thereof, to appear at a specified time and, place,
and answer concerning the same. The judge may also,
in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding, to be
given to any party. _to the action, in such manner as
may seem to him proper.

.,/Immded Cqde,,§294,.

' § 858: Witnesseseniay be required* to appear auditestify upon any proceeding under this chapter, in- the’

same manner as upon’ the trial‘ of an issue.
.4-m"endi2d code, § 295.

§859. The party or witness may be required to at;
tend before the‘ judge, ‘or‘before' a-11e%ree,. appointed by
the court or judge. If before a referee, the examination must be taken by the referee, and certitied to the
judge. AW examinations and’ answers before a judge
or‘ referee‘, under this chapter, must‘ be‘ cn‘ oath‘, except
that when a corporation‘ answers, the answer must be
on the‘ oath‘ of an o'fIicer thereof.‘ i '

./imended code, 296.

§ 860. The judge may‘ order any property of the
j5h'dg‘d1|eiiJt' debtor, not exempt from exiedutfion, in the
hdhds either of’ himself or‘ any‘ other person, or due ta
the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satist
fa'¢ti'on of the judgment, except that the‘ earnings’ of
the‘ debtor fbt his persdnal services, at any time Withiti
thirty days next preceding the order, cannot be so aps

plied, when it is made to appear by the debto-r’s affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for

the use of a family supported Wholly or partly by his
labor.

./Ymended Code, § 297. Modified, so as to preserve the current earnings of a debtor for the‘ use of his famiiy, if necessary for their support.

§86l. The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the
same manner and withtbe like authority, as if the appointment were made by the court. The judge may

also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of
the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from
execution, and any inteference therewith.

./Qmended Code, § 298.

§ 862. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property, adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt

is recoverable only in an action against such person or
corporation, by the receiver: but the judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
property or interest, till a suflicient opportunity be
given to the receiver to commence the action, and
prosecute the same to judgment and execution. Such
order may be modiiied or vacated, by the judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may
direct.

Jmended Code, 

§ 863. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him,
to report the evidence or the facts.

Jimended Code, § 300.

§ 864. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any person so examined, whether a party to

the action or not, his charges, and a tixed sum in addition, not exceeding ten dollars, as costs.

./9-mended Code, §301.

§ 865. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person,
party or witness, may be punished by the judge, as for

a contempt. The proceedings therefor are prescribed

in the title of the third part of‘ this code, respecting the
punishment of contempts.

./Intended Code, {}203.

TITEE X.
or we cosrs IN civu. Actions.

Sscrron 866. Fee bill abolished. Allowances given, tcrmedcosts.
When allowed. of course, to plaintiti‘.

In several actions against parties to the same instrument, but one
bill of costs..
When allowed to defendant.
. When allowedto-either party, in the discretion of thercourta '

Costs not allowed in action on a judgment, unless brought by leave
of court.

Amount of coataallowed in certain cases.
Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.

. . Cost, how to.be ihserted.ia.judgmeat.
. Clerlvs fees.

Referees’ fees.
. Costs on postponement of trial.
. Costs on a motion.
Costs against infant plaintim
Costs not allowed when tender has been made.
. Costs in an action by or against an executor or administrator, trustee to an express trust, or a person expressly authorised by statute
to sue.

. Costs on a review of a decision of an inferior court, in a special
proceeding.
Costs in actions by the people.
Costs in actions for the benefit of a corporation.

Costs against assignee of cause of action after action brought.
Costs on a settlement.
887. Costs in action by plaintitf out of the state.

{} 866. All statutes, establishing or regulating the costs
or fees of attorneys and counsel in civil actions, and

all existing rules and provisions of law, restricting or
controlling the right of a party to a agree with an attorney, or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed;

and hereafter the measure and mode of such compensation must be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the

prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity,

bi’ his expenses in the action; which allowances are
in this code termed costs.

./imended Code, § 303.

§ 867. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintif,
upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:

1. in an action for the recovery of real property, or
when a claim of title to real property arises on the
pleadings, or is certified by the court to have come in
question at the trial:

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property:

3. In the actions of which, according to section 154,
a’ justic'e’s court has not jurisdiction:

4. in an action for the recovery money, where the

plaintiff recovers tiity dollars or more. But in an action

for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation. or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and charges than

damages. And in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, if the plaintiff recover less than
iifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and
charges than damages, unless he recover also property,
the value of‘ vvhich with the damages amounts to fifty
dollars. Such value must  determined by the jury,
court or referee, by xvhoni the action is tried.

Amended Code, § 304.

f.

§ 868. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange,
or other instrument in writing, or in any other case for
the same cause of action, against several parties who

might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs can be allowed to the plaintiff, in more
than one of such actions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the other ac-—
tions were at the commencement of the previous action, openly within this state; but the disbursements of

the plaintiff may be allowed to him, as provided in section 874.
./Intended Code, § 304.

§ 869. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant,
upon a judgment in his favor, in an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintiff recovers less than

fifty dollars, and also in the other actions mentioned in

section 867.
./Qmended Code, § 305.

§ 870. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not,

and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of
the court.

When there are several defendants,.not united in interest, and making separate defences by separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to. recover judgment against

all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any of them

And in the following cases the costs of an appeal are in

the discretion of the court;
1. Where a new trial is ordered:

2. Where a judgment is modified.
Jfmended Code, § 304.

§ 871. Costs can not be allowed to the plaintiff, in
an action upon a judgment of a court of this state, between the same parties, unless such action was brought
with previous leave of the court for cause shown; but
thisprohibition does not apply to an action upon the
judgment of a justice’s court, brought in another county, or brought in the same county, in case of the summons not having been served on all the defendants, or
the death of a party, or the death, resignation, incapacity to act or removal from the county of the justice, or
the loss of his docket.
ufmended Code, § '71. '

§ 872. When allowed, costs are as follows:

1. To the plaintiff, for all proceedings before notice
of trial (including judgment when entered ;)

In an action arising on obligation for the recovery of
money only, seven dollars; in another action twelve
dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven
dollars ;

2. To the defendant; for all proceedings before notice of trial, five dollars ; for all subsequent proceedings
before trial, seven dollars;

3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the
trial of issues of fact, to the plaintiff, fifteen dollars; to
the defendant, twelve dollars:

4. Forthe trial ofthe issues of 'fact,=.if separate from
the trial of the issues of law, -to the plaintiif, fifteen
dollars; to the defendanntwelve dollars:

5. For the trial ‘oft-‘he issues of fact and of law, when

tried at the same time, to theplaintiff, twenty dollars;
to the defendant tifteen dollars:

6. To either parity~on appeal, excepti-ng-to="the court
of appeals, ‘before argument, ‘fifteen dollars: for argument -thirty dollars: but this provision does -not apply
to appeals-in the-cases mentioned in section ’

7. To either-party on appealto ‘the court ‘of appeals;
before argument, twenty-five dollars; for argument,
hfty dollars:

8. To either party, for every circuit otterm not exceeding three, at which the cause necemarily remains

on the calendar not reached or postponed, excluding
that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages upon real

prolperty, -or for the partition of real property, the plaintitf is also entitled to the additional allowance of five

per centon the iirst ‘five hundred dollars, and one per

cent on all over that sum, upon the price of the property sold, or the value of the property, partitioned, such
value to be determined by the referees making the partition. But such allowance can in no case -exceed two

hundred dollars.

Jimended Code, § 307, 308 and 309, altered so as to recluse
the costs in the 8th subdivision, and to limit both the amount

of the per centage and the cases in which it may be allowed.
§873. When the judgment is for the recovery of

until judgment be: Enally entered, must be computed
by the clerk, and: added. thereto.

./Qmended Code, § 310.

§-,.8-74.. The-. cleric must insert--in.» the entry‘ of judgmsnst the. application. 0.? the prevailing party, upon‘:
two . days. notice to‘ the other, the sum of V the allow!ances. foreosts, as above. provided, and the necessary»
disbursements, including the fees of officers allowednby;

law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses of
commissions, the compensation of referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon any appeal, which
disbursements are in this code also termed charges.
The disbursements must be stated in detail, and veri-.
tied by affidavit, which must be tiled. Whenever costs
are allowed by this code, the charges also are allowed,‘
and when costs are not allowed, the charges are not
allowed‘, except‘ where express" provision is made
thereiibrr
.dm¢nded1C'bde,-§ 311-;

§ '8é?5‘.‘ The clerkmay receive,

On every trial, from ' the party bringing it ‘on, one
dollar:
On.-entering: judgment, fifty. ~cen:ts;~ except.- in courts

where the: clerks receive .. salaries; and in=such counts"
one-dollai:-;

Onhdoeketrng "a-' judgmentirenderedr by*a 'just*i?:e‘in*his
county, and filing a transcript thereof}'twent5«f-the cents,
including execution when issued.

He. ican. 2 receive mo. other « feel: fan =any~._ser1zioe~s»WhM.,

ever in a civil action, except for copies of papers, at the
rate of five cents for every hundred words.

uqmended Code, § 312.

§ 876. The fees of referees are three dollars to each,
for every day spent in the business of the reference;
but the parties may agree in. Writing upon any other
rate of compensation and thereupon such rate must be

allowed.
Amended Code, §3l3.

{}877. When an application is made to a court or
referees, to postponea trial, the payment to the adverse
party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the
fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of

granting the postponement.
Jimended Code, § 314.

§ 878. Costa may be allowed on an original motion,
or on an appeal from an order, in the discretion of the
court, not exceeding ten dollars. And when costs are

ordered against a party, upon a motion, proceedings on
his part may be stayed until payment thereof.

uqmended Code, §315.

§879. When costs are adjudged against an infant
plaintiff, the guardian, by whom he appeared in the
action is responsible for them, and judgment therefor
may be entered, against both the guardian and infant.

Jimendcd Code, § 316.

§ 880. When, in an action for the recovery of money

‘the comencement of the action, he tendered‘ to the
;plaintiff, the full amount to which he was entitled,
eand thereupon deposits in court for the plaintiif, the

-amount so tendered, and the allegation be found true,
the plaintiff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs
to the defendant.

§ 881. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee ef -an express trust, or
a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be

recovered. as in an action by and against’ a person
prosecuting or defending in! his own right, but such

costs must by the judgment be made chargeable only
upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the

court direct the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith

in the action or defence. But no costs are recoverable
in such action, if brought without leave of the surrogate, against an executor or administrator within one
year after the death of the person whom he rep're'sents,
not after that time, unless it appear that the demand
was first presented to the executor or administrator,

verihed by oath, and payment demanded.

./I-mended Code, § 317.

§ 882. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding, is brought before the
supreme court for review, such proceeding is for all

purposes of costs, to be deemed an action at issue, on a
question of law, from the time the same is brought into

the, supreme court,  costs thereon, may e awarded
and collected in web; manner as the court may direct:
according to_ the nature of the. 

A-mended Code, §a13.

{} 883. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of
the people of this state, by an officer duly authorized
(9.1: t.h.at purposes the people. are liable far. costs j in the
qanie cases, andtethe. same extent; as P11i.YE.l.t‘?«.P%l!"¢i¢.8e
Ifaprivate person- be joined with the_.peeple as plain:
ti£', he is liable in the first instance fhr. the defendanfn

costs; which cannot be recovered of the people, till,

after execution issued therefor against such private
party and. returned unsatisfied. And. when costs. are,

awarded, and recoverable. against the people, payment,
thereof must he. made- by the comptroller, upon the
plzoduction of proper evidence thereof}

Jimended Code, §3l9.

<>..88s4.- In an actian prqsacated in the namesof the
P‘%9Pl9 Qf this,sta,te.. far. t.h9.1‘¢9.°.Y§.FY.°.‘f¥119B?I or pro or to e.s_ta.b_.]is:h., a_ right or clairn, for the benefit

of any county, city, ‘town, villag_e,_ c.orp,oration or per«
son, costs awarded against the plaintiff, must by the
judgment be made a charge against the party for whose

bsasfit. t.h.e.a<=ti9n..Wa.a pr.o.ss=.cu.ted», aI.1d,n°f against the
299919..

§ 885. In an action in which the cause of action, after
the commencement of the action, by assignment, or in
any other manner, becomes the property of a person’
not a party to the action, and the prosecution or de‘fence is thereafter continued, such person is liable for
the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and
payment thereof may be en_force,d by order.

Amended Code, § 321.

§ §86. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any

action mentioned in section_867, no greater sum can

be demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the
rates prescribed by section 872.

afmended Code, § 322.

§. 883. The attorney of a plaintiff, who resides out of

the state, or is a foreign corporation, against whom
costs are awarded to a defendant, is responsible to, such
defendant therefor, to an amount not exceeding two
hundred dollars. And the attorney neglecting to pay

the sa_rne,_ after due proceedings against him, may be
removed. by the court. But he may relieve himself
from responsibility, at any time before judgment, by
filing an undertaking, for the payment to the defendant
of the costs. and charges, executedbya sumcient surety.

2 Rs So’ 620,§  3, 4,  6, 70nd 8TITLE X1.

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I. Actions to determine contiicting claims to real property and other
provisions relating to actions concerning real property.

II. Actions for the foreclosure of mortgages.
III. Actions for nuisance, waste, trespass on Indian lands, and wilful

trespass on other real property.
IV. Actions for the partition of real property.

V. Actions respecting corporations.
VI. Actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs, or
devisees.
VII. Actions on otilcial securities, and for tines and forfeitures.

VIII. Actions by and against certain public otiicers, and public bodies.
IX. Actions to vacate charters, letters patent, and to prevent the usurpation of an otiice or franchise.

X. Actions in justices’ courts.

The form of civil actions under the code, is in its nature

adapted to almost every case requiring the interposition of
judicial authority. In making provisions for proceedings in
special cases, it has been deemed wise to conform as far as
practicable, to the system‘ already adopted in civil actions,
and to make provision for the points of difference only. By
this means the advantage is alforded of following the beaten
track already enlightened by the judicial consideration to
which the code has been subjected. The length and number
of statutory enactments, are by the same means greatly abridged. This remark is applicable not only to most of the provisions under this title, but also to the special proceedings
for which rules are prescribed in part 3.

By comparing the provisions with those of the revised state
utes on the same subject, it will be found that the volume of
matter has been greatly reduced, while it contains, as we believe. a more certain, safe and simple mode of procedure in

every case.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY,
AND OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL

PROPERTY .

Bxcuox 888. An action allowed to determine an adverse claim to real property.
889 If the defendant disclaim no costs allowed.
890. In an action by one tenant in common against another, a denial of
the right must be shown.
89]. When the right has terminated during the pendency of the action.
New trial may be had in actions to recover real property.
After a second trial court may allow a third.
I-Iow judgment entered after new trial.
May recover protits only for six years.
A survey of property in dispute allowed.
Order for the survey.
A mortgage not a conveyance.
Injunction to prevent waste after sale.
Purchaser of land on execution, may recover for injury after sale.
A sale of land pending an action does not affect rights.
An action for possession of land equivalent to re-entry, but tenant

may redeem.

§E§

§§§§

§§§§

§ 888. An action may be brought by any person in
possession, by himself, or his tenant, of real property,

against any person, who claims an estate or interest

therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim, estate, or interest.

§ 889. If the defendant, in such action, disclaim in

his answer any interest or estate in the property, or
suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintiff cannot recover costs.

R. S., part 3, chap. 5, title 2.

The salutary provisions of this entire title are secured in the
two preceding sections. The form of action under the code
being adapted to these cases, it only requires a provision declaring them the subject of an action, and regulating the
judgment, when the defendant disclaims, or makes no defence.

§ 890. 11 an action, or te recovery 0 ovver o- ore
admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint
tenant of real, property, against a co-tenant, the.plainti&'
must show, in addition to the evidence of ’ his right, that
the defendant either denied the plaintiff’s right, or did
some act amounting to such denial-.

The provisions of the Revised’ Statutes are extended, so as
to include. actions for the recovery of dower.--not set: off, as
coming within the reason of the rule which applies to other
tenants in common.

§ 891. In an action for the recovery ofspecific real
or personal property, where the plaintiff shows a right
to. recovezat the time the action was--commenced, but
it appears that his. right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and‘ judgment must be
ac:cord.ing— to the fact, and ‘ the plaintitf may recover
damages forwithholding the property.

The provisions of the Revised Statutes extended, so as to
include actions for specific personal property as well as real.

§ 892. Any person, against whom a judgment for the
recovery of specific real property. is rendered. may,
within six months- after. written notice ‘of. the, judgment;
upon payment of all costs and damages recovered
thereby, demand another trial, by notice in‘ writing, to_

the adverse party, or to his attorney in the action, and

thereupon the action may be brought to trial by either
P61’tY~

It appears to have been the policy of.our law, at an early period, to regard real property, .and.a11,la.gpl proceedings relating

‘»to it, -with peculiar caution and jealousy of the ‘courts. This
arises from the source whence we have drawn most of oursystem of judicial policy, and is the legitimate descendant of
feudal times in England. But a few years since real property could not be sold on execution. Until the Revised Statutes, a judgment in ejectment, though based exclusively on
evidence of title, decide-dnothing but the right of possession
for the time being, and other actions might be brought the
next day by the defendant to recover back the same proP9"?3By the Revised Statutes, when the ‘action by writ of right
was abolished and ejectment substituted, the judgment was
made_ conclusive upon the title, but the losing party was allowed three years to pay the costs and demand a new trial.
If unsuccessfulygain, he might even ‘then ‘within two years apply to the court for another new trial.
There seems no good reason for allowing so long a period,
within which an unsuccessful party may determine whether, to
' submit to the result of the first trial. After a second trial,
with a similar result, the judgment ought to be conclusive.
The rernaining sections of this title embrace all the remaining provisions of the existing laws relating to actions concerning real property, which the Commissioners deem neoessavy.

63893. If on a second trial, as provided in the last

section, judgment be to the same effect, as on the first,
no further trial can be had, unless the court, in its disvcretion, on motion by the party as to whom the judgment last rendered is less favorable than the first, order
a third -trial.

(3894. The judgment given on a trial, ‘to be had under the last two sections, must be annexed to the.judgment roll of the former trial, and the judgment last

given shall be the final determination of the rights of

the parties. If a prior judgment shall have been executed, restitution must be ordered, as the last judgment

may determine the rights of the parties, and the same
may be enforced by execution.

,§895. Damages for withholding the property recovered, can in no case exceed the fair value of the
property, (exclusive of the use of improvements, made

by the defendant,) for a period not exceeding six years;
and when permanent improvements have been made
by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title, adversely to the claims of the
plaintiff, in good faith, the value thereof must be
allowed as a set-off against the damages of the plaintiff,
for the use of the property.

§896. The court, in which an action is pending for

the recovery of real property, may on motion, upon

notice, by either party, and for cause shown, grant an
order, allowing to such party the right to enter upon

the property, and make survey and measurement thereof for the purposes of the action.

§897. The order must describe the property, and a
copy theref must be served on the owner, or occupant,
and thereupon such party may enter upon the property
with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such
survey and measurements, but if any unnecessary injury be done to the property he is liable therefor.

§ 898. A mortgage of ' real property is not to be
deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the

mortgage to recover possession of the real property,

without a foreclosure.

§ 899. The court may, by injunction, on cause shown,
restrain the party in possession, from doing any act to
the injury of real property, during the summary foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

§ 900. When real property shall have been sold on

execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person, who
may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury

to the property, by the tenant in possession, after the

sale, and before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

I

§901. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession, or in the receipt of the
rents or profits thereof, can not be prejudiced by any
alienation, made by such person, either before or after
the commencement of the action; but in such case, if

the defendant have no property sufiicient to satisfy the
damages recovered, for the Withholding of possession,

such damages may be collected by action against the

purchaser.

§ 902. When in case of a lease of real property, and
the failure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has

a subsisting right to re-enter for ‘such failure, he may
bring an action to recover possession of the property;
and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent
and a re-entry upon the property. But if at any time

before the expiration of six months after possession obtained by the plaintiff, on recovery in the action, the
lessee, or his successor in interest as to the whole or
part. of the property, pay to the plaintiff, or bring into
court, the amount of rent then in arrear with interest,
and the costs of the action, and perform the other covenants on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to
the possession and hold the property according to the
terms of ‘the original lease.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS for: THE FORECLOSURE or iérorcroncizs.

Sec-rrow 903. Actions for foreclosure of mortgages.
904. Where real property must be sold.
905. Two actions for same debt not allowed. ,
906 8urplus on sale.

W7. Sumcient to satisfy debt only to be sold.

This chapter contains all the provisions deemed necessary
in actions for foreclosure of mortgages, which are substituted
for the provisions formerly in use for that purpose. VVhen
mortgages are given for the payment of money only, as most
of them are, ample provisions are made in -part 3, for their
foreclosure in a summary, and as we think safe manner. In
cases other than those, the action of the court, in determining
the amount is almost invariably necessary ; and these are the
only cases in which a mortgage foreclosure will necessarily
be by action.

§ 903. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction
of a mortgage of real property, or the satisfaction of a

lien or incumbrance upon property, real or personal.
the court has power, by its judgment, to direct a sale

of the property, or any part of it; the application of. the
proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the
mortgage, lien, or incumbrance with costs; and execution, for the balance, against any party liable therefor,
as principal, surety, or otherwise.

§ 904. Real property adjudged tobe sold, must be
sold in the county where it lies, by the sheriff of the
county, or by a referee, appointed by the court for that
purpose, and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance
passes the title of the parties to the action. And upon
the sale of ‘property, real or personal, pursuant to a
judgment, the court may enforce the delivery of possession thereof to the purchaser.

§ 905. When a debt is secured by mortgage of real
or personal property, or a lien or incurnbrancc thereon,
separate actions respecting the debt and the security

cannot be allowed, but the creditor must include in one
action all his claims upon both.

To prevent multiplicity of actions.

§906. If there be surplus money, remaining after

paymentof the amount mentioned in section 903, the

court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the mean time, may direct it to be

deposited in court.

MIT 9.3 ' C

§90'7. If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien or

nincumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been sold to pay the amount
due, with costs the sale must cease; and afterwards as
often as more becomes due, for principal or interest,
the court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But
if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold
in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs be
paid, there being a°rebate of interest, where such rebate

‘is proper.

CHAPTER III.

-actions ma '1TUlBA1¢CE, was-re, -rnasuss oz: umuur mans, arm

WILFUL TBESPASS ON OTHER REAL PROPERTY.

Sacnoir SIB. Nuisance donned, action therefor.
909. Waete detlned, action therefor.
910. Whatjudgment allowed.
911. Damages for wilfully cutting treee.

912. When damages mitigated.
913. Cutting timber for highway.

914. Damages for forcible eviction.
91b. Treepaee on Indian lands.
916. Who may prosecute.

917. To whom damages paid.
918. Security for costs must be given.

§ 908. Anything, which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and
the subject of an action. Such action may be brought

by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or

whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance;

and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated, as well as damages -recovered.

§ 909. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower,
for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of
real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste, may bring an action against him
therefor, in which action, there may be judgment for

treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the property§ 910. J udgmentof forfeiture and eviction can only
be given, in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when «the injury
to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the action, to

be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

The injuries known at common law by the expressive terms
of waste and nuisance, have been heretofore -remediable only
by special waits and a peculiar form of proceeding, or by suit
in chancery. The injuries themselves are not defined in the
revised statutes, but are left to be gleaned from the reports of
common law cases, and elementary writers, -‘while the method
of proceeding to obtain redress is defined at some length.
The system of civil actions in the code is perfectly well adapted to these cases, and it only requires a definition of them
sufliciently comprehensive to prevent the loss of a remedy,
and to declare them within the cases for which an ordinary
action may be brought. .

This the commissioners believe they have accomplished by
these provisions. The necessity is dispensed with for the special writs and peculiar proceedings for whichthose parts of
the revised statutes were -enacted.

§ 911; Every person who cuts down, or carries off.

any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles or
otherwise injures any tree, timber or shrub on the land

of another person, or on the street or highway, in front
of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds, of any
city or town, or on the street or highway, in front
thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner
of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages, which may be assessed therefor.
in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction, except as provided in the next section.

The cases to which a penalty is attached for wilful trespau,
extended so-as to include ornamental trees in the streets.

§ 91.2. If} upon the trial of such action, it appear, that
the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause to believe, that the land, on

which the trespass was committed, was his own, or
that of the person in whose service, or by whose direction, the act was done, judgment must be given for

only the single damages assessed in the action.

§ 913. Nothing in the last two sections authorises the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a
public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it.

§ 914. If a person be put out of real property
in a forcible manner, without lawful authority,

or, being so put out, be afterwards kept out by force,

recover damages therefor, judgment may be entered for
three times-the amount at which the actual damages
are assessed.

§ 915. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention,
if a person claiming in good faith, under color of title,
to be rightfully in possession, so put out or kept out,
recover damages therefor, judgment may be entered in
his favor, for three times the amount, at which the actual damages are assessed.

§ 916. For trespass, by any person other than an Indian, on lands possessed by Indians, an ‘action may be
brought in the name of the people of this state.

§ 917. Such action must be prosecuted by the district
attorney of the county where the lands are situated, or

by an attorney to be designated for that purpose, by the
county judge.

!; 918. The damages recovered in such action, after

defraying the expenses of the prosecution, must be distributed among the Indians occupying such lands, according to their respective interests therein, to be determined by the county judge, on summary application
before him. '

§ 919. Before such action can be commenced‘, security for costs must be- given, satisfactory to the county judge, or to the supervisor of the town where the
lands are situated, by an undertaking in writing to pay

to. the defendant, -the costs which may be adjudged
against the plaintiif.

'Ihe last three sections contain the substance of the provisions for the same purpose, in sec. 8 and 9, of chapter 234,

session laws, 184] , with some definite provisions to regulate
them, and prevent abuse.

CHAPTER IV.

10110118 I03 THE PABTITIOITOF REAL PROPERTY.

sscsroa 920. Action for partition of real property showed.
921. To whom summons is addressed.
922. Contents of complaint.
Creditors having general liens may be parties.
Liens on undivided shares.
Unknown owners made parties.
Rights of parties may be put in issue.

Order may allow sale or partition.

Itanner of making partition.
Referees to make report.

Efect of confirmation of report.

Tenants in (lower, &.c., not attected.

Expenses of referees and surveyor.
Bale, when allowed.
When part only is sold, life estate.

Before sale, creditors having specihc liens.
936. Certihcate as to general liens.

937, 938. Court may order reference as to liens.
Notice to creditors to make proof.

Referee to report priority.

Creditor may have report corrected.
Proceeds of sale, how applied.

Bale not to be delayed by reference.
Referees may deliver securities to parties.

Manner of litigating as to claims.
Bales to be at auction.
Terms of sale to be ordered.

Separate securities allowed.
lktate for life, how disposed of.

What passes by sale.

Sum in gross allowed for dower, to.
Investment, if no consent given.
Proportion of proceeds ascertained.
Unknown tenants in dower, kc.

Investment for inelroaie right of «lower.
Dower, how released.

Terms 0! ale to be published.

§§

§

926.
927.
928.
929.
$0.
931.
$2.
$3.
934.
R5.

55

.¥§§

§§§§§

§§

§§§§§§%

Bncrlon 158. Who may not purchase.

969. Referees to report sale.
960. Report when connrmed.

. Receipt of incumbrancers.
Deeds to be recorded.

. Effect of conveyances.
. Proceeds, when invested.

961

962.

$3

964

966. Investment, how made.
966. Securities in name of parties or clerk.
W7. Clerk to collect interest.

968. Partition made equal by compensation.
$9.

Infanvs share on sale to guardian.
970. insane person's share.

97). Consent to partition by guardian.
972. State may be party.
913. Cost of partition allowed.

This proceeding is one of those which has existed heretofore,
separate from the ordinary forms of actions, by special statutory provisions in detail, providing for its prosecution in both
courts of law and equity.

The nature of the remedy is so unlike those sought in ordinary actions, as to require many distinct provisions, differing
from the general course of procedure.

We have endeavored to unite all that was valuable in the
old law and equity modes of practice, and to make the. procedure conform as far as the nature of the remedy admits, to
the procedure in ordinary actions. There are such a variety
of interests and contingencies to be guarded and provided for
that the provisions necessarily occupy a considerable space‘
though condensed into nearly half the volume, they have here- ‘tofore occupied in the revised statutes. Among other improve-'
ments in the system heretofore in use, is that by which, in case
of a sale of property, the proceeds, whether money or securities, may, in certain cases, be paid or delivered directly to the
parties interested, without the tedious and expensive ceremony:
of being first paid into court, and afterwards taken out on a

formal application.
See 2 R. S., 316-332.

§ 920. Whenseveral persons hold, and are in possess-.
Bion of real property, as joint tenants or as tenants in
oommonyin which one or more of them have an estate,

of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may be

brought by one or more of such persons, for a partition

thereof‘, according to the respective rights of the persons
interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a

part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made,
without great prejudice to the owners.

§ 921. The summons must be addressed by name to
all the joint tenants, and tenants in common, who are
known, and generally to all persons unknown, having
or claiming an interest in the property.

§ 922. The interests of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, must be
set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly,
as far as known to the plaintiff, and if any one or more
of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any

of the parties, be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance
depend upon executory devise, or the remainder be a
contingent remainder, so that such parties can not be
named, that fact must be set forth in the complaint.

V § 923. The plaintiff may at his option, make creditors, having a specific or general lien upon the property

or upon any particular portion thereof, parties to the action.

§ 924. When the lien is on an undivided interest or
estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition 
made, is thenceforth a charge only on the share assigned to such party; but such share must be first charged

with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in
preference to such lien.

§ 925. If a party having a share or interest  unknown, or either of the known parties reside out of the

state or cannot be found therein, and such fact be made
to appear by affidavit, the summons may be served on
such absent or unknown party, by publication, directed
by the court or judge, in the manner prescribed by sections 629 and 630. When publication is made, the
summons, as published, must be accompanied by a

brief description of the property, which is the subject
of the action.

§ 926. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs, as
well as defendants, may be put in issue, -tried and determined by such action; and where a defendant fails

to answer, or where a sale of the premises is necessary,
the title must be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction

of the court, before the judgment for partition or sale
is given.

§ 927. If it be alleged in the complaint, and established by evidence, to the satisfaction of the court, that
the property or any part of it is so situated, that partition cannot be made, without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof, and for that
purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise,
upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a
partition, according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court", and appoint three
referees therefor; and must designate the portion to
remain undivided, for. the owners, whose interests

remain unknown or not ascertained.

§‘928. In making the partition, referees must divide
the property, and allot the several portions thereof to

the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively
considered, according to the respective rights of the
parties, as determined by the court, designating the

several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ
an surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them

therein.

§ 929. The referees must make report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing

their trust, describing the property divided, and the
shares allotted to each party, with a particular description of each share.

§ 930. ‘The court may confirm or set aside the report,‘

and if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the re-*

port being confirmed, judgment must be rendered, that

such partition be effectual forever, which judgment is
binding and conclusive:

1. On all the parties named therein, and their legalrepresentatives, who have at the time any interest in
the property divided, as owners in fee, or as tenants for

years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance of such property, after the termination of a

particular estate therein: or who, by any contingency,

may be ‘entitled to .a- beneficial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in-an individual share thereof;
as tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower:

2. On all persons interested in the property, who may
be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of
the application for partition by the publication directed,
by section 925-: and,

- :3. On _all-other persons claiming from such parties or:
persons, or either of them.

§ 931. But such judgment and partition cannot affect
tenants, or persons having claims as tenants, in dower,
by the curtesy or for life, to the whole of the property,
which is the subject of the partition ; nor can ‘such
judgment and partition preclude any person, except
such as are specified in the’ last section, from.claimi.ng,
title to the property in question, or from controverting,
the title of the parties between whom the partition is

made. '

§ 932. The expenses of the referees, including those
of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed. must
be ascertained and allowed by the court; and the
amount thereof} together with the fees allowed by law

to the referees, must be paid by the plaintiff, and may
be allowed aspart of the charges. ‘ ‘

§933. If the referees report’ to the court, that the
property, of which partition shall have been directed,

or any distinct portion thereof, is so situated, that a
partition thereof cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners; and the court is satisfied that such
report is correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct
the referees to sell the property, or portion so situated.

§ 934. When a part of the property only is ordered
to be sold, if there be an estate by the curtesy, in dower, or for life or years, in an undivided share of the
property, the whole of such estate may be set off in
any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

§ 935. Before the making of an order for sale, where
the creditors having specific liens have not been made
parties, the court, on the motion of either party, must
direct the plaintiff to amend his complaint, if necessary, by making every person having a specific lien on
the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties by

m’ortgage, devise or otherwise, a party to the action.

'§ 936. The plaintiff must produce to the court the
certificate of the clerk of the county where the property issituated, showing whether there are any general

liens by judgment upon the property, or any part thereof. '

§ 937. Unless it be made to appear to the court by

the certificate of the clerk pursuant to the last section,
that there are outstanding no general liens on the proa'- if

perty, or on any share or parcel thereof‘, the court must
order a reference to ascertain them.

§ 938. If it appear by the certificate that there are outstanding of record such general liens, the court must
appoint a referee to ascertain whether such liens have
been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due or
secured by them respectively, and the order of priority
in which they are entitled to be paid out of the property.

§ 939. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served,

at least ten days before the time for appearance, on
each person having such general lien, to appear before

the referee at a specified time and place, to make proof
by his own adidavit or otherwise, of the true amount

due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely, bu

his judgment."

§940. The referee must receive the evidence, and
report, the names of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts thereof, and their priority respectively, and if such liens are contingent he must
specify them. He must attach to his report the proof

of service of the notices, and the affidavits and copies
of other evidence before him.

§ 941. Any creditor having a lien, and being dissatistied with the report of the referee, may move the court

to correct it, at any time.before distribution of the proeeeds of sale, on ten days’ notice to the plainti&' and

the other persons in whose favor liens arereported, and

thereupon the court may correct the report on the evidence reported, or if necessary, may order a new reference of the whole or of any part of the matter. When
confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights of the

several creditors on whom notice was served.

§942. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered

property, must be applied under the direction of the

court, as follows:

1. To pay its just proportionof the general costs of
the action:

2. To pay the costs of the reference: a I

3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens
in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due

and to become due, the amount remaining due to be
verified by affidavit at the time of payment:

4. The residue, among the owners of the property

‘sold, according to their respective shares therein.

§943. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of

incumbrances, and to determine their priority as above

provided, or those herein authorized to determine the

rights of parties, to funds paid into court, must not delay the sale, not affect any other party, whose rights
are not involved in such proceedings.

§ 944. ‘The proceeds of sale, and the securities taker’-I
by the referees, or any part thereof‘, may be distributed

by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the
court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all

_ such proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or

deposited as required by law, or directed by the court.

§ 945. When the proceeds of: sales of any shares or
parcels, belonging to persons, who have become parties

to the action, and who are known, are paid into court,
the action may be continued as between such parties,

for the determination of their respective claimsthereto,
whiehmust be ascertained and-adjudged‘ by--the court.
Further testimony may be taken, in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the-court, and the court may,
if necessary, require such parties to. present the facts
or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original
action.

§9et6. All sales of real property, made by referees

under this chapter, must be made by public auction to
the highest bidder, upon notice, published in the manner required for the sale of real property on execution.
The notice must state the terms of sale, and if the property or any partof it is to be sold, subject to a prior
estate, charge or specific rlien, that must be stated in
the notice.

§947. The court must, in the order for sale, direct
‘the’ terms of credit which may be allowed, for the purchase money, of any portion of the premises of which

it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of
which the purchase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, parties out of the state,
or tenants in dower, or by the curtesy, or for life or

years, when the estate of such tenats is ordered to be
sold.

§ 948. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities, for the whole or convenient portions of

the purchase money, or such parts of the property as are
directed by the court to be sold on credit in the name

of the clerk of the court and his successors in oflice,

and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in
the name of such owner.

§ 949. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by
the curtesy, or for life or years, in the whole or anypart
of the property in question has been admitted by the
parties, or ascertained by the court, to be existing at the
time of the order for sale, and the person entitled to such
estate, has been made a party to the action, such estate
may be iirst set off out of any part of the property, and
a sale make of such parcel, subject to the prior unsold
estate of such tenant therein, But if in the judgment
of the court, a due regard to the interests of all the parties, require that such estate be also sold the sale may

be so ordered.

§ 950. If a sale of the property, including such estate,
be ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant
or person passes thereby; and the purchaser, his

heirs and assigns, shall hold the property discharged

-i:o TIIOTQ ‘I

from all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest,
whether the same be to the individual share of a joint
tenant, or tenant in common, or to the whole or any

part of the property sold.

§ 951. The persons entitled to such estate in dower,
tenancy by the curtesy, or tenancy for life or years,

whose estate shall have been sold, are entitled to receive such sum in gross, as may be deemed upon

"principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable

satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so

entitled may consent to accept instead thereof; by an

instrument under seal, duly acknowledged or proved, in
in same manner as deeds for the purpose of record.

§ 952. If such consent be not given, at or before the
report of sale, the court must ascertain and determine
what proportion of the proceeds ‘of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to
be invested, for the benefit of the person entitled to such
estate, in dower, by the curtesy, or for life ; and must
order the same to be deposited in court for that purpose,
§ 953. The proportion of the proceeds of the sale to

be invested, must be ascertained and determined in the

several cases as follows:

1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of
sale, its proportion must be one-third of the proceeds of
the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual

crvu. CODE. 26

sharein such property, upon which the claim of dower
pxisted:

2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life
or years, be included in the order of sale, its proportion
‘nrqstghe the 3vhple,p1;oceeds of the sale. of the property,

91,91" the sale ofHthe.1AndiVided.share,th¢reo£ in .wh.ic.h
,s9ch.,e§tate,m.ay he: ~

‘I And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of_

proceedingsmust be deducted, from the _proceeds of the

K‘; §,9_5gt. ,If ,tl;1e ;p€1'§9I.l$seI1titled gtpsuch estate inodowcr
by the curtesy, or for life or years, be unknown, -the
court must provide for the protection of their rights in
,tl1,e,s=g1rne manner, .as far as may he, as if they were
lrpown and had appeared.

§ 955. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears that a married woman has an inchoate right of
dower in any of the property divided or sold, or that
any person has a vested or contingent future right or
estate therein, the court must ascertain and settle the
proportional value of such inchoate, contingent or vested right .or estate, according to the principles of law
applicable to annuities and survivorshipe, and mud
,direc_t such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be
invested, secured, or paid over ‘in such manner, as to
protect the rights and interests of the parties.

crvrr. pnocsnvrm. 4

§ 956. A'married‘woman'may release such right, in:terest or estate, to her husband, and acknowledge the

"same in the manner required by law, in respect to the
acknowledgment of deeds by married women, before
any oflicer authorized to take acknowledgment ofdeeds,
or if executed out of this state, before any officer residing in the state, district or county, where the acknowledgment is made, who is "authorized to take the ac-knowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state.

Upon the release, the share of the proceeds of the sale,
arising from her contingent interest, must be paid to her
“husband, and theirelease, or the payment, investment,
‘or otherwise securing of, ashare of the proceeds of ‘a
sale, shall be a bar against such right,'e'st'ate, or claim.

’§ 957. The ‘terms of the sale tnust be made known
atthe time; and if the ‘prerrlises consist of distinct
farms, or lots, they must be sold separately.

C} 958. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, can be interested in the purchase ; nor can a guardian of an ‘infant party be interested inthe purchase of any real property, being the subject of the action, except for ‘the benefit of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are
void.

§ 959. After completing the sale, the referees must report the same to the court, with a description of the
d:iil'ercnt arcels of -land sold to each urchaser, the

name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured,
the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities

if any taken. The report must be tiled in the ofiice of
the clerk of the county, where the property is situated.

§ 960. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order
must be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale;
which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order
may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

§ 961. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid

out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may
take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale

as belongs to him, and must also pay over to the plaintiff or his attorney, and take his receipt for, the costs

and charges of the action.

§962. The conveyances must be recorded in the
county, where the premises are situated, and shall be
a bar against all persons interested in the property in
any way, who shall have been named as parties in the
action, and against all such parties and persons as were
unknown, if the summons have been served as is directed by section 925, and against all persons claiming
from them or either of them.

§ 963. The conveyances shall also be a bar against
all persons having specific or general liens or incumbrances by judgment, on any undivided share or interest
in the premises sold, who shall have been served with
notice as prescribed by section 939; and also against
all persons having specific liens on any undivided share

or interest therein, who shall have been made parties
to the action. But no creditor having such specific

lien can be affected by the sale or conveyance unless
he has been made party.

§ 964. When there are proceeds of sale, belonging to
an unknown owner, or to a person without the state,
who has no legal representative within it, or when
there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate,
subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by
the curtesy, or tenant for life, or years, which are paid
into court, or deposited with an officer by order of
the court, the same must be invested in securities on
interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

§ 965. When security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is

made, it must be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the county, where
the papers are filed, and his successors in office, who
shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the

parties interested, subject to the order of the court.

§ 966. When security is taken by the referees on a
sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an
instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to
the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to

which they are , respectively entitled, or. when such
shares and proportions have been previously adjudged.
 the court, such securitiesm us_t be taken in the names,
of, and payable to, the parties respectively entitled
thereto,,and must be delivered to. such parties upon,
their receipt therefor. Such agreement, and receipt.
Inust ,be,re.turned and filed with. the clerk§966. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken,

' or. by whom an investment is made, and his successors

in office, must receive the interest and principal, as it;becomes due, and, apply and invest the same, as the.

c_ourt may direct, and mns_t file in his oflice. all 8€Cl.ll'lr
ties taken, and keep an account,.in a. book provided.
and kept for that purpose in the clerk’s oflice, free for
inspection by all persons. of investments, and money:-st
received _by him thereon, and the dispo.:ition thereof.

§968. “Then it appvars that partition cannot be
made equal between the parties, according to, their respective rights, without prejudice to l the rightsand interestsiof some of them, the court, may-adjudge com:
pensation to_ be made, by one party to another for,

equality of partition, But such compensation cannot~

I

bgrequired to be made to others, by owners unknown“

nor by iafants, unless, [in the case of an infant, it .ap-..
pear that he has personal property suflicient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

269. When the share ‘of an infant ispisold, the _pr_o.,
cee_ds of _ the sale.may_ be paid by the _ref__erees making”

the ‘ sale, to his general guardian; or“ to th‘e"s'pe'cial’
guardian appointed forhim in the action,‘ if such geni
eral or special guardian, before the payment of such
share into court, shall have given the "security required

by section 550.

§~9vo. The cummmee who may be” erltirfed‘ t6 ‘the’
custody and management of the estate of‘: anein‘sa‘ne“

person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall
have been solid, may receive, in behalf of such person,‘

his share of the proceeds of such‘ real property, from the A

referees, if the committee, before the money is paidi

into court, shall have executed, with sufficient sureties,
an undertaking, approved by a judge of the court, or if
the action be in the supreme court, by a county judge, 

that he will "faithfully discharge the trust reposed in

him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

§ 992. The general guardian of an infant, and the
committee entitled to the custody and management of
the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is entled
to_ real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or
in any other manner, to authorise his being made party
to an action for the partition thereof; may consent to a
partition without action, and agree upon the share to
be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf, to the owners of

the shares of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court. '

§ 972. The people of this state may be made a party
to an action, for the sale or partition of real property, in
which case the summons and complaint must be served

upon the attorney general, who must appear on behalf
of the people.

§ 973. The costs of partition, including fees of referees

and other disbursments, must be paid by the parties
respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in
proportion to their respective interests therein, and may
be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case, they are a lien on the several shares, and the

judgment may be enforced by execution against the

parties separately. Where, however, a litigation arises

between some of the parties only the court may require,

the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties
threto, or any of them.

CHAPTER V.

ACTIONS RESPECTIN G OORPORATIOKS.

Ilcuox 974. The kind of corporation included.
975. Foreign corporations may not sue when an act is forbidden.

976. Tea per cent interest on bank bills not paid.
977. Injunction to restrain corporation.
978. Jurisdiction of supreme court over corporations--their omcers and
business.
979. Who may make application.
980. Debts to be paid rateable in case of insolvency.
981. When a corporation deemed insolvent.
Insolvent corporations may be enjoined.
Stockholders personally liable may be joined as defendants with the
corporation.
Or stockholders may be sued separately afterwards.
Return of execution unsatistied evidence, of insolvency.

Stockholders compelled to make contribution.
Multiplication of suits not allowed.
988. Actions against foreign corporations.

The provisions of this chapter afford substantially the same
remedies as are provided for in articles 1 and 2, title 4, chapter 8, part 3 of the revised statutes, changed so as to conform
to the uniform system of procedure under the code in actions.

The necessity of some parts of those articles is dispensed with
by other parts of the code applicable to such cases. This
chapter was prepared before the publication of the Session

Laws of 1849, and consequently without adverting to the provisions of the act of that session. chapter 226, making provisions to enforce the liabilities of banks under the article of the
constitution on that subject. On examination of that article, it is
found, that its provisions, which are not confined to banking

corporations, do not contiict with those of this chapter, but
that its special provisions are entirely in harmony with the

rules of more general application here prescribed. Considering the recent enactment of that statute, and that it is not

only contined to banks and banking associations, but to debts
contracted after 1st January, 1830, the Commissioners have

not deemed it necessary or expedient either to attempt a revision of it, or to introduce it into the code, but rather to leave

it as a special law applicable to the particular cases embraced
within it.

§974. This chapter embraces all corporations, including in such designation, all associations having
any corporate rights, whether created by special acts

of legislation, or under general laws; except that no-‘=
part of the chapter, other than the next section, extends to a municipal, or religious corporation, or to a

corporation for a public library, a cemetery, an academy, or a society for literary or charitable purposes, or
for the encouragement of the fine arts, unless such corporation has by its charter, or the law of its organization, shares or stock, from which, in some contingency,

a dividend may be made.

The term corporation as used in the constitution and laws
of this state in general, includes municipal bodies with corporate powers. These and the other corporations specially
exempted in this section, are not clearly within the policy of
provisions of this chapter, though by the terms of the Revised
Statutes, vol. 2, p. 466, sec. 57, only religious societies, incorporated libraries, and Lancasterian schools are specially

exempted.

§ 975. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action inthis state, upon an obligation or liability, arising out of, or in consideration of an act, which is contrary to the law or policy of this state, or which is

thereby forbidden, in respect to corporations or associations therein, whose general business is similar. to that

of such foreign corporation.

§ 976. When judgment is rendered against a bank, or

banking association, for any bill or other contract, for
the absolute payment of money, payment of which has

been refused, on. presentment at_ the bank, or place» of

business of the defendant, the plaintifll may recover in-terest, at the rate of tenpercent a year, from the time:
of such refusal, unless in the act of incorporation, a.
different rate of interest, or measure of damages, has
been prescribed.

§. 977. A corporation may be restrained. by injunction,

provisional or final, ‘from, exercising _any function or»

doing any act not allowed by law. Such injunction
may be granted upon the application of the attorney
general, or other otiicer authorized by statute, on satisfactory evidence that the corporation has usurped,

exercised or claimed a franchise, privilege, or other corporate right, not authorized by law, or has done or suffered some other act, by which its corporate existence

or, rights have become forfeited, or may by authority of r

law, be terminated.

{}978. The supreme court has jurisdiction over all

corporations, and the directors, managers, trustees and '

other oflicers thereof,

1. To compel an officer to account for -his oflicial
conduct in the management and disposition of its business or property:

2.= To suspend an oflicer from exercising his functions, when it appears that he has abused his trust:

3. To compel the payment, or delivery, by an oflicer

to such corporation, or to its creditors, of any money

or property of such corporation, or the avails thereof,
in his hands, or to pay the value of, or to deliver over,

any property he may have -misapplied, or wasted, or acquired to himself, or withheld, in violation of his duty:

4. To remove an oflicer from his oflice on proof of

gross misconduct :

5. To direct a new election to be held, to supply a

vacancy, occasioned by such removal or otherwise:

6. In case such vacancy cannot be filled by the corporation, then to report the facts to the governor, who

is hereby authorized to fill it:

7. To set aside alienations of property made by an

officer contrary to the prpvisions of law, or for purposes

foreign to the business of the corporation, in cases
where it may be done without injustice to the purchaser or holder:

8 To prevent the improper alienation or disposition
of property, where there is reason to apprehend it will

be made.

But this jurisdiction does not deprive any corporate
body, or public oflicer, of visitatorial power over any

corporation.

§ 979. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
can only be exercised on the application of an authorized public officer, or of a creditor or stockholder, and
the proceedings must be by action, in all proper cases;

in other cases by motion.

'IU'}IIl.

§ 980. Whenever the affairs of a corporation are
closed by the supreme court, (except on a judgment,

obtained by a creditor for the satisfaction of a debt,)
the creditors are entitled to be paid ratably in proportion to the amount of their respective demands, as ascertained under the direction of the court, except, that,

in case of the insolvency of a bank or banking association, the bill-holders thereof are entitled to preference

in payment over other creditors.

§ 981. A corporation may be adjudged to have forfeited its corporate rights, in either of the following cases:

1. When it has for one year neglected to pay its
notes, or other evidences of debt, or has, for that period,
suspended its ordinary and lawful business:

2. When, having banking powers, or authority to
make loans on pledgvs or deposits, or to make insurance, it violates any of the provisions of the act under
which it is incorporated, or of any other law.

§ 982. Any corporation mentioned in the last section,

may be restrained by injunction from the further exercise of its corporate rights, and from receiving, paying,

transferring, or delivering any money or other property,
until the court otherwise order; and in that case, a receiver of the corporate property may be appointed.
Such injunction may be granted in an action brought
by the attorney general, in behalf of the state, to close

the business of the corporation, or by a creditor or

stockholder, in an action to have such forfeiture ad-§ 983. If the action ‘be "brought by a creditor of a
corporation, whose - directors, officers or stockholders
-are, by law, "personally liable for its debts, either absoiutely or in any contingency, theymay be made parties
to the action, either at it's -commencement or subsequently, fo‘r‘the purpose -of enforcingsuch liability.

§ 984. VVhe4n a judgment has been rendered in such
action, whether brought by the-attorney general, or by
a stockholder or creditor. and the directors, ofiicers or

stockholders are personally liable for the debts, and

have not been made parties, any creditor may coml mence an action, founded upon such judgment, to enforce the liability; and in such action, the former judgment is conclusive evidence of the matters the-rein

adjudged.

§ .985. Whenever an execution, issued on a judgment
against a corporation, is returned unsatisfied in -whole
or in part, by the sheriff of the county, where the principal office or place of business of the corporation is

situated, and whenever a corporation is adjudged to

have forfeited its corporate rights, the court must cause
its affairs to be closed, its debts -collected, its property
converted into money, and its creditors paid in proportion to the amount of their respective debts, in the order _provided in a case of a voluntary dissolution -of a
corporation, except that the bill-holders of an insolvent
bank or banking association, must be (preferred, as -provided in section 980.

I ' . ':'I'91n1r1:.

§ 986. When the property of the corporation is insufficient to discharge its debts, the court may compel
each stockholder to pay any amount, that may remain

unpaid, on the shares of stock held by him, or so much
thereof, as is necessary to satisfy the debts, and when
the officers or stockholders are personally liable for the
debts, and the property of the corporation, together with
the amount unpaid on the stock, is insuflicient to discharge its debts, the court may compel contribution

from the ofiicers or stockholders, who may be liable to
satisfy the balance of the debts, from each according

to his liabilzty.

§987. In any proceeding, pursuant to this chapter,

to close the affairs of a corporation, the court may, on
application of a stockholder, oflicer or creditor, restrain
further proceedings by any creditor, in an action against
the corporation, so far as may be -proper, in order to
prevent the waste of the funds by unnecessary litigation ; and may by a notice, served or published as the
court may direct, require all creditors to present and
prove their claims, or become ‘parties to the action,
within a reasonable time, or be precluded from the
benefit of any distribution, which may be made before
such claim is proved.

§ 988. An action against a corporation, created by, or
under the laws of, any other state, government or coun-.
try, and having property in this state, or an agency established therein, may he brought -in the supreme court,

of common pleas of the city of New-York, in the following cases:

1. By a resident of this state, for any cause of action:
2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this state, when

the contract, on which the action is brought, was made
or delivered in this state, or when any other cause of

action has arisen, or the subject of the action is situated, within this state.

Jimcnded Code, § 427.

CHAPTER VI.

I
ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, LEGATEE8,

HEIRS OR DEV ISEE8 .

Sxcnou E9. A cause of action for injury to person does not survive.

Other causes of action do survive.

When death ensues an injury.

Representatives regarded as one person.

Assets not presumed on failure to answer.

Statute oi‘ limitations in case of death.

Executor of executor not to sue, as such.

Real property of deceased not afected by judgment against executors, and cannot be sold thereon.
Efect of inventory as evidence.

Executor in his own wrong not liable.

Next of kin who have received distribution, liable for debts.
Each liable for the whole amount received.

Next of kin may compel contribution.

Legatees, when liable for debts.

Costs in action against next of kin and legatees.

Recovery exonerates from further liability.

. Heirs and devisees liable for debts.

In what cases heirs liable, and to what extent.
When debt expressly charged by will.
Preference of debts.

N o preference bet ween debts of same class.

Defence that there are llebts of a prior class.
1011. Judgment for excess only, over prior debts.
1012. Payment of prior debt to be allowed.

Itcnnn 1013. Real property inherited covered by the judgment.

1014. When heirs or devisees personally liable.

1015. Contribution among heirs or legatees.

1016. Devisees and heirs not liable when there are assets.
l0l7. Liable for denciency only.

1018. When debt s have been ‘expressly charged.

I019. Devisees subject to action, same as heirs.

1020. After born child provided for.

- 1021. Witness to will who is devisee.

989. A cause of action, arising out of an injury to
the person, dies with the person of either party, except

as provided in section 991,

§ 990. All other causes of action, by one against another, whether arising on contract or not, survive to the
personal representatives of the former, and against the

personal representatives of the latter. Therefore the

executors or administrators may maintain the action
against the party, against whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death against his representatives.

§991. When the death of one is caused by the
wrongful act or omission of another, the personal rcpresentatives of the former may maintain an action
tlierefor against the latter, if the former might have
maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter,
for an injury caused by the same act or omission. But
the action must be commenced, within two yearsafter

the act or omission, by which the death was caused;

the damages thereon cannot exceed ‘dye thousand dollars; and the amount recovered is to be for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be dis[civm com-*.] 27

tributed to them in the same proportions as the per-so$
property of the deceased person.

§ 992. In an action against several executors or administrators, they are all considered as one person representing their testatorer intestate, and -judgment may
be taken, and execution issued against all who are
named as defendants in the summons, although it he
served only on part of them, in .Ithe.mme manner as E

served on all, except as provided in the next section.

r§ 993. When a. judgment is taken against an admintrutor or executor upon iailme to answer, it isnotto
be deemed evidence of ‘assets in his hands, unlessit

appear that the complaint alleged assets, and was peraonally served an him.

§ 994. The time which shall have elapsed between
the death at‘ a person, and the granting «of letters testamentary er of administration, on his estate, not exceed months, and the period of six months after the
granting of such letters. are net to be deemed any part
of the time limited for the commencement of actions.
hy executors or administrators.

‘V995. An executor of an executor has no authority

as such to commence or maintain an action or proceeding, relating to the property of the testator of the
tirst excutor, or to take any charge or control thereof

 996. The real property, ‘Which belonged to a deceased person, is not bound, or in any way aff'ected, Hy
ajudgment against his executors 'or administrators, nor
liable to be sold, by virtue of an execution issued upon
such judgment.

, § 997.‘ in an action against executors or administrators, in which the fact of their having administered the
estate of their testator or intestate, or any part thereof
odmes in issues, and the inventory of the :property‘of the
deceased, tiled by ‘them is given in evidence; the same
mhy be nepelled by  .
’1. That any property has been ‘omitted in such are
véntory, or was but returhea therein at its full vame:
'2. That such property has perished ‘or bée'n- last,
Without the fault of such executors or adiiliiiisltrators’;
or that it has been fairly sold by them at private
public sale, at a less price than the value so returned;
or that, since the return of the inventory, such property
has deteriorated or increased in value. In such action.
‘ the defendants cannot be charged for any  in
avctidn, specihed in their -inventory», unless it appear
that they have been bollected, or knight with due dill‘
gence, have been collected.

§ 998. No person is liable to an action as executor bl’
his own wrong, for having taken, received, or interfered

with, the property of a deceased person; but is i'e'spoiisible to the executors, or general or special admini'st1"a'4
tors, of such deceased person, for the value of all 

perty so ta. en or receive s , an for all damages, caused
by his acts, to the estate of the deceased.

' § 999. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable
to an action by a creditor of the estate, to recover the distributive shares, received out of such estate, or so much
thereof, as may be necessary to satisfy his debt. The

action may be‘ against all the next of kin jointly, or
against any one or more of them severally.

-§ 1000. In such action, the plaintiff may recover the
value of all the assets received by all the defendants in

the action, if necessary to satisfy his demand ; and the
amount of the recovery must be apportioned among

the defendants," in proportion to the value of the assets
received by each ; and no allowance or deduction can

be made from such amount, on account of there being.

other relatives to whom assets have also been delivered.

§ 1001. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a

recovery is bad pursuant to the last section, may
maintain an action against all the other relatives of the
testator, to whom any such assets have been paid, jointly, or against any of them separately, for a just and equal
contribution, and may recover of each defendant such
an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the
whole sum collected of the plaintiff, as the value of the

assets delivered to such defendant bore to the value of

all the assets delivered to all the relatives of the deqeased.

.plaintiff cannot recover unless he shows:

crvn. pnocnnunn. 421

§ 1002. Legatees are liable to an action by acreditor
of the testator to recover the value of any l.egacy received by them. The action may be brought against

all or only one of the legatees. In such action the

I

1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or
administrator of the deceased, to his next of kin: or "

‘I

2. That the value of such assets has been recovered
by some other creditor: or

3. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the
demand of the plaintiff:

And in the last case, he can recover only the deficien-cy. The whole amount which the plaintiff can recover,

must be apportioned among all the legatees of the tes-tator, in proportion to the amounts of their legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of
each legatee.

§ 1003. If an action be brought against several next

of kin jointly, or against several legatees jointly, for

assets delivered to them, and a recovery be had against

them, the costs t of such action must be apportioned
among the several defendants, in proportion to the
amount of the debt or damages recovered against each

of them.

§ 1004. In case of a judgment against several next
of kin of a testator, or against several legatees, the

against any. one of the defendants, discharges such defendant, and exonerates him and his property from_ the

jéudgment.

§ 1005. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by
a creditor ,of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to
the extent of the value of any real property inherited

by; or devised. to. them; Ifsueh» action, be against the
heirs, all the heirs who may be liable must be made
parties to the action.

V’. § 100_6. But’ the heirs are not liable for the, debt,
unless it appear that the personal assets of the deceased
were not suflicient to discharge it, or that after due
proceedings before the proper surrogate’s court, the

creditor has been unable to ‘collect the debt, from the
personal representatives of the deceased; or from hi

next of kin or legatees. If the personal assets were
suflicient topay a part of? the debt, or-in case a part
thereof shall have been collected, as mentioned; in the
lam eeetiga, the heirs of eueh. diseased person are. liable
ivr the.£ee1sue

§ 1007. But the last section does not-affect the liability of hei-rs for a debt of‘ their ancestor, where such debt
was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively on the
real property descended to such heirs, or where such
debt is by the will expressly directed to be paidout of
the 1$eal.pt9pBrt}': deseendeds befereareseryting to: the perdmal.-property;

§ 1808. In cases where the next ofliin, legatees, heirs,
‘and? devise-es» are liable fer the debts -of their ancestors:
as herein provided, they must give‘ preference in the
payment‘ of the same, and ‘are liable therefor, in the fol?
lowing order :*

1. Debts entitled to a ‘preference under the laws
the United States: I"

‘l

2. Judgments against the ancestor or testator according to the priority thereof respectively:
3*. Recognizances; bonds, sealed instruments, notes,‘
bills, and unliquidated demands and accounts. Y

§ 1009. No preference can be given by any next 
kin,,1egatee, heir or devisee, to one debt over another
of the same class, except one specified in the second

subdivision of the last section ; nor is a debt,. due 
payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not due;
nordocs tliencommencement of 'an' action against any
next of kin, legatee, heir or devisee, tar the recovery of
a debt, entitle it to a preference over others of the same

class:

§ 1010. The next.of kin,. legatees, heirs and devisees,
may show that there are debts of a prior class unsatis;

tied‘; or that there are unpaid debts of the same class

with that on which the action is brought; and if it ap.pear, that the value of the personal property delivered

to them, or of the real estate descended or devised to
them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class judgment must be rendered in their favor.

_. § 1011 If the personal property delivered to such next
of kin or legatees, or if the real estate descended or
devised to such heirs and devisees, exceed the amount
of debts which are entitled to a preferenceover the debt
for which the action is brought, judgment must be rene
dered against them only for such a sum as shall be a
just proportion to the other debts, of the same class with
that on which the action is brought.

§ 1012. If a debt of a class prior to that on which the
action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been
paid by any next of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they
may prove such payment, and the amount of the debts
so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount

to be recovered, in the same manner as if such debts

were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the last

two sections. ,

§ 1013. If it appear that the real property so descended, was not aliened by the heir, at the time of the commencement of the action, or if the heir confess the
claim, and show What real property has descended to
him, the court must order that the debt of the plaintiff,
or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover,

be levied of the real property so descended, and not
otherwise; and every judgment rendered in such action has preference, as a lien on the real property descended, to any judgment obtained against such heir

personally, for a debt or demand in his own right.

‘§ 1014. When it appears, in the action, that before
the commencement thereof; the heir has aliened the
real property descended to him, or any part thereof‘, he
shall be personally liable for the value of the property
so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefor and
execution awarded, as in actions for his own ‘debts. But
no real property aliened in good faith by an heir, before action commenced against him, is liable to execu. . i . .
tron, or in any manner affected by a Judgment against
him.

§ 1015. In actions brought against several heirs
jointly, or several devisees jointly, the amount, which
the plaintiff recovers, must be apportioned, among all

the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the Jdevisees of
the tcstator, in proportion to the value of the real property descended or devised, and such proportion only

can be recovered of each heir or legatee.

§ 1016. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing provisions of this chapter, to the creditors of their tcstator,
are not so liable, unless it appear that his personalassets

and the real property of the testator descended to his
heirs were insufficient to discharge the debt; or unless
it appear, that after due proceedings before the s.u1,'rogate, the creditor has been unable to recover the debt,
or any part thereof, from the personal representatives
of the tcstator, or from his next of kin_or legatees, or
from his heirs.

§1017. In either of the cases specified in the last
section, the amount of the deficiency of the personal
assets, and: of the real property descended, to. satisfy
the debt of the plaintiff, and the amount which such
plaintiff may have failed to recover from the personal
representativesof the testator, his next of kin, legatees
and heirs, may be recovered of , the devisees of such
testator, to the extent of the real property devised to

them respectively.

§ 1018. But the last two sections do not affect the
liability of devisees, for a debt of their testator, where

such debt was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or by the terms of
the will made payable exclusively by such devisee, or
made payable out of the real property devised, before
resorting to the personal property or to any other real

property descended or devised.

§ 1019. The provisions of this chapter, with regard
to heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, and

to judgments and executions against them, are applicable to actions and proceedings against devisees; and
they must, in like manner, be sued jointly.

§: 1020. In cases-wzhere, by the-provisions:of'any<sttat1
ate, a-child born after»the- malningv of a will, is‘-entitled
Itoasuoceed to«a portion of the -testa,t!or’=s' real and pen

-ggnaldpropertyw, suchtch-ildshall have thefsameriglits

and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal
property and a partition of the real property, as are provided for next of kin and for heirs; and shall, in all

respects, be liable, in the same manner and to the same
extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to
the personal property delivered to him, and the real

property descended to him, as are herein prescribed ‘m
relation to next of kin and heirs; and such child may
recover of the legatees and devisees. who. may have received or taken any real or personal property of the
testator, the share or portion thereof ‘to which he may
be entitled.

§ 1021. The provisions of the ‘last’ two sections relativeto a child, born after the making of a Will, apply
equally to every person, who being a witness to a will,
is entitled, by the provisions of any statute, to recover

a portion of the real or personal property, of the testator, from the legatees and devisees named in such

will...

CHAPTER VII.

ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES AND FOR“
FEITURES.

lacrrox 1022. Omcial bond to the people, construed severally.

1023. Any person aggrieved may prosecute.

1024. Leave of court must be obtained.

1025. A judgment in favor of one does not preclude another action for

another cause.
1026. Aggregate of recoveries not to exceed the undertaking.
1027 Execution to be nrst enforced against principal.

1028. Amount collected to be limited by the undertaking.

I029. Fines and forfeitures how prosecuted.

1030. Amount to be recovered in certain cases.

1031. Effect of recovery by collusion.

1032. When not specially granted to belong to treasury, and property
forfeited recovered by action.

This chapter differs from the Revised Statutes, chiefly in
making the rules applicable to all otlicial securities uniform,
and in allowing a prosecution upon them, directly in the
name of the party aggrieved, instead of doing the same thing

indirectly in the name of the people. As in most of the
other special cases in this title, the change in the system of
procedure has enabled the Commissioners to condense the
subject into less than half its length in the Revised Statutes.
See 2, R. S., 476-483.

§ 1022. The official bond, or other security, ofa public officer, to the people of this state, whether with or
without securities, is to be construed as security to the

people of the state, as a government, and also to all

persons severally, for the otlicial delinquencies, against

which it is intended to provide. If it be to a county,
town, city, village or other municipal body, it is, in like
manner, to be construed as security severally to all persons intended to be secured, as well as to the body politic named therein.

§ 1023. When a publicoflicer, by oflicial misconduct
or neglect of duty, forfeits his official bond, or renders
his sureties liable upon an oflicial security, any person,
injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his
own name, against the otlicer and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled, by reaI

son of the delinquency.

§ 1024. Before an action can be brought by a plain-2
tiff, other than the people, or «body politic named in the
security, leave must be obtained f the court or a judge
thereof‘, or a county judge, within the district or county
where the action is triable; and leave can only be
granted, on a production of the copy of the bond, and
an affidavit showing the delinquency; and if the delinquency be such, as that if established on the trial, it
would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave must be granted.

§ 1025. A judgment in favor of a party for one de-’

linquency, does not preclude the same, or another party‘,
from an action on the same security, for another delinquency. ,

§ 1026. If it appear in an’ action against a surety, on
an oflicial security, that he has already been obliged,
by reason of prior recoveries against him on the same,
to pay amounts, which, in the aggregate, are equal to

the extent of his undertaking, or that, by reason of the

I

insolvency of his principal, he ‘will be obliged to pay
to that extent on judgments already recovered against

the surety. And the recovery against ‘a surety must,
in ‘all cases, be limited by the amount of his ‘undertaking.

§ 1027. Upon the execution issued on a judgment,
recovered upon the oflicial security of a public officer
against him and a surety, there must be endorsed a diraction to the oliicer, to whom the ‘execution is delivered, to collect the rsameont of the property of the principal, if suflicient can be found, and if not, then to collent it out of the property ‘of the surety.

§ 1628. if there be several judgments on which executions are, at the same time, in the sherill"s hands,
against a public officer and his sureties, amounting in
the aggregate to a sum greater than that, for which the
sureties are liable, the court must, on their application,
limit the amount to be collected of them, to the amount
of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same
to be applied on the judgments or executions, in proportion to such amounts.

§ 1029. Actions for fines and forfeitures, may be ‘prosecuted by the ofiicers or persons, to whom they are by

law given, or who, by special provision of law, are anthorised to _recover them; and whether prosecuted by
public oflicers, or by private persons, are governed by
the same rules as other civil actions, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.

§ 1030. When an action is brought for a penalty,
which is limited bylaw, not to exceed a certain amountthe action may be brought for that amount ; and upon
the trial, the amount recovered, must be determined in

proportion to the offence.

§ 103l. A recovery of ajudgment, for a penalty or a
forfeiture, by collusion between the parties, with intent
to save the defendant from the consequences contemplated by law, in a case where the penalty or forfeiture

is given, wholly -or partly, to the prosecutor, does not
prevent the recovery of the same by another person.

‘§ 1032. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted
or appropriated by law, must be paid into the treasury

of the state; and whenever by the provisions of law,
any property, real or personal, is forfeited to the people
of this state, or to any officer for their use, an action
for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds’
of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper ofiicer,
in the supreme court.

CHAPTER VI II.

ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST CERTAIN~ PUBLIC OFFICERS AND PUBLIC
BODIES.

Bxcrxon 1033. Vlho may sue tn omctal capacity.
1034. In what cases ofllcial persons may sue.

1035. When special department of corporation sues.
I036. Actions against some omcial persons.
1037. For acts of their own or their predecessors.

1038. When the municipal body is sued, judgment to be presented to
board of supervisors.

1039. Supervisors must include it in tax list.

1010. Treasurers must pay judgments against county.

1041. Supervisor or overseer must pay for town.

1042. Execution not to issue until after demand.

1043. ' Judgments against town omcers, how paid.

This chapter is substituted for the provisions of the Revised
Statutes, on the same subject, (art. 4, title 4, ch. 8, part 3,)

adapting them to the new system of procedure. It, however,
embracesa class of ofiicers, who by special statutes 'in* city
charters, are authorised to sue, and contains some new features for the better attainment of the same remedies.

§ 1033. The following officers may prosecute actions
in their oiiicial capacity:

‘ The board of supervisors of a county;

The loan officers and commissioners of loans of a
county;

The superintendents of the poor of a county ;

The supervisor of a town;

The overseers of the poor of a town ;

The commissioners of highways of a town;

The commissioners of common schools of a town;

The trustees of a school district;

The trustees of gospel and school lots; and

Anyorganized department of a municipal corporation
having a board of ofiicers in charge of a particular
branch of public service, and specially authorized by

statute to prosecute. In such action the plaintiffs may
be designated by their oliicial name, or the action may

be brought in the name of the body, in whose behalf
the action is brought. ’

§ 1034. Every such action must be either,

1. On a contract made with them in their ohicial
capacity ;, or,
2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law,

in favor of such oflicers, or the body represented by
them; or,

3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such
omcers or body; or,

4. To recover damages for an ‘ injury to their omcial
rights or property.

§ 1035. When an organized department of a municipal corporation is authorized by statute to sue, it shall,
for purposes of the action be deemed the real party in

interest, though the corporation, of which it is a department, be the party ultimately to be benefited by
the action, or responsible for any loss incurred therein.

{)1 1036. An action may be brought against theohicers
mentioned in section 1033, in their_oHicial capacity, or

against the body they represent, either upon a contract
made by such oflicers in their official capacity, and
within the scope of their authority, or for an injury to
the rights of the plaintiff, arising from some act or
omission of such ofhcers, or of the body represented by
them.

,§ 1037. The actions authorized by this chapter may
be brought by or against the oflicers mentioned in section 1033 upon a cause of action which accrued during

the term of their predecessors, as well as during their
own term of oilice, and when brought maybe continued by, or against, the successors in oflice of the partiespwhose names may, for that purpose, be substituted
in the action.

§ 1038. If judgment, for the recovery of money, be
rendered against a county, or the boardof supervisors,

or superintendents of the poor, of a county, or against a

:tow:n, or the supervisor or overseers of a the poor of a

town, on account of the liability of such county or
town, and the judgment be not satisfied, or proceedings thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise, before the

-next annual meeting of the board of supervisors of the

county, a certified copy of the docket of the judgment,
may be presented to the board of supervisors at their
annual meeting.

6; 1039. The board of supervisors must thereupon
cause the amount due on the judgment, with interest,

from the time‘ of the recovery until the first Monday in
February after such meeting, to be added to the tax of

the town or county, for whose liability the same was

recovered, and the same must be collected as other
contingent charges of the town or county.

§ 1040. The treasurer of a county, against which, or
against whose oflicers, a judgment has been recovered for

a liability of the county, the execution of which has not

been stayed upon appeal, must, upon demand, and the
delivery to him of a certified copy of the docket of the

judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be sufncient -money of the county -in his hands, not 
wise. specifically appropriated. If he fail to do so,-he
shall be personally liable for the amount, unless the

collection thereof be -afterwards stayed upon appeal.

§ 1041. The supervisors, or overseers of the poor,,o_f
a town, against which, or against whose oflicers, a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the town, the

execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal,
must in like manner upon demand, and the delivery of

a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the

amount due thereon, if there be sutiicient money of the
town in his hands, not otherwise specifically appropriated. If he fail to do so, he shall be personally responsible for the amount, unless the collection thereof

be afterwards stayed upon appeal.

I; 1042. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment,
mentioned in sections 1038 and 1040 without leave of the

court, not must leave be granted, until the court is so.tisfied that payment has been demanded of the proper
county, or town officers, as provided in the last two

sections, and that the board of supervisors have wrongfully omitted to include the amount in the tax list, as

provided in section 1039. When execution is issued,
the property of the county, or town, only is liable

thereon.

§ 1043, Judgments, for the recovery of money, rendered against loan otlicers, commissioners of loans,
commissioners of common schools, commissioners of

highways, trustees of school districts, and trustees of
gospel and school lots, or other town or county officers,
on account of a liability of such county or town, may
be enforced by execution, or otherwise, against such
ofiicers personally, and the amount collected of them
must be allowed to them in their oflicial accounts.

CHAPTER‘ IX.

ACTIONS TO VACATE CHARTERS AND LETTERS PATENT, AND TO PRIVENT THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE 03 FRANCHISE.

Burton 1044. Action substituted for quo warranto and scire faelas.

1045. Action to vacate charter of a corporation.

10-16. In what cases action may be brought.

1047. Leave to be first obtained from court.

1048. Action for usnrping an once or franchise.

1049. Action to vacate patents for lands.

H50. When a private person may be joined as plaintiif.

1031. When for usurping an once and receiving fees, defendant may be

arrested.

1152. Judgment may determine the right of claimant.

N153. When claimant may enter upon omce.

N54. Punishment for refusing to deliver books.

11155. Persons entitled may recover damages.

1066. When several claimants to an once, all may be included.
H57. Judgments in actions under this chapter.

1068. Corporation may be dissolved.

N59. Costs may be ordered.

1060. Injunction and receiver allowed.

1061. Record when tiled with secretary of state.

N52. When patent for land is vacated, secretary of state to enter note
thereof A ' i A - » '4' »

§ 1044. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of

quo warranto, are abolished, and the remedies heretofore obtainable in these forms, may be obtained by civil actions, under the provisions of this chapter. But

nothing contained in this section affects any right already required, or any judgment or order already made,

or any proceeding already taken.

Amended Code, £3428. See also, 2 R. 8., 6'79_—-586.

§ 1045. An action may be brought by the attorney .

general, in the name of the people of this state, ‘whenever the legislature so directs, against a corporation, for .

the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on

the ground that such act or renewal was procured,
upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a

material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some
of them, or with their knowledge and consent.

./Qmended Code, {}429.

§ 1046. An action may be brought by the attorney
general, in the name of the people of this state, on
leave granted by the supreme court, or a judge thereof,
for the ‘purpose of ‘vacating the charter or annulling the
existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation;

1. Offends against any of the provisions of the act or

acts creating, altering, or renewing, such corporation;
or

- 2; Viblates the provisions of any law, by which such
corporation-forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers;
or ’ ‘ c "

3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by failure to exercise its powers; or

4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act, which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privilegas; and franchises; or
’5.’ Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not
co1'1'fe‘rred‘upon itby ‘lawf ' '

And it is the duty of the attorney general, toapply
for? leave, and ‘ uponleave‘granted, to bring the action
in every case of public interest, whenever he has reason to believe, that any of these acts or omissions ‘can
be; proved; arid’ also in-every other case, in which satisfactory security is given, to indemnify‘ the" people of
this state, against the costs and expenses‘ to be incur-'
red thereby.

./Imended Code, §430.

§ 1047. Leaveto bring the action may be granted;

upon the application of the attorney general; and the
court or judge may, at ‘discretion, direct notice of such
application to be given to the corporation or its oflicers,
previous to granting such leave, and may hear the
corporation in opposition thereto.

Amended Code, § 431.

§ 1043.‘ At: action may be breuglit‘ by the attorney
general in thepname of the people of this state, upon
his own information, or upon the complaint of a
private party, against the party offending in the following cases:

1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or
military, or any franchise within this state, or any oflice

in a corpora'tion'created by the authority of this state:
or, I ' l

2. When any public oflicer, ’civil* or military, has
done~'or-‘sufferedwanr act--which, by the--provisiohlelw

3. When any association, or number of persons, act
within this state as a corporation, without being duly

incorporated.

And it is the duty of the attorney-general to bring the
action, whenever he has reason to believe that any of

these acts can be proved, or when he is directed to do
so, by a judge of the supreme court.

./imended Code, § 432, with the last sentence added.

§1049. An action may be brought by the attorneygeneral, in the name of the people of this state, for the

purpose of vacating or annulling letters patent, granted
by the people of this state, in the following cases:

1.-When he has reason to believe, that such letters

patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent
suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by

a person to whom the same were issued or made, or
with his consent or knowledge: or, '

2. When he has reason to believe, that such letters
patent were issued through mistake or in ignorance of
a material fact: or,

3. When he has reason to believe, that the patentee,

or those claiming under him, have done or omitted an
act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which

the letters patent were granted, or have, by any other
means, forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

./rmuaea Code,§ 433.

§1050. When an action is brought by the attorney
"-[E _-~ virtue of iscate o th «H gr. ~

information of a- person having an interest in the question, the name of such person must be joined with the
people, as plaintiff.

Jmended Code, §-134.

§1051. \Vhenever such action is brought against a
person for usurping an otlice, the attorncy-general, in
addition to the statenieiit of the cause of action, may
also set forth in the complaint, the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the otlice, with a stateinent of his
right thereto, and in such case, upon proof by atlidavit,
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments
belonging to the oflice, and by means of his usurpation
thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail, and thereupon he may be arrested and
held to bail, in the same manner, and with the same
effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities,-as

in other civil actions, where the defendant issubject 
arrest,

7’ I

Jimended Code, (}435.

§ 1052. In every such case, judgment maybe ren'dered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the
right of the party, so alleged to be entitled, or only upon
the right of the defendant, as justice requires. ‘

Jimended Code, § 436.

§ 1053. If the judgment be rendered upon the right
of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same bet‘

in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after. taking

the oath of o&ce and executing-such omcial bond as may‘
be required by law, to take upon himself the execution
of the ofhce, and it is his duty, immediately thereafter,
to demand of the defendant in the action, all the books
and papers, in his custody or within his power, belonging to the otlice.

./Imended Code, §437.

§ 1054. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver
over such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he

is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same
proceedings may be had, and with the same effect, to
compel delivery of such books and papers, as are prescribed in article five, title six, chapter six, of the first

part of the Revised Statutes.

Amended Code, § 438.

§“105o’. Ifjudgment be rendered, upon the right of the
pei‘éo‘r1’ so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,
he may recover, by action, the damages which he shall
have sustained, by reason of ' the usurpation of the

ofice by the defendant.

Imended Code, § 439.

§ 1056. Where several persons claim to be entitled
to the same oflice or franchise, one action may be

brought againstall such persons, in orderto try their
respective rightsnto such oflice or franchise.

§ 1057. When a defendant, whether a natural person
or a corporation, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding or exercising an/omce,
franchise or privilege, judgment must be rendered, that
such defendant be excluded from the otlice, franchise
or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover costs

against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon .the defendant a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars; which line when collected,
must be paid into the treasury of the state.

./lmmded Code, § 441.

§ 1058. If it be adjudged, that a corporation, against
which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to

this chapter, has by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises,
judgment must be rendered, that the corporation be excluded from such corporate rights privileges and &an..
chiscs, and that the corporation be dissolved. j

Jmtnded Code, § 442.

§1059. If judgment be rendered in such action,

against a corporation or against persons claiming to be
a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to

be collected, by execution against the persons claiming

to be a corporation, or by process against the directors
or other ofiicers of such corporation.

Jimendcd Code, (}443.

§ 1060. When such judgment is rendered against a
corporation, the court has the same power to restrain the

corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to
take an account and make distribution thereof among

its creditors, as are given in the chapter upon actions

respecting corporations, and in the chapter upon the
voluntary dissolution of corporations, and it is the duty
of the attorney general, immediately after the rendition
of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that purpose.
./imcnded Code, (}444.

§ 1061‘. Upon the renditionof such judgment against
a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters
patent, it is the duty of the attorney-general, to cause a
copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the
ofiice of the secretary of state.

sdmendcd Code, §445.

§ 1062. Such secretary. must thereupon, if the record

relate to letters patent, make an entry in the records of
the commissioners of the land office, of the substance

and effect of the judgment, and of the time when the

record thereof was docketed; and the real property

granted by the letters patent, may thereafter be disposed of by such commissioners, in the same manner asif
the letters patent had never been issued.

Amended Code, § 446.

CHAPTER X.

ACTIONS IN Jusrrcss’ OOURTS.

Annex! I. Summons, arrest and attachment.

II. Pleadtngs and trial.
III. Judgment and execution.)
IV. General provisions.

ARTICLE I.

BUMMONB, ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.

8:01:02: 1063. Any person may act as attorney, except constable.

1064. Actions commenced by summons or appearance.
1066. Guardian for infant, how appointed.
1066. .Oontents of summons.

1067. Time when summons is returnable.
1tB8. Ilanner of serving summons.
1N9. Complaint may be served with summons, in certain easa.

l070. One hour allowed to appear after the time.

1071. Order to arrest, in what cases allowed.
1012. Proof to be made, and security given before order.

1073. Defendant when arrested, to be taken before justice.
1074. Constable to give notice to plaintif.

1015. Defendant arrested, how kept.

1076. Order to attach property when allowed.

1077. Proof and security required before order made.
1018. contents of order.
1079. Duty of constable, on attachment.

1180 Disposition of property, when attached.

1(B1. Constable must make return.
1082. Plaintin’ not a resident must give security.

ICB3. Security taken by constable, its avails how disposed of.

It was no part of the original design of the Commissioners
to review the system of procedure in justices’ courts; but

further reflection and observation, as their work advanced,
satisbed them that it was indispensable to the proper and barmonious arrangement of the entire system. Many statutes

equally applicable to proceedings in that court as to those of
higher jurisdiction, are rendered useless in regard to the latter,
by the new system of procedure, and must be either repealed
so far as they apply to one tribunal,‘ and left to stand in thdr
relation to another, or justices’ courts must be included in

the revision.

The Commissioners are of opinion, that the records in 
tices’ cotirts are of a character requiring preservation. Their

decisions are final, unless appealed from, in the same manner as judgments in higher courts. Their dockets have long

been declared to be evidence, and ought to be secured by
provisions for their preservation as public records. They

therefore determined to classify these courts as courts of record, and in this view, are required by law to include them
in the code.

The business of this court is larger in the aggregate, and
more intimately connected with the ordinary transactions of
the people, than that of any other, and there is a manifest
propriety in providing for it the very best eystem of procedure
which can be devised. An uniformity through all the courts,
as far as practicable, not only secures stability in the administration of justice, but it gives to inferior courts the benefit
of the learning and construction which would be otherwise
confined mostly to the higher tribunals. The justice’s court
is the school, in which many of our most eminent lawyers
and judges have taken their first lessons 3 lessons which have
often beneficially influenced the opinions and conduct of the

lawyer, the judge and the statesman, in his later and more
elevated sphere. .

§ 1063. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or
defend in person or by attorney, and any person may

act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the

summons or jury process was served, cannot appear or
act on the trial in behalf of either party. He may

however act, in any other stage of the action, as agent
or attorney for a party, and the authority of a person to
act for another as attorney, may be oral or written, but
unless admitted by the adverse party must be proved
by the oath of the attorney or otherwise.

§ 1064. Act-.ions.in justices’ courts are commenced by
summons, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties without summons’. In the latter
case, the action is deemed commenced, at the time of
appearance.

In analogy to proceedings in the supreme court and to

secure uniformity in all cases as far as practicable, it is
deemed best to make the summons the only process by which

actions can be commenced, and when an arrest of the

defendant or attachment of his property is proper, to require
an order of the justice for that purpose to be endorsed.

§ 1065. When a guardian is necessary, he must be
appointed by the justice as follows:

1. If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must he
made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years
or upwards, if under age, upon the application of some
relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if

hefail in the action, must be first filed with the justice.

2. If the infant he defendant, the guardian must be

appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian,‘if the infant be over fourteen
years of age, and the proposed guardian be present, and
consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the justice may appoint any suitable person Who gives such
consent.

§ 1066. The summonds must he addressed to the defendant by name, or if his name be unknown, by description of him, and must summon him to appear

before the justice, at his otlicein a town or ward, and at

a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of the
plaintiff, for a cause of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him, and must state the

amount for which the plaintiff will take judgment, if
the defendant fail to appear and answer. It must be

subscribed by the plaintiff, or by the justice before
«whom it is returnable. '

The principal changes in practice required is this description of the summons are : .

1. Its address to the defendant instead of a constable :

2. The direction to state the amount for which judgment
will be claimed if the defendant fails to appear and answer.

This is analogous to the summons in the supreme court; and

subsequent provision is made by which the plaintiH' will be
induced to state his claim no higher than he can establish it
by evidence ;

3. The permission to the plaintiif to issue his own summons
if he chooses to do so. The summons in the supreme court

is always issued by the party or his attorney. Provision is '

made for regular return days of process issued by the party,
at which times the justice is required to be in attendance, and

the system of costs is also made applicable to this mode of
proceeding.

§ 1067. The time mentioned in the summons, for the

appearance of the defendant, and the time of service
must be as follows:

1. Where the sumnions is accompanied by an order

to arrest the defendant, or to attach property under sections 107I and 1076, it must be returnable immediately:

2. When the defendant is not a resident of the county‘, or where the plaintiff is not a resident, and gives
the security required by section 1082, it must be re~
turnable not more than three days from its date, and

must be served at least two days before the time for A

appearance :

3. In all other cases it must be returnable, not more
than twelve days from its date, and must be served at
least six days before the time for appearance.

§ 1068. The summons must be served bya constable
of the county, as follows:

1. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery
of a copy to the president, or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof, or when no such officer resides in the county,
to a director resident therein:

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen

years, by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to
his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be noun

within the county, then to any person having the care
or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or
in whose service he is‘:

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own

atfairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, or
for any other cause, and for whom a committee has
been appointed, by delivery of a copy, to such commit;
tee and to the defendant personally‘:

4'. If an order to attach property be endorsedon the
summons, by‘ leaving a’ copy, as prescribed in section
1079.

5. Ii’! all other casesby deliveryiof a copy to the defendant personally.

By this section,the manner of service of itheisumim ons is’deiined, vvhere a ‘corporatidn or a’ minor’, an‘ insane" person or an
habitual drunkard is a defendant. The law has heretofore been
defective in this respect. The service by copy at the defendant’s residence is omitted. ‘ The summons, when served in that
manner’ was formerly followed by a‘ warrant to arrest the

defendant; but that mode having‘been superseded by the act
to abolish imprisonment for debt, and a new summons required

to be served personally before judgment can be taken, this
diode of service by copy is ob longer necessary.

§ I069. When the action is on a promissory note,
‘bill of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of
money only, or for a specified amount? of property’, at a
valuation fixed in the contract, or on an account, the
plaintiif may serve, with the summons, a copy of his
-complaint, together with a copy of such obligation or

‘account. In such case, unless the defendant; in his
dnsxver, specifically deny the note, bill of exchange, or
other obligation or account, he istobe deemed to have
admitted it.

This section is in conformity with“ the practice introduced

b the can 11.1181‘ 0 3 at" : I‘ ‘ 9.: ‘Li-."

' HP 11'; , '0 ‘

very satisfactory. It saves the trouble of proof in those cases, where the demand has been presented to the defendant,
and he sees tit not to appear and deny it. In all other cases the
demand must be proved, whether the defendant fail to appear’

or not,« unless he puts in an answer, and in thatdoes not deny
the allegations in the complaint.

5 1070. The parties are entitled to one hour in which
to appear; after the time mentioned in the summons

for appearance, but are not bound to remain longer than-I

that time, unless both parties have appeared, and the

justice, being-present, isuetually engaged in the trial.

of another action, oriof a‘ special proceeding. In-suchcase, he may‘ postpone the time of appearance until the.

close of such trial.

§ 1071. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued‘ by the justice, and the del
fendant may be arrested thereon, by the constable, ati
the time of serving the summons, and brought before
the justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in.

the following cases: I

1. In an action tbr the recovery of damages, on a
cause of action not arising on contract, when the defendant is not a resident of the county, or is abonttp,

remove therefrom, or when the action is for a wilful injury to person, or to property knowing it to belong to
another:

2. In an action against a person who does not reside
in the state:

3. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property, embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use, by a public otlicer, or an othcer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,

agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such

or by any other person in a liduciary capacity, or for
misconduct or neglect in oflice, or in a professional employment :

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for

which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought: ' '

.5. When the defendant has removed, concealed or
disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors:

6. When an arrest is authorized by special statute,
in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a wilful violation of duty.
But no female can be arrested, except for a wilful

injury to person or to property knowing it to belong to
another.

An order to arrest a defendant is substituted for a warrant,
in analogy to the practice in the higher courts. The order to
arrest is properly a judicial act, to be granted only in certain
cases, and upon compliance with certain conditions, whereas a
process to commence an action is matter of right, and does
not depend on judicial discretion . The party has a right to his
summons or process to comment e the action,but not to arrest
a defendant, unless his case, when presented to an officer, is

adjudged to one entitling him to that remedy. The process
is his own act, the order to arrest that of the court. ‘

The cases in which an order for arrest may be made are defined. They are those contained in the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, modified so as to conform to the provisions
of the code, and to those cases in which an arrest is allowed

in actions in the supreme court. They embrace the cases
also in which an order to attach property may be granted.

§1072. Before an order for an arrest can be made,
the party applying must prove, to the satisfaction of

the justice, by the affidavit of himself, or some other
person, the facts on which the application is founded,

and the amount of his debt or claim over all payments
and set-offs. The plaintiff must also execute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking, with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment the plaintiff will pay to him all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reasonof the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
must be double the amount claimed, not exceeding
one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed

by the plaintiff without sureties, he must annex thereto an aflidavit, that ho is a resident and householder‘ or

freeholder, within the county, and worth double the

sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and
liabilities.

That part of this section which requires the plaintiff to give security, is new in its application to justices’ courts. It’ is in conformity with the existing» law in
relation to arrests in the higher courts, in which no man can

be arrested by an order of a judge even, without hrst giving
security to pay costs and damages in case the alleged cause
of arrest should turn out to be unfounded. Since the justices’
act. as contained in the revised statutes was passed,the policy
of the -law has been materially changed by abolishing imprisonment for debt ; but the law regulating proceedings in this

court has never been revised to make it conformable to the
spirit of that act. In order to have an attachment against the

property of a defendant, stronger proofs were required than
to procure _a warrant by rjwhioh the defendant-was restrained
of his liberty, besides the securities that are required to be
givento’ the defendant ’for the payment of damages in case
the plaintiff shall fail to make out -his case. Abuses by the
arrest of the defendant without good cause, are of common
occurrence, and it is deemed “right to throw about the personal liberty of the party safeguards equal to those by which

the possession of property is protected.

§ 1073. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, must be taken to the office of the justice who
made the order, and if "he be absent, or unable to try
the action, or if it be made to appear to him, by the

aflidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness

in the action, the constable must immediately take the

defendant before the next justice of the city or town,
who must take cognizance of the action, and proceed

‘thereon, as if the summons had been issued, and the

order of arrest made by him.

§ 1074. The constable, making theiarrest, must immediately give notice thereof to the plaintiff, and endorse on the summons and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same, the time of :ih€ arrest,
and of his giving notice to the plaintitf._

§ 1075. The constable ‘making an arrest, or another
constable‘, by direction of the justice, must keep the
defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of
the court, but in up case, can such detention exceed

twelve hours from the time of his being first brought
before the justice, unless, within that. time, the trial
of the action: be commenced. or unless j,t.be delayedat
the request of the.defenda,nt.

§ 1076. When the cause of action arises upon a judg_ ment rendered within this state, or an order of a court

_of competent jurisdiction, to p_ay,a sum of money,‘ or
upon any other contract,‘an order to attach’ the property
of the defendant, may be endorsed upon.a_summqns.,is,sued by the justice, inpthe following cases:

1. When the defendant has departed, or is about to
depart, from the county of his residence, or where the
,action is brought, with il1tet'1t to defrattd his creditors,
or to avoid the service of process, or when he keeps

_l_1i_mself concealed therein with the like intent:

2. “When the defendant has ‘concealed, removed or
disposed of his property, or is about to dose, with intent to defraud his creditors.

§ 1077. Before an order to attach property can-be

,.made, the .plainti&' must prove to the satisfaction of the

justice, by the atlidavit of himself, or another person,

,the facts on which the application is founded; the must

.,.also_ prove.in the same manner, the amount, as nearas

may be, of his debt or claim, over all payments and setolfs. He must also execute, and deliver to the justice,

:1 written undertaking approved by him, with sutifcient
aureties, to the effect that he will pay to the defendant,
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, if the plaintiff fail to recover judgment;
and that if judgment be recovered, the plaintiff will restore so much of the property, or the avails thereof, if
any, as may remain after satisfying the judgment and

the subsequent costs.

§ 1078. The order of attachment, must state the
amount shown by the aflidavit to be due, and must direct that the property of the defendant liable to execution. sufficient to satisfy the same, be attached and
kept, in order to satisfy any judgment that may be recovered in the action.

§ 1079. The constable, to whom the summons with
.'the order is delivered, rnustltake into his possession,
the property of the defendant liable to execution in the
action, and keep the same as directed in the order, and‘
make an inventory thereof, and deliver the same to the
defendant, if he can be found in the county. If not

found, the constable must leave a cop; of the sum-mons, the order and the inventory certified by him, at
the residence of the defendant, with some person of
,auitable age and discretion, if any such person be found
there, otherwise, he must post the same on the outer
..door of such residence. If the defendant have no place

of residence in the county, then the constable must

leave the copy with the person, in whose possession the

property is found.

By the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, an attachment

may be issued in some cases, when the defendant is neither
absent from the county nor concealed; but no provision is
made for serving the process by which the action is commenced personally on the defendant. In such cases it might
happen that the defendant’s property attached is so situated
that he would get no notice of the proceedings, and have no

opportunity of defending on its return. This defect is remedied in this section.

§ 1080. The property, attached by a constable, must

not be removed by him, if an undertaking with sufficient surety, be executed and delivered to him, to the
effect, that if judgment be rendered against the defendant in the action and execution issued thereon, within
thirty days after the judgment, the property shall be
produced to satisfy the execution. If any person claim

the property attached, the same must be delivered to
him, if at any time, after the seizure, and before a sale

on the execution, upon his executing, and delivering to

the constable, in whose custody the property may be,

an undertaking, with sutlieient surety, to the effect,

that if any action be brought thereon within three
months, he will establish that he was the owner of the

property, at the time of the seizure, or pay the value
thereof to the plaintiff.

(} 1081. The constable serving a summons must endorse thereon a certificate of the time and manner of

service. If -property has been attached, that must 
,stated in the return, and an inventory of the property
annexed. If an undertaking have been given, it must
‘be returned to the justice, with the summons, and

mentioned in the return.

§ 1082. .A plaintiff who resides out of the state, be'fore commencing his action, must file or deposit with

the justice security approved by him, for the payment

to the defendant of any judgment that may be recovered by him in the action.

§ 1083. When property is attached and delivered to

a claimant upon an undertaking as provided in section
1080, if the value of the property recovered from him

upon the undertaking, exceed the judgment recovered
in the action, on which the property was attached, with

interest thereon, the defendant in such original action
is entitled to the excess. Or "if such defendant satisfy

‘the claim and costs, or the judgment against him, he
shall be entitled to the benefit of the ‘undertaking of

the claimant, and may bring an action thereon in his

OWII 1131116.

ARTICLE II.

PLEADINGS AND 'r1u.u_..

Btcnox 1081. When pleadings must be put in.
103:"). What pleadings allowed.
1086. May be oral or written.
1087. Contents of complaint.
1088 Contents of answer.

1089. When a reply allowed, and its contents.
1090. Statement of ignorance equivalent to denial.

1091. An action upon note or account, iyhat sugcient.
1092. Pleadings must be veritied. '

1093. Allegations not denied, tobo deemed true.

1094. Court may require pleading to be amended.

1095. Variance, when disregarded.

10%. When party may amend_his pleading.

lU’;)‘I. Answer to be in writing when title to lands comes in question,

.1098. Surety must be given with answer.
1099. Justice to order cause transferred.

1101). When title to land arises, cause to be dismissed.
ll0l. Other causes of action may be tried.

1102. On return of summons, case must then be adjourned or tried.
1103. In what cases adjournment allowed. ’

H04. Length of adjournment and proof required.

1105. Proceedings if party do not appear.
ll(‘6. Proceedings when jury is demanded.

llU7. Order for jury, and constable‘s duty thereon.
1108. » Six jurors to be drawn for trial.
1109. When others may be summoned.

lllt). Party demanding jury must deposit fees.

1] I ll. Adjournment after jury summoned, not guqyuquplgu («gm-9 p‘id
lll2, Competency of jurors, how tried. '

1113. Verdict of -jury regulated.

§ 1.084. The pleadings must take place at thetime
the summons is returned served,.or at such other time,
not exceeding five days thereafter, as the justice may

appoint for the convenience of parties, and by their
consent.

§ 1085. The pleadings in justices’ courts are.

1. The complaint by the plaintiff, stating the cause
of action:

2. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds

3 5 0

3. \Vhen the answer sets up a counter-claim, the neply by the plaintiff.

§ 1086. The pleadings may be oral, except when the

title to real property is brought in question, or they may
be in writing; if oral, the substance of them must be

entered by the justice in his docket ; if in writing, they
must be filed in his office, and a reference to them

made in the docket. They are not required to be in any

particular form, but must be such, as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

§ 1087. The complaint must state in a plain and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action.

§ 1088. The answer may contain a denial of any of
the material facts stated in the complaint, which the
defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement,
in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts, constituting a defence, or a counter-claim upon which an

action might be brought by the defendant against the
plaintiff in a justice’s court.

§ 1089. When the answer contains a counter-claim,
the plaintiff may reply, denying any of the material
allegations relating thereto.

§ 1090. A statement in an answer or reply, that the
party has not sufficient knowledge or information in
respect to a particular allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party, to form a belief, is equivalent

to a denial.

§1091. When the cause of action or counter-claim
arises upon an account or instrument for the payment
of money only, it is sufficient for the party to deliver
the account or instrument to the court, and to state,
that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set
off. The court may at the time of the pleading, require
that such writing or account be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, with liberty to copythe same;
or if not so exhibited, may prohibit its being afterwards

given in evidence.

§ 1092. Every complaint, answer, or reply, must be
verified by the oath of the party pleading, or if he be

not present, by the oath of his agent or attorney, to the
eifect that he believes it to be true. The verification

must be oral or in writing, in conformity with the pleading verified.

§ 1093. Every material allegation in a complaint, or
relating to a counter-claim in an answer, not denied by
the pleading of the adverse party, must, on the trial be

taken to be true, except, that when a defendant, who
has not been served with a copy of the complaint with

the summons, fails to appear and answer, the plaintiff,

cannot recover, without proving his case.

§ 1094. Either party may object to a pleading of his

adversary, or to any part thereof; that it is not suflicienly

explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it con’tains no cause of action or defence, although it be taiken as true.

If the ‘court deem‘ the‘ objection we-11 founded, it must’

order the pleading to be amended, and, if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading must be disregarded.

§1095. A variance between the proof on the trial,-.
and the allegations in a pleading, must be disregarded

as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied, that the

adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

§ 1096. The pleadings may be amended, atany time
before the trial, or during the trial, orupon appeal, to
supply any deficiency or omissions in the allegations or
denial, necessary to support tl-reaction or defencemvhea
by such amendment-, substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and
it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court. by
oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse

party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be granted. The court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the
payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by
the court, not exceeding three dollars; but such payment cannot be required, unless an adjournment is
made necessary by the amendment; nor can an amendnient be allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial,
when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

§ 1097. When, by the defendant’s answer, the title
to real property is brought in question, such a‘nswer‘
rnustbe in writing, subscribed by the defendant or his=
attorney.

. §1098 If the defendant have been arrested, such

answer must be disregarded, unless the defendant also
ir'n‘rnedia'tely deliver to" the justice 3: written undertakihg,- executed by the defendant, and one sufficient’
surety ; or if the defendant be’ absent, by two sufficient"
siireties, approved  the" justice’; to‘ the effect, that’
the‘ d’efe’nd'an’t will alwa'ys‘re"r1der hirnself amenable,Within'‘ each’ courity; to the’ process of the‘ supreme‘
cburt, during the progress of the action‘, and to such as
mayor be issued to enforce the judgment, which may be‘
given therein; and in case of default,,to' pay all damau
ges, not exceeding one hundred dollars‘.

In the next section,the mode of transferring the cause to the
supreme court, is changed toa simple order of transfer by the
justice. This cliange renders a change in the undertaking alsd
necessary, as contained in this‘ section.

§ 1099. Upon the defendant's making such an answer, or if he have been arrested, upon such answer

and undertaking, the justice must enter an order in

this docket transferring the action to the supreme court;

and the proceedings must thenceforth be conducted in
that court, in all respects as if the action had‘ been
first commenced therein’; and costs shall there be
given without regard" to the amount recovered; the

costs before the justice being added as disbursements.
The plaintiff may, however, by a notice served withintwenty days thereafter, decline to prosecute his action

in the supreme court; in such case, the claim shall be
deemed abandoned, and no costs shall be recovered

against him in the supreme court.

§ 1100. The defendant is not at liberty to give evidence,
by which the question of title to real property is raised
on the trial before a justice. And when from the.plaintitf’s own showing, on the trial, it appears that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the

decision of a question of title to real property, the justice must dismiss the action, with costs, stating on his
docket the reason therefor; but such dissmissal shall
not preclude the plainiff from an action in the supreme

court for the same cause.

63 1101. When the title to real property is set forth in
the answer as provided in section 1097, or appears on
the trial as provided in the last section, and there are
other causes of action in the complaint, not affected by
the question of title, the order to transfer or to dismiss
the action, shall not include such other causes; but as
to them, the action must be severed, and tried before
the justice in the same manner, as if the question of
title had not been raised.

§ 1102. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or
if the justice be actually engaged in other otlicial business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of
either party, as follows:

1. Where a party, who is not a resident of the county, is in attendance; or where the defendant is in attendance under arrest; the adjournment not to exceed

twenty-four hours; and the defendant, if under arrest,
to continue in custody:

2. In other cases, not to exceed five days, unless by
consent of parties.

If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place immediately upon the return of the summons.

§ 1103. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon application of either party, without the consent of

the other, for a period not exceeding eight days, as follows:

1. The party asking the adjournment must, if required by his adversary, prove by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony,

which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial:

2. If the application be on the part of the plaintiff,
and the defendant be under arrest, an adjournment for

more than twenty-four hours, discharges the defendant

from custody, but the action may proceed notwithstanding: and the defendant shall be subject to arrest
on the execution in the same manner as if he had not

been so discharged :

[cum oom:.]

3. If the application be on the part of a defendant
under arrest, before it can be granted, he must execute
an undertaking, with one or more suflicient sureties to
be approved by the justice, as follows: If the arrest be
for a cause speciiiedin the first four subdivisions of section 1071, or in the sixth, the undertaking must be to the
effect, that he will appear at the return day, and not depart from the court until duly discharged, or until after

the trial and jud gment, and after a reasonable opportunity
to arrest him on execution issued upon the judgment, if

any be obtained against him. Ifthe arrest be for a cause
specihed in subdivision 6,of that section, the undertaking
must be to the effect, that no part of the property of the
defendant, liable to be taxen on execution, shall be
removed, secreted, assigned, or otherwise disposed of,

except for the necessary support, for the time, of himself and family, until the plaintiff ’s demand be satisfled, or until the expiration of ‘ten days after the judgment, if any be obtained against him in the action:

4. Either party applying for an adjournment, must
also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
[testimony of any witnesses of such adverse party who
are in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the
justice, which must accordingly be done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with the same

effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witness were produced.

The various provisions for adjournment in the jnstice’s act
are embodied in this section and the two following, with some

modihcation. Under ‘the existing law, an adjournment upon
joining the issue, is a matter of course ; this section requires
that cause for an adjournment should be shown, when moved
for, by a party at any -time, and imposes the further condition,
that any witness on the adverse side may be sworn and examined and tlmt his deposition may afterwards he ‘read on the

triaL
§ 1104. An adjournment may be had, either at the
time of joining the issue, or at any subsequent time to
which the cause may stand adjourned, on application
of either party, for a period longer than eight days, but
not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return
-of the summons, upon compliance with the provisions

of the last section, and upon proof; by the oath of the

party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justlhe, that

such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to
which he desires an adjournment, for the want of material evidence, describing it, that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act or negligence on his
part, since the action was commenced, and that he expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him.

§ 1105. If the plaintiff fail to appear at the return day

of the summons and make his complaint, the action

must be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear .at
the return day of the summons, or if either party fail,
to attend at a day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on
his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of the adverse party; and judgment must be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

§ 1106. A trial by jury must be demanded at the
time of joining issue; and is waived, if neither party
then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the

case must be adjourned, until a time and place fixed

for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an
adjournment, the time and place must be determined

by the justice, and must be on the -same day or within
the next two days. The jury must be immediately

drawn and summoned, and the return thereof made as
prescribed in sections 317, 318, and 319.

Important changes are made in relation to a jury trial in
justices’ courts :

1. The demand of a jury trial: must be made at the time
Rue is joined :

2. The jury fees are increased to twenty-five cents each,
for all who are summoned and attend, whether sworn or not,
and must be deposited with the justice at the time a jury is
demanded :

3. The jury is drawn from a jury-box, and summoned as
in the higher courts, and not left to be chosen by a constable,

as heretofore, often to the great scandal of the institution.
4. If, upon the attendance of a jury, the cause is adjourned,
the jury fees for attendance must be paid by the party moving

the adjournment, and they must again attend at the time towhich the trial is adjourned.

These provisions, it is believed,will prove salutary in securing goorl juries, and in preventing. the unnecessary call of
juries in trifling cases. Provision is also made for determining
the competency of a juror; and the causes of challenge, which
are defined in the Code, apply to justices’ courts as wellas
others.

§ 1107. At the time appointed for the trial, and on
the return of the order, if the trial he not further adjoumed, and if adjourned, then at the time to which
the trial is adjourned, the justice must proceed to draw
from the jurors summoned, the names of persons to
constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. Six jurors
constitute a jury, but by consent of parties, a less number may act.

§ 1108. If a suiiicient number of ‘competent and indifferent jurors do not attend, the justice must direct

-others to be summoned by a constable, from the vicini.-__
ty, sufficient to complete the jury.

O 5

'§ 1109. The ballots containing names of jurorsnot
summoned, if any, and of those summoned, but not

drawn, must beireturned by the justice to the drawn jury box, except that such of them as contain the names

of persons, not liable to serve as jurors, must be destroyed. The ballots containing‘ the names of the jurors,

who serve, must not be returned to the sanre box from
which they were taken, until all the names have been

drawn out. As often‘ as that happens, the whole number must be returned to the undrawn jury ‘box, to be

drawn as in the first instance.

§1110. Before a party can be entitled to a jury, he

must deposit with the justice the sum of three dollam,
for jury fees, from which the justice must refund to the

party the fees of all jurors who do not attend, and those
not refunded must be included in the judgment as part

of the costs, in case the party calling the jury recover
judgment.

§ 1111. No adjournment can be granted after the return of the jury, unless the party requiring the same, in
addition to the other conditions imposed on him, deposit with the justice, to be immediately paid to the jurors
attending, the sum of twenty-five cents each, which
amount is in no case to be included as part of the costs

in the judgment- After the adjournment the jurors
must attend at the time and place appointed, without

further notice, and the fees deposited when the jury was

demanded, with the justice, may remain in his hands
until the jury are impanelled, and must be then paid

over to them.

§ 1112. If either party object to the competency:__of
a juror the question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the justice, who may examine the juror

or other witnesses on oath.

§11.13..: The verdict of the jury must be geaerah fat
theplatntjii; for a specmed aunt... or for the defendant;
or when there. is a counter-Izlailn» proved, exceeding the
demand of the plaintiff asproved; for thedefeadant fan
a specified sum. But where there a.l‘e.~sever,a1 plaintimi
or, defendants, the verdict may be for or against, one or

more of them.

ARTICLE III.

‘ JUDGMEKT AND EIEOWIIOJ.

Merton 1114.. Wbenaetlon may be dislnilled. ll 15. When defendant fails to appear, judgment to be given.

I! I6. Whenjury not demanded trial must be by justice.

1111. When judgment must be given.

1118. Party may remit excess over jurisdiction.

lll9. No costs allowed plaintiti‘ in certain cases.

H20. Offer of defendant to allow a‘ certain recovery, audits e’E'ccts.
ma. Judgment, when defendant is subject to arrest.

1122. Transcript of judgment tiled and docketed.

1123. Execution allowed within nve years.

1124. Contents of execution.
1125. Execution against joint debtors.

11:26. Whena constable may emit to arrest.

1127. When constable may arrest.

11%. Extent of imprisonment;

I129. When and how discharged.

1130. Execution may be renewed.

1131. Execution cannot be executed after sixty days.
11$. Constable’! liability. .
1133. Execution by county clerk on jugment ‘docketed.

§ 1114. Jud gmentt that the action be dismissed, with
out prejudice to" a new action, may be entered witli
costs, in the following cases:

I. When the plaintiff volurrtariiy dismisses the action, before it is finally submitted: A

2. When. he fails to appear at the time specided in
the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour
thereafter :‘

3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by
the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong
county or town or by a plaintiff not a resident of the
county, without giving security, as provided in section
1oe2>; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it is?

cause only of reversal on appeal, and does not otherwise invalidate the judgment, if not taken, at the trial,

it is waived, and is no cause of reversal.

By this section, the cases are defined where the action may
be dismissed. The plaintiff cannot be non-suited nor can the
action be dismissed without his own consent. If he insist on
having his case decided tinally in the action, it is his right to
do so. If he finds his proof defective, or for any other cause
chooses to dismiss his own action before it is finally submitted, he reserves his right of action; but if he submits it to
either court or jury, it is at his peril, and conclusive.

1_115. \Vhen the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment must be given for the plaintiff, as follows:

1. iWhere a copy of the complaint and account, or
instrument, has been served personally with the summons, as prescribed in section 1069, judgment must be

given without further evidence for the sum specified in
the summons:

2. In other cases the justice must hear the evidence
of the plaintiff, and render judgment for such sum only

as shall appear by the evidence to be just; but in no

case to exceed the amount speciiied in the summons_

§ll16. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial he not demanded, the justice must hear the evidence, and decide

all questions of fact and of law, and render judgment
accordingly.

I § 1117. Upon a. verdict, the justice must immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by

the justice, judgment must be entered immediately
after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been
arrested, or his property attached: in other cases, it
must be entered either at the close of the trial, or, if

the justice then desire further time to consider, on the
fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive.

§ 1118. When the amount found due to either party
exceeds the sum, for which the justice is authorized to

enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and

judgment may be entered for the residue.

§ 1119. In an action arising on contract, when there

is no counter-claim, if the plaintiff fail to recover
judgment for an amount equal to that stated in his

summons, he cannot recover costs.

This section is introduced to prevent plaintiffs from setting
up claims for a larger amount than is really due where a cause
of action exists. It sometimes happens that a plaintiff (wishing to try a doubtful claim at the expense of his adversar-y,)
buys a small note, commences an action, and litigates his
other claim, in the consciousness that the costs must at all
events fall upon the defendant. This section also affords
security to a defendant who is sued for a debt which he is not
disposed to controvert. He is enabled to know, from the copy
of summons in his possession, the extent of the judgment
that can be taken against him. Instances of fraud upon a
defendant have occurred under the present system, where the
summons in all cases lays the plaintiti"s damage at fifty dollars
or under, as expressed in the printed blank forms. When
the defendant failed to appear, the plaintiff, instead of declaring on the debt, which the defendant expected, has taken advantage of his absence, and produced perhaps some purchased
note, barred by the statute of limitations, or to which the defendant had some other good defence.

§ 1120. If the- defendant, at any tisneibafare the trial,
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a specified sum, the plaintiff mayirnmediately
have judgment theretbr, with the costs then accrued.
But if he do not accept such offer before the trial», and
fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the 0&1‘,

he cannot recover costs accrued after the offer: but

costs must be adjudged against him, and if he recover,
deducted from his recovery. But the offer, and failure
to accept it, cannot be given in evidence, to affect the

recovery, otherwise than as to costs, as above provided.

This section introduces a practice analogous to that under
the Code in the supreme court, and is calculated to prevent

unreasonable claims being set up, and to induce fair ofers and?
liberal compromises. Of its useful e&ctsthe Comnisa°nnm'
entertain no doubt.

§ 1121. When a- judgment is rendered, in a case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it must be so -stated in the judgment, and

entered in his docket.

§1122. The justice, on the demand of a party in
whose favor judgment is rendered, must give him a
transcript thereof} which may be filed and docketed in
the office of the clerk of the county where the judgment
was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the county clerk, must be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and from that time, the

judgment creates a lien in the same manner, as a judgrnent of the supreme court. Upon a. transcript of such
docket, certified by the clerk of the county, and filed in
any other county, the judgment may be there docketed
with the same effect, from the time of filing and docketing in that county. The judgment so. docketed, and
the enforcement thereof, are subject to the control of
the county court of the county where it was first dOQk'.eted, as a judgment of that court. But a judgment for
less than twenty-five dollars, so docketed, is not a lien

upon, and cannot be enforced against real property.

@1123. Execution for the enfhrcement of a judgment
in a justice’s court, except when it has been docketed
in the county clerk’s office, may be issued by the justice

before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, on the application of the party entitled

thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of
judgment.

Theetristing last changed so as to allow execution to be
issued immediately after judgment, according to the practice
in the higher courts. When a debt is justly due and has been
so adjudged by a court, it seems a perversion of right still to
extend the time for its collection. The delay is less n%«G£SS3-r
ry since the exemption of property has been extended.

§ 1124. The execution must be directed to a eonsta
ble of the county, and subscribed by the justice by Whom

the judgment was rendered, or by his successoir in office, and must bear date the day of its delivery to the

otlicer to be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the
judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the
name of the justice before whom, and of the county
and town where, and the time when, it was rendered;

the amount of the judgment; and, if less than the
whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must
require the constable substantially as follows:

1. If it be a case where the defendant cannot be arrestsd, it must direct the officer to collect the amount
of the judgment out of the personal property of the
debtor, and to paygthe same to the party entitled
thereto:

2. If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested, in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the
oiiicer, if suiiicient property of the defendant liable to

the execution cannot be found to satisfy the judgment,
that he arrest the debtor, and commit him to the jail

of the county, until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law:

3. It must further, in all cases, direct the otlicer to
make return ofthe execution, and a certificate thereon,

showing the manner in which he has executed the

same, in sixty days from the time of his receipt thereof.

{} 1125. Upon an execution on a judgment against

joint debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons
was not served, the execution must contain a direction

to collect the amount out of the joint property of all the

defendants, or the separate property of the persons upon whom the summons was served, to’ be specified by

name. If such judgment be also such that the de-‘
fendants are subject to arrest thereon, the justice must

further specify the names of those defendants, served
with the summons, who may be arrested for want of

property.

§ 1126. A constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest
a debtor; or after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the return day; subject only to his liability for an
escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he fail to have either
the money or the person of the debtor in custody at the

expiration of the sixty days.

§ 1127. When an execution directs the arrest of the
debtor for want of suflicient personal chattels, if there
be not sufficient subject to levy known to the oflicer, or
if upon demand by the officer of the debtor, he fail to

produce sufficient property, the ofiicer may without further delay arrest the defendant. When arrested, the

defendant must be conveyed to the common jail of the

county, and there be kept in custody until the execution with costs be paid, or he be discharged by due
course of law.

I

§ 1128. The debtor committed as provided in the last
section, may be held in prison ten days: and if he be
a person without a family, for which he provides, one
day in addition, for every dollar over ten due on the

execution; or, if he have a family for which be proVidcs, one day in addition, fbr every two dollars over
twenty due on the execution.

§1129. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that
he has a family for which he provides, specifying by
name one or more persons, members of such family,

and the place of their residence, is sufficient evidence

thereof, to authorise his discharge by the jailor.

The last four sections contain some new provisions, calculated to soften the harshness of judicial arrests, when allowed,
and yet to secure all the benefits to be expected from them.

§ I 130. An execution may, at the request of the plaintiff, be renewed before the expiration of sixty days from
the time of its issue, by the word “ renewed” written
thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the
justice. Such renewal has the effect of an original
issue; and may be repeated as often as may be. necessary. If an execution be returned unsatisfied, another

may be afterwards issued.

l

§ 1131. A debtor cannot be arrested, nor his property
sold on execution, after sixty days from its issue or renewal; but property levied on within the sixty days,

may be sold after a renewal.

§1132. A constable is liable to the party in whose

favor an execution is issued to him, for the amount
thereof; in the following cases:

1. When he suffers sixty days to elapse, without
making a true return thereof to the justice, and paying

to him or to the party entitled, the money collected
thereon by him:

2. When he wilfully or carelessly omits to levy upon
property; or if the debtor be liable to arrest, to arrest
and imprison him, within sixty days; or having arrested the debtor, fails to commit him to the county jail,
within the sixty days.

§1133. Upon a justice’s judgment docketed in a

county clerk’s office, execution can only be issued by
the clerk with whom the transcript is filed, or by the
plaintiff in person: and it may be sent to one or more
counties where the judgment is docketed. It must
conform substantially to the execution issued by a justice, except that it must state the time when the judgment was docketed in the county from which it is issued, and must be directed to the sheriff; and may direct, that for want of sufficient personal property, the
debt be made out of the real property of the debtor.

Until the adoption of the code in 1848, the county clerk
alone could issue executions in these cases. The practice
since then of issuing them by the party does not seem well
adapted to this class of judgments, when the parties generally
act in person, and are not conversant with the forms of pro
cess.

ARTICLE IV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Sncrxon 1134. Proceeding in justices’ courts in cases not provided for in this article.

1135. Justices’ docket, contents.

1136. Entries when to be evidence.

1137. Index to docket required.

1138. Dockets to be delivered to successor in omce.
1139. Successor in oillce may issue execution.

1140. Who deemed the successor.

11-11. When two are equally entitled, supervisor to designate one.
1142. Blank process not allowed.
1143 Every justice to have a weekly return day.

1144. Not to be the same day with another justice of same town.

1145. Another justice may be substituted in case of inability or absence.
1146. Justice may depute a person to serve process.

ll-17. Authority of special deputy.

1148. Constab1e’s sureties may require new sureties.
1149. Constable may complete execution after expiration of omce.

ll50. Justice may punish for contempt.
1151. Warrant of arrest for that purpose.

1152. Conviction and commitment.
1153. Juror or witness failing to attend may be arrested.

1154. Proceedings against delinquent juror or witness.

1155. Terms used in this chapter delined.
1156. J ustiee’s fees.

1157. Constable’s fees.
1158. Witnesses’ fees.

1159. Jurors’ fees.
1160. Fees on execution from county c1erk’s omce.

1161. Otllcers receiving too much liable to action.

§ 1134. Justices’ courts being courts of peculiar and
limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this code,

which are in their nature applicable to the organization,

powers and course of proceeding in justices’ courts,

and in respect to which no special provision is made

in this chapter, are applicable to justices’ courts and

the proceedings therein.

With a view to promote as far as practicable, a uniform
course of proceeding in all courts, it has been deemed best to
make the provisions of the code generally applicable to justices’ courts as far as the nature of the case and their peculiar
jurisdiction and organizations admit. This chapter contains
all that is peculiar to the court, and a few rules that are common to all; but these for the most part are contained in .

other parts of the code.

§ 1135. Every justice must keep a book, denominated a docket, in which must be entered by him,

1. The title of every action in which the summons

is returned served, or when the parties voluntarily appear:
2. The date of the summons, and the time of its return ; and if an order to arrest the defendant or attach
property was made, such fact must also be stated:

3. The time when the parties, or either of them, appeared; a minute of the pleadings; if in writing, referring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement
of the material parts of the pleadings:

4. Every adjournment; stating on whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time:

5. When a trial by jury is demanded, the demand

must be stated, and by whom made, the names of the

[c1vrL comm] 31

jury drawn, and the time appointed for the trial and return of the jury:

6. The names of the jury who appear, and of those

sworn; the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose

request; the objection, if any, made to testimony, and
the decision thereon:

7. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the

jury disagree, and are discharged, that fact must be
stated:

8. The judgment of the court; specifying the items
of costs included,'and the time when rendered:

9. The issuing of execution; when issued, and to
whom; the renewals thereof, if . any, and when made;
the return, and when made; and a statement of any

money paid to the justice, and when, and by whom:

10. The giving of a transcript to be filed in the
county c1erk’s oflice, and when given:

A 11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, or order to

make or amend a return, stating the time of the receipt, and the fees therefor.

§1136. The several particulars in the last section specitied, must be entered under the title of the
action to which they relate, and at the time when they

occur. Such entries in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor

in office, are primary evidence to prove the facts so
dated therein.

' § 1137. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to
his docket, in which must be entered the names of the;
parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page
of the entry. The names of the plaintiffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first
letter of the family names.

6) 1138. It is the duty of every justice, upon the ex:
pitation of his term of omce, to deposit with his sue-»
eessor his oflicial dockets, as well his own as those of
his predecessor, which may be in his custody; there
to be kept as public records. If the oflice of a justice
become vacant, by his death, or removal from the
town or otherwise, before his successor is elected and
qualified, the dockets, in possession of such justice,

must be deposited with the supervisor of the town, to
be by him delivered to the successor in office of the
justice. 1

{}1139. Any justice, with Whom the .docket of 
predecessor is deposited, may issue execution on a

judgment there entered and unsatisiied, and not docketed in the county clerk’s office, in the same manner

and with the same effect, as the justice, by whom the
judgment was rendered, might have done.

§ 1140. The justice elected to till a vacancy, or when
elected, chosen by lot to fill .a vacancy for less than 4

full term, is deemed the successor of the justice whose

omce became vacant before the expiration of a full term.
When a full term expires, the same or anothor person
elected to take oflice in the same town, from that time

is deemed the successor.

§ 1141. When two or more justices are equally entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the successors in oflice of a justice, the supervisor of the town

must by a certificate subscribed by him, and filed in

the office of the town clerk, with a duplicate attached
to the last docket, designate which justice is to be

deemed the successor of a justice going out of oflice
or whose office has become vacant.

l

The provisions of the last five sections are new, but it is be' lieved that their propriety will be at once generally concurred
in. A justice’s docket, containing the records of many bun}

dred judgments, and perhaps proof, of their satisfaction, ought
surely to be provided by law with a place of deposit, where
it may be found.

§1142. The summons, execution, and every other

paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up
without a blank left to be filled by another; otherwise

it is void.
§ 1143. Every justice now in oflice and every justice

hereafter elected, before entering upon the duties of his

office, must, by appointment in writing, filed with the
town clerk, assign a day of the week, and a place

at which, a summons, issued by a plaintiff himself, may
be made returnable before him. It is the duty of the justice to attend at his office, thus designated, on the day

assigned for returns, from nine o’clock in the morning

until four o’clock in the afternoon.

§ 1144. The day so appointed must not be the same,

specified in the appointment of another justice of the
same town previously filed. The place so designated

may be known as the justice’s office and may be afterwards changed by him, on filing a new appointment,

and posting notices thereof in three public places of
the town.

§ 1145. In case of the sickness, other disability, or
necessary absence of a justice, at the time appointed,

another justice of the same town may, at his request,
attend\in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the time being, of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable. Intthat
case the proper entry of the proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be madoin
the docket of the justice before whom the summons

was ‘returnable. ‘If the case be adjourned, the justice

before whom the summons was returnable, must;resume jurisdiction.

The last four sections provide for a systematic arrangement of the time at which a summons: may be made.retumable before a justice when issued by a party. The Commissioners are satisfied that it will be found convenient and beneticialiboth to the justices themselves, and to those who .do
business in their courts. It is not designed to prevent a justice from issuing a summons returnable before himself on another day if he sees fit. ’

§ 1146. A justice may at the request of a party, and

on being satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute
any discreet person, of suitable age, and not interested

in the action, to serve a summons or execution, with

or without an order to arrest the defendant, or to attach

property. Such deputation must be in writing on the

process.

§1147. The person so deputed has the authority of a
constable in relation to the service, execution and return

of such process, and is subject to the same obligations,
but cannot receive a fee for the service.

§ 1148. When the sureties of a constable make complaint toia county judge, that such constable has.unlawfully converted to his own use, or misapplied,
money collected by him as constable, for which.they
have been sued, or are liable to be sued, such application being verified by oath that they believe it to be
true, the county judge must immediately make an order, suspendingisuch constable from the further exercise of his official powers, until he give new security.
Such order must be served on the constable, and tiled
in the oflice of the town clerk.

§ 1149. When an execution is delivered to a constable, _within the last sixty days of his term of office, he
may, notwithstanding the expiration of his term, proceed thereon, in the same manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall be liable to the
same extent.

§ 1150. A justice may punish, as for a criminal contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and -no

others :

1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behaviour
toward the justice while holding the court, tending to

interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial

proceeding :

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding:

3. Wilful resistance in the presence of the justice,
to the execution of a lawful order or process made or

issued by him.

§1151. A warrant of arrest may be issued  such

i justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested,
and brought before the justice, on the same day, or the
next judicial day, when an opportunity to be heard-in

his defence or excuse must be given. The justice may
thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the
offence, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, .or both; such line not to exced twenty dollars,

and such imprisonment, ten days.

§ 1152. The conviction, specifying particularly the

offence and the judgment thereon, must be entered by
the justice in his docket. A warrant of commitment

to the jail of the county until the fine be paid, or for

the term of the imprisonment, may then be issued’
Such warrant must contain a transcript of the entry in
the docket; and the same must be executed by any

constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailer
of the county.

§ 1153. If a person summoned as a juror or witness

fail to attend, the justice may issue 0 warrant to arrest
the delinquent for the purpose of compelling his attendance, and punishing his disobedience.

§ 1154. When the person arrested is brought before

the justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to
serve as a juror or to testify as a witness, and no valid
excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine upon

- him, not exceeding five dollars. An entry of such fine,

stating the reason thereof, must be made by the justice
in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of a
judgment, in favor of the overseers of the poor of the

town against the delinquent, and may be enforced as
well against his person as his property.

6; 1155. The term “justice,” as used in this chapter,
includes justice of the peace and justices of justices’

courts in cities; the term “town,” includes ward or
district, in reference to justices’ courts in cities; and
whenever other sections of the code are made applicable

to justices’ courts, the term “judge” and “ court” therein, are to be deemed to include justice and justices’
courts; and the term “sheriff,” to include constable.

§ 1156. For services rendered pursuant to the proviI sions of this chapter, fees may be charged, and included

in the jugment, as follows:

For J ustz'ce’s Fees.

1. For all proceedings when the defendant does not

answer, including judgment, transcript and execution,
one dollar:

2. For all proceedings to, and including the issue, if
an order to arrest a defendant, or to attach property, be

made, one dollar; if there be no order to arrest, or to
attach property, fifty cents:

3. For all proceedings after issue, to and including

trial by jury, if there be one. one dollar and fifty cents.
If there be no jury, one dollar:

4. For judgment upon the issue and any proceedings
afterwards, including transcript, executions, returns,

and all other proceedings and entries, tifty cents:

5. Postage actually paid, on sending or receiving a
a commission to take testimony.

«I; 1157. Constables are entitled to receive, from the
party in whose favor the services are rendered, the following fees; of which those rendered before judgment

may be included. therein, when it is in favor of the
party liable therefor:

1. For serving a summons or execution, and making

return, including a copy, when there is no arrest or
attachment of property, for each defendant served,

twenty cents:

2. When the defendant is arrested; for serving the
summons, making the arrest, and giving notice to the
plaintiff, including copies and return, forty cents for one
defendant, and twenty cents for each defendant, more
than one, arrested:

,3. When property is attached; for serving summons,
attaching property, including copies, inventories and
return, fifty cents for one defendant, and ten cents. for

each defendant more than one:

4. For travel; going to serve a summons, or givenotice to the plaintiff, or to arrest a debtor on execution,
or to summon a jury, six cents for each mile more than
one ; to be computed for one person only, from the justice’s oflice to the place where the service i made; but
when there is more than one defendant included in the
same summons or execution, and in the case of ‘summoning a jury, the constable mustcertify in‘-his return
the number of miles actually and necessarily travelled

to make the service on all the persons served, and his

fees shall be accordingly; when a debtor is arrested on

execution and committed to jail,’ ten cents for each

mile, from the place where the arrest is made, to the

jail :

5. For collecting money on execution, and paying it

over where property is not sold: four cents for every
dollar collected toiifty dollars, and two cents for every

dollar above lifty. For advertising property, twentytive cents; for selling property, fifty cents:

6. When an execution is settled by the parties while
in the constable’s hands, he is entitled to receive from

the party in whose favor it was issued, his fees for travel, and service actually performed, and one half the
fees he would have been entitled to for collecting and

paying over.

(31158. A witness is entitled to receive from the
party in whose behalf he attends, to be included in a

judgment in favor of the party liable therefor, as follows:

If a resident of the city, village or town where the
trial is had, twelve and’ a half cents; in other cases,
twenty-five cents; also, four cents .for each mile’s actual travel, going from his residence to the place of
trial and returning.

{} 1159. Jurors are entitled to receive fees from the
party who demands a jury trial, to be included in a

judgment in his favor, twenty-five cents for attending,

whether sworn or not, and the same fee for another attendance pursuant to adjournment, from the party ap§ 1160. Upon an execution issued on a justice’s judgment docketed in a county clerk’s oflice, the same fees

are allowed as on executions issued by a justice ; except that when real property is sold, the printer’s fees
for advertising may be charged in addition, and also,

the same fees for a certificate of sale, and for a sheriff’s
deed, as are allowed in the supreme court.

§ 1161. If a justice, constable, witness or juror receive greater fees than are allowed by law, the excess

may be recovered back, even though they may not be

included in the judgment.

The changes made in the fees are considerable, and are ad‘ justed like those in the higher courts by the result attained,
and the state of the action rather than by the number of steps

taken to arrive at any particular stage. The items are
few in number, but respectable in the amount of compensation for the average services required. Whether they,_are

too large or too small, the legislature can determine quite as
well or better than the Commissioners. But recollecting a

resolution of the assembly in 1848, in relation to filling the
blanks in sections regulating costs in the higher courts, the

Commissioners have deemed it their duty to specify sums
here, leaving it to the legislature to adopt or change them
as it may seem fit.

TITLE X11.

OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Cnarrnn I. Appeals in general.
11. Appeals to the court of appeals.

III. Appeals to the supreme court from an inferior court.
IV. Appeals in the supreme court, and the superior court, and the courtof common pleas of the city of New-York, from a single judge to

the general term.
V. Appeal to the court of common pleas of the city of New-York. or to

a county court, from an inferior court.

CHAPTER I.

APPEALS IN GENERAL.

Sxcnou 1162. Judgments and orders reviewed as prescribed in this title.

1163. Orders made out of court, how reviewed.

1164. Any party aggrieved may appeal.

ll65. Parties how designated on appeal.

H66. Appeals made by serving and filing notice with clerk.
1167. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.

ll68. Intermediate orders adbcting the judgment, reviewed on appeal.

1169. What judgment may be given on appeal.
1170. Certain appeals to be within one year.
1171. Other appeals within sixty days.

ll72. Appellant to furnish papers to the court.

§ 1162. A judgment, or order, in a civil action, may
be reviewed as prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.

admended Code, § 323.

§ 1163. An order, made out of court, without notice

to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge who made it, or may be vacated

or modified on notice, in the manner in which other

motions are made.

Jimended Code, § 324.

§ 1164. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title.

uimended Code, § 325.

§ 1165. The party appealing, is known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. But the
title of the action is not to be changed, in consequence
of the appeal.

aimended Code, § 326.

§ 1166. An appeal must be made by the service of a
notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk

with Whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered stating the appeal from the same, orsome specified part thereof‘. When a party gives, in good «faith,
notice of appeal from a judgment or order, and omits,
through mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may
permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

Amended Code, § 327.

§ 1167. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and

third chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk

with Whom the notice of appeal is tiled, must, at the
expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate court a ce1 tified copy of the notice of appeal and
of the judgment roll.

ufmended Code, § 328.

§ 1168. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court
may review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.
aimended Code, § 329.

§ 1169. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order,
the appellate court may reverse, aflirm or modify the
judgment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of

the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution

of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

./zmended Code § 330.
§ 1170. The appeal allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title, must be taken. within two years
after the judgment, if heretofore rendered, and within

one year after a judgment hereafter rendered.

./fmended Code, § 331, changed so as to reduce the time for
appealing from judgments rendered hereafter. See next note.

§ 1171. The appeal allowed by the._fourth chapter of
this -title must be taken, within sixty days after written
notice of the judgment or order shall have been given
to the party appealing.

Jimended Code, §.332, changed so as to extend the time.
from thirty to sixty days.

Two years after judgment are deemed too long a time, producing unnecessary delay in the final settlement of the rights
of parties. On the other hand,thirty days are too short a limitation for appeals, requiring the same security and the same
deliberation.

§ 1172. The appellant must furnish the court with
copies of the notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he fail to do so, the appeal may be dismissed.

Original Code, 281.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS TO THE OOURT OF APPEALS.

Slzcrrox 1173. Appeal in what cases taken.
1174. Security must be given to pay damages, costs and charges.

1175. If judgment for money, security to stay execution.
1176. If to deliver documents, they must be deposited.

1177. If to execute conveyance, it must be deposited.
1178. If to deliver property, security for, also on mortgage sale.
1179. Security given, proceedings stayed.

1180. Respondent may enforce judgment in certain cases, on giving security, notwithstanding appeal.

ll8l. Undertakings in one instrument or several.
ll&. Security to be approved, and to justify.
1183. Perishable property may be sold.

§ 1173. An appeal may be taken to the court of ap-_

peals, in the cases mentioned in section 28.

Amended Code, § 333.

§ 1174. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose,
a written undertaking must be executed, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect ihat

the appellant will pay all damages, costs and charges,
which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not

exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars or that sum

must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. But such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part of the respondent.
Amended Code, § 334.

§ 1175. 'If the appeal be from a judgment directing
the payment of money, it does not stay the execution
of the judgment, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from,
or any part thereof; be atlirmed, the appellant will pay
the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the

- part of such amount as to which the judgment shall be

affirmed, if it be aflirmed only in part, and all damages
which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon the

appeal.
afmended Code, § 335.

_ §1176. If the judgment appealed from, direct the
assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by
appeal unless the things required to be assigned or delivered, be brought into court,‘ or placed in the custody
of such oflicer or receiver as the court may appoint, or
unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or a judge thereof; or county judge
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey
the order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.

./Qmended Code, (}336. '

6-: "I Sill,

1177. If the judgment appealed from, direct the
execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment is not stayed by the appeal,
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the

clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the

judgment of the appellate court.
.87nended Code, § 337.

1178. If the judgment appealed from, direct the

' sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same is not stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with two sureties, to the effect, that during the possession of such property by the appellant, he will. not

, commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,

and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property, from
the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession

thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum

to be iixed by a judge of the court by which the judgment was rendered, and which must be specified in

the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale

_ of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking must also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.

ufmended Code, §338.

'§ 1179. Whenever an -appeal is perfected, as provided
by sections 1175, 1176, 1177 and 1178, it stays all further
proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment apo aled from, or u o n the matter embraced therein ° but

..v .
I. .I

he court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with, or limit, the security required
by sections 1175, 1176, and 1178, when the appellant
is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person
acting in another’s right; and may also in all cases

limit such security to an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars.

Jmended Code, § 339, modified by the addition of the last
sentence.

{} 1180. In an action arlsing on contract, notwith_standing an appeal and security given for a stay of proceedings thereon, if the respondent give adequate security to make restitution, in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from

the court below, proceed to enforce the judgment.
Such security must be an undertaking, executed to

the appellant, by at least two sufficient sureties, to
the effect, that if the judgment be reversed or moditied, the respondent will make such restitution as the

appellate court may direct.

The object of this section is to secure to a party, who has
obtained a judgment, the benefit of it, notwithstanding an
appeal, if he will give adequate security to make restitution,

in case the judgment is reversed. This appears to be reasonable, inasmuch as the recovery of the judgment creates a

strong presumption, that the amount of it is due to the creditor. If parties are equally willing to give security to abide

by the judgment of an appellate court, he, whose right to the

‘I'.II lI'II I'I ICIC '

competent court, has the better claim to the benelit of it, during the appeal. The adoption of the section will do much
to discourage unfounded appeals, which are now not unfrequently brought for delay.

§ 1181. The undertakings prescribed by sections 1174,

1175, 1176 and 1178, may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant ; and a copy, including

. the names and residence of the sureties, must be served

on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless
a deposit is made as provided in section 1174 and notice

thereof given.

./Qmended Code, § 340.

§ 1182. An undertaking upon an appeal is of no efl
fect,unless it be accompanied by the afiidavit of the
sureties, that they are each worth double the amount

specified therein._ The adverse party. .may, however,

except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten

days after notice of the appeal; and unless they or other
sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a

‘ county judge,as prescribed by sections 691 and 692,within ten days thereafter, the appeal must be regarded asif

no such undertaking had been given. The justification
-must be upon a notice of not less than five days.

aimended Code, § 341.

§ 1183. In the cases not provided for in sections 1175,
1176, 1177,1178 and 1179, the perfectingof an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section 117.4, stays
proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, except, that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below may order the proper- ,
ty, to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited A
or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

./Imended Code, § 342.

CHAPTER III.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME ($1131? 1730]! AN INFERIOR CXJURT.

83¢:-ton 1184. Appeals, in what cases.
1185. Security to be given as on appeal to court of appeals.
11%. Where heard.
1187. Papers, by whom furnished.

§ 1184. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court,
from the judgment rendered by a county court, or by

a city court.

./intended Code, §344. The amendment restricting the
right omitted. V
' § 1185. Security must be given, upon such appeal, in?
the same manner, and to the same extent, as upon‘ an -'

appeal to the court of appeals. » ' 7 J‘
" amended Code, § 345. I ‘

§ 1186. Appeals in the supreme court must be heard '
at a general term, either in the district embracing the

county where the judgment or order appealed from was '

entered, or in a county adjoining that county, except
that where the judgment or order was entered in the

city and county of New-York, the appeal must be heard .
in the first district.

Amended Code, § 346.

§ 1187. Judgment upon the appea must :and docketed with the clerk in whose office the judgment roll was filed. When the appeal is heard in a
county other that than where the judgment rollis filed,
the judgment upon the appeal must be certified to the
clerk with whom the roll is filed, to be there entered
and docketed.

aimended Code, § 347.

CHAPTER Iv.

APPEALS IN THE SUPREME COURT, AND IN THE SUPERIOR COURT AND
COLA 1&1‘ 0!‘ COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK, FROM A SINGLE JUDGE, -ro run GENERAL TERM.

SIQTION 1188. Appeal: allowed from circuit: and special term: to same court in
general term; where heard and security required.
1189. Order: in certain cue: may be appealed from.

1190. Order: at chamber: to be entered before appeal.

§ 1188. In the supreme court, the superior court of
the city of New-York, and the court of common pleas
of the city of New-York, an appeal, upon either the law
or the fact, may be taken to the general term, from a
judgment entered upon the refort of the referees or the
direction of a single judge of the same court. Security
must be given upon such appeal, in the same manner

as upon an appeal to the court of appeals. In the supreme court, the appeal must be heard in the same
manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court;

but the decision at the general term upon the facts separately from the law, is final.

Jmended Code, § 348.

Under the former practice, all questions, whether of fact or

law, in equity suits, were the subjects of appeal, even to the
court of last resort. The amendment made in 1849 by. the

legislature to section 348, confined an appeal to questions of

aw only, and in effect made the decision of a single judge‘

on the first trial conclusive. There is a propriety in not subjecting the verdict of a jury on the facts, to the. review of a
court ; to allow which would much impair the value of a jury
trial. Not so, however, with respect to the decision of a single judge, where a due regard to the rights of parties seems to

us to require, that at least one opportunity should be afforded
to review such a decision more especially when we consider

that in the class of cases, where the trial of facts is by the
court, it is sometimes dilhcult to separate the law and fact.
To meet this view, we propose to modify the amendment of
last year as provided in this section.

§ 1189. An appeal may in like manner, and within
the same time, be taken from an order made by a single judge of the same court, and may be thereupon reviewed in the following cases:

1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional
remedy:

2. When it grants or refuses a new trial:

23. When it involves the merits of the action, or some
part thereof 5

4. When the order affects a substantial right, and
involves the constructionof the constitution or of a
provision of this code:

5. When the order is made, upon a summary application in an action after judgment, and affects a substantial right.
Amended Code, § 349.

§ 1190. The last section includes an order made out

of court upon notice; but in such case, the order must
be first entered with the clerk. And for the purpose of

an appeal, any party, affected by such order, may require it to be entered with the clerk, and it must be
entered accordingly.

Jimendcd Code, §350.

CHAPTER V.

APPEAL TO THE (XJURT O1-‘ WLDION PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK,
OR TO A COUNTY COURT, FROM AN INFERIOR WURT

Bncrrox 1191. Manner of reviewing judgments.

' 1192. Judgments to be reviewed by common pleas, and by county courtsJI93. Appellant to make amdavit.
1194. Copy amdavit and notice of appeal to be served.
11%. Security to stay execution.
1196. To be approved by judge or court below.
1197. Security served stays execution.
11%. In case of death of justice, to be filed.
1199. Counter atlldavits allowed.
1200. Appeal may be heard on amdavits.
1201. Return when and how made, and compelled.
1202. In case justice be out of otllce.
IN3. Amended return may be required.
1204. If justice be dead, witness to be examined.
1205. Hearing, upon return.
M36. Copies of papers not required on hearing.
1207. Judgment how given.

l2(B. Judgment roll.
1N9. Conclusive, unless another action is allowed.

1210. Restitution may be ordered.
12]]. Costs set on‘ in certain cases.

1212. What costs allowed.

§f191. Judgments in civil cases, rendered by justices’

courts, and by the marine court of the city of New-York,

may be reviewed, as prescribed by this chapter, and not
otherwise.

I .«9mended Code, § 351.

§1192 When the judgment has been rendered by
the marine court of the city of New-York, or by a justice’s court in that city, the appeal must be to the court

of common pleas of the city of New-York; and when
rendered by any of the other courts mentioned in the

last section, to the county court of the county where
the judgment was rendered.

Jlmended Code, § 352.

§ 1193. The appellant must, within twenty days after the judgment, make, or cause to be made, an affidavit, stating the substance of the testimony and proceedings before the court below, and the grounds upon

‘which the appeal is founded.
Amended Code, § 353.

§ 1194. A copy of the affidavit must, within the same

time, be served on the respondent, if he be a resident I

of the city or county, or can be found therein, personally, or by leaving it at his residence with some person
of suitable age and discretion, or if he be not a resident,
on the attorney or agent, if any, who appeared for him
on the trial, and is a resident of such city or county,
with a notice, stating that the appellant appeals from
the judgment, and that the appeal will be heard by

the appellate court, at a time and place therein designated, not less than six nor more than twenty days

thereafter; which time may be in or out of term.
When the notice cannot be thus served, the service may

be made on the justice.

./Ymended Code, § 354.

§ 1195. If the appellant desire a stay of‘ execution of
the judgment, he must give security as provided in the
next section.

./Qmended Code, § 355.

§ 1196. The security must be a written undertaking,
executed by one or more sutlicient jsureties, approved

by the county judge, or by the court below, to the effect,
that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and

execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.

aimendcd Code, § 356.

§ 1197. The delivery of the undertaking to the court
below stays the issuing of execution; or if it have been
issued, the service of a copy of the undertaking, gem‘tied by the court below, upon the oflicer holding the
execution, stays further proceedings thereon.

./Imanded Code, § 357.

§ 1198. Where, by reason of the death of a justice, or
his removal from the county, or any other cause, the
undertaking on the appeal cannot be delivered to him,

it must be filed with the clerk of the appellate court,
and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in section 1194, and it shall,

thereupon, have the same effect as if delivered to the
justice.

Amended Code, § 358.

§ 1199. When the affidavit and notice of appeal have
been served, the respondent may supply or correct material omissions or mis-statements therein by an anidavit on his part, a copy of which must be served on the
attorney, if any, who prosecutes the appeal, or if there

be none, on the appellant, if to be found in the county, at least one day before the time for hearing the appeal.
Amended Code, § 359.

§ 1200. The appellate court must proceed to hear the

appeal, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,
or at such other time as the court may appoint, and

may decide the same upon the ahidavits; or if they be
contradictory or defective in material points, may order
the court below to make a return of the testimony and

proceedings before it, within ten days after the service
of the order and affidavits, or of copies thereof.

Original Code, § 310.

§ 1201. The court below must thereupon, within the
ten days, make a return to the appellate court of the

testimony, proceedings and judgment, and file’ the same,
with the order and affidavits, in the appellate court, and

may be compelled to do so by the appellate court. But

a justice is not bound to make a return, unless the fee
prescribed by the last section of this chapter be paid

on service of the order.

Original Code, § 311. afmended Code, § 360.

§ 1202. If the return be defective, the appellate court

may direct a further or amended return, as often as.

may be necessary, and may compel a compliance with
its order.

aimended Code, § 362.

§ 1203. When a justice of the peace, by whom a
judgment appealed from was rendered, shall have gone
out of office, ‘or removed to another county, before a
return is made, he must, nevertheless, make a return,
in the same manner, and with the same effect, as if
he were still in office, and may in the same manner be
compelled to do so.

./9n-mended Code, § 361.

§ 1204. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is
appealed from, die, become insane, or remove from the
state, the appellate court may examine Witnesses on
oath, respecting the facts of the trial or judgment, and
determine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned
by the justice.

A nended Cede, § 363.

§1205. If a return he made, the appeal may be

brought to a hearing at a general term of the appellate,

court, upon a notice by either party, of not less than
eight days. It must be placed upon the calendar and
continue thereon without further notice, until finally
disposed of; but if neither party bring it to a hearing
before the end of the second term, the court must dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same, by special order, for cause shown.

./Ymended Code, § 364.

§ 1206. The appeal whether heard on the aflidavits
or return, must be heard on the original papers; and
no ‘copy thereof need be furnished for the use of the

‘ court.

Original Code, § 316. afmended Code, § 365.

§ 1207. Upon. the hearing of the appeal, the appellate
court must give judgment upon the law and the facts,
according to the justice of the case, without regard to

technical errors or defects, which do not affect the merits. In case of a reversal, the court may allow anoth’ er action for the same cause.

aimended Code,{} 366, modified at the end.
§1208. To every judgment upon an appeal there

must be annexed» the iafiidavits or -return on which it

was heard, which must be filed with the clerk of the
court, and constitute the judgment roll.

udmended Code, § 367.

§ 1209. When upon a reversal, another action is allowed the rights of the parties stand unaffected by the

former action. If another action be allowed, a concise

statement of the reasons therefor must be filed with the
clerk.

The first part of this section is new ; the last is the same
as in original code, § 319.

§ 1210. If the judgment below, orany part thereof,
be collected and be afterwards reversed, the appellate

court must order the amount collected to be restored
with interest from the time of collection. The order

may be obtained upon proof of the facts made at or
after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days.

Jimended Code, § 369.

§ 1211. I1; upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one
party, and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate

court must set off the one against the other, and render
judgment for the balance.

Jimended Code, § 370.

§ 1212. The following fees and costs, and no other,
except fees of omcers, are allowed on appeals;

CIVIL PROCEDURE.

To the appellant, on reversal, if upon affidavits, ten

dollars, if upon a return fifteen dollars.

To the respondent, on aifirmance, if upon affidavits,
seven dollars, if upon a return, twelve dollars.

To a justice of the peace, for his return one dollar.

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part,
and aflirmed as to the residue, the amount of _ costs allowed to either party, is such as the appellate court
may award, not exceeding ten dollars.

If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution,
as provided by section 1205, no costs are allowed to either party.
./fmended Code, § 371.

TITLE XIII.

OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS, IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Cnarrzn 1. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legatees, devisees and tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
II. Otfer of the defendant, to compromise the whole or part of the action.
III. Admission or inspection of writings.
IV. Motions and orders,
V. Notices, and nling and service of papers.

VI. General provisions.
CHAPTER I.

raocx-:snn~rcs"AcAms1' JOINT neurons, mzms, nsvxssss, LEGATEI3 AIID
rsrzszcrs HOLDING UNDER A nmcmsm nssron.

Sscrtox 1213. Parties not summoned in an action on joint obligation, may
summoned after judgmeat. - '
1214. If judgment debtor die, bis representatives may be summoned.

1215.. Contents of summons.

1216. Atndavit of amount due required.

1217. Party summoned may defend by answer.
1218. 3 Reply and trial as in other actions.
1219. Reply and answer to be verined.

§ 1213. When a judgment is recovered against one
or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided in section 632, those
who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint, may be summoned to show cause why they
should not be bound by the judgment, in the same
manner as if they had been originally summoned.

dmended Code, § 375.

§ 1214, In case of the death of a judgment debtor
after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees or personal

GVE 

representatives of the judgment debtor, or the tenants

of real property, owned by him and afected by the judgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be enforced, against the estate of the
judgment debtor in their hands respectively. The proceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of ‘the;

chapter upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs and devisees.

Jmended Code, § 376.
§ 1215. The summons provided in the last two sections, must be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his

representatives, or attorney, describe the judgment, andrequire the person summoned, to show cause-, within
twenty days after the service of‘ the summons; and
must be served in the same manner as the original
summons.

Amended Code, gem.

§ 1216. The summons must be accompanied by an

afiidavit «if the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge, or information and belief} and must specify the amount due

thereon.

Amended Code, §37s.
§ 1217. Upon such summons, the party summoned

may answer within the time speciiied therein, denying
the judgment, or setting up any defence which may

{have arisen subsequently; and -in addition thereto, if

he he proceeded against according to section I213‘, hemay make the same defence which might have been
originally made to the action, except the statute of limitations; if he be proceeded against according to section l214, he may make the same defence, which he
might have made man action upon the judgmentJimended Code, §.379.

§‘ 1218. The party issuing the summons, may reply to
the answer, if a counter-claim be set up therein, and
the issuemay be tried and judgment may be given, in
the same manner as in an action, and enforced by exe~
cution, or. the application of property charged, to the
payment of. the judgment, may, if necessary, be com-pelled. by attachmentAmmded Code, § 380..
§ 1219. The answer and reply must be verified in thei same manner, and are subject to the same rules,_as the

answer and reply in an action.

./Imended Code, § 381..

CHAPTER II.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART
OF THE ACTION.

Slcnol 1220. Defendant may serve oEer to compromise, and the proceedings
thereon.

1221. Defendant may ofer to liquidate damages conditionally.
1222. If plaintif accept or refuse, the effect thereof.

§ 1220. The defendant may, at any time before the

- trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff, an offer to

allow judgment to be taken against him, for the sum or
property, or to the effect therein specified. If the
plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof, within
ten days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer,
with on a&idavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk

must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and can not be given in evidence,

and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

Jimended Code, § 385, extended so as to embrace every action, instead of confining it to an action arising on contract.

§ 1221. In an action for the recovery of money only,
the defendant may, with his answer, serve upon the

plaintiff an offer in writing, that if he fail in his defence, the amount of the recovery be assessed at a
specified sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of
trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the amount must

be assessed accordingly.
uimended Code ~ 386 extended.

-51222. If the plaintiff do. not accept the offer, he
must prove the amount to be recovered, as if the offer

had not been made, and cannot be permitted to give it
in evidence. And if the amount assessed in his favor

do not exceed the sum mentioned in the odiar, the defendant may recover his expenses, incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defence in respect to the question of amount. Such expense must
be ascertained at the trial.

./imended Code, § 387.

CHAPTER III.

ADMIS$l.0.N on_ msrncrron qr wsrrrsgs.

3l,§3'!9l!12-‘33- A party may be required tn admit a me: to be nnuine. or was
expense of proving it.
1&4. 4 party may demand inspection and copy. of a paper.

§ 1223. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any document
or paper, material to the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission Within four
days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the

document or paper, be afterwards put to expense, in

order to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense to be asccrtained at the trial, must be paid by the party refusing

the admission; unless it appear to the satisfaction of
the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal.

uimmded Code, § 388.

{} I224. The cam befhre which an action is‘ pending,
or a judge thereof} or if the action be in the supreme
court, a county judge may order either party to give to
the other, within a specified time, an inspection and

copy, or permission to take a copy of any book, documentor paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defence therein. If compliance with the
eriier be refused, the court may exclude the bno“k,-dbcu or papenfrorn being given in evidence,  ii‘ 
as as evidence by the party ‘applying, may «meet ‘the
jury tn presume it tohe such ‘as he atiegeh it to he’;
and the court nary also‘ punish the party 
'l’fiis"setStion is not toebe construed to prevent at p‘xi‘Pty
‘ii-but compelling another to protl‘u‘cé Books-, paired; er
docuin*ents, when he is examined as at siithees‘.
uintended Code, §I3s3, modiiied.
CHAPTER’ IV.

Motions AND onnans.

Is.-c-rrors 1225. An order, denncd.
1&6. A motion, donned.

1227. Motions, how made. '
. Motions to be made in the district, or atljoininf county.
. When notice is necessary, it must be served eight days baton
hearing. ‘ p p _ ‘ ‘ __
. In actions in supreme court, county judgclmay act.
. in the absence ohjndfe, rmotihn mdyliswtrindcrtoth
' . Order for payment of money enforced by execution.
so onmotion, witness may-be'exammsd‘orany.
. . When answer admits part of claim, court may order it satlstled.

§ 1225. Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included in-a judgment, is
*denomindtad=hmsrder.

. J‘§ 1226. An application for an order is a motion.
aimended Code, § 401.

§ 1227. All motions may be made to the court at a
special term, except upon appeals. Motions may likewise be made to a judge out of court, as provided in

other parts of this code.

Original Code, §359, modified.

§ 1228. Motions must be made Within the district in

,which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining

that in which it is triable, except that where the action
is triable in the first judicial district, the motion must
be made therein. Orders made out of court, without
notice, may be made by any judge of the court, in any
part of the state; and if the action be in the supreme
court they may also be made by a county judge of~the

county where the action is triable, except to stay proceedings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings

for a longer time than twenty days, can be granted by

a judge out of court, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party.

° Original Code, (3361.

§1229. When notice of a motion is necessary, it
must be served eight days before the time appointed
for the hearing; but the court or judge may, by an
order to show_ cause, prescribe a shorter time.

.r9mended.C'ode, {} 402.

§ 1230. In an action in the supreme court, a county
‘dc ' addition to the - were conferred n so ~ him b

this code, may exercise, within his county, the powers

of a judge of the supreme court out of court as provided

in section 222. And in all cases where an order is

made by a county judge, it may be reviewed in the
same manner, as if it had been made by a _ judge of the
"supreme court.

.z9mended Coa‘e,§ 403.

§ 1231.. When a notice of a motion is given, or an

order to show cause provides for a motion, before a

judge out of court, and at the time nxed for the motion,

he is unable to hear it, the same may be transferred, by
his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion

might originally have been made.

./imended Cade, § 4%

§ 1232. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum
of money is made by a court pursuant to a provision of
this code, the same may be enforced by execution,‘ in

the same manner, as if it were a judgment, except that
the person cannot be arrested unless specially directed
in the order, not can real property be sold 'thereon,.'except in the cases where the sameis by. law a charge

upon real property.
New.
§ 1233. Upon a motion, any person present in court,

whose afiidavit or deposition would be admissable
thereupon, may be orally examined.

§ 1234. When the answer of the defendant admits
part of the plaintiff ’s claim to be just, the court, on
motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that part
of the claim, and may enforce the order, as it enforces

a provisional remedy.

JV'ew. To prevent defendants from keeping plaintifs out
of what is admitted to be due, while litigating as to the rest.

CHAPTER V.

norntsr, -AND rrtmm, AND sznvret or runs.

bi-In 12$, 1236. Notices and other papers, how served on jiertyer etleeier.
1237, 1238. When and how served by mail.

ms. Defendant Ippiying entitled to notice.
1240. Service of papers where party resides out ofstete.

1241. 3or'nr'no'ne and pléadiugi, Iu.-., to be star.
1242. Notice good, though title omitted.
1243, 1244. This chapter not to‘ apply to’ iummons or pram, or mph.
pen to bring party into contempt.

§ 1235. Notices must be in writing; and notices and

*8&er  may be served on. the party or attorney,

iirihc -manner prescribed in the next -three sections,
where not otherwise:-provided by this code.

Jrhendtd (Jade-, §= 408.

Q1236» The service may be personal, or by delivery
to the party or attorney on whom the service is required
to be made, or it may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his
absence from his o&ice, by leaving the paper with his

"clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof;

or when there is no person in the office, by leaving it,
between the hours of six in the morning and nine in

the evening, in a conspicuous place in the otlice, or if

_it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by

leaving it at the attorney’s residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion.

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the

paper at his residence, between the hours of six in the
morning and nine in the evening, with some person of

‘suitable age and discretion.

Jmended Code, § 409.

§f237. Service by mail may be made, ‘where the

' person making the service, and the person on whom it

is to be made, reside in different places, between
which there is a regular communication by mail.

./?mended Code, § 410.

§ 1238. In case of service by mail, the paper must be

deposited‘ in the post office; addressed to the person on
whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and
the postage paid. And in such case, the time. of service must be int:—reased- one day for every fifty miles distance between the place of the deposit and the ‘place

.0? the address.

 Code, §§ 411 and 412, ‘modified so as not to discourage service by mail.

‘ §-1-239. A defendant appears in an action when he

answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written notice

of his appearance. After appearance, otherwise than
by answer, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings, in the same manneras if he hadnswcred. But where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in
an action, need not be made upon him, unless he be

imprisoned for want: of bnii.

jmended Code, §4l~4. — The first sentence is new.

§ 1240. Where a plaintiff, or a defendant who has
appeared, resides out of the state, and has no attorney
in the action, the service may be made by mail, if his

residence be known, if not known, on the clerk for

him. But where a party has a_n attorney in the action,
the service of papers must be upon the attorney, in»

stead of the party.
./imended Code, §415 and 417.

§ 1241. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do
not apply to the service of a summons or other process,
or of any paper to bringa party into contempt.

./Intended Code, § 418.

§ 1242. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual
though the title of the action in which it is made, be

-omitted, or be defective either in respect to the court

or parties, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding, and, in furtherance of justice, upon proper

terms, any other defect or error in any notice, or other

paper or proceeding, may be amended by the court,
and any mischance relieved within one year thereafter.

§ 12.13. The various undertakings required to be
given by this code and the affidavits and other written
proceedings in an action, must be filed or entered -in

court, or with the clerk thereof, unless the court expressly provide for a different disposition thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter 7
on the claim and delivery of personal property. must
after the justification of the sureties, be delivered by
the sheriff to the parties respectively, for whose benefit
they are taken. The summons, and the several pleadings in an action, must be filed with the clerk within
ten days after the service thereof, respectively, or the

adverse party, on proof of the omission, is entitled,

without notice, to an order from a judge that the same

be filed within a time specified in the order, or be
deemed abandoned.

CHAPTER VI.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Sncriorc 1214. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
1245. Successive actions on same contract.
I246. Actions, when consolidated.
1247. Action, when deemed pending.
1248. Action to determine adverse claim.

1249. Jurisdiction of court over persons.

1250. Jurisdiction of court over corporations.

126]. Jurisdiction of court over causes of action.

1252. Action barred by limitation in another state, barred in this.

1253. Register of actions, to be kept by clerk.

1254. Authority conferred on several, majority may act.

12.55. Time, how computed.

1256. Legal notices, how published.

1257. Counsel to speak only an hour, without leave.

1258. Persons prosecuting or defending, without probable cause, liable.
1259. All existing rights of action prosecuted as prescribed in this code.

§l244. If an original pleading or paper be lost or
withheld by any person, the ccurt may authorise a copy
_ thereof to be filed and used instead of theoriginal.

Jimendcd Code, {}422.

§ 1245. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract, or transaction, whenever after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.

New.

§1246. Whenever two or more actions are pending
at one time, between the same parties, and in the same
court, upon causes of action which might have been
joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

2 R. 8., 383, {}36 and 38.

§ 1247. An action is deemed to be pending, from the
time of its commencement, until its final determination
upon appeal, or until the time for an appeal has passed,
and the judgment has been satisfied.

New.

§1248. An action may be brought by one person
against another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim, which the latter makes against the former,
for money or property, upon an alleged obligation; and
also against two or more persons, for the purpose of

compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for
which the plaintiff is bound as surety.

New.

§ 1-249’. No natural person is subject to ‘the’ jurisdiction of a court of this state, unless he appear in the
court, or be found" within the ‘state, or be a resident
thereof, or have property therein; and in the last case

only to the extent of such property at the time the jurisdiction attached. ‘

New.

This section and the next two are intended to define the

extent of the jurisdiction which our courts may exercise.
This seems the more necessary to be done, since legal fictions

are abolished. It is a curious fact in legal history, that the
jurisdiction, as well as the practice of courts, has depended in
a considerable degree upon fictions. In the case of Mostyn
vs. Fabrigas, Cowp. 161, it became a question, whether the
defendant was responsible in England for a false imprisonment in the island of Minorca, and Lord Mansfield, delivering
the judgment of the court, placed his reason principally upon
the venue being laid in England, that is, the plaintiff had
averred that the defendant imprisoned him at Jlfinorca, to wit,

at London aforesaid in the parish of St. Mary le Bow in the

ward qfC/reap. Upon such reasons, was the doctrine established that trespasses abroad might be sued for in courts at
home.

The qualification, in section 125], with respect to actions

concerning real property, is proper in itself, and conformable
to the decisions of our courts. Livingston vs. Jefferson, 1

Brockenb , 203 -—Watts vs. Kinney, 6 Hill 82.

§ 1250. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction

of a, court of this state, unless it appear in the court, or
have been created by, nr under the laws of this state,
or have an agency established therein for the transaction of some portion of its business, or have property
therein, and in the last case only to the extent of such

property at the time the jurisdiction attached.

New.

§ 1251. When the court has jurisdiction of the p.arties,
it may exercise it, in respect to any cause of action,

wherever arising, except for the specific recovery of real

property, situated out of this state, or an injury thereto,

and except also as provided in section 988.

New.

§ 1252. When a cause of action has arisen in a sister state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action thereon cannot there be maintained

against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon cannot be maintained against him in this

state, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had
the cause of action from the time it accrued.

It is a general principle of our jurisprudence, that the law
of the place, where a contract is made, determines its validity and construction, but that the remedy is to be administered according to the law of the place where the action is
brought. The prescription of actions, or the time within

which they may be brought, is, however, placed in the latter
category, 13 Peters, 3l2,——6 Wend., 4'75. Hence, it happens, that a person who, by the lapse of time, is absolved
from prosecution in his own state, is held liable the moment
he passes it, even though the liability may be to his neighbor,
who follows‘him 'for*a remedy which he has lost at home.
Now, as a general principle, it appears most consonant with
right, that where, by the law of the domicil of the debtor, the
debt is barred, it should be barred every where, except in favor of a domestic creditor.

Take, for example, the case of two persons living in the
same town in Georgia. They had transactions twenty years

ago, and one claimed a balance from the other, but time gra- i

dually closed over the claim, without any attempt by the creditor to enforce it in his own courts. At length, the debtor
takes a journey to this state, and the creditor follows him and

sues in our courts. The defendant cannot defend himself

upon our rule of limitations, because a person absent from the

state is excepted from its operation, and, thus, our courts are
compelled to investigate this ancient claim. It is to provide

for such a contingency, that thissection is proposed.

§]253. The clerk must keep among the records of

the court, a register of actions. He must enter therein

the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from

time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had‘,
therein.

New. Necessary for many purposes, and especially for
procuring hereafter full and accurate statistics of litigation.

§ I254. When there are three referees, all must meet,
but two of them may do any act which might be done

by all; and whenever any authority is conferred on
three or more persons, it may be exercised by a majority, upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise
provided by this code or by some other statute.

Conformable to the existing law.

§ 1255. The time within which an act is to be done,
as herein provided, must be computed, by excluding

the first day and including the last. If the last day be
Sunday, it must be excluded.

Amended Code, § 407.

‘ § 1256. The publication of legal notices, required by
law, or by an order of a judge or court, to be published

in a newspaper once in each week, for a specified"
number of weeks, must be made on the first day of
each week, in which such newspaper is published-; and
if required to be published oftener than once in each

week, the second publication must be made on Thursday of each week, or if the paper be not issued and
published on Thursday, then on any other day in the
week on which such paper is issued. And in all cases,
where a municipal corporation is required to publish
legal notices, and may designate the papers in which
the publication is to be made, it must make such des-.
ignation annually, by ordinance, for one year, and after
such designation, all such legal notices must be published in the papers so designated.

The time for publication of legal notices must be
computed so as to exclude the first day of publication,
and to include the day on which the act or event, of

which notice is given, is to happen, or which complete;

the full period required for publication.
aimended Code, §4.25, modified.

6} 1257. No counsel can be permitted to speak on the
argument of any case, more than one hour, without the

special leave Of the court, granted before the argument
begins. ’

Conformablc to the rule of the supreme court of the United
States, lately adopted, substituting one hour for two.

§ 1253.: A person, who. Without probable cause, proseeutes an action or makes a defence, or takes any legal proceeding against another, is guilty of a contempt.
and is also liable to an action therefor, at the suit of
the party aggrieved.

Intended to prevent or punish sham actions or defences.

'-§ 1259. ; Rights of action, given or-secured by. exist»
ing laws, may be prosecuted in the -manner provided
bythis code. Ifa case ever arise, in which an action
for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or. prevention of a wrong, ‘cannot be had under

this code, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be-necessary 3 to prevent .a failwe of
justice.

Amended Code, {}468.

TITLE XIV.

PROVISIONS RESPECTING SUITS HEBEPOFOBE OOMHENCED.

§ 1260. The provisions of this code apply to future
proceedings in actions or suits heretofore commenced
and now pending, as follows, and not otherwise :

1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the
pleadings and all subsequent proceedings:

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any

other question of fact to be tried, to the trial and all
subsequent proceedings:

3. After a judgment or order, to the proceedings to

enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it, including the costs
of an appeal.

§ 1261. Whenever the judges of the supreme court,
in any district, find, that the court, at any term or -circuit, has not been or will not be able to dispose of all
the cases upon the calendar, it shall be their duty to

[c1vn. 0091.] 34

request the governor to assign other judges, and if nocessary appoint extraordinary terms and circuits, for the

purpose of disposing of such cases. The governor must
thereupon make such assignment, and the judges assigned must hold the courts accordingly. This provision shall last, so long as any of the actions and suits
now pending remain undetermined.

