AN ACT

To establish a Code of Civil Procedure.

Br. rr Enscrsn by the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio, as follows: ‘

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

§ 1. This Act shall be known as the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure of the State of Ohio. .

§ 2. The rule of the common law, that statutes in dero-
gation the're0f, are to be strictly construed, has no applica-
tion to this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under
it, shall be liberally construed, with a view to promote its
ohject, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.

T I T L E I .
FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 3. The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, hereto-
fore existing, are abolished; and in their lace, there shall
be, hereafter,‘but one form of action, whic shall be called
a civil action.

§'4. In such action, the party complaining, shall be known
as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§5. There can be no feigned issues; but a question of
fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a

jury, upon an order for the trial, stating, distinctly and plain-
ly, the question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only
authority necessary for a trial.

 

T I T L E I I .
TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

1. Actions in general.

2. Actions for the recovery of real property.

3. Actions other than for the recovery of real property.
4. General provisions.

Cumin

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

§ 6. This title shall not apply to actions already com-
menced, or to cases where the right of action has already

accrued; but the statutes now in force shall be applicable
to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and

without regard to the form; nor shall this title apply in
the case of a continuing and subsisting trust, or to an
action by a vendee of real property, in possession thereof,
to obtain a conveyance of it.

§ 7. The act entitled, “ an act for the limitation of
actions,” passed February eighteenth, one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-one; the one hundred and sixtieth section of
“ an act to provide for the settlement of the estates of
deceased persons,” passed March twenty-third, one thousand
eight hundred and Iorty; and the second section of “ an
act to give additional security to land titles in this State,”
passed March twenty-second, one thouhnd eight hundred
and for.y-nine, are hereby repealed.

§ 8. Civil actions can only be. commenced within the
periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of action
shall have accrued, but where, in s ecial cases, a different
limitation is prescribed by statute, the action may be com-
menced accordingly.

 

. CHAPTERIL
' ACTION'FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 9. An action for the recovery of the title, or pesses-
sion. of lands, tenements, . or hereditaments, can only be
brought within twenty-one years after the cause of such
action shall have accrued.

§ 10. If a person entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of the title or possession of any lands, tene-
ments, or hereditaments, be at the tim%his right or title '
shall first descend, or accrue, within the age of twenty—one
years, a married woman, insane, or imprisoned, every
such person may, after the expiration of twenty-one years
from the time his right or title first descended, or accrued,
bring such action within ten years after such disability is
removed, .and at no time thereafter.

§ 11. An action for the forcible entry and detention, or
forcible detention only, of real property, can only be
brought within two years after the cause of such action

shall have accrued.

CHAPTER 1H.

ACTIONS OTHER THAN FORE§¥% RECOVERY OF REAL PROP-

§ 12. Civil actions other than for the recovery of real
property, can only be brought within the following periods
after the cause of action shall have accrued.

§ 13. Within fifteen years :'

An action upon a specialty, or any agreement, con-
tract, or promise in writing. -

§ 14. Within six years:

An action upon a contract not in writing, express or
implied.

An action upon a liability created by statute, other than
a forfeiture or penalty.

§ 15. Within four years:

An action for trwpass u on real property.

An action for taking, etaining, or injuring personal
property, including actions for the specific recovery of per»
sonal property.

An action for an injury to the rights of the plaintiff,
not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated.

An action for relief on the ground of fraud; the cause
of action in such case shall not be deemed to have accrued,
until the discovery of the fraud. w

§ 16. Within one year:

An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, malicious
prosecution, or false imprisonment. '

An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture; but
where the statute giving such action, prescribes. a different
limitation, the action may be brought within the period so
limited. '

§ 17. An action upon the ofIieiaJ bond or undertaking
of an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any
other officer; or ‘ipon the bond .or undertaking given in
attachment, injunction, arrest, or in any case whatever
required by statute, can only be brought ten years
after the cause of action shall have accrued; but this
section shall be subject to the qualification in section
eight.

§ 18. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for,
can only be brought within ten years after the cause of
action shall have accrued. ‘

§ 19. If a person, entitled to bring any action men-
tioned in this cha ter, except for a penalty, or forfeiture,
be, at the time t 6 cause of action accrued, within the
age of twenty-one years, a married woman, insane, or
imprisoned, every such person shall be entitled to bring
such action within the respective times limited by this
chapter, after such disability shall be removed.

_—

CHAPTER 1v.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§20. An action shall be deemed commenced within the
meaning of this title, as to each defendant, at the date of the
summons which is served on him, or on a co-defendant who
is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with
him: where service by ublication is proper, the action shall
be ‘deemed commenced) at the date of the first publication,
which publication must be regularly made.

An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed equiv~
alent to the commencement thereof, witin the meaning of
this title, when the party faithfully, properly and diligently,
endeavors to procure a service: but such attempt must be
followed by service within sixty days. ~

§ 21. If, when a cause of action accrues against a person,
he be out of the State, or have absconded, or concealed him-
self, the period limited for the commencement of the action
shall not begin to run, until he comes into the State, or while
he is so absconded or concealed; and if after the cause of
action accrues, he depart from the State, or abscond or con—
ceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall
not be computed as any part of the period within which the
action must be brought.

§22. Where the cause of action has arisen in another
State or country between non-residents of this State, and by
the laws of the State or country where the cause of action

arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of
lsapse of time, no action can be maintained thereon in this

tate.

§ 23. If an action be commenced witlfm due time, and a

' judgment therein for the plaintiff be reversed, or if the plaintiff

fail in such action otherwise than upon the merits, and the
time limited for the same shall have expired, the plaintiff, or,
if he die and the cause of action survive, his representatives
may commence a new action, within one year after such re-
versal or failure.

§ 24. In any case founded on contract, when any part of
the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowl-
edgement of an existing liability, debt,~or claim, or any pro-
mise to pay the same, shall have been made, an action may
be brought on such case within the period prescribed for the
same, after such payment, acknowledgment or promise;
but such acknowledgment or promise must be in writing,
signed by the party to  charged thereby.

TITLE III.

' PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 25. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the.
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
twenty-seven. ,

§26. In the case of an assignment of athing in action,
the action by. the assignee shall be without rejudice to any
set-off or other defence now allowed: but gins section shall
not apply to negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of
exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good conside-
ration, before due.

§ 27. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an
express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a con-
tract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly
authorised by statute, may bring an action without joining
with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. Offi-
cers may sue and be sued in such name as is authorised by
law, and official bonds may be sued upon in the same way.

§28. Where a married woman is a party, her husband
' must be joined with her ; except,'when the action concerns
her separate property, she may sue without her husband, by
her next friend.

When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone; but in every such action other
than for a divorc r alimony, she shall prosecute and defend
by her next frien .

§29. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right; and if the husband neglect to
defend, she may defend for his right also.

§ 30. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his
next friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for
the benefit of the infant, or to substitute the guardian of the
infant, or any person, as the next friend.

§ 31. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs of
the action brought by him, and, when he is insolvent, the
court may require security for them. Either may be a wit-
ness in an action brought by him.

§ 32. The defence of an infant must be by a guardian for
the suit, who may be appointed by the court, in which the ac-
tion is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate
judge. The appointment cannot be made until after service
of the summons in the action, as directed in this code.

§33. The appointment may be made upon the applica-
tion of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
ap ly within twenty days after the return of the summons.
If e be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply,
the appointment may be made upon the application of any
friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action.

§ 34. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined
as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title.

§ 35. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or
claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff,
or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or
settlement of the question involved therein.

§ 36. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest must be joined, as laintiifs or defendants; but if the
consent of one who should ave been joined as plaintiff, can—
not be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
being stated in the petition.

§ 37. When the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons ; or when the parties are very nu-
merous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all before
the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit

of all.

§38. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintiff.

§ 39. An action. does not abate by the death, marriage, or
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, during its pendency, if the cans action survive or
continue. In case of the marriage of female party, the
fact being suggested on the record, the husband may be made
a party with his wife ; and in the case of the death or other
disability of a‘ party, the court may allow the action to con-
tinue by or against his representative or successor in interest.
In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be
continued in the name of the original party; or the court
may allow the erson to whom the transfer is made, to be
substituted in t e action.

§ 40. The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to
the rights of others, 'or by saving their rights; but when a
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the
presence of other parties, the court must order them to be
brought in.

§ 41. When, in an action-for the recovery of real or per-
sonal property, any person having an interest in the prop-

erty, applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be
done.

§ 42. Upon afiidavit of a defendant before answer, in any
action upon contract, or for therrecovery of personal prOper-
ty, that some third party, without collusion with him, has or
makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is
ready to pay or dispose of the same, as the court may di-
rect, the court may make an order for the safe-keeping, or
for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject
of the action, to such person as it may direct, and an order
requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time
and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant.
If such third party being served with a copy of the order, by
the sheriff, or such other person as the court may direct, fail
to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in
respect to the subject of the action, against the defendant
therein. If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to
make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either
of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action,
upon his compliance with the order of the court for the pay-
ment, deposit, or delivery thereof.

§ 43. The provisions of the' last section shall be applica-
ble to an action brought against a sheriff, or other ofiicer, for
the recovery of personal property taken by him under exe-
cution, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold
by him. And the‘defendant in any such action shall be en-
titled to the benefit of those provisions against the party, in
whose favor the. execution issued, upon exhibiting to the
court the process under which he acted, with his affidavit that

the property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the
action is brought, was taken under such process.

§44. ' In an 'on against a sheriff, or other otiicer, for
the recovery of roperty taken under an execution, and
replcvied by the plaintiff in such action, the court may, upon -
application of the defendant and of the party in whose favor
the execution issued, permit the latter to be substituted as
the defendant, security for the costs being given.

TITLE IV.

THE COUNTY IN WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO BE
BROUGHT.

§45. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county in which the subject of the action is situated,
except as provided in section forty—six :

1. For the recovery 'of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein :

‘2. For the partition of real property:

3. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien,
or other ineumbrance or charge.

§ 46. 1f the real property, the subject of the action, be an
entire tract and situated in two or more counties, or if it con-
sist of separate tracts, situated in two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county in which any tract or
part thereof, is situated, unless it be an action to recover the
possession thereof. And if the property be an entire tract,
situated in two or more counties, an action to recover the
possession thereof, may be brought in either of such counties ;
but if it consists of separate tracts in different counties, the
possession of such tracts must be recovered by separate ac-
tions brought in the counties where they are situated.

An action to compel the specific performance of a contract
of sale of real estate, may be brought in the county where
the defendants, or any of them, reside.

§ 47. Actions for the. following causes, must be brought in
the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :

1. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture, or penal-
ty, imposed by a statute ; except that, when it is imposed for
an offence committed on a river, or other stream of water, or
road, which is the boundary of two or more counties, the ac-
tion they be brought in ‘any county bordering on such river,

water comse, or road, and opposite to the place where the
offence was committed :

2. An action against a public ofiicer, for an act done by
him in virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of
his official duty :

3. An action on the official bond or undertaking of a pub-
lie ofiicer.

§ 48. An action other than one of those mentioned in the
first three sections of this chapter, against a corporation cre-
ated by the laws of this State, may be brought in the county
in which it is situated, or has its rincipal office or place of
business; but if such corporation an insurance company,
the action may be brought in the county where the cause of
action, or some part thereof, arose.

§ 49. An action against a railroad company, or an owner
of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for an injury to
person or property upon the road or line, or upon a liability
as a carrier, may be brought in any county, through or into
which said road or line passes.

§ 50. An action other than one of those mentioned in the
first three sections of this chapter, against a turnpike road
company, may be brought in any county in which any part
of the road lies.

§ 51. The provisions of this chapter, shall not apply in
the case of any corporation created by a law of this State,
whose charter prescribes the place, where alone a suit against
such corporation may be brought.

§ 52. An action other than one of those mentioned in the
first three sections of this chapter, against a non-resident of
this State or a foreign corporation, may be brought in any
county in which there may be prOperty of, or debts owing to,
said defendant, or where said defendant may be found; but
if said defendant be a foreign insurance company, the action
may be brought in any county, where the cause or some part
thereof, arose.

§53. Every other action must be brought in the county in
which the defendant or some one of the defendants, resides,
or may be summoned. .

§ 54. In all cases, in which it shall be made to appear
to the court, that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had
in the county where the suit is pending, the court may
change the place of trial to some adjoining county.

'1‘ I T L E V .
COMMENCEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.

Guam 1. Manner of commencing civil actions.
2. Service of Summons.

CHAPTER I.
MANNER or COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 55. A civil action must be commenced by filing in
the office of the clerk of the proper court, a petition, and
causing a summons to be issued thereon.

§ 56. The plaintiff shall, also, file with the clerk of the
court, a precipe, stating the names of the parties to the
action, and demanding that a summons issue thereon.
' § 57. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall
be under the seal of the court, from which the same shall
issue, and shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be,
“The State of Ohio, county,” and it shall be dated
the day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff of
the county, and command him to notify the defendant, or
defendants, named therein, that he or they have been sued,
and must answer the petition filed by the plaintiff, giving
his name, at a time stated therein, or the petition will be
taken as true, and judgment rendered accordingly: and
where the action is for the recovery of money only, there
shall be endorsed on the writ, the amount to be furnished
in the precipe, for which, with interest, judgment will be
taken, if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant
fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger
amount and the costs.

§ 58. Where the action is rightly brought in any county,
according to the provisions of title four, a summons shall
be issued to any other county, against any one, or more,
of the defendants, at the plaintiff’s request.

§ 59. Where the time for bringing parties into court is
not fixed by statute, the summons shall be returnable on
the second Monday after the day of its date; but where
it is issued to any other than the county, in which the
action is brought, it may be made returnable, at the 0 tion
of the party having it issued, on the third or fourth on-
day after its date. It shall state' the day of the month on
which it is returnable.

§ 60. When a writis returned “not summoned,” other
writs may be issued, until the defendant, or defendants,

 

shall be summoned; and when defendants reside in differ-
ent counties, writs may be issued to such counties at the
same time.

I
\

 

CHAPTER H. ‘

SERVICE OF SUMMON S.

ACTUAL ssnvrcs. '

§ 61. The summons shall be served by the ofiicer to
whom it is directed, who shall endorse on the original
writ, the time and manner of service. It may, also, be
served by any person not a party to the action, appointed
by the oflicer to whom it is directed. The authority of
such person shall be endorsed on the writ. When the
writ is served by a person appointed by the officer to
whom it is directed, or when the service is made out of
this State, the return shall be verified by oath or aiiirma-
tion. '

§ 62. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one
at his usual place of residence, at any time before the
return day.

§ 63.’ In all cases, the return must state the time and
manner of service.

§ 64. The officer to whom the summons is directed,
must return the same at the time therein stated.

§ 65. An acknowledgment on the back of the sum-
mons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is
equivalent to service. I

§ 66. A summons against a corporation, may be served
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of direc-
tors or trustees, or other chief officer; or,.if its chief officer
is not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer,
secretary, clerk, or managing agent; or, if none of the
aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the oflice,
or usual place of business of such corporation, with the
person having charge thereof.

§ 67. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance
company, and the action is brought in a county, in which
there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the
chief ofiicer of such agency.

§ 68. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this State, the service may
be upon such agent.

§ 69. When the defendant is a minor under the age of
fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon

his guardian, or father; or, if neither of these can be
found, then upon his mother, or the person having the care
or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither
of these can be found, or, if the minor be more than
fourteen years of age, service on him alone, shall be sufli—

cient. The manner of service may be the same as in the
case of adults.

CONSTRUCI'IVE SERVICE.

§70. Service may be made by publication in either of the
following cases :

In actions brought under the forty-fifth and forty-sixth sec-
tions of this code, where any or all the defendants reside out
of the State:

In actions brought to establish or set aside a will, where
an or all the defendants reside out of the State:

a actions brought against a non-resident of this State, or
a f eign corporation, having in this State pro erty or debts
owing to them, sought to be taken by any of e provisional
remedies, or to be appropriated in any way:

In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is, real
or personal property in this State, where any defendant has '
or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein,
or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in exclud-
ing him from any interest therein, and such defendant is a
non-resident of the State or a foreign corporation :

And in all actions, where the defendant being a resident of
the State, has departed therefrom, or from the county of his
residence, with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or to
avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein with the like intent. ‘

§ 71. Before service can be made by publication, an alli-
davit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be
made within this State, on the defendant or defendants to be
served by publication, and that the case is one of those men-
tioned in the preceding section. When such afIidavit is
filed, the party may proceed to make service by publication.

§ 72. The publication must be made six consecutive
weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the
petition is filed, if there be any printed in such county; and
if there be not, in some newspaper rinted in this State, of
general circulation in that county. t must contain a sum-
mary statement of the object and prayer of the petition,
mention the court wherein it is filed, and notify the person
or persons thus to be served, when they are required to an-
swer.

§73. Service by publication shall be deemed complete,
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time
prescribed in the preceding section; and such service shall
be proved by the afiidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, or other person knowing the same; -

§ 74. In all cases where service may be made by publica-
tion, personal “service of a copy of the summons and com-
plaint may be made out of the State.

§75. A party against whom a judgment or order has
been rendred without other service than by publication in a
newspaper, may, at any time within five years after the date
of the judgment or order, have the same opened, and be let
in to defend. Before the judgment or order shall be 0 ened,
the applicant shall giVe notice to the adverse party of 's in-
tentions to make such an application, and shall file a full an-
swer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them
to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by affidavit, that during the pendency of the action,
he had no actual notice thereof, in time to appear in court
and make his defence: but the title to any property, the
subject of the judgment or order sought to be opened, which,
by it or in consequence of it, shall have passed to a pur-
chaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceed-
ings under this section, nor shall they affect the title of any

- property sold before judgment under an attachment. The
adverse party, on the hearing of an application to open
judgment, or order, as provided by this section, shall be al—
lowed to present counter affidavits to show that during the
pendency of the action, the applicant had notice thereof, in
time to appear in court, and make his defence.

§ 76. n actions where it shall be necessary to make the
heirs of devisees of any deceased person, defendants, and it
shall appear bythe aflidavit of the plaintiff annexed to his
petition, that the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of
them, and their residence, are unknown to the laintiff, pro-
ceedings may be had against such unknown eirs or devi—
sees, without naming them, and the court shall make such
order respecting service, as may be deemed prOper: if ser-
vice by publication be ordered, the publication shall not be
less than six weeks.

§77. Where the action is against two or more defend-
ants, and one or more shall have been served, but not all of
them, the plaintiif may proceed as follows:

1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served
unless the court otherwise direct:

2. Ifthe action be against defendants severally liable, he
may, without prejudice to his rights against those not served,
proceed against the defendants served in the same manner
as if they were the only defendants.

§78. When the summons has been served, or. publication
made, the action is pending, so as to charge third persons
with notice of its pendency, and while pending, no interest
can be acquired by third persons in the subject matter

, thereof, as against the plaintiff’s title.

§79. When any part of real property, the subject matter
of an action, is situated in any other county or counties than
the one in which the action is brought, a certified copy of the
judgment in such action must be recorded in the recorder’s
office of such other county or counties, before it shall operate
therein as notice, so as to charge third persons, as pro-
vided in the preceding section. It shall operate as such no-
tice, without record, in the county where it is rendered; but
this section shall not apply to actions or proceedings under
any statute now in force, which does not require such record.

TITLE VI.

J OINDER OF ACTIONS.

§80. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in
the same petition, whether they be such as have heretofore
been denominated legal or equitable or both, when they are
included in either one of the following classes:

1. The same transaction ; or transactions connected with
the same subject of action : b

2. Contracts, express or implied:

3. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property,-
or either:

4. Injuries to character:

5. Claims to recover the possession of personal property,
with or without damages for the withholding thereof:

6. Claims to recover real property, with or without dam-
ages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of
the same:

7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law.

§81. The causes of action so united, must affect all the
parties’to the action, and not require different places of trial.

r I 'r I. a v I I .
PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

03mm 1. Pleadings infgeneral.
2. The Petition.
3. Demurrer.
4. Answer.
5. Reply.
6. General Rules of Pleadin .
7. Mistakes in Pleading an Amendments.
CHAPTER I.

PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

§82. The pleadings are the written statements by the
parties of the facts, constituting their respective claims and
defences. ,

§83. The rules of pleading, heretofore existing in civil
actions, are abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleading
in civil actions in courts of record, and the rules by which

their sufficiency may be determined, are those prescribed by
this code.

{884. The only pleadings allowed, are,

1. The petition by the plaintiff : .

2. The answer or demurrer by the defendant: ,
3. The demurrer, or reply by the plaintiff.

 

CHAPTER II.

THE PETITION.

§85. The petition must contain,

1. The name of the court and the county in which the
action is brought, and the names of the parties, plaintiff and
defendant, followed by the word “ Petitionz”

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary’ and concise language, and without repe-
tition :

3. A demand of the relief to which the party supposes
hirnself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded,
the amount thereof shall be stated; and if interest thereon
be claimed, the time from which interest is to be computed,
shall be also stated.

§ 86. Where the petition contains more than one cause of
action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.

CHAPTER 111.

DE MURRER.

§ 87. The defendant may demur to the petition only when
it appears on its face, either,

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action:

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue:

3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause :

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant:

5. That several causes of action are improperly joined :

6. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to con-
stitute a cause of action.

§88. The demurrer shall s ecify distinctly the grounds of
objection to the petition. Un ess it do so, it shall be regard-
ed as objecting only, that the petition does not state facts
suflicient to constitute a cause of action.

§89. When any of .the defects enumerated in section
eighty-seven, do not appear upon the face of the petition,
the objection may be taken by answer ; and if no objection
be taken either by demurrer’ or answer, the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection
to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petition does not
state facts suflicient to constitute a cause of action. -

§ 90. When a demurrer is sustained on the ground of mis-
joinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion of the
plaintiff, shall allow him, with or without costs in its discretion,
to file several petitions, each including such of said causes of
action as might ’have been joined; and an action shall be
docketed for each of said petitions, and the same shall be
proceeded in without further service.

§91. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer as
to the residue.

*

CHAPTER IV.

ANSWER.

§ 92. The answer shall contain

1. A general or specilic denial of each material alle-
gation of the petition controverted by the defendant:

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a de-
fence, counterclaim or set-off, in ordinary and concise
language and without repetition.

§ 93., The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defence, counterclaim and set-off, as he
may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore
denominated legal or equitable, or both. Each must be
separately stated and numbered, as they must refer in an
intelligible manner to the causes of action which they are
intended to answer.

§94. The counterclaim, mentioned in the last section,
must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a
plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had
in the action, and arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the petition as the foundation of the plaintiff’s
. claim, or connected with the subject of the action.

§ 95. If the defendant omit to set up the counterclaim or
set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff in any
subsequent action thereon ; but this section shall not apply
to causes of action which are stricken out of or withdrawn
from the answer, as provided in sections ninety-six, and one
hundred and nineteen.

§ 96. When it appears that a new party is necessary to
a iinal decision upon the counterclaim, the court may either
permit the new party to be made by a summons, to reply to
the counterclaim, or may direct the counterclaim to be
stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a sepa-
rate action.

§ 97. A set-off can only he pleaded in an action founded
on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon con-
tract or ascertained by the decision of the court.

§ 98. When it appears that a new party is necessary to
a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the
new party to be made, if it also appear, that owing to the
insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff, or other cause,
the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless
permitted to use it as a set-off.

§99. When cross-demands have existed between per-
sons under such circumstances, that if one had brought an
action against the other, a counterclaim or set-off could have
‘ been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by
the assignment or death of the other, but the two demands
must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each
other.

§lOO. The guardian of an infant or person of an un-
sound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny
in the answer all the material allegations of the petition
prejudicial to such defendant.

CHAPTER V.

REPLY.

§ 101. There shall be no reply, except upon the allega-
tion of a counterclaim or set-off in the answer.

§ 102. When the answer contains new matter consti-
tuting a counterclaim or set-off, the plaintiff may reply to
such new matter, denying generally or specifically each al-
legation controverted by him; and he may allege, in ordi-
nary and concise language and without repetition, any new
matter not inconsistent with the petition, constituting a
defence to such new matter in the answer; or he may de-
mur to the same for insufficiency, stating ' in his demurrer
the grounds thereof: and he may demur to one or more of
such defences set up in the answer, and reply to the residue.

 

CHAPTER VI.

GENERAL RULES OF PLEADIN G.

§ 103. The answer or demurrer by the defendant shall
be filed on or before the third Saturday, and the reply or de-
murrer by the plaintiff, on or before the fifth Saturday, after
the return day of the summons or service by publication.

§ 104. The court, or the judge thereof in vacation, for
good cause shown, may extend the time for filing an an-
swer or re 1y, upon such terms as may be just.

§ 105. xEvery pleading in a court of record, must be sub-
scribed by the party or his attorney. ‘

§ 106. Every pleading of fact must be verified by the
amdavit of the party, his agent or attorney. A pleading
verified as herein required, shall not be used against a party in
any criminal prosecution, or action, or proceeding for a pen-
laty or forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in
such pleading; and such verification shall not make other
or greater proof necessary on the side of the adverse party.

§ 107. The verification mentioned in the last section,
shall not be required to the answer of a. guardian defending
for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person im-
prisoned; nor in any case, where the admission of the truth
of a fact stated in the pleading, might subject the party to
a criminal or penal prosecution.

§ 108. If there be several persons united in interest and

' pleading together, the affidavit may be made by any one of
such parties. '

§ 109. The affidavit shall be sufficient, if it state that the
affiant believes the facts stated in‘ the pleading to be true.

§ 110. In all cases where the party pleading is a non-
resident of' the county in which the action is brought, or if
he shall be absent from the county where the pleading is
filed, an affidavit made before filing the pleading, stating
the substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the plead-
ing, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit shall
be filed with the pleading intended to be verified thereby.

§111. The affidavit verifying pleadings, may be made
before any person before whom a deposition might be ta-
ken, and must be signed by the party making the same;
and the ofiicer before whom the same was taken, shall cer-
tify that it was sworn to or afiirmed before him, and signed
in his presence. The certificate of such officer, signed offi-
cially by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly
made, that the name of the oflicer was written by himmlf,
and that he was such officer. ' A .

§ 112. The verification of the pleading does not apply
to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on con-
tracts, express or implied, for the payment of' money only.

§ 113. When the affidavit is made by the. agent or attor-
ney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made by the
paf'ty himself. It can be made by the agent or attorney,
on y,

1. When the facts are within the personal knowledge of
the agent or attorney:

2. When the plaintiff is an infant, or of unsound mind,
or imprisoned:

3 When the pleading to be verified is founded upon a
written instrument for the payment of money only, and such
instrument is in the possession of the agent or attorney:

4. When the party is not a resident of, or is absent from
the county.

§ 114. In the construction of any pleading, for the pur-
pose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be libe-
rally construed, with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.

§ 115. All fictions in pleading are abolished.

§ 116. The title of a cause shall not be changed in any
of its stages.

§ 117. If the action, counterclaim, or set-off be founded
on an account or on a note, bill, or other written instrument,
as evidence of indebtedness, a co y there'of' must be at-
tached to and filed with the plea ing. If not so attached
and filed, the reason thereof must be shown in the pleading.

§ 118. If redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted in
any pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of the party
prejudiced thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading
are so indefinite and uncertain, that the precise nature of

the charge or defence is not apparent, the Court may re-
quire the pleading to be made definite and certain by
amendment. .

§ 119. The court, at any time before the final submission
of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may allow a coun-
terclaim or set-off, set up in the answer, to be withdrawn,
and the same may become the subject of another action.
On motion of either party, to be made at the time such
counterclaim or set-off is withdrawn, an action on the same
shall be'docketed and proceeded in as in like cases after
process served; and ,the court shall direct the time and man-
ner of pleading therein. If an action be not so docketed, it
may afterwards be commenced in the ordinary way.

§ 120. In pleading a judgment or other determination of
a court or ofiicer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient
to state that such judgment or determination was duly giv-
en or made. If such allegation be controvcrted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts conferring
jurisdiction.

§ 121. In pleading the performance of conditions prece-
dent in a contract, it shall be sufiicient to state, that the
party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must
establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance.

§ 122. In an action, counterclaim,or set-off founded upon
an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or other in-
strument for the unconditional payment of money only, it
shall be sufiicient for a party to give a copy of the account
or instrument, with all credits and the indorsements thereon,
and to state that there is due to him, on such account or in-
strument, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he
claims with interest. When others than the makers of a
promissory note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are
parties in the action, it shall be necessary to state, also, the
kind of liability of the several parties, and the facts, as they
may be, which fix their liability.

§ 123. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its
title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall there-
upon take judicial notice thereof.

§ 124. In an action for a libel or slander, it shall be
sufiicient to state generally, that the defamatory matter was
published or spoken of the plaintiff, and if the allegation
be denied, the plaintiff must prove on the trial, the facts,
showing that the defamatory matter was published, or
spoken of him.

§ 125. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating
circumstances to reduce the amount .of damages, or he
may prove either.

§ 126. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it shall be described with such Convenient certainty, as will
enable an officer holding an execution, to identify it.
. § 127. Every material allegation of the petition not
eontroverted by the answer, and every material allegation
of new matter in the answer, constituting a counter claim,
or set-off, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the
purposes of the action, be taken as true, but the allegation
of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counter
claim or set-off, or of new matter in the reply, shall be
deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as upon a
direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Alle-
gations of value, or of amount of damage, shall not be
considered as true, by failure to controvert them.

§ 128. A material allegation in a leading, is one essen-
tial to the claim or defence, which con d-not be stricken from
the pleading, without leaving it insuflicient. ‘

§ 129. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.

§ 130. If an original pleading be lost, or withheld by

any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be sub-
stituted.

 

CHAPTER VII. .

MISTAKES IN‘ PLEADING. AND AMENDMENTS.

§ 131. N o variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is to be deemed material, pnless it have
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in main-
taining his action or defence upon the merits. Whenever
it is alleged, that a party has been so misled, that fact must
be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also
be shown in what respect he has been misled; and there-
upon the court may order the pleading to be amended,
upon such terms as may be just. .

§ 132. When the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found,
according to the evidence, and may order an immediate
amendment without costs.

§ 133. When, however, the allegation of the claim or
defence, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular, or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§ 134. The plaintiff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without preju-
dice to the proceeding; but notice of such amendment shall
be served upon the defendant, or his attorney, and the

defendant shall have the same time to answer or demur
thereto, as to the original petition.

§ 135. At any time within ten days after a demurrer
is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on pay-
ment of' costs since filing the defective pleading. No~
tice of filing an amended pleading shall be forthwith
served upon the other party, who shall have the same
time thereafter to answer, or reply thereto, as to an original
pleading.
, § 136. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party who

demurred, may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied
that [he has a meritorious claim, or defence, and did not
demur or delay.

§ 137 . The court may, before, or after judgment, in fur-
therance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mis-
take in the name of a party, [or] a mistake in any other
respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or, when the amendment does not change substan-
tially the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading
or proceeding to the facts proved. And whenever any pro-
ceeding taken by a party fails to conform, in any respect,
to the provisions of this code, the court may permit the
same to be made conformable thereto, by amendment.

§ 138. The court, in every stage of an action, must
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceed-
ings which does not affect the substantial rights of the
adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed, or
affected, by reason of such error, or defect.

§ 139. If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse party
may amend, if the defect can be remedied, by way of
amendment, with, or without costs, as the court in its dis-
cretion shall direct.

§ 140. When either party shall amend any leading,
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied by a davit, or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for
trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted
to some day in term, or to another term of the court.

§ 141. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name
of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name and description, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading, or proceed-
ing may be amended accordingly. The plaintiff in such
case, must state, in the verification of his petition, that he.
could not discover the true name, and the summons must
contain the words, “real name unknown,” and a copy
thereof must be served personally upon the defendant.

§ 142. Either party may be allowed on notice, and on
such terms as to costs, as the court may prescribe, to file a
supplemental petition, answer, or reply, alleging facts mate-
rial to the case, occurring after the former petition, answer,
or reply. .

§ 143. Whenever two or more actions are pending in
the same court, which might have been joined, the defend-
ant may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, require
him to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated,
and if no such cause be shown, the said several actions
shall be consolidated. .

§ 144. The order for consolidation may be made by the
court, or by a judge thereof in vacation.

PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

Cam 1. Arrest and hail.
2. Replevin of property.
3. Attachment.
4. Injunction.
5. Receivers and other provisional remedies.

CHAPTER I.

ARREST AND BAIL.

§ 145. A defendant in a civil action, can be arrested
before, and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by
this code, and not otherwise; but this provision does not
apply to proceedings for contempt; nor does it apply to
actions or judgments prosecuted in the name of the State
of Ohio, to recover fines or penalties for crimes, misde-
meanors, or offences.

§ 146. An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall
be made by the clerk of the court in which the action
is brought, when there is filed in his oflice an aIIidavit
of the plaintiff, his authorized agent, or attorney, made
before any judge of any court of the State, or clerk thereof,
or justice of the peace, stating the nature of the plaintiff’s
claim, that it is just, and the amount thereof, as nearly as
may be, and establishing one or more of the following
particulars: ‘

1. That the defendant has removed, or begun to remove
any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court,
with intent to defraud his creditors:

' 2.. That he has begun to convert his property, or a part
thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond
the reach ,of his creditors:

3. That he has property, or rights of action, which he
fraudulently conceals:

4. That he has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or
has begun to dispose of his property, or a part thereof,
with intent to defraud his creditors:

5. That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incur—
red the obligation, for which suit is about tobe, or has
been brought:

The aflidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or
more of the above particulars.

§ 147. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed, by one or more
suflicient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking, '
to the effect, that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant
all damages, which he may sustain, by reason of the arrest,
if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double
the amount of the plaintiff’s claim stated in the affidavit.

§ 148. The order may be made to accompany the sum-
mons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.

§ 149. The order,of arrest shall be addressed, and deliv-
ered, with a copy of the aflidavit, to the sheriff. The
order shall state the names of the parties, the court in which
the action is brought, and the amount of ' the plaintiff ’s
claim specified in the affidavit, and shall require the sheriff
to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in double
the sum stated in the affidavit, and to make return of the

order on a day to be named therein, with the undertaking
of the bail, if any be given.

§ 150. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same
as that of the summons: when issued afterwards, it shall
be fifteen days after it issued.

§ 151. The sheriff shall execute the order by arrest-
ing the defendant and delivering to him a copy thereof,
and of the aflidavit. If the defendant cannot be found
before the return day, the plaintiff shall be entitled to
further orders, without other affidavit, or undertaking, until
the defendant is arrested; but orders of arrest shall not
be issued to any other than the county, in which the
action is brought.

§- 152. The defendant, when arrested, shall be com‘
mitted by the sheriff to the jail of the county, and kept
in custody, until discharged by law.

§ 153. The defendant may before, or after giving bail,
deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the amount
of money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon

he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be given, shall
be released.

§ 154. The sheriff shall pay into court the money
received by him in lieu of bail; if received in vacation, he
shall pay it in on the first day of the next term, if received
during a term, he shall pay it in immediately.

§ 155. The court shall make proper orders for the safe
keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct
the sheriff to keep the money, and after final judgment in
the action, shall order it to be paid to the party entitled
thereto, according to the result.

§ 156. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu of
bail, or‘directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be
held upon his official responsibility; and he and his
sureties shall be liable, and may be proceeded against,
for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases of
delinquen .

§ 157. Chan may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It
shall be done by causing one or more sufficient bail to
execute a written undertaking to the plaintiff, in the
presence of the sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall
be rendered in the action against the defendant, he will
render himself amenable to the process of the court
thereon. The undertaking, when accepted, shall 'be
returned to the clerk’s oflice, and the defendant dis-
charged.

§ 158. The plaintiff, or his attorney, may object to the
bail for insufficiency, at any time within ten days after
the undertaking of the bail has been given; within such
time he shall serve upon the sheriff a written notice that
he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have
accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from
liability. When the undertaking is given alter the return
of the order of arrest, the plaintiff shall have notice
thereof.

§ 159. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff, or
defendant may,‘ within ten days thereafter, give to the
plaintiff, or his attorney, notice in writing of the justifica-
tion of the same, or other bail, before a judge, or clerk
of the court, in which the action is brought, a probate
judge, or justice of the peace, at a specified time and
place: the time to be not less than five, nor more than
ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there
must be a new undertaking.

§160. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the proper ofIicer at the time and place
mentioned, and may be examined on .oath or affirmation

touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the officer may
think proper.

§161. If the officer find the bail suflicient, he shall en-
dorse his allowance on the undertaking, and cause the same
to be filed with the clerk ; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
discharged from liability.

§ 162. If after being arrested, the defendant escape or be
rescued, or bail be not taken or be adjudged insufficient, or a
deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail. But
he may discharge himaelf from liability by putting in squi-
cient bail at any time before judgment.

§ 163. The return of “ not found,” upon an execution
against the body of the defendant, shall be necessary to fix
the liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability shall be the
amount of the judgment, interest and costs. This liability
can be enforced only in a separate action against him, or
against him and his sureties on his oiiicial bond, as in other
cases of delinquency.

§ 164. The bail adjudged insuHicient, shall be liable to
the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of such
insufiiciency.

§ 165. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the man-
ner provided in section one hundred and sixty-three, for fixing
the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can be pro-

ceeded against in an action only.
7 § 166. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the
county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of a certi-
fied copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such sur-
render be made by the defendant himself or by his bail, shall
discharge the bail; such surrender may be made at any time
before the return day of the summons in an action against the
bail. The sheriff shall give to the bail a written acknowledg-
ment of the surrender, and hold the defendant in his custody
upon said copy of the undertaking of the bail, as upon an
order of arrest. On the production of the sheriff’s acknowl-
edgment of the surrender to the clerk of the court, an ex-
oneration of the bail shall be entered 'on his undertaking.

§ 167. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail, at any time or place, before he is finally charged, may
himself arrest him, or by a written authority endorsed on a
certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person
of suitable age and discretion to do so. .

§ 168. The bail will be exonerated by the death 0
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by
his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process of the court, or by his surrender to
the sheriff Of the county in which he was arrested in execu-
tion thereof, within the time fixed in section one hundred and
sixty-six, or within such further time as the court in which
the action is pending, may'allow.

§ 169. If money be‘deposited by, the defendant in his dis-
charge, bail may be‘ given and justified upon notice as pre-

scribed in section one hundred and fifty-nine, at any time
before judgment; and thereupon the court in which the ac-
tion is brought, on being satished that the bail has been given
and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the money depo-
sited be refunded to the defendant, and it must be refunded
accordingly.

§ 170. If, at any time before or after judgment against the
bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the judgment
against the principal in the suit, in which their undertaking
was taken, the court may on motion, stay proceedings
against such bail for a reasonable time, on their aying all
the costs that have accrued against them: and if), on such
proceedings, the judgment against the principal shall be re-
versed, and the principal discharged from said suit, the bail
shall be discharged from the undertaking.

§ 171. A defendant arrested, may at any time before the
justification of the bail, apply on motion, to the court in
which the suit is brought, if in session, and in vacation, to a ,
judge thereof, or to any judge .of a court of record of the
State, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount
of the bail. Reasonable notice of such motion must be given
to the plaintiff.

§l72. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by afiidavits or other evidence, in addition to that
on which the order of arrest was made.

§173. Any person causing another to be committed to
jail under the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable, in
the first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by
the jailor, pay such fees weekly in advance; and such fees,
so paid, shall be a. part of the costs of the case.

CHAPTER II.

REPLEVIN OF PROPERTY.

§ 174. The plaintiff in an action to recover the posses-
sion of specific personal prOperty, may at the commence-
ment of the suit or at any time before answer, claim the
immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this
chapter.

§ 175. An order for the delivery of property to the plain-
tiff, shall be made by the clerk, of the court in which the ac-
tion is brought, when there is fiied in his.ofIice, an affidavit
of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, showing,

1. A description of the property claimed:

2. That the plaintiff is' the owner of the property, or
has a special ownership or interest therein, stating the facts
in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate
possession of the property:

3. That the property is wrongfully detained by the de-
fendant:

4. Thatit was not taken in execution on any order or
‘ judgment against said plaintiff, or for the payment of any

‘ tax, fine, or ‘amercement assessed against him, or by virtue
of an order of delivery issued under this cha ter, or any
other mesne or final process issued against sai plaintiff.

§ 176. The order for the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It
shall state the names of the parties, the court in which the
action is brought, and command the sheriff to take the
droperty, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff, and

'to make return of the 'order'on a‘ day to be named therein.
§ 177. The return'day of the order of delivery, when
is‘sued'at 'the commencement of the suit, shall be the same
as that of the summons ; ‘when issued afterwards, it shall be
twenty days after it issued. 7

§ 178. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking the
pro erty therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a co y
of t e order to the person charged with the unlawful e-
tainer of the property, or leave such copy at his usual place
of residence.

§ 179. The sheriff or other officer, shall not deliver to

‘ the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, the property so taken,
until there iias been executed by one or more sufficient sure-
ties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to the defendant
in, at least, double the value of the property taken, to the
effect, that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action and

ay all’costs and damages, which may be awarded against
him. The undertaking shall be returned with the order.

§ 180. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the un-
dertaking, the value of the pr0perty taken, shall be ascer-
tained by the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom
the sheriff or other officer shall swear truly to assess the
value thereof.

§ 181. If the undertaking required by section one hun-
dred and seventy-nine, be not given, within ~ twenty-four
hours from the taking of the property under said order, the
sheriff or other officer shall return the property to the de-
fendant. And if the sheriff or' other officer, deliver any
property, so taken, to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, or
keep the same from the defendant, without taking such se-
curity within the time' aforesaid, 'or' if he take insuflicient
security, he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.

§ 182. The defendant may within twenty-four hours from
the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding section is

given by the plaintiff, give notice to the sheriff, that he ex-
cepts to the sufficiency of the. sureties. If he fail to do so,
he must be deemed to have waived all objections .to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon
noticeras bail on arrest. The sheriff or other oflicer shall
be responsible for the suHiciency of the sureties until the
objection to them. is waived as above provided or until
they justify. The property shall be delivered to the plain
tiff when the undertaking required by section one hundred
and seventy-nine has been given.

§ 183. If the property have been delivered to the plain-
tiff and judgment be rendered against him, on demurrer, or
if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judg-
ment, the court shall, on application of the defendant or his
attorney, impannel a jury to inquire into the right of prop-
erty and right of possession of the defendant to the prop-
erty taken. If the jury shall be satistied, that said property
was the property of the defendant, at the commencement of
the action, or if they shall find that the defendant was enti-
tled to the possession only of the same, at such time, then,
and in either case, they shall assess such damages for the
defendant, as are right and proper ; for which, with costs of
suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.

§ 184. In all cases, when the property has been delivered
to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find upon issue joined,
for the defendant, they shall also find, whether the defendant
had the right of pr0perty or the right of possession only, at
the commencement of the suit; and if they find either in
his favor, they shall assess such damages, as they think right
and proper for the defendant; for which with costs of suit,
the court shall render judgment for the defendant.

§ 185. In all cases, when the property has been delivered
to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on
an issue joined, or on inquiry of damages upon a judgment
by default, they shall assess adequate damages to the plain-
tiff for the illegal detention of the property, for which with
costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the de-
fendant.

§186. When the props claimed, has not been taken, or
has been returned to the de endant by the sheriff, for want
of the undertaking required by section one hundred and
seventy-nine, the action may proceed asone for damages
only, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as
are right and proper; but if the property be returned for
want of the undertaking required by section one hundred
and seventy-nine, the plaintiif shall pay. all costs made by
taking the same.

§ 187. An order may be directed to any other county than
the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery of the
property claimed. Several orders may issue at the same

time, or successively, at the option of the laintitf; but only
one of them shall be taxed in the costs, ess otherwise or-
dered by the court.

§ 188. The sheriff or other ofIicer in the execution of the
order of delivery, may break open any building or enclosure,
in which the pro erty claimed or any part thereof, is conceal-
ed; but not un ° he has been refused an entrance into said
building or enclosure and the delivery of the property, after
having demanded the same.

§ 189. No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking given
under section one hundred and seventy-nine, before an ex-
ecution issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in the
action, shall have been returned, that sufiicient property,
whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment,
cannot be found in the county. I

§l90. Any order for the delivery of property issued un-
der section one hundred and seventy-five, without the affi-
davit required thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of the
clerk issuing the same, and such clerk, as well as the plain-

tiff, shall, also, be liable in damages to the party injured.

CHAPTER III.

ATTACHMENT.

Aurora 1. General Attachments.
2. Attachments in certain actions.

ARTICLE I.

GENERAL ATTACHMENTS.

Shnnmsrox 1. Grounds of attachment.
2. How attachment obtained.
a. Execution and returi: tgcreof.
. is ition of attac e property.
5. Progggdings upon attachment.
6. General Provisions.

Sunnmsron I.

GROUNDS OF ATTACHMENT.

I §- 191. The plaintiff in a civil action for the recovery of
money, may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an
attachment against the property of the defendant, and upon

the grounds herein stated.
1. When the defendant, or one of several defendants, is

a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this State: or
2. Has absconded with the intent to defraud his credit-
ors: or

3. Has left the county of his residence, to avoid the ser-
vice of a summons: or

4. So conceals himself, that a summons cannot be served
upon him: or

5. Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out
of the jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to defraud
his creditors : or

6. Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his
creditors: or

7. Has property, or rights in action, which he ‘con-
ceals : or

8. Has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is about to
dispose of, his roperty, or a part thereof, with the intent to
defraud his cre 'tors: or

9. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obli-
gation for which suit is about to be, or has been brought. But
an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that the
defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this
State, for any claim other than a debt or demand arising
upon contract, judgment, or decree.

Sosnmsrox 11.

HOW AN ATTACHMENT IS OBTAINED.

§ 192. An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk
of the court, in which the action is brought, in any case men-
tioned in the preceding section, when there is filed in his
office, an aliidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney;
showing,

1. The nature of the plaintiff ’s claim:

2. That it is just: -

3. The amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff
ought to recover: and

4. The existence of some one of the grounds for an at-
tachment, enumerated in the preceding section.

§ 193. When the ground of the attachment is, that the
defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this
State, the order of attachment may be issued without an un-
dertaking.

In all other cases, the order of attachment shall not be issued
by the clerk, until there has been executed in his office, by one
or more suflicient sureties of the plaintiff, to be a proved by
the clerk, an undertaking not exceeding double e amount
of the plaintiff ’s claim, to the effect that the plaintiff shall
pay the defendant all damages, which he may sustain by
reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully ob-

tained.

§ 194. The order of attachment shall be directed and dis
livered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, stocks or interest. in stocks, rights,
credits, moneys, and ellijcts of the defendant; in his ctmnty.
not exempt by law from beng applied to the payn'lent. of' the
plaintiff‘s claim, or so much thereof as will satisly the plain-
tiff’s claim, to be stated in the order as in the allidavit, and
the probable costs of the action, not. exceeding fifty dollars.

§ 105. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sherill's
of different counties ; and several of them may, at the option
of the plaintili‘, be issued at the same time, or in succession :
but such only as have been (“'xeeuted. shall be taxed in the
costs, unless otl'lerwise directed by the court.

§ 196. The return day ol'the order of attachment, when
issued at the eon'nntmeement of the action, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be
twenty days after it issued.

SUBDIVISIUN Ill.
EXECUTION AND RETURN THEREOF.

§ 197. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which they were received by the sheriff.

§ 198. The order of attachment shall be executed by the
sheriff without delay. He shall go to the lace, where the
defendant’s property may be found, and t ere in the pre-
sence of two freeholders of the county, declare that by virtue
of said order, he attaches said property at the suit of such
plaintiff: and the ofiicer, with the said freeholders, who shall
be first sworn or affirmed by the oflicer, shall make a true in-
ventory and a praisement of all the property attached, which
shall be signe by the officer and freeholders, and returned
with the order.

Where the pro erty attached, is real property, the officer
shall leave with e occupant thereof, or, if there be no occu-
pant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order.

Where it is personal property, and can be come at, he shall
take the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the
order of the court.

§ 199. The sheriff shall deliver the property attached, to
the person in whose possession it was found, 11 on the exe-
cution by such erson, in the resence of the s erifi‘, of an
undertaking to t e plaintiff, wi one or more sufficient sure-
ties, resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to
the same are bound, in double the appraised value thereof,
that the property or its appraised value in money, shall be
forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the action ;

hut if it shall appear to the court. that any part of said prep-
el'ty has been lost 01‘ (lestl‘oyet‘l by uni-tvnidaldo :H_-.(_*i(l¢-nl.. the
value thereof shall he l'en'litted to the [Hut-+011 so hound.

§ 1-300. “511011 the plaintiff, his agent 01' attm‘ney, shall
make oath in writing. that he has. good rt-nsnn to and
does bt‘liex'e,tl'1£11. any })(-'.‘.I‘.-'(i)[l(11'CUI‘]_.)01‘I-llll)ll, 10 IN! named and
within the county where the. action is brought. has properly
of the defendant (describing the same) in his [.mssvssion, if
the oliieer cannot come at such property, lit" shall It'nx'v with
such gm‘nishne, a copy of the order 01' :‘illachmrnt, with a
written ImilCt‘, that he appear in court. Ill the: return of the
order of zxttaclrmrrnt, and answer, as prm-hlm'l in .~-::_rcti.<_m two
hundred and fonrtiiren-

s} 1301. The copy of the order and lid: nutice shall he
served upon the garnislu'e. as follows : ll" he l)!.‘111)l'l'r~'U!I,
they shall he served upon him prrsmudly. or hit at his usual
place of residence; if a corporation, they shall be left with
the president, or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof.

§ 202. Different attachments of the same property may
be made by the same oflicer, and one inventory and appraise-
ment shall be suflicient, and it shall not be necessary to re-
turn the same with more than one order.

§ 203.. Where the property is under attachment, it shall be
attached under subsequent orders as follows:

1. If it be real property, it shall be attached, in the man-
ner prescribed in section one hundred and ninety-eight.

2. If it be personal property, it shall be attached, as in
the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous attach-

ment.
3. If the same person or corporation be made a gar-

nishee, a copy of the order and notice shall be left with him,
in the manner prescribed in section two hundred.

§ 204. The ofiicer shall return upon every order of at-
tachment, what he has done under it. The return must
show the pro erty attached and the time it was attached.
When garnishees are served, their names and the time each
was served, must be' stated. The officer shall, also, return
with the order all undertakings given under it.

§ 205. An order of attachment binds the property attach-
ed from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property, moneys,
and credits in his hands, or due from him to the defendant.
from the time he is served with the written notice mentioned
in section two hundred; but where property is attached in
the hands of a." consignee. his lien thereon shall not be affect-

ed by the attachment;

SUBDIVISION IV.

DISPOSITION OF ATTACHED PROPERTY.

§ 206. The court or any judge thereof during vacation,
may, on the application of the plaintiff, and on good cause
shown, appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully
to discharge his duty, and shall give an undertaking to the
State of Ohio, in such sum as the court or judge may direct,
and with such security as shall be approved by the clerk of
such court, for the faithful performance of his duty, as such
receiver, and to pay over all money and account for all
property, which may come into his hands by virtue of his
appointment, at such times and in such manner as the court
may direct.

§ 207. Such receiver shall take possession of all notes,
due-bills, books of account, accounts, and all other evi-
dences of debt, that have been taken by the sheriff or other
oflicer, as the property of the defendant in attachment, and
shall roceed to settle and collect the same. For that pur-
pose, e may commence and maintain actions in his own
name as such receiver ; but in such actions, no right of deo
fence shall be impaired or affected.

§ 208. Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his
ap ointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in at-
tac ent. The notice shall be written or printed, and shall
be served on the debtor or debtors, by copy personally or by
copy left at the residence; and from the date of such ser-
vice, the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attach-
ment for the amount of moneys and credits in their hands or
due from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall
account therefor to the receiver.

§ 209. Such receiver shall, when required, report his ro-
ceedings to the court, and hold all moneys collected, by im
and property which may come into his hands, subject to the
order of the court.

§ 210. Where a receiver is not appointed by the court or
a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and
six, the sheriff or other oilicer attaching the property shall
have all the powers and perform all the duties of a receiver
appointed by the court or a judge, and may, if necessary,
. commence and maintain actions in his own name, as such
officer. He may be required to give security, other than his
official undertaking.

§ 211. The court shall make proper orders for the preser-
vation of the property, during the pendency of the suit. It
may direct a sale of property, when, because of its per-
ishable nature or the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for
the benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be

ordered by the judge of the court. The sale shall be public,
after such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of like
property on execution, and shall be made in such manner
and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court or
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action,
may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with
all the moneys received by him from garnishees, shall be
held and paid over by him, under the same requirement and
responsibilities of himself and sureties, as are provided in
respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.

SUBDIVISION V.

PROCEEDINGS UPON ATTACHMENT.

§ 212. If the defendant, or other person on his behalf, at
any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be exe-
cuted to the plaintiff by one or more sureties, resident in the
county, to be approved by the court, in double the amount of
the plaintiff ’s claim, as stated in his affidavit, to the effect
that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the court, the
attachment in such action shall be discharged, and restitution
made of any property taken underit, or the proceeds there-
of. Such undertaking shall also discharge the liability of a
garnishee in such action for any property of the defendant
in his hands. '

§ 213. The undertaking mentioned in the last section,
may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff
having the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the
return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as
if executed in court :' the sureties in either case, to be ap—
proved by the ofiicer, before whom the undertaking is executed.

§ 214. The garnishee shall appear as follows. If the
order of attachment be returned during a term of the court
and twenty days before the close thereof, he shall appear at
that term; if the order be returned during vacation, he shall
appear at the term next after its return. He shall appear
and answer, under oath, all questions put to him touc 'ng
the pro erty of every description and credits of the defend-
ant, in his possession or under his control, and he shall dis-
close, truly, the amount owing by him to the defendant,
whether due or not, and in the case of a corporation, any
stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at.
or after the service of notice. -

§ 215. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the de—
fendant by him, to the sheriff having the order of attachment,
or into the court. He shall be discharged from liability to
the defendant, for any money so paid, not exceeding the
plaintiffs claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond

those caused by his resistance of the claim against him; and
if he disclose the property in his handsor the true, amount
owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the
order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

§216. If the garnishee do not appear in court and an-
swer, as required by section two hundred and fourteen, the
court may proceed against him by attachinent'as for a con-
tem t. r-  ' '

§ 317. ' If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is dis-
covered on his examination, that, at or after the service of
the order of attachment and notice 11 'on he was pos-
sessed of any property of the defen ant, Or- was indebted
to him, the court may order the delivery of such. roperty
and the payment of the amount owing by the garnis ee, into
the court ; or the court may permit the garnishee to retain
the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an
undertaking to the plaintiff by one or more sufficient sure-
ties, to the effect, that the amount shall be paid, or the prop-
erty forthcoming, as the court may direct.

§218. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or if
he appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory
to the plaintiff; or if he fail to comply with the order of the
court to deliver the property and pay the money owing, into
court, or give the undertaking l't‘qllil‘ml in the preceding sec-
tion, the plaintiff may proceed against him in an action, by
filing a petition in his own name, as in other cases, and
causing a summons to be issued upon it ; and thereupon
such proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judg-
ment may be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, for the
amount of the property and credits of every kind of the de-
fendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall
appear to be owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs
of the proceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintiff
gamed against the garnishee by action, for the cause that

'sdisclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the ac-

tion that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff shall
pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this action
may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When the
claims of the plaintiffs in attachment are satisfied, the de-
fendant in attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the
plaintiff in the judgment.

§ 219. Final judgment shall not be rendered against the
garnishee, until the action against the defendant in attach-
ment has been determined; and if in such action judgment
be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee
shall be discharged andrecover costs. If the plaintiff shall
recover against the defendant in attachment, and the gar-
nishee shall deliver up all the property, moneys, and credits
of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the moneys
from him due as the court may order, the garnishe'e shall be;

discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him
shall be paid out of the property and moneys so surrendered,
\ or as the court may think right and pro er.
§220. If judgmentbe rendered in e action for the de-
fendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached or. its proceeds, shall be returned to him.
§ 221. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall
be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining
in the hands of the officer, after applying the moneys arising
from the sale of perishable: property, and so much of the
ersonal propertyand lands and tenements, if any, whether
held by legal or equitable-title, as-may be necessary to satisfy
the judgment, shall be-sold by order of the court, under the
same restrictions andregulations, as if the same had been
levied on by execution; and the money arising therefrom,
with the amount which may be recovered from the garnishee,
shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. . If there
be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand,
and execution may issue thereon, for the residue, in all res-
pects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached prop-
erty, or its roceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.
§ 222. hecourt may com el the delivery to the sheriff,
for sale, of any of the attache property for which an under-
taking may have been given, and may proceed summarily
on such undertaking, to enforce the delivery of the property,
or the payment of such sum as may be due upon the under-
taking, by rules and attachments as in cases of contempt.
§ 223. The court may order the sheriff to repossess him-
self, for the purpose of selling it, any of the attached prop-
erty, which may have passed out of his hands without hav-
ing been sold or converted into money; and the sheriff shall,
under such order, have the same power to take the property,
as he would have under an order of attachment. .
§ 224. If personal pro erty which has been attached, be
claimed by any person 0 er than the defendant, it shall be
the duty of the oilicer to have the validity of such claim
tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the
like sheet, as in case the property had been seized upon ex-
,ecution, and claimed by asthird erson. '
‘.-§ 225. Where several a ents are executed on the
,same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the
court, on the motion of any of the plaintiffs, may .order a

reference to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities
of the several attachments. '

SUBDIVISION VI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 226. From the time of the issuing of 'the order of
attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction and to have control of all subsequent pro-

ceedings under this chapter; and if, after the issuing of the
order, the defendant being a person, should die, or a corpo-
ration, and its charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture,
or otherwise, the proceedings shall be carried on ; but in all
such cases other than where the defendant was a foreign cor-
poration, his legal representatives shall be made parties to
the action.

§ 227. The defendant may, at any time before judgment
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for
additional security on the part of the plaintiff ; and if, on
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plain-
tiff ’s undertaking has removed from this State, or is not sufli-
cient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of
attachment and direct restitution of any property taken under
it, unless in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court, suffi-
cient security is given by the plaintiff.

§ 228. The defendant may at any time before judgment,
upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move to discharge
an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the property at-
tached. .

§ 229. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part
of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but
not otherwise, the plaintiff may Oppose the same by afEda-
vits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order
of attachment was made.

ARTICLE II.

ATTACHMENTS IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.

§ 230. 1. Where adebtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise
disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat
or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the col-
lection of their debts; or

2. Is about to make such sale, conveyance, or disposition
of his roperty, with such fraudulent intent; or

3. Fe about to remove his roperty, or a material part
thereof, with the intent, or to e effect, of cheating or de-
frauding his creditors, or of hindering or delaying them in
the collection of their debts, a creditor may bring an action
on his claim before it is due, and have an attachment against
the property of the debtor.

§ 231. The attachment authorized by the last section, may
be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a
judge thereof; but before such action shall be brought, or such
attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff, his agent, or attor-
ney, shall make an oath in writing, showing the nature and
amount of the plaintiff ’5 claim, that it is just, when the same

will become due, and the existence of some one of the
grounds for attachment, enumerated in the preceding sec-
tion.

§ 232. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order of
attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without prej u-
diceto a future action; and in all such actions, application
for an attachment must be made.

§ 233. The order of the court or judge granting the at-
tachment, shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum suflicient to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim
and the probable costs of the action.

§ 234. The order of attachment, as granted by the court
or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has been
executed in his ofIice, such undertaking on the part of the
plaintiff, as is directed by section one hundred and ninety-
three.

§ 235. The plaintiff in such action shall not have judg-
ment on his claim, before it becomes due, and the proceed-
ings on attachment may be conducted without delay.

§ 236. The proceedings in the first article of this cha ter
subsequentto section one hundred and ninety-three, sh , so
far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments author-
ized by this article.

CHAPTER IV.

INJ UN CTION .

§ 237. The injunction provided by this code, is a com-
mand torefrain from a particular act. It may be the tinal judg-
ment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional rem-
edy; and when so allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of
injunction is abolished.

§ 238. When it appears by the petition, that the plaintiff
is entitled to the relief demanded ; and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continu-
ance of some act, the commission or continuance of which,
during the litigation, would produce great or irreparable in-
jury to the plaintiff, or when, during the litigation, it appears
that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation
of the plaintiff ’s rights, respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunction may be granted to restrain such act. It may also
be granted in any case, where it is specially authorized by
statute.

§289. The injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment, by the Supreme Court or any judge thereof, the
Court of Common Pleas or any judge thereof, or in the ab-
sence from the. county of said judges, by the Probate Judge
thereof, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or
judge, by the aflidavit of the plaintiff or his agent, that the
plaintiff is entitled thereto. '

. § 240. If the court or judge deem it proper that the de-

f fendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before

I granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to
be given to such party to attend for such purpose at a spe-
cified time and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain
such party.

§ 241. An injunction shall not be granted against a
party, who has answered, unless upon notice; but such party
may be restrained, until the decision of the application for
an injunction.

§ 242. No injunction, unless otherwise provided by spe-
cial statute, shall operate, until the party obtaining the
same shall give an undertaking executed by one or more
sufiicient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the
court granting such injunction, in an amount to be fixed by
the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the party
enjoined the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunctiOn ought not to have been granted.

, § 243. The order of injunction shall be addressed to the

arty enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be issued

i gy the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at the com-

mencement of the action, the clerk shall endorse upon the

summons “injunction allowed,” and it shall not be neces-

sary to issue the order of injunction; nor shall it be neces-

, sary to issue the same, where notice of the a plication

therefor has been given to the party enjoined. T e service

oi the summons so endorsed, or the notice of the application
for an injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.

§ 244. Where the injunction is allowed during the litiga-
tion and without notice of the application therefor, the order
of injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff forthwith serve
the same, upon each party enjoined, in the manner pre-
scribed for serving a summons, and make return thereof
without delay. '

§ 245. An injunction binds the party, from the time he

. has notice thereof, and the undertaking required bythe appli-
cant therefor, is executed.

.§- 246. No injunction shall be granted by a judge, after a
motion therefor has been overruled on the merits of the appli-
cation,‘ by his court, and where it has been refused by
the court in which the action is brought, or a judge thereof, it

shall not be granted to the same applicant, by a court of in-
ferior jurisdiction or any judge thereof.

§ 247. An injunction granted by a judge may be en-
forced, as the act of the court. Disobedience of an injunc-
tion may be punished, as a contempt, by the court or any
judge, who might have granted it in vacation. An attach-
ment may be issued by the court or judge, upon being sat-
isiied by affidavit of the breach of the injunction, against the

party guilty of the same; and 11v Hwy be required, in the dis-
cretion of NW court orjmlg‘v, to pay :1. tine not exceeding two
hundred tiniittl'rs' for tilt}- um 0i. i111: (nullity, to make immediate
restitutirm m the part)“ injm'vd and give further security, to
obey the injumrliml; 01' in {ll'thult thereof, he may be com-
mitted to (‘lnr-n tjtlrilmly. until 111' :‘ililii‘.  comply  811011
requiren'ulm. 01' [w (Jiill‘l‘lt‘lr‘t‘ il.‘i.fitli}’ discharged.

§ 248. A party initially-d mrw. at any time before judg-

ment, upon reasonable notice to the (party, who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for ad 'tional security; and if
it appear that the surety in the undertaking has removed
from the State, or is insuflicient, the court may vacate the
injunction, unless in a reasonable time, sufficient security
is given.

§249. On the hearing of an application for an injunc-
tion, each party may read atiidavits. All aiiidavits shall be
filed.

§ 250. If the injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant, at any time before the trial, may ap 1y, upon
notice, to the com in which the action is broug t or any
judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The applica-
tion may be made upon the petition and afiidavits upon
which the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the
part of the party enjoined, with or without answer. The
order of the judge allowing, dissolving, or modifying an
injunction, shall be returned to the oHice _of the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, and recorded and
obeyed, as if made by the court.

§ 251. If the application be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same to aiiidavits or other evidence, in addition to
that on which the injunction was granted.

§ 252. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon an
answer in the nature of a counter-claim. He shall proceed
in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

 

CHAPTER V.
RECEIVERS AND OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

§ 253. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, the district court, or by the courts of common pleas

or any judge of either; orin the absehce of said judges from
the county, by the Probate Judge thereof.

1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent pur-
chase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or
fund to his claim, or between partners or others jointly owning
or interested in any property or fund, on the application
of the plaintiff or of any party whose right to or interest in
the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of
being lost, removed, or materially injured : »

2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure -of his
mortgage, and sale of the mortgaged property, where it ap-
pears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of the
mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is
probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt :

3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect :

4. After judgment, to dispose of the roperty according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during 1e pendency of an
appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied,
and the judgment debtor refuses to apply the property in sat-
isfaction of the judgment :

5. In the cases provided in this code and by special sta-
tutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its cor-
porate rights:

6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been
appointed by the usages of courts of equity.

’ § 254. N 0 party, or attorney, or person interested in
’ an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
§ 255. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be
‘ sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or more sure
ties approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to ,
such person and in such sum as the court or judge shall direct,
. to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of re-
ceiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein.
§ 256. The receiver has, under the control of the court,
power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as re-
ceiver, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive .
rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise the ‘
same, to make transfers, and generally, to do such acts res-
pecting the property as the court may authorize.

§ 257. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be invested
' upon interest by order of the court; but no such order shall
be made, except upon the consent of all the parties to the
action.

-~ § 258. When it is admitted bylsthe pleading or examina-
tion of a party, that he has in ' possession, or under his
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being. the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee

for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further direction of the court.

§ 259. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court
shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing,‘and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience, as for a contempt, may make an order, re-
quiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or
deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court. -

TITLE IX.

TRIAL.

Cum 1. Issue.
2. Trial.

CHAPTER 1.
ISSUE.

§ 260. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party and contro-
verted by the other. They are of two kinds,

1. Of law:

2. Of fact.

§ 261. An issue of fact arises,

1. Upon a material allegation in the petition denied by
the answer :

2. Upon a set-off or counterclaim presented in the an-
swer, and denied by the reply:

3. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply,
which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite
party without further pleading.

 

CHAPTER II.

TRIAL.
Trial in neral:
Trial by ury:
Trial by the Court:
Trial by Referees:

Armor.) 1.
2.
3.
4.
g. Exceptions:
7.
8.

New Trial:
General Provisions:
Time of Trial.

Armour 1..
TRIAL IN GENERAL.

§ 262. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.

§ 263. Issues of law must be tried by the court, unless
referred as provided in section two hundred and eighty-one.
Issues of fact arising in actions for the recovery of money,
or of speciiic real or personal property, shall be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered
as hereinafter provided.

§ 264. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court,
subject to its power to order any issue missiles to be tried by
a jury, or referred as provided in this code.

ARTICLE II.

TRIALS BY JURY.

Sunmvmon 1. Formation of the Jury.
2. Conduct of the trial. ‘
3. Verdict.

SUBDIVISION I.

FORMATION OF THE JURY.

§265. The general mode of summoning, impanneling,
challenging, and swearing the jury, is not changed by this
code.

SUBDIVISION II.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

§ 266. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall pro-
ceed in the following order, unless the court for special
reasons otherwise direct:

1. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and may
briefly state the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.

2. The defendant must then briefly state his defence,
and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in sup-

port of it. I

3. The party, who would be defeated if no evidence were
given on either side, must first produce his evidence ; the ad-
verse party will then reduce his evidence.

4.. The parties wi then be confined to rebutting evidence,
unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice,
permits them to offer evidence in their original case.

5. When the evidence is concluded, either party may re-
quest instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be
given or refused by the court: which instructions shall be
reduced to writing, if either party require it.

6. The arties may then submit or argue the case to the
jury. In e argument, the party required first to produce
his evidence, shall have the opening and conclusion. If sev-
eral defendants having se arate defences, appear by differ-
ent counsel, the court sha arrange their relative order.

7. The court may again charge the jury after the argu-
ment is concluded.

§ 267. VVhenever,_in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have git-jams of property which is the subject
of litigation, or of the page in which any material fact occur-
red, it may order them tb-Be.;c9nducted in a body under the
charge of an officer to the‘ placehwhich shall be shown to
them balsome person appoihtéd-hy.the court for that ur-
pose. hile the jury are thus absc'p ' no person other an
the person so ap ointed, shall sp'eak' lo them on any sub-
ject connected wi the trial. ' ‘  .

§ 268. When the case is finally submitted-Jo the jury,
they may decide in court or retire for deliliqi'ption. If
they retire, they must be kept together in some‘canenient
place, under the charge of an officer until they agi'e'o'uppn a
verdict or are discharged by the court, subject to the'djsc're-
tion of the court to permit them to separate tern orariljr at
night, and at their meals. The officer having t em under
his charge, shall not suffer any communication to be made
to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court,
and he shall not before their verdict is rendered, communi-
cate to any erson the state of their deliberations or the
verdict agree upon. ’

§ 269. If the jury are permitted to separate either during
the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse
with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other per-
son, on any subject of the trial, and that it is their duty not
to form or express an opinion thereon, until the cause is
finally submitted to them. .

§ 270. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there
be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testi-
mony, or if the desire to be informed as to any part of the
law arising in e case, they may re uest the oliicer to con-
duct them to the court, where the i ormation upon the point
of law shall be given, and the court may give its recollection
as to the teatimony on the point in dispute, in the presence
of, or after notice to the parties or their counsel. .

§ 271. The jury may be discharged by the ecurt on ac-
count of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or c'alamf-
ity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties,
or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily
appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

§ 272. In all cases where the jury are discharged during
the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be
tried again immediately or at a future time, as the court may
direct.

§273. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by the
clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman. When the
verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to be
polled, which is done by the clerk or pourt asking each juror
if ,it is his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the
jury must again be sent out for timber deliberation.

§ 274. The verdict shall-,bfejzvritten, signed by the fore—
man, and read by the clqu't'a'dlé jury, and the inquiry made
whether it is their verdict“. If any juror disagrees, the jury
must be sent out agaiIrj-b‘dt if no disagreement be expressed,
and neither party: requires the jury to be polled, the verdict
is com letehangl the jury discharged from the case. If, how-
ever, t e ,vgndiq‘t ‘be defective in form only, the same may,
‘ with the assent of the jury before they are discharged, be
corrected°by the court.

’0
.

SUBDIVISION III.

VERDICT.

§ 275. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce, gene-
rally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury finds the facts only. It must present the facts as
establis ed by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and they must be so presented as that nothing re-
mains to the court, but to draw from them conclusions of
law.

§276. In every action for the recovery of money only,
i or. ,' ecitic real property, the jury in their discretion, may
ren er a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the
ecurt may. direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing
upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct
them if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may direct -a
written. finding thereon. The special verdict or finding
must be filed with the clerk and entered on the journal.
r § 277. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
I, with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and
' the court may give judgment accordingly. 
. 6278r' When by the. verdict, either party is entitled'to
i recover money of the adverse arty, the jury in their ver-
dict, must assess the amount 0 recovery.

Armcu III.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

§ 279. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in
actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the court,
in other actions, in the following manner:

1. By the consent of the party appearing, when the other
party fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorney.

2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed
with the clerk.

3. By oral consent in open court entered on the journal.

§ 280. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court,
it shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding,
except, generally, for the plaintiff or defendant, unless one
of the parties request it, with the view of excepting to the
decision of the court upon the questions of law involved in
the trial; in which case the court shall state in writing the
conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions
of law.

ARTICLE IV.

TRIAL BY REFEREES. ,

§ 281. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of
fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written
consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court
entered upon the journal.

§ 282. Where the parties do not consent, the court may
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct
a reference in either of the following cases : ‘ .

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require'the
examination of mutual accounts, or where the account is
on one side only, and it shall be made to appear to the
court, that it is necessary that the party on the other side
should be examined as a witness to prove the account; in
which cases, the referees maybe directed to hear and report
upon the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact
involved therein, or,

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary.
for the information of the court before judgment, in cases
which may be determined by the court, or 'for carrying a,
judgment into effect, or, . . ' ‘- . '.

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the'plead-a
ings, shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of i
an action. ' " ' ‘ ‘

§ 283. The trial before referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They have the same power
to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to ad—
minister all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, and to
grant adjournments, as the court upon such trial. They
must state the facts found, and the etjinclusit'ms of law, sep-
arately, and their decision must be give-.11. and may be e);-
ccpted to and reviewed in like manner. The report. of the
referees upon the whole issue stands as the. decision of the
court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. Whm
the reference is to report the liiCtH, the report has the effect
of a. special verdict. '

§ “3.84. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when
an infant may be a party, may agreeupon a suitable person,
or persons, not exceedng three, and the reference shall be
ordered accordingly; and. if the parties do not agree, the’
court shall appoint. one ormore referees, not exceeding three,
who shall be free from exception.

§ 285. A reference as provided in this chapter cannot be
ordered by a Probate court, unless by consent of the parties
to the reference and referees.

§ 286. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true
exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made in
the case, and return the same with their report to the court
making the reference.

§ 287. A judge in vacation, upon the written consent of
the parties,may make any order of reference which the court,
of which he is a member, could make in term time. In such
case the order of reference shall be made on the written
agreement of the parties to refer, and shall be filed with the
clerk of the court with the other papers in the case.

§ 288. The referees must be sworn or aflirmed well and
faithfully to hear and examine the cause and to make a just
and true report therein according to the best of their un-
derstanding. The oath may be administered by any person
authorized to take depoitions.

§ 289. The referees shall be allowed such compensation
for their services as the court may deem just and proper,
which shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case.

ARTICLE V.

EXCEPTIONS.

'§ 290. An exception is an objection taken to a decision
of the court upon a matter of law.

§ 291. The party objecting to the decision must except
at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to
reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the term.

§ 292. N o particular form of exception is required. The
exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence as

is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as
briefiy as ossible.

§ 293. ere the decision objected to is entered on the
record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry,
the exception 111:1)“ be taken by the party causing to be
HUM-"ti. at. the owl of the decision, that he excepts.

§ 29-1. \i-‘lm-v the (lt't'isiuil is not entered on the record,
or tln- grounds of olijm-tic'm rlo not suflicieutly appear in
illt" entry, the. party (‘Xeepting must reduce his exception to
writing, and present it. to the court for its allowance. If
true, it shall lw the. duty 01' :1. majority of the judges com-
posing the court. to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall be
lilml with the pleadings as part of the record, but not spread
at. large on the journal. ll‘ the writing is not true, the
court slmll cnrrq-(tt. it. 01' suggest the correction to be made,
and it. Fllilll il'lt‘ll lif’ signed as aforesaid.

§ 139.3. Nu (‘Xt't'plinll slmll In: regarded,unless it is mate-
rial, .‘illtl I)l'l‘._il.ltli{.'i£:l to the substantial rights of the party
excepting.

§ 296. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court of
record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the
files by the party taking the same, at any time before pro-
ceedings in error are commenced, and before the exceptions
are recorded.

ARTICLE VI.

NEW TRIAL.

§ 297. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court
of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a
referee, or a decision by the court. The former verdict,
report, or decision shall be vacated and a new trial granted,
on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes affecting materially the substantial rights
of such party:

1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
referee, or prevailing party, or any order of the court or re-
feree, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was preven-
ted from having a fair trial: .

2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against:  -'

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given.
under the influence of passion or prejudice: I - v p ‘

5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,
whether too large, or too small, where the action is,'upon'
a contract, or for the injury or detention of propertyzj "

6. That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained
by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law: '

7. Newly discovered evidence material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence
have discovered and produced at the trial:

8. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to
by the party making the application.

§ 298. A new trial shall .not be granted on account of
the smallness of damages in an action for an injury to the
person or re utation, nor in any other action where the
damages sh equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

§ 299. The application for a new trial must be made at
the term the verdict, report, or decision is rendered, and
except for the cause of newly discovered evidenCe material
for the party applying, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the trial, shall be
within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered,
unless unavoidably prevented.

§ 300. The application must be by motion upon written
grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The
causes enumerated in subdivision two, three and seven of
section two hundred and ninety-seven must be sustained by
affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by
adidavits.

§ 301. Where the grounds for a new trial could not, with
reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are
discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of
referee, or decision was rendered or made, the application
may be made by petition filed as in other cases not later
than the second term after the discovery ; on which a sum-
mons shall issue, he returnable and served, or publication
made as prescribed in section seventy-two. The facts
stated in the petition shall be considered as denied without
answer, and if the service shall be complete in vacation, the
case shall be heard and summarily decided at the ensuing
term, and if in term, it shall be heard and decided after the
expiration of twent days from such service. The case
shall be placed on e trial docket, and the witnesses shall
be examined in open court, or their de ositions taken as in
other cases, but no such petition shal be tiled more than
one year after the final judgment was rendered.

ARTICLE VII.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

' ,.§ 302.- Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he
may be‘ entitled for the cause of action established.

§ 303. The rovisions of this title respecting trials by
jury, apply, so ar as they are in their nature applicable to
trials by the court.

ARTICLE VIII.

TIME OF TRIAL.

' § 304. The clerk of the court of common pleas shall keep
at least five books, to be called the appearance docket, the
trial docket, the journal, the record and execution docket.

§ 305. On the appearance docket, he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they were brought, the date of
the summons, the time of the return thereof by the officer
and his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, and all
subsequent leadings.

§ 306. T e trial docket shall be made out by the clerk of
the court at least twelve days before the first day of each
term of the court; and the actions shall be set for particular
days in the order in which the issues were made up, wheth-
er of' law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases set for
each day shall be tried as nearly as may be on that day.
For the purpose of arranging said docket, an issue shall
be considered as made up, when either party is in default of
a pleading. .

§ 307. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment
of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which they
are placed on the trial docket, unless by consent of the par-
ties, or the order of the court, they are continued or placed
at the heel of the docket. The time of hearing all other
cases shall be in the order in which they are placed on the
docket, unless the court in its discretion shall otherwise
direct. The court may in its discretion hear at any time a
motion, and may by rule prescribe the time for hearing

motions.
§ 308. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the

court, after the issues therein, by the times fixed for plead-
ing, are or should have been made up; and when, by the times
fixed for pleading, the issues are, or should have been made
up during a term, such actions shall be triable at that term.
When the issues are, or should have been made up, either
before, or during a term of court, but after the period for
preparing the trial docket of such term, the clerk, if required
by the court, shall place such actions on the trial docket of.
that term. 5'
§ 309. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial dock:-
et for the use of the bar before the first day of the term-of
court. . . - .

l

p
i

tTITLE X.

EVIDENCE.

Cums Competency of witnesses.

Means of roducing witnesses.

Mode of t. ing their testimony.

Admission, inspection, and production of documents and general
provisions.

Perpetuation of testimony.

5" P9399!"

CHAPTER I.

COMPETENOY OF WITNESSES.

§ 310. No person shall be disqualified as a witness, in
any civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in

z the event of the same, as a party or otherwise, or by reason

of his conviction of a crime ; but such interest or conviction
may be shown for the purpose of affecting his credibility.

§311. Nothing in the preceding section contained, shall
in any manner affect the laws, now existing, relating to ’the
settlement of estates of deceased persons, infants, idiots, or
lunatics, or the attestation of the execution of last wills and
testaments; or of conveyances of real estate, or of any other
instrument required by law to be attested.

§ 312. Any party to a civil action or proceeding may com-
pel any adverse party, or person for whose benefit such ac-
tion or proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or defended, at
the trial or by deposition, to testify as a Witness in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules as other witnesses.

§313. No party shall be allowed to testify by virtue of
the provisions of section three hundred and ten, where the
adverse party is the executor, or administrator, of a de-
ceased person, when the facts to be proved, transpired before
the death of such deceased person; nor shall he testify, un-
less he give reasonable notice of his intention so to do, to
the adverse party, his agent, or attorney.

§ 314. The following persons shall be incompetent to

: testify :

1. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination: -

2. Children under ten years of age who appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which

they are examined, or of relating them truly: /

3. Husband and wife, for or against each other, or con-
cerning any communication made by one to the other during
the marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation

' subsisted or afterwards: -

4. An attorney, concerning any communication made to
him by his client in that relation, or his advice thereon, with-
out the client’s consent.

,—

n. A L'll*l.‘;{}‘ITlLlll m- privs’f. concm'ning any confession made
to him in his I')I'(_)rrr~‘:~‘lt'illfil character, in the course of discipline,

('njoinrtl hy the”: church 1.0 which 110 lit-longs, without the con-
st'nt. of the [nelson making: the confession.

§ 31."). If :1. person (rill-:l‘ himself as a witness, thB‘t is to be
rim-111ml a. consent. to the [winnimithm also of an attorney, ,

cIr-rg'yinnli or prifrst. on the. sums Fllllit‘Ct, within the meaning
of the last two subtlivisions 01' the preceding section.

CHAPTER H.

I MEANS OF PRODUGING WITNESSES.

§ 316. The clerks of the several courts and judges of the
Probate courts shall, on a plication of any person having a
cause or any matter pen 'ng in court, issue a su (sna for
witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all 8 names
required by the ap licant in one subpoena, which may be
served by the sheriiii,’ coroner, or any constable of the county,
or by the party or any other person. When a sub cena is
not served by the sheriff, coroner or constable, roo of ser-
vice shall be shown by affidavit; but no costs 0 serving the
same shall be allowed, exce t when served by an officer.

§ 317. The subpoena s all be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time
and place, to testify as a witness, and it may contain a clause
directing the witness to bring with him any book, writing, or
other thing under his control which he is bound by law to
produce as evidence.

§ 318. When the attendance of the witness before any
officer authorized to take depositions is required, the subpmna ‘
shall be issued by such officer.

§ 319. The subpmna shall be served either by reading, or
by copy, delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place
of residence; but such copy need not contain the name of
any other witness. ‘

§ 320. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for exami-
nation on. the trialof a civil action, except in the county of I
his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the .
county where he resides, or where he may be when the sub-- "
puma is served upon him. '

§ 321. A witness may demand his traveling fees, and fee ;
for one day’s attendance, when the subpcena is served upon
him, and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not be

obliged to obey the subpoena. The fact of such demand and
non-payment shall be stated in the return.

§ 322. Disobedience of a subpcena, or a refusal to be sworn
' or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when
lawfully ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court
or officer, by whom his ailfl'lirlillli‘t'. 01' tirstiinm'iy is I‘l'illlll't‘i'l.

§323. When a Witness fails in :‘111 ("'ml in uln'tlltrm‘r' If! :‘1
subpoena (except in case 01" a (lvi'naml and Failure it) pay hi:t
fees,) the court or officer liiriiii'n whom his {lllf‘lltlililt‘t' is 1'1;—
quired, may issue an altm'lum‘rnt to the slwrill‘, (tn‘i‘m'wr' (’1'
constable of the county, i:t_\1nit'i:mr_lin£r llillllOfl!‘l'l"‘:4i:'111!llll'llllil’
the person therein named, bi'thre the court. or ntiim-r. :gt :1
time and place to be fixed in ii!“ z:l11:'1.t..'liii'ii*nt. it) :Iix't- his tun-‘—
timony and answer for tlw (*mm'ii'lpt'. ll' tlw :ilim'lii'm-nt he
not for immediately bringing {hi- mime-1.2: l)('ii)['l‘ Ill!" ('(Iili'l Hr
officer, a sum may be fixwl in whirl: Hie whst may give
an undertaking With surety for his :ii'il'mai'ntitri'. Smith r—‘urii
shall be endorsed on the bark of this zittz'u.'.liii'1mit : and il' in:
sum is so fixed and endorri-d. it hilllll 1w (im' immlml dollars.
If the witness be not persmiully :H'I‘Yi‘tl, tlw rum-t “my, in; a

rule, order him to show cause why an attachment should hot
issue against him. I ~

§324. The punishment for the contempt mentioned in
section three hundred and twenty-two shall be as follows:
When the witness fails to attend in obedience to the sub-
poena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his
fees) the court or oflicer may fine the witness in a sum not
exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the court or officer
may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty nor less
than five dollars, or may imprison him in the county jail,
there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify, or
give his deposition. The fine imposed by the court shall be
paid into the county treasury, and that imposed by the
officer, shall be for the use of the party for whom the wit-
ness was subpoenaed. The witness shall, also, be liable to
the party injured, for any damages occasioned by his failure
to attend, or his refusal tobe sworn, testify, or give his depo-
sition.

§ 325. A witness so imprisoned by an ofiicer before whom
his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of the
supreme court, court of common leas, or probate court,
who shall have power to discharge ' , if it appear that his
im risonment is illegal. ‘

g 326. Every attachment for the arrest, or order of com-
mitment to rison of a witness, by a court or oflicer, pursu-
ant to this c apter, must be under the seal of the court or
ofiicer, if he have an oflicial seal, and must specify articu-
larly the cause of the arrest or commitment; and if e com-
mitment be for refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the order. Such order of commitment

may be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or any constable of
the county where such witness resides, or may be at the
time, and shall be executed by committing him to the jail
of such county and delivering a copy of the order to the
jailor.

§ 327. A person confined in any prison in this State,
may, by order of any court of record, be required to be pro-
duced for oral examination in the county where he is impri-
soned; but in all other cases his examination must be by
de osition. _

328. While a prisoner’s de osition is being taken, he
shall remain in the custody o the ofIicer having him in
charge, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking
of the deposition.

§ 329. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a coun-
ty in which he does not reside, by being served with a sum-
mons in such county, while going, returning, or attending in
obedience to a subpmna.

§ 330. At the commencement of each day after the first
day, a witness may demand his fees for that day’s attend-
ance in obedience to a subpoena, and if the same be not paid,
he shall not be required to remain.

§ 331. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to
testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
The mode of administering an oath, shall be such as is most
binding upon the conscience of the witness.

CHAPTER III.

MODE 0F TAKING TEE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES.

Anncu l. Adidavit.
2. Deposition.

§ 332. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes : i

1. By aflidavit:

2. By deposition :

3. By oral examination.

§ 333. An aHidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.

§334. A deposition is a written declaration under oath,
made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of en-
abling him to attend and cross-examine; or, upon written
interrogatories. ' .

§ 335. An oral examination is an examination in the.
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact.
or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tri-.
bunal from the lips of the witness. — ‘

ARTICLE I.
AFFIDAVIT.

§ 336. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading, to
prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process in
an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of
a witness, a stay of proceedings or upon a motion, and in
any other case permitted by law.

§ 337. An affidavit may be made in and out of this State
before any person authorized to take depositions, and must
be authenticated in the same way, except as provided in sec-
tion one hundred and eleven.

ARTICLE II.

DEPOSITION S.

. When to be used.

1
2. Ofiicers who may take them.

3. Manner of taking and authenticating them.
4. Exceptions to depositions.

Susmvrsmx 1.

WHEN TO BE USED.

§ 338. The deposition of any witness may be used only
in the following cases :

1. When the witness does not reside in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, or is, sent for tri-
al, by change of venue; or is absent therefrom:

2. When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the wit-
ness is unable to attend court, or is dead :

3. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in
any other case where the oral examination of the witness is
not required.

§ 339. Either party may commence taking testimony by
depositions, at any time after service upon the defendant.

SUBDIVISION II.

\

OFFICERS WHO MAY TAKE THEM.

. § 340. Depositions may be taken in this State before a
judge or clerk of the supreme court, the court of common
pleas, or probate court, before a justice of the peace, notary
public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any city,- or town cor-

porate, or before a master commissioner, or any person em-
powered by a special commission; but depositions taken in
this State, to be used therein, must be taken by an officer or
person whose authority is derived within the State.

§ 341. Depositions may be taken out of this State by a
judge, justice, or chancellor of any court of record, a justice

of the peace, notary public. mayor, or chief magistrate of
any city, or town tj'-:');‘I)()I‘:.llff‘._, :1 mslmmissioner appointed by
the Governor 01‘ mt: State 1:) min; depositions, or any person
authorized by :L spm'lnl t:{.:r11111i.—:;—=iun from this State.

§ 342. Thv oliirwr lwl‘uro u-lmm depositions are taken,
must not be a '1"‘-"lir;.l-l\‘i_" m- min-mg; of either party, or other-

wise interested in the, event of the action or proceeding.

§ 343. Any court of record of this State, or any judge
thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take deposi-
tions within or without the State. The commission must be
issued to a person or persons therein named, by the clerk,
under the seal of the court granting the same, and deposi-
tions under it, must be taken upon written interrogatories,
unless the parties otherwise agree.

SUBDIVISION- III.

MANNER OF TAKING AND AUTHEN TIOATIN G THEM.

§ 344. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless
taken under a special commission, a written notice specify-
ing the action or proceeding, the name of the court or tri—
bunal in which it is to be used, and the time and place of
taking the same, shall be served upon the adverse party, his
agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of
abode. The notice shall be served, so as to allow the ad-
verse party sufficient time by the usual route of travel to
attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays
and the day of service, and the examination may, if so
stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to day.

§ 345. When the partyjagainst whom the deposition is
to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the State,
and has no agent, or attorney of record therein, he may be
notified of the taking of the deposition by publication. The
publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in some
newspaper printed in the county where the action or pro-
ceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county;
and if not, in some newspaper printed in this State,‘ of
general circulation in that county. The publication must
contain all that is required in a written notice, and may be
proved in the manner prescribed in ection seventy-three.

§ 3-16. The (lf‘llflr‘lllnll shall be written in the presence of
the. atliccr taking}: the same, either by the officer, the witness,
or some tlisintcrristicil person, and subscribml by the witness.

§ 347. The deposition so taken shall l)t' scaled up and
endorsed with the title of the cause and the name of tho
cfliccr taking the same, and by him addressed and trans-
r‘nittt-tl tn the clerk of the court where the action or proceed-
ing is pending. It shall remain under seal until opened by
the clerk by order of the court, or at the request of a party
to the action or proceeding, or his attorney.

§ 3H. Dcpcsiticns taken pursuant to this article, shall
he admitted in twitlcncc on the trial of any civil action or
proceeding pending hcfhrc anyjusticc of the peace, mayor,
or other judicial otliccr of a. city, or town corporate, or he-
l'ari- any :u'lntratcjirs or rcl'crtws. and such depositions shall ln‘.
scalt-(l up, (-I'ulorscrl with the title at' the action or proceed-
ing, the name of the alliccr taking the same, and {ltlfll't‘.':-'-Ht"tl
and tnmsmittcil by sac-h ofliccr to such .jttr-‘lltfl",11111501“, or
t.ll'll|."l"illtlltflfll ollirvr, arhitraIm', or referees.

§ 31!). \thn a tlt‘pnsitinll has l)f‘(’l] once falcon, it may
l)!" l‘t'tlll in any .'"l1l‘.fl'.' 01' the same action or proceeding, or in
any other action or procwitling upon the same mattrr luv-
t'.\‘("{"lt the mine pat-tics, Hllll-jPCt- however to all such i-xi-e-p—
limits as may be taken thereto under the provisith of this
title.

§ 350. Depositions taken pursuant to this article, by any
judicial or other oflicer herein authorized to take deposi-
tions, having a seal of office, whether resident in this State
or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence 11 on the certifi-
cate and signature of such officer, under t e seal of the
court of which he is an ofiicer, or his official seal, and no
other or further act of authentication shall be required. If
the officer taking the same have no ofiicial seal, the deposi-
tion, if not taken in this State, shall be certified and signed
by such oflicer, and shall be further authenticated, either by
parol proof adduced in court, or by the oflicial certificate and
seal of any secretary or other officer of State keeping the
great seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court having a seal, attesting that such judicial Or other ofH-
cer was at the time of taking the same within the meaning of
this chapter authorized to take the same. But if the depo-
sition be taken within this State by an oflicer having no seal,
or within or without this State under a special commission, it
shall be sufficiently authenticated by the official signature of
the officer or commissioner taking the same.

§ 351. The oflicer taking the deposition shall annex
thereto aCertificate showing the following facts :

That the witness was first sworn to testify the truth, the

whole. truth and nothing but the truth:

That the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper
person (naming him):

That the deposition was mitten and subscribed in the
presence of the officer certifying thereto:

That the deposition was taken at the time and place speci-
fied in the notice.

§ 352. When a deposition is od‘ered to be read in evi-
dence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court, that
for any cause specified in section three hundred and thirty-
eight, the attendance of the witness cannot be procured. -

§ 353. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence
on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the day of
trial.

§ 354. The following fees shall be allowed for taking de-
positions in this State, viz : Swearing each witness, four
cents; for each subpmna, attachment, or order of commit-

ment, fifty cents; for each hundred words contained in such
de osition and certilicate, ten cents and no more; and such

0 cer may retain the same until such fees are paid. Such
officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff or other officer
who shall serve the process aforesaidyand fees of the wit-
nesses, and may also, if directed by the persons entitled
thereto, retain such depositions until the said fees are paid.

SUBDIVISION IV.
EXCEPTIONS TO DEPOSITIONS.

§ 355. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, spe-
eifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers in
the cause.

§ 356. No exception other than for incompetency or irrel-
evaney shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the
commencement of the trial.

§ 357. The court shall on motion of either arty, hear
and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions,
before the commencement of the trial.

§ 358. Errors of the court in its decisions upon excep-
tions to depositions are waived unless excepted to.

 

CHAPTER Iv.

ADMISSION, INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, .;
AN D GENERAL PROVISIONS. ,

§ 359. Either party may exhibit to the other or to-his at-
torney, at any time before the trial, any paper or document

. material to the action, and request an admission in writing of
its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to

give the admission in writing, within four days after the re-
quest, and if the party exhibiting the paper or document be
afterwards put to any cost or expense to prove its genuine-
ness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial.
such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall
be aid by the party refusing to make the admission, unless
it s all appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were
good reasons for the refusal.

§ 360. Either party or his attorney may demand of the

adverse party an inspection and cropv. m- im-miewion to take
a copy of a book, paper or docuumnl. in h};- 1—::_a~=.<-r~.-:sion or un-
der his control, containing evidmw- 1w. l't’it'ng in me merits of
the action or defence therein. Sun-‘1 :1: manrl shall be in

writing, specifying the book, paper or document, with sulli-
cient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish it,
and if compliance with the demand within four days, be re-
fused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to the ad-
verse party, may in their discretion order the adverse party
to give the other, within a specified time, an inspection and
copy or permission to take a copy of such book, paper or’
document; and on failure to comply with such order,- the
court may exclude the paper or document from being given
in evidence, or if- wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party by
affidavit alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed
to prevent a party from compelling another to produce any
book, paper or document when he is examined as a witness.
§ 361. Either party or his attorney, if required, shall de-
liver to the other party or his attorney a copy of any deed,
instrument or other writing, whereon the action or defence is .
founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence at the trial.
If the plaintiff or defendant shall refuse to furnish the copy
or copies required, the party so refusing shall not be permit-
rted to give in evidence at the trial the original, of which a
copy has been refused. This section shall not apply to any
paper, a copy of which is filed with a pleading as provided
in section one hundred and seventeen.
§ 362. Printed copies in .volumes of statutes, code, or
other written law, enacted by any other State or territory.
or foreign government. purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be com-
monly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts
or tribunals of such State, territory or government, shall be
admitted by the courts and officers of this State, on all occa-
sions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten
or common law of any other State, territory or foreign gov-
ernment, may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; and the
books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts, may also
be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

CHAPTER V.

PROOEEDIN GS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

§ 363. The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated
' in the following manner.

§ 364. The applicant shall file in the office of the clerk
of the court of common pleas a petition, to be verified, in
which shall be set forth, specially, the subject matter, rela-
tive to which testimony is to be taken, and the names of the
persons interested, if known to the applicant; and if not
known, such general description as he can give, of such per-
sons, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or otherwise. The petition
shall also state the names of the witnesses to be examined
and the interrogatories to be propounded to each; that the
applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of
this State, in which such testimony will, as he believes, be
material, and the obstacles reventing the immediate com-
mencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be
the plaintiff.

§ 365. The court, or a judge thereof, may forthwith make
an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The
order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination,
how long the parties interested shall be notilied thereof, and
the manner in which they shall be notified.

§ 366. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge,
that the parties interested, cannot be personally notified,
such court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to
examine the petition and prepare and file cross interrogato-
ries to those contained therein. The witnesses shall be
examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon
cross interrogatories, where they are required to be prepared,
and no others shall be pro ounded to them; nor shall any
statement he received, whic is not responsive to some one of
them. The attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall be
allowed a reasonable fee therefor, to be taxed in the bill of
costs. -

§ 367. Such depositions shall be taken before some one
authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one
specially authorized by the court or judge, and shall be
returned to the clerk’s office of the court, in which the peti-
tion was filed. ,

§ 368. The court or judge, if satisfied that the deposi-
tions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall
approve the same and order them to be. filed; and if a trial
be had between the parties named in the petition,-.or their
pri vies or successors in interest, such depositions, or Certified
copies thereof, may be given :31 evidence by either party,
where the witnesses are dead, or. insane, or where their at-

tendance for oral examination cannot be obtained or required :
but such depositions shall be subject to the same objections
for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made to deposi-
tions taken ending an action.

§ 369. he applicant shall pay the costs of all proceed-
ings under this 0 apter.

T I T L E X I .
JUDGE-IEN'I‘.
CHAPTER 1. Judgment in general.
2. Judgment upon failure to answer.
3. Judgment. by confession.
4. Manner of giving and enterint,r judgment.
5. Conveyance by commissioners.

CHAPTER I.
JUDGMEJT IN GENERAL.

§ 3'70. A judgmentis the final determination of the rights
of the parties in an action.

§ 371. Judgment may be given, for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants ; it may determine the ultimate rights of the par-
ties on either side, as between themselves, and it may grant.
to the defendant any attirmative relief to which he may be
entitled. In an action against several defeiidants, the. court
may, in its discretion, renderjudgment against one or more of
them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, when-
ever a several judgment may be proper. The court may
also dismiss the petition with costs, in favor of one or more
defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect: on the part of
the plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to
proceed in the cause against the defendant, or defendants
served.

§ 372. An action may be (lisn'iissetl without prejudice to
a'future action,

1. By the plaintiff before the final submission of the case
to'the jury, or to the court, where the. trial is by the court:

2. By the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear on the
trial :

3. Bth court for the-want of necessary parties:

4. By. the court, on. the application of some of the de-
fendants, where there are others whom the plaintiff fails to
prosecute with diligence: ‘

l

5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff of an
order concerning the proceedings in the action.

In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision
must be upon the merits.

§ 373. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim has
been presented, the defendant shall have the right of pro-
ceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may
have dismissed his action, or failed to appear.

§ 374. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the
mortgaged property shall in all cases be ordered.

§ 375. When a judgment shall be rendered for a convey-
ance, release, or acquittance, in any court of this State, and
the party against whom the judgment shall be rendered, does
not comply therewith by the time appointed, such judgment
shall have the same operation and effect, and be as availa-
ble, as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance had been
executed conformany to such judgment. This section shall
apply to decrees rendered or to be rendered in suits now

pending.

CHAPTER II.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§ 376. If the taking of an account, or the proof of afact,
or the assessment of damages be necessary to enable the
court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or
after adecision of an issue of law, the court may with the as-
sent of the party not in default, take the account, hear the
proof, or assess the damages; or may, with the like assent,
refer the same to a referee or master commissioner, or may
direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury.
If a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which
the action is set for trial.

.-

CHAPTER III.

JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.

' \

"1

§ 377. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of
action exists, may personally appear, in a court of compe-
tent jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor, or per-
son having such cause of action, confess judgmentqtherefor;
whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.

§ 378. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated
in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in
other actions.

§ 379. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceed-
ings for its enforcement, as judgments rendered in actions
regularly brought and prosecuted; and the confession shall
operate as a release of errors.

§ 380. Every attorney, who shall confess judgment in any
case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce
the warrant of attorney for making the same, to the court
before which he makes the confession, and the original, or a
copy of the warrant shall be filed with the clerk of the court
in which the judgment shall be entered.

§ 381. If any person be in custody in a civil action, at
the suit of another, no warrant of attorney executed by the
person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person
at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless
some attorney expressly named by the person in custody, be
present and sign the warrant of attorney, as a witness. ‘

 

CHAPTER IV.

MANNER OF GIVING AN D ENTERING JUDGMENT.

§ 382. When a trial by. jury has been had, judgment
must be rendered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict,
unless it is special, or the court order the case to be reserved
for future argument or consideration.

§ 383. Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or
where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall
order what judgment shall be entered.

§ 384. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one
party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment
shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been
found against such party.

§ 385. If a counterclaim or set-off established at the trial,
exceeds the plaintiff’s claim so established, judgment for the
defendant must be given for the excess; or, if it appear that
the defendant is entitled to any aflirmative relief, judgment
shall be given therefor.

§ 386. It shall not be necessary to reserve in a judgment
or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it after
his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but for this
section, such reservation would have been proper, the infant
within one year after arriving at the age of twenty-one years,
may show cause against such order or judgment.

§ 387. All judgments and orders must be entered on the
journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or
order made in the action.

§ 388. The clerk shall make a complete record of every
cause, as soon as it is finally determined; unless such record
or some part thereof be duly waived.

§ 389. He shall make up such record in each cause, in
the vacation next after the term at which the same was de-

termined : and. the pf'air'itilllfj judge of such court shall, at its
next term Inert-all [*1‘. Hill'lr-‘L'l'lllt'. the same.

§ 390. Thu I‘i‘t'iill‘tlr': shall be made up from the petition,
the process. [Mm-n. the piezuli ElgS subsequent thereto, re orts,
verdicts, f'ii‘dvl‘s, .lHtlLfI:.1rr'nl.~‘, and all material acts an pro-
ceedings m' 1% mum : but if the items of an account or the
copies of [Him-3' :-‘m:u:l'u.‘t.l to the pleadings be voluminous, the
court may tlI'lll'l‘ the wronl to be made by abbreviating the
same, or in.-:l'1‘lim: n, prl'llm'n'i description thereof, or by omit-

ting them entirely. Evidence must not be recorded.

§ 391 . When the judicial acts or other proceedings of any
court have not been regularly brought up and recorded by
the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be made
up and recorded within such time as it may direct. When
they are made up, and upon examination found to be cor—
rect, the presiding judge of such court shall subscribe the
same.

§ 392. Section three hundred and eighty-eight shall not
a ly—

Pl). In criminal prosecutions where the indictment has been
quashed, or where the prosecuting attorney shall have entered
anoile prosequz', on the indictment:

2. In cases where an action has been dismissed without
prejudice to a future action, as provided in section three hun-
dred and seventy-two:

3. In all actions in which, in open court, at the term at
which the final order or judgment shall be made, both parties
shall declare their agreement, that no record shall be made.

§ 393. In cases where an action has been dismissed with-
out prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a com-
plete record of the proceedings, upon being paid for making
the same by the party desiring the record to be made.

§ 394. A complete record shall be made in the case men-
tioned in section three hundred and seventy-three, unless
waived by the parties.

CHAPTER V.

CONVEYANCE BY COMMISSIONERS.

§ 395. Real property may be conveyed by Master Com—
missionch as hereinafter provided : ‘

1. When by an order or judgment in an action or proceed-
ing, a party is ordered to convey such property to another,
and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order or
judgment:

2. When specific real roperty is required to be sold under
an order or judgment of the court.

§ 396. A sheriff may act as a master commissioner under
the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales made
under the same, shall conform in all respects to the laws reg-
ulating sales of lands upon execution.

§ 397. The-deed of a master commissioner shall contain
the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged and re-
corded, as the deed of a sheriff, of real property sold under
execution.

TITLE XII.

CAUSES OF ACTION WHICH SURVIVE, AND
ABATEMENT 0F ACTIONS.

§ 398. In addition to the causes of action which survive
at common law,causes of action for mesne profits, or for an
injury to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud,
shall also survive, and the action may be brought notwith-
standing the death of the person entitled or liable to the
same. v
§ 399. No action pending in any court, shall abate by the
death of either or both the parties thereto,except an action
for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault
and battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the peace
for misconduct in office, which shall abate by the death of the
defendant. . -

TITLE XIII.
REVIVOR.

Cam 1. Revivor of Actions.
2. Revivor and new parties to judgment.

CHAPTER I.

REVIVOR 0F ACTIONS.

§ 400. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants
in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a per-
sonal representative cease, if the right of action survive to
or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed;
the death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being
stated on the record.

§ 401. ‘ Where one of several plaintifih or defendants dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause
of action do not admit of survivorship, and the court is of
opinion, that the merits of the controversy can be properly
determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully
settled, it may proceed to try the same as between the re-
maining parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any
, who were not parties at the time of the trial.

§ 402. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judg-
ment, if the right of action survive in favor of or against his
representatives or successor, the action may be revived, and
proceed in their names.

§ 403. The revivor shall be by a conditional order of the
court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if in vacation,
that the action be revived in the names of the representatives,
or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
and proceed in favor of, or against them.

§ 404. The order may be made on the motion of the
adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death,
or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names and
capacities of his representatives, or successor, shall be stated
in the order. - . .

§ 405. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
action shall forthwith stand revived ;. and if not made by con-
sent, the order shall be served in the same manner, zand re-
turned within the same time, as 'a summons, upon the party
adverse to the one making the motion, and if sufficient cause
he not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand re-
vived. ' - '  .
§ 406. When the plaintiff shall make an affidavit, that
the representatives of the defendant, or any of them in whose
name the action'may; be ordered to be revived, are non-resi-

dents of the State, or have left the same to avoid the service
of the order, or so concealed themselves that the order cannot
be served upon them, or that the names and residence of the
heirs or devisees of the person against whom the action may
be ordered to be revived, or some of them, are unknown to
the alliant, a notice may be published for six consecutive
weeks, as provided by section seventy-two, notifying them to
appear on a day therein named, not less than ten days after '
the publication is complete, and show cause why the action
should not be revived against them; and if sufficient cause
he not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.

§ 407. Upon the death of the plaintiff in an action, it may
be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom his
right has passed. Where his right has passed to his person-
al representative, the revivor shall be in his name ; where
it has passed to his heirs or devisees who could support the
action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.

§ 408. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his
personal representative, the revivor shall be against him ;
and it may also be against the heirs, or devisees of the de-
fendant, or both, when the right of action, or any part there-
of, survives against them.

§ 409. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the
recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his
rights or claims to such property, the action may be revived
against his heirs, or devisees, or both, and an order therefor
may be forthwith made, in the manner directed in the prece-
ding sections of this title.

§ 410. An order to revive an action against the represen-
tatives, or successor of a defendant, shall not be made, with-
out the consent of such representativesor successor, unless in
one year from the time it could have been first made.

§5ll. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives, or successor of a plaintiff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant aiter the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been first made ; but where the defendant
shallalso have died, or his powers have ceased in the mean-

time, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in the
period limited in the last section.‘

§4112. When it appears to the court by affidavit, that
either party to an action has been dead, or where a party
sues, or is sued as a personal representative, that his powers
have ceased for a period so long, that the action cannot be
revived in the names of his representatives, or successor,
without the consent of both parties, it shall order the action
to be stricken frOm the docket.‘

§ 413. At any term of the court succeeding the death of
the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket, the de-
fendant having given to the plaintiff ’s proper representatives,
in whose‘names the action might be revived, ten days notice
of the application therefor, may have an order to strike the
action from the docket, and for costs against the estate of the
plaintiff, unless the action is forthwith revived.
' §4l4. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections,
an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be post-
poned by reason of the revivor, if the action would have
stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had no
death, or cessation of powers taken place.

CHAPTER II.

REVIVOR AND NEW PARTIES T0 JUDGMENT.

§ 415. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more persons jointly indebted upon contract, those who were
not originally summoned, may be made parties to the judg-
ment by action. '

§ 416. If either or both the parties die after judgment,
and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real, or
personal, or both, as the case may require, may be made par-
ties to the same, in the same-manner as is prescribed for re-
viving actions belore judgment; and such judgment may be
rendered, and execution awarded, as might or ought to be
given or awarded against the representatives, real, or per-
sonal, or both, of such deceased party.

§ 417. If a judgment become dormant, it may be revived
in the same manner, as is prescribed for reviving actions 'be-
fore judgment.

T I T L E X I V .
EXECUTIONS.

Executions a 'nst the to ert of the 'ud ent debtor.
Proceedings giiilaid of etlhtioyh. J gm
Executions against the person.

Executions for the delivery of real property.

Judgment before Justices of the Peace.

999.”?

§ 418. Executions shall be deemed process of the court
and shall be issued by the clerk, and directed to the sheriff of
the county. They may be directed to different counties at
the same time. ' ' '

§ 419. Executions are of three kinds:

1. Against the property of the judgment debtor :

2. Against his person : ' . A

3. For the delivery of the possession of real property,
with damages for withholding the same and costs.

 

CHAPTER I.

EXECUTIONS AGAINST THE PROPERTY OF THE JUDGMENT
DEBTOR.

§ 420. Lands, tenements, goods, and chattels, not ex-
empt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and
shall be liable to be taken on execution and sold as herein—
after provided. '

§ 421. The lands and tenements of the debtor within the
county where the judgment is entered, shall be bound for the
satisfactionthereof, from the first day of the term, at which
judgment is rendered ; but judgments by confession, and
judgments rendered at the same term at which the action is
commenced, shall bind such lands only from the day on
which such judgments are rendered. All other lands, as well
as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bound from the
time they shall be seized in execution.

§ 422. If execution shall not be sued out within five
years from the date of any judgment, that now is or may
hereafter be rendered in any court of record in this State, or
if five years shall have intervened between the date of the
last execution issued on such judgment and the time of suing
out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall
become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a lien on the
estate of the judgment debtor.

§ 423. The writ of execution against the property of the
judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this
State, shall command the officer to whom it is directed, that
of the goods and chattels of the debtor, he cause to be made
the money specified in the writ; and for want of goods and
chattels, be cause the same to be made of the lands and ten-
ements of the debtor; and the exact amount of the debt,
damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall
be endorsed on the execution.

§ 424. When two or more writs of execution against the
same debtor, shall be sued out during the term in which judg-
ment was rendered, or within ten days thereafter. and when
two or more writs of execution against the same debtor, shall
be delivered to the officer on_ the same day, no preference
shall be given to either of such writs ; but if a sufficient sum
of money be not made. to satisfyall, executions, the amount

made shall be distributed to the several creditors in propor-
tion to the amount of their respective demands. In all other
cases, the writ of execution first delivered to the officer shall
be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the oflicer to in-
dorse on every writ of execution, the time when he received
the same ; but nothing herein contained, shall be so construed
as to affect any referable lien, which one or more of the
judgments, on w ich execution issued, may have on the lands
of the judgment debtor.
§ 425. The oflicer to whom a writ of execution is deliv-
ered, shall proceed, immediately, to levy the same upon the
goods and chattels of the debtor ; but if no goods and chat-
tels can be found, the officer shall endorse on the writ of
execution “ no goods,” and forthwith levythe writ of execu-
tion upon the lands and tenements of the debtor, which may
be liable to satisfy the judgment.
§ 4‘26. If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution,
issued from any court of record in this State, shall levy the
same on any goods and chattels claimed by any person
other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said officer,
forthwith, to give notice in writing, to some justice of the
peace of the county, in which shall be set forth the names
of the plaintiff and defendant, together with the name of
the claimant; and at the same time he shall furnish the said
justice of the peace with a schedule of the property claimed.
And it shall be the duty of such justice of the peace, imme-
diately upon the receipt of such notice and schedule, to make
an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ of
summons, directed to the sheriff, or any constable of the
county, commanding him to summon five disinterested men,
having the qualifications of electors, who shall be named in
said summons, to appear before him the said justice, at the
time and place therein mentioned, which time shall not be
more than three days after the date of said writ, ‘to try and
determine the right of the claimant to the property in con-
troversy. And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give
two days notice in writing, to the plaintiff or other party,
for whose benefit such execution was issued and levied as
aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within the county, of the
time and place of such trial; and he shall, moreover, prove
to the satisfaction of said justice that such notice was given,
or that the same could not be given by reason of the absence
of the par , his agent, or attorney.
§ 427. he jury summoned as aforesaid, shall be sworn
to try and determine the right of the claimant to the property
in controversy, and a true verdict to give, .aceording to evi-
dence. If the jury shall find the right to said goods and
chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant, they shall
also find the value thereof, and “the justice shall render judg-
ment upon such finding of: the jury, for the claimant, that he

recover his costs against the plaintiff in execution, or other
party to the same, for whose benefit the execution issued,
and also that he have restitution of said goods and chattels,
or any part thereof, according to the finding of the jury. But
if the right of the said goods and chattels, and every art
thereof, shall not be in the claimant, according to the m1-
ing of said jury, then the said justice shall render judgment
on such finding, in favor of the plaintiff in execution, or
other party for whose benefit the same was issued _' and
levied, against said claimant for costs, and award execu-
tion thereon. Said justice of the peace, in the taxation of
costs accruing by reason of such claim and trial, shall allow
each juror summoned and sworn, the sum of fifty cents;
and for the sheriff, constable, or other officer, and wit-
nesses, and for himself, he shall tax such fees, as are allowed
by law, to each, respectively, for like services rendered in
other cases. such judgment for the claimant, (unless an
undertaking shall be executed, as provided in the next sec-
tion,) shall be a justification of the officer in returning “ no
goods” to the writ of execution, by virtue of which the
levy has been made, as to such part of the goods and chat~
tels, as were found to belong to such claimant.

§ 428. If the jury shall find the property or any part
thereof to be in the claimant, and the plaintiff in execution,
shall, at any time within three days after such trial, tender
to the sheriff or other officer having such property in his cus-
tody on execution, an undertaking with good and sufficient
sureties,payable to such claimant, in double the amount of'
the value of such property as assessed by the jury, to the
effect that they will pay all damages sustained by reason of
the detention or sale of such property, then the sheriff or
other officer shall deliver said undertaking to claimant, and
proceed to sell such property, as if no such trial of the right
of propert had taken place, and shall not be liable to the
claimant t erefor.

§ 429. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other
officer, shall by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods
and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for
want of bidders, for the want of time to advertise and sell,
or any other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his own
security, take of the defendant an undertaking, with security,
in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect that the
said pro erty shall be delivered to the officer holding an ex-
ecution En the sale of the same, at the time and place ap-
pointed by said ofiicer, either by notice given in writing to
said defendant in execution, or by advertisement, published
in a newspaper printed in the county, naming therein the
day and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver
the goods and chattels at the time and'place mentioned in
the notice to him given, or to pay to the officer holding the

execution the full value of said goods and chattels, or the
amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as
aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and may be pro-
ceeded on as in other cases.

§ 430. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record, before
he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice to be
given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten days
before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by adver-
tisement, published in some newspaper printed in the coun-
ty, or in case no newspaper be printed therein,by setting up
advertisements in five public places in the county ; two
advertisements shall be ut up in the township where the
sale is to be held. An where goods and chattels levied
upon, cannot be sold for want of bidders, the ofiicer
making such return, shall annex to the execution a true and
perfect inventory of such goods and chattels; and the plain-
tiff in such execution may thereupon sue out another writ of
execution directing the sale of the property levied upon as
aforesaid; but such goods and chattels shall not be sold, un-
less the time and place of sale be advertised, as hereinbe-
fore provided. .

§ 431. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale of
property previously taken in execution, the ofiicer issuing
sai writ, shall, at the request of the person entitled to the
benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a command
to the ofIicerto whom such writ shall be directed, that, if the

roperty remaining in his hands not sold shall, in his opinion,

be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy the same
upon the lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or either,
as the law shall permit, being the property of the judgment
debtor, suflicient to satisfy the debt. '

§ 432. If execution be levied upon lands and tenements,
the oflicer levying such execution shall call an inquest of
three disinterested freeholders, who shall be resident within
the county where the lands taken in execution are situate,
and administer to them an oath, impartially to appraise the
property so levied u on, upon actual view; and such free-

01 ers shall forthwit return to the said oiiicer, under their

hands, an estimate of the real value in money, of said prop-
erty. .
§ 433. The officer receiving such return, shall forthwith
deposite a copy thereof with the clerk of the court from
which the writ issued, and immediately advertise and sell
such real estate, agreeably to the provisions of this title.

§ 434. If, upon such return as aforesaid, it appear by the
inquisition, that two-thirds of the appraised value of said
lands and tenements so levied upon is suflicient to satisfy
the execution, with costs, the judgment on which such execu-

tion issued, shall not operate, as a lien, on the residue of the
debtor’s estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment credi-
tor. But no tract of land shall be sold for less than two—
thirds of the value returned in the inquest; and nothing in
this section contained, shall in any wise extend to affect
the sale of lands by the State, but all lands therein, the pro-
perty of individuals, indebted to the State for any debt or
taxes, or in any other manner, except for loans heretofore
authorized by the legislature, shall be sold without valua-
tion, for the discharge of such debt, or taxes, agreeably to
the laws for such case made and provided.

§ 435. If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner, jus-
tice of the peace, constable, or any collector of State, county,
town, or township tax, shall be levied on, for, or on account
of any moneys that now are, or may hereafter be by them
collected, or received in their oflicial capacity, the property
so levied on, shall be sold without valuation.

§ 436. Lands and tenements, taken in execution, shall
not be sold, until the oflicer cause public notice of the time
and place of sale to be given, for at least thirty days before
the day of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper, printed
in the county; or, in case no newspaper be printed in the
county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein,
and by putting up an advertisement upon the court house
door, and in five other public places in the county, two of
which shall be in the township where such lands and tene-
ments lie. All sales made without such advertisement, shall
be set aside, on motion, by the court to which the execution
is returnable.

§ 437. Ifthe court, upon the return of any writ of execu-
tion, for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements
have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the pro-
ceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the sale has, in all
respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of this
title, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the
journal, that the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale,
and an order that the oflicer make to the purchaser, a deed
for such lands and tenements; and the oflicer, on making
such sale, may retain the purchase money in his hands, until
the court shall have examined his proceedings, as aforesaid,
when he shall pay the same to the person entitled thereto,
agreeably to the order of the court. '

§ 438. The sheriff, or other ,oflicer, who, upon such writ,
or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements,
or any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser or purchas-
ers thereof, as good and ~ sufficient a deed of conveyance of
the lands and tenements sold, as the person, or persons
against whom such writ, or writs of execution were issued,
could have. made of the_same, at,',or any time after they be-
came liable to the judgment. The deed shall be suflicient

evidence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings
therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall vest in
the purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the
premises therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at, or
after the time, when such lands and tenements became
liable to the satisfaction of the judgment. And such deed
of conveyance, to be made by the sheriff, or other officer
shall recite the execution, or *executions, or the substance
thereof, and the names of the parties, the amount, and date
of term of rendition of each judgment, by virtue whereof
the said lands and tenements were sold as aforesaid; and
shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is, or may
be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate
in other cases.

§ 439. The officer who levies u on goods and chattels,
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the same by virtue of any writ of execution, may
refuse to publish a notice of the sale thereof by advertise-
ment in a newspaper, until the party for whose benefit such
execution issued, his agent, or attorney, shall advance to
such officer, so much money as will be sufficient to discharge
the fees of the printer, for publishing such notice.

§ 440. Before any officer shall be excused from giving
the notification mentioned in the last section, he shall demand
of the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his
agent, or attorney, (provided either of them reside in the
county,) the fees in said section specified.

§ 441. All sales of lands or tenements under execution,
shall be held at the court house, in the county in which such
lands and tenements are situated. No sheriff, or other offi-
cer, making the sale of property, either personal, or real, nor
any appraiser of such property, shall either, directly or
indirectly, purchase the same ; and every purchase so made,
shall be considered fraudulent and void. -

§ 442. If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid, are
not sold upon one execution, other executions may be issued,
to sell the lands so levied upon.

§ 443. In all cases, where two or more executions shall
be put into the hands of any sheriff, or other officer, and it
shall be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same,
and either of the judgment creditors in whose favor one or
more of said executions is issued, shall require the sheriff, or
other officer, to make a separate levy to satisfy his execu-
tion, or executions, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other
officer, to levy said executions, or so many thereof as may
be required, on separate parcels of the real property of the
judgment debtor, or debtors ; giving to the officer making the
levy on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the
provisions of this chapter, be entitled to a reference, the
choice of such part offthe. real. property of? the judgment

debtor, or debtors, as will be sufficient, at two-thirds of the
appraised value, to satisfy the same. And in all cases where
two or more executions, which are entitled to no preference
over each other, are put into the hands of the same officer, it
shall be the duty of the officer, when required, to levy the
same on separate parcels of the real property of the judg-
ment debtor, or debtors, when, in the opinion of the apprais-
ers, the same may be divided without material injury : and
if the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at
two-thirds of its appraised value, to satisfy all the executions
chargeable thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on
to satisfy each execution, as will bear the same proportion in
value to the whole, as the amount due on the execution,
bears to the amount of all the executions chargeable there-
on, as near as may be, according to the appraised value of
each separate parcel of said real property.
' § 444. If the term of service of the sheriff, or other offi-
cer, who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any lands
and tenements, shall expire ; or if the sheriff, or other officer
shall be absent, or be rendered unable by death, or other-
wise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any suc-
ceeding sheriff, or other officer, on receiving a certificate
from the court from which execution issued for the sale of
said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order of
said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been made
to the court, that such sale was fairly and legally made ; and,
on tender of the purchase money, or if the same, or any part
thereof be paid, then, on proof of such payment and tender
of the balance, if any, may execute to the said purchaser, or
purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of
conveyance of the said lands and tenements so sold. Such
deed shall be as good and valid in law, and have the same
effect, as if the sheriff, or other officer, who made the sale,

had executed the same.

§ 445. If on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall be in
the hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money than is
sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with inter-
ests and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on demand,
pay the balance to the defendant in execution or his legal rep-
resentatives.

§ 446. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of
which any lands or tenements, are sold, shall at any time
thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect
the title of the purchaser or purchasers ; but in such case,
restitution shall be made by the judgment creditor of the
moneys, for which such lands or tenements were sold, with
lawful interest from the day of sale.

{3 447. No judgment, heretofore rendered or which here-
after may be rendered, on which execution shall not have
been taken out and levied, before the expiration of one year
next after its rendition, shall operate as a lien on the estate

of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other bona fide judgment
creditor. But in all cases, where [judgment] has been or maybe
rendered in the district or supreme court, and a special man-
date awarded to the court of common pleas, to carry the same
into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor shall continue
for one year after the first day of the term of the court of com-
mon pleas, to which such mandate may be directed. Nothing
in this subject contained, shall be construed to defeat the
lien of any judgment creditor, who shall fail to take out exe-
cution and cause a levy to be made as herein provided,
when such failure shall be occasioned by a peal, proceed-
ings in error, injunction, or by a vacancy in t e office of she-
riff and coroner, or the inability of such officer, until one
year after such disability shall be removed. In all cases,
where real estate has been or may hereafter be taken on ex-
ecution and a praised, and twice advertised and offered for
sale, and shal remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be
the duty of the court from which such execution issued, on
motion of the plaintiff, to set aside such appraisement, and
order a new one to be made, or to set aside such levy and
appraisement, and award a new execution to issue, as the
case may require.

§ 448. The sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ of
execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the
court to which the same is returnable, within sixty days
from the date thereof.

§ 449. In all cases where judgment is rendered in any
court of record within this State, upon any other instrument
of writing, in which two or more persons are jointly and
severally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the
court, by parol or other testimony, that one or more of said
persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail for his
or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
said court, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify
which of the defendants is principal debtor, and which are
sureties or bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid, shall
issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff
or other oflicer, to cause the money to be made of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor,
but for want of sufficient property of the principal debtor, to
make the same, that he cause the same to be made of the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the surety or
bail. In all cases, the property, both personal and real, of the
principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court, shall be
exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail
shall be taken in execution.

§ 450. Each freeholder, summoned to a praise real
estate under the provisions 9f this cha ter, sha 1 be allowed
and receive for his servicesfthe sum 0 fifty cents, for each
day he may be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected

on the execution, by virtue of which the property appraised
was levied on, if claimed at the time of making the return of
such appraisement. And when any freeholder, summoned
as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time and place ap-
pointed by the officer, and discharge his duty as appraiser,
e shall, on complaint being made to any justice of the
peace of the township in which such freeholder resides, for-
feit and pay the sum of fifty cents, for eve such neglect,
unless he can render a reasonable excuse. uch sum shall
be collected by said justice, and paid into the township trea-
sury, for the use of the township. ‘
§ 451. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or ne-
glect to execute any writ of executibn to him directed, which
has come to his hands ; or shall neglect or refuse to sell any
goods and chattels, lands and tenements; or shall neglect
to call an inquest, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the
clerk’s office, or shall neglect to return any writ of execution
to the proper court, on or before the return day thereof, or
shall neglect to return a just and erfect inventory of all and
singular the goods and chattels y him taken in execution,
unless the said sheriff or other ofiicer shall return, that he has
levied and made the amount of the debt, damages and costs ;
or shall refuse or neglect, on demand, to pay over to the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record, all moneys by him
collected or received, for the use of said party, at any time
after collecting or receiving the same, except as pro-
vided in section four hundred and thirty-seven; or shall
neglect or refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his
agent, or attorney of record, to pay over all moneys by him
received for any sale made, beyond What is sufficient to sat-
isfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and legal
costs; such sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court
and two days notice thereof in writing, be amerced in the
amount of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per cent.
thereon, to and for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as
the case may be.
§ 452. If any clerk of a court, shall neglect or refuse, on
demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent, or
attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received, in
his official capacity, for the use of such person, every such
clerk may be amerced ; and the proceedings against him and
his sureties shall be the same as provided for in the foregoing

section against sheriffs and their sureties.
§ 453. When the cause of amercement is for refusing to

pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or
other ofiicer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the
amount so withheld, with ten per cent. thereon.

§ 454. When execution shall be issued in any county in this
State, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of another county,
it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the exe-

cution, after having discharged all the duties required of him
by law, to enclose such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the
court who issued the same. On proof being made by such
sheriff or coroner that the execution was mailed soon enough
to have reached the office where it was issued, within the
time prescribed by law, the sheriff or coroner shall not be lia-
ble for any amercement or penalty, if it do not reach the
office in due time. "

§ 455. No sheriff shall forward by mail any money, made
on any such execution, unless he shall be specially instructed
to do it, by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record. In
all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or other officer of
any county from which the execution issued, notice in writing
shall be given to such oflicer, as herein before required, by
leaving it with him, or- at his office, at least fifteen days before
the first day of the term at which such motion shall be made,
or by transmitting the notice by mail, at least sixty days
prior to the first day of the term at which such motion shall

e made. All amercements, so procured, shall be entered on

the record of the court, and shall have the same force and
effect as a judgment.

§ 456. Each and every surety of any sheriff or other
officer, may be made party to the judgment rendered as
aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by action,
to be commenced and prosecutedas in other cases. But the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of any such surety
shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when suflicient
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the sheriff or
other officer against whom execution may be issued, can be
found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent either party from proceeding against such sheriff or
other officer, by attachment at his election.

§ 457. In cases where a sheriff, or other officer, may be
amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an exe-
cution, and collect the amount of said judgment in the name
of the original plaintiff, for his use.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS IN AID 0F EXECUTION.

§ 458. When a judgment debtor has not personal or real
property subject to 1e 11 execution, suchient to satisfy the
judgment, any equigtabI . terest which he may have in real

estate, as mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, or any inte-
rest he may have in any banking, turn ike, bridge, or other
joint stock company, or any interest e may have in any
money contracts, claims or choses in action due or to become
due to him, or in anyjudgment or decree ; or any money, goods,
or effects which he may have in the possession of any per-
son, body politic or corporate, shall be subject to the pay-
ment of such judgment, by action, or as in this chapter pre-
scribed.

§ 459. When an execution against the roperty of a
judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judg-
ment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or
if he do not reside in the state, to the sheriff of the county
where the judgment was rendered, or a transcript of a jus-
tice’s judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an or-
der from a probate judge or a judge of the court of common
pleas of the county to which the execution was issued, re-
quiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by such
judge, at a time and place specified in such order, within the
county to which the execution was issued. .

§ 460. After the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court of common pleas,
or a judge thereof, or aprobate judge of the county in which
the order may be served, that the judgment debtor has prop-
erty which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfac-
tion of the judgment, such court or judge may, by order, re-
quire the judgment debtor to appear at a time and place in
said county to answer concerning the same. And such pro-
ceedings may thereupon be had for the a plication of the
property of the judgment debtor towards e satisfaction of
the judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.

§461. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of
the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the
judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the
party, or otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor leaving
the state or concealing himself to avoid the examination
herein mentioned, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff to
arrest him and bring him before such judge within the county
in which the debtor may be arrested. Such warrant can be
issued only by a judge of probate or a judge of the court of
common pleas of the county in which such debtor resides or
may be arrested. Upon being brought before the judge, he
shall be examined on oath, and other witnesses may be ex-
amined on either side, and if on such examination it ap-
pear that there is danger of the: debtor leaving the state,
and that he has pro erty which herdnjustly refuses to apply
to such judgment, 'e may be ordered to enter into an un-

dertal’u'ng in such sum as the judge may prescribe, with one
or more sureties that he will from time to time attend for
examination before the judge or referee as shall be di-
rected. In default of entering into such undertaking, he
may be committed to the jail of the county by warrant of
the judge, as for a contempt.
§ 462. N 0 person shall, on examination pursuant to this
chapter, be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his examination will tend to convict him of a
fraud, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in a prosecution for such fraud.
§463. After the issuing of execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor, may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may
be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff ’s re-
ceipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid,
or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on the
execution.
§ 464. After the issuing, or return of an execution against
property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several
ebtors in the same judgment, and upon roof by affidavit
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the ju ge, that any per-
son, or corporation, has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require
such person, or corporation, or any oflicer, or member there-
of, to appear at a specified time and place within the coun
in which such person, or corporation may be served wit
the order to answer, and answer concerning the same. The
judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of such pro-
ceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such man-
ner as may seem to him proper.
§ 465. Witnesses may be required upon the order of the
judge, or by a subpcena issued by the clerk of ‘the court of
common pleas, to appear and testify upon any proceedings
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of
an issue.
§ 466. The party or witness may be required to attend
before the judge, or before a referee, appointed by the court
or judge. If before a referee, the examination must be
taken by the referee, and certified by the judge. All exam-
‘ inations and answers before a judge or referee, under this
chapter, must be on oath, but when a corporation answers,
the answer must be on the oath of an officer thereof.
§ 467. The judge may order any property of the judg-
ment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands either of
himself, or any other person, or corporation, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of

the judgment; but the Ltx‘ngs of the debtor for his per-

sonal services, at any t' thin three months next prece-
ding the order, cannot .so‘. applied, 'when it is made to

appear by the debtor’s affidavit, or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported
wholly, or artly by his labor.

§ 468. he judge may also, by order, appoint the sheriff
of the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver of
the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner,
and with the like authority, as if the appointment was made
by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a trans-
fer or other disposition of the property of ,the judgment
debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference therewith.

§ 469. If it shall appear, that the judgment debtor has
any equitable interest in real estate in the county in which
proceedings are had, as mortgagor, mortgagee, or other-
wie, and the interest of said debtor can be ascertained as
between himself and the person or persons holding the legal
estate, or the person, or persons having any lien on, or
interest in the same, without controversy as to the interest
of such person, or persons holding such legal estate, or
interest therein, or lien on the same, the receiver may be
ordered to sell and convey such real estate, or the debtor’s
equitable interest therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in
all respects, in the same manner as is provided by this code
for the sale of real estate upon execution, and the roceed-
ings of sale shall, before the execution of the d’eed, be
approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered,
or the transcript has been filed, as aforesaid, as in cases of
sale upon execution.

§ 470. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and
his sureties shall be liable on his 0 cial bond for the faith-
ful discharge of his duties as such receiver; if any other
person shall be ap ointed receiver, he shall give a written
undertaking, in suc sum as shall be rescribed by the judge
with one or more sureties, to the e ect that he will faith-
fully discharge the duties of receiver, and he shall also take
an oath to the same effect, before acting as such receiver.
The undertaking mentioned in this section, shall be to the
State of Ohio, and actions may be prosecuted for a breach
thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner as
upon a sheriff’s oflicial bond.

§ 471. The judge, or referee, acting under the provisions
of this chapter, shall have power to continue his proceed-
ings from time to time, until they shall be completed.

§ 472. The judge may, in his discretion, order a refer-
ence to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts.

§ 473. If any person, party, or witness disobey an order
of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party, or
witness may be punished by the-judge as for a contempt.

§ 474. The order mentioned in sections four hundred and
fifty-nine, four hundred and 31x2, four hundred and sixty-
four and four hundred and sixty- ve, shall be in writing, and

signed by the judge making the same, and shall be served as
a summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his
orders to writing, which, together with a minute of his ro-
ceedings signed by himself, shall be filed with the cler of
the court of the county in which the judgment is rendered,
or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter
on his execution docket, the time of filing the same.

§ 475. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, re-
ferees, receivers and witnesses, such compensation as is
allowed for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs
in the case, and shall enforce by order, the collection there-
of from such party, or parties, as ought to pay the same.

§ 476. The judge of probate shall be allowed for his ser-
vices, under this chapter, the sum of three dollars in each
case, and such fees as are allowed by law to clerks of the
court of common pleas, for similar services.

 

CHAPTER III.

EXECUTION S AGAINST THE PERSON.

§ 477. An execution against the person of the judgment
debtor, shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and
commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the judg-
ment, or be discharged according to law.

§ 478. An execution against the person of the debtor
may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of
money :

1. When the judgment debtor has removed or begun to
remove any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the
court, with intent to prevent the collection of the money due
on the judgment:

2. When he has property, rights in action, evidences of
debt, or some interest or stock in some corporation or com-
pany, which he fraudulently conceals, with the like intent :

3. When he has assigned or disposed of all or an part of
his property, or rights in action, or has converted e same
into money, with intentto defraud his creditors, or with the in-
tent to prevent such property from being taken in execu-
tion :

4. When he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred
the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered :

5. When he was arrested on an order before judgment
and has not been discharged, as an insolvent debtor, or the
order has not been set aside, as improperly made.

§ 479. An execution. against the person of the debtor,
except as prescribed 'in, section four hundred and eighty-one,
can be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme
court, the district court, the court of common pleas, or pro-

bate court, or any judge of either, upon being satisfied by
the aflidavit of the judgment creditor or his attorney, and
such other evidence as may be presented of the existence of
one or more of the particulars mentioned in section four hun-
dred and seventy-eight.

§ 480. A justice of the peace may issue an execution
against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satis-
fied of the existence of one or more of the same particulars,
by the like aflidavit and evidence.

§ 481. In all cases in which the judgment debtor was ar-
rested before judgment, and has not been released from im-
prisonment by an application for relief as an insolvent
debtor, and where the order for such arrest has not been
adjudged im roper, an execution against the person of such
judgment de tor may issue of course.

§ 482. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid, shall
be discharged by delivering or setting off to the oflicer serv-
ing the same, if issued from a court of record, real or per-
sonal property, if issued from a justice of the peace, per-

sonal roperty only, suflicient to satisfy the judgment and
costs or which the writ issued.

§ 483. Any persons imprisoned under the provisions of
this article, shall be entitled to prison bounds as prescribed
by law; but in case the person shall be out of jail in rison
bounds, the judgment creditor, upon whose judgment he was
imprisoned, shall be entitled to execution against the lands
and tenements, goods and chattels of the debtor, and all
other remedies prescribed by this code for the collection of
debts.

§ 484. The death of a person under arrest in an action
does not satisfy the judgment; but an execution may issue
thereon, as if no arrest had been made.

§ 485. If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest
made before judgment, is not charged in execution within
ten days after judgment, he shall be discharged from such
imprisonment.

§ 486. In cases of commitment under this chapter, or
upon arrest before or alter judgment in civil cases, the per-
son imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the act or
to endure the imprisonment, may be discharged from impri-
sonment by the court or judge committing him, or the court
or judge thereof in which the judgment was or might be ren-
dered on such terms as may be just.

CHAPTER IV.

EXECUTIONS FOR THE DELIVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 487. If the execution be for the delivery of the posses-
sion of real property, it shall require the officer to deliver
the same, particularly describing the property, to the party
entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the officer
to satisfy any costs or damages recovered in the same judg-
ment, out of the goods and chattels of the party against
whom it was rendered, and for the want of such goods and
chattels, then out of the lands and tenements, and in this
respect it shall be deemed an execution against the pro-

e .
p $188. When the judgment is not for the recovery of
money or real property, the same may be enforced by
attachment by the court rendering judgment, upon motion
made, or by a rule of the court upon the defendant; but in
either case notice of the motion, or a service of a copy of
the rule shall be made on the defendant a reasonable time,
before the order of attachment is made.

 

CHAPTER V.

JUDGMENT BEFORE JUSTIOES OF THE PEACE.

§ 489. In all cases in which a judgment shall be rendered
by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the judg-
ment shall be rendered may file a transcript of such judg-
ment in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas
of the county in which the judgment was rendered, and there-
upon the clerk shall, on the day on which the same shall be
filed, enter the case on the execution docket, together with
the amount of the judgment and time of filing the tran-
scri t.

§p490. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed in
term time, shall have a lien on the real estate of the judg-
ment debtor from the day of the filing; if filed in vacation,
shall have a like lien from the first day of the. next term of
the court, in the same manner, and to the same extent as if
the judgment had been rendered in the court of common

leas.
p § 491. Execution may be issued thereon to the sheriff by
the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment
had been taken in court, and the sheriff shall execute and
return the same as other executions; and in case of sale of

real estate, his proceedings shall be examined, and approved
by the court, as in other cases. ,

§ 492. The justice of the eace shall certify on the tran-
scri t the amount, if any, pair? on such judgment. The costs
of e transcript, the filing of the same, and the entry of the
case on the execution docket, shall be paid by the party
filing the same, and not taxed to the other party.

TITLE xv. 3'
, MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

(Muhamwmme

Submitting a controversy.

Offer to confess judgment. '9
Proceedings by sureties.
Mdhmmdwhm

CHAPTER I.

OFFER TO COMPROMISE.

9:“???

§ 493. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon
the plaintiff, or his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified
therein. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice
thereof to the defendant, or his attorney, within five days
after the offer was served, the offer and an aflidavit that the
notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may
be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the accept-
ance, with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit : and, in
either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted in the
journal, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given in the period limited, the
offer shall be deemed Withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence, or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintiff fails to
obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant,
he shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

§ 494. The making of an offer pursuant to the provisions
contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for
a continuance of an action, or a postponement of the trial.

CHAPTER II.

SUBMITTING A. OONTROVERSY.

§ 495. Parties to a question which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submission of the same to an court which
would have jurisdiction, if an action had een brought.
But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and deter-
mine the case, and render judgment, as if an action were
pending. - '

§ 496. The case, the submission and the judgment shall
constitute the record.

§ 497. The judgment shall be with costs, may be en-
forced, and shall be subject to reversal in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise
provided in the submission.

CHAPTER III.

OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.

§498. After an action for the recovery of money is brought,
the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part
of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the
action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff, being present, refuse
to accept such confession of judgment in full of his demands
against the defendant in the action, or having had such no-
tice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the
time of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, fail
to attend, and, on the trial, do not recover more than was
so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the
costs of the defendant incurred after the offer. The offer
shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of ac-
tion or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given
in evidence upon the trial.

§ 499. Before an action for the recovery of money is
brought against any person, he may go into the court of the
county of his residence, or of that in which the person hav-
ing the cause of action re‘sides, which would have ju-

risdiction of the action, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a specified sum on such cause of
action. Whereupon, if such person, having had such no-
tice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of
the time and place of making it, as the court shall deem
reasonable, do not attend to accept the confession, or at-
tending, refuse to accept it, and should afterwards com-
mence an action upon such cause, and not recover more
than the amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay
all the costs of the action; and on the trial thereof, the offer
shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of
action, or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be
‘ given in evidence.

CHAPTER rv’.

PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES.

§ 500. A surety may maintain an action against his prin-
ci al, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability for
w 'ch the surety is bound, after the same has become due.

§ 501. A surety may maintain an action against his prin-
ci al, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for
which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the grounds
exist upon which, by the provisions of this code, an order may
be made for arrest and bail, or for an attachment.

§ 502. In such action, the surety may obtain any of the
provisional remedies mentioned in Title eight, upon the
grounds, and in the manner therein described.

CHAPTER V.

MOTION 8 AN D ORDERS.

§ 503. A motion is an application for an order addressed
to the court or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit
or proceeding, or one interested therein.

§ 504. Several objects may be included in the same moo
tion if they all grow out of or are connected with the action
or proceeding in which it is made.

§ 505. Where notice of a motion is required it must be
in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the ac-

tion or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the court
or judge before whom it is to be made, the place where and
the day on which it will be heard, the nature and terms of
the order or orders to be applied for, and if aflidavits are to
be used on the hearing, the notice shall state that fact. It
shall be served a reasonable time before the hearing.

§ 506. Notices of motions mentioned in this chapter may
be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any disin-
terested person, and the return of any such ofiicer, or affida-
vit of any such person, shall be proof of service. The ser-
vice shall be on the party or his attorney of record, if the
said arty or his attorney be resident within the county in
whic the motion is made; and in case there is more than
one party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon
each party or his attorney.

§507. The service of a notice shall be made as is re-
quired by law for the service of a summons, and when served
by an officer he shall be entitled to like fees.

§ 508. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from the
files, may be made with or without notice as the court or
judge shall direct.

§509. Every direction of a court or judge made or en-
tered in writing and not included in a judgment, is an order.

§510. Orders made out of court shall be forthwith en-
tered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same
manner as orders made in term. '

TITLE XVI .
ERROR IN CIVIL CASES.

§ 511. A judgment rendered or final order made by a

probate court, justice of the peace, or any other tribunal,
oard, or oflicer, exercising judicial functions, and inferior

in jurisdiction to the court of common pleas, maybe rc-
versed, vacated, or modified by the court of common pleas.

§ 512. An order affecting a substantial right in an action,
when such order in effect determines the action and revents
a judgment, and an order affecting a substantial rig t made
in a special proceeding or upon a summary application in
an action after judgment, is a final order which may be va-
cated, modified, or reversed, as provided in this title.

§ 513. A judgment rendered or final order made by the
court of common pleas, superior court of Cleveland, or supe-
rior or commercia courts of Cincinnati, may be reversed, va-
cated, or modified by the district court, for errors‘appearing
on the record. a»

§ 514. A judgment rendered or final order made by any
court, board, or tribunal mentioned in the three preceding sec-
tions, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by the supreme
court, for errors appearing on the record; but the petition in
error, in such case, can be filed only by leave of the supreme
court or a judge thereof. ‘ ’

§ 515. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation,
or modification, shall be by petition, to be entitled “peti-
tion in error,” filed in a court having power to make such
reversal, vacation, or modification, setting forth the errors
complained of, and thereupon a summons shall issue and be
served, or publication made, as in the commencement of an
action. A service on the attorney of record in the origi-
nal case shall be sufficient. The summons shall notify the
adverse party, that a petition in error has been filed in a
certain case, naming it, and shall be made returnable on or
before the first day of the term of the court, if issued in va-
cation; if issued in term time, it shall be returnable on a
day therein named; if' the last publication or service of the
summons diall be made ten days before the end of the term,
the case shall stand for hearing at that term.

§ 516. The summons mentioned in the last section, shall,
upon the written recipe of the plaintiff in error or his at-
torney, be issued y the clerk of the court in which the peti-
tion is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the defend-
ant in error or his attorney of record may be; and if the
writ issue to a foreign county the sheriff thereof may return
the same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to the
same fees as if the same had been returnable to the court
of common pleas of the county in which such officer resides.
The defendant in error or his attorney may waive in writing
the issuing or service of the summons.

§ 517. The plaintiff in error shall file with his petition a
transcript of the proceedings containing the final judgment
or order sought to be reversed, vacated, or modified.

§ 518. Judges of courts of probate, justices of the peace
and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and the clerks
of every court of record shall, upon re nest and being paid
the lawful fees therefor, furnish an ant enticated transcript
of the proceedings, containing the judgment or final order
in said courts, to either of the parties to the same, or to any
person interested in procuring such transcript.

§519. No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify any
judgment or final order rendered in the probate court, court
of common pleas, superior court of Cleveland, or superior or
commercial court of Cincinnati, or district court, except as
provided in the next section, and the fourth subdivision of
this section, shall Operate to stay execution, unless the clerk
of the court in which the record of such judgment or final
order shall he, shall take a written undertaking, to be exe- 

cuted on the 'part of the laintifi‘ in error to the adverse par-
ty, with one or more su cient sureties, as follows :

1. When the judgment or final order sought to be re-

versed, directs the payment of money, the written underta-
king shall be in double the amount of the judgment or order,
to the effect that the plaintiff in error will pay the condemna-
tion money and costs in case the judgment or final order
shall be affirmed in whole or in part:
' 2. When it directs the execution of a conveyance, or
other instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by any court of record in this state or any
judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintiff in error will
abide the judgment, if the same shall be afn‘rmed, and pay
the costs :

3. When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of
real property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may
be prescribed by any court of record of this state or any
judge thereof, to the effect, that during the possession of such
property by the plaintiff in error, he will not commit or suffer
to be committed any waste thereon, and if the judgment be
affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of
the property from the date of the undertaking until the de-
livery of the possession, pursuant to the judgment, and all
costs. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising from the
sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of
such deficiency: -

4. When it directs the assignment or delivery of docu-
ments, they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the
court in which the judgment was rendered, to abide the judg-
ment of the appellate court, or the undertaking shall be in
such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the
judgment, and pay costs, if the same shall be aflirmed.

§ 520. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the sec-
ond subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or other
instrument may be executed and deposited with the clerk of
the court in which the judgment was rendered or order made,
to abide the judgment of the ap ellate court.

§ 521. Before the written un ertaking mentioned in sec-
tion five hundred and nineteen shall operate to stay execu-
tion of the judgment or order, the execution of the under-
taking and the sufficiency of the sureties, must be approved
by the court, in which the judgment was rendered or order
made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall endorse
said approval, signed by himself, upon the undertaking, and
file the same in his office, for the defendant in error.

§ 522. In an action arising on contract, for the payment
of money only, notwithstanding the execution of the under-
taking in the last section mentioned to stay proceedings, if
the defendant in error give adequate security to make resti-

tution in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may,
upon leave obtained from the court below, or a judge thereof
in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such secu-
rity must be an undertaking executed to the plaintiff in error
by at least two suflicient sureties, to the effect that if the
judgment bereversed or modified, he will make full restitu-
tion to the plaintiff in error of the money by him received
under the judgment. . '

§ 523. N o proceeding for reversing, vacating, or modify-
ing judgments or final orders shall be commenced unless
within three years after the rendition of the judgment, or
making of the final order complained of: or, in case the per-
son entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a married woman,
a person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within three years
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.

§ 524. No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify any
judgment rendered, or final order made by a justice of the
peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the clerk
of the court of common pleas shall take a written underta-
king to the defendant, executed on the part of the plaintiff in
error, by one or more suflicient sureties, to the effect that the
plaintiff will pay all the costs which have accrued, or may
accrue on such proceedings in error, together with the
amount of any judgment that may be rendered against
such plaintiff in error, either on the further trial of the case,
after the judgment of the court below shall have been set
aside, or reversed, or upon, and after the affirmance thereof
in the ‘court of common pleas. The person entitled to such
proceeding, shall have the same time for rosecuting the
same, before he is barred, as is provided in e last section,
unless the said judgment has been paid off, or satisfied prior
to the commencement of such proceeding.

§ 525. Execution of the judgment, or final order of any
judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this Title,
may he stayed on such terms as may be prescribed by the
court, or a judge thereof, in which the proceedings are pend-
ing.

§ 526. When a judgment, or final order shall be reversed,
either in whole or in part, in the district court, or supreme
court, the court reversing the same shall proceed to render
such judgment as the court below should have rendered, or
remand the cause to the court below for such judgment; and
the court reversing such judgment, or final order, shall not
issue execution in causes that are removed before them on
error, on which they pronounced judgment, as aforesaid, but
shall send a special mandate to the court below, as the case
may require, to award execution thereu on; and such court
to which such special mandate is sent, 8 all proceed in such
cases in the same manner as if such judgment, or final order,
had been rendered therein. And on motion, and good cause

shown, it may suspend any execution made returnable before
it by order of the district or supreme court, in the same man-
ner as if such execution had been issued fromits own court,
but such power shall not extend further than to stay proceed-
ings until the matter can be further heard by the district, or
supreme court, as the case may be.

§ 527. When a judgment, or final order is reversed, the
plaintiff in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed
in part, and afiirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided
between the parties.

§ 528. A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk shall
not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented
and acted upon in the court in which the mistake, ne-
glect or omission, occurred.

§ 529. Rendering judgment before the action stood for

trial according to the provisions of this code, shall be deem-
ed a clerical error.

§ 530. Writs of error and certiorari to reverse, vacate, or
modify judgments, or final orders,in civil cases are abolished,
but courts shall have the same power to compel, complete, and
perfect transcripts of the proceedings containing the judgment
or final order sought to be reversed, to be furnished, as they
heretofore had under writs of error- and certiorari.

§ 531. If the judgment of a justice of the peace, taken on
error as herein provided to the court of common pleas, be
aiiirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render judg-
ment against the plaintiff in error, for the costs of suit, and
to award execution therefor; and the court shall thereupon
order its clerk to certify its decision in the premises, to the
justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if
such proceedings in error had not been taken ; or such court
may award execution to carry into effect the judgment of
such justice, in the same manner as if such judgment had
been rendered in the court of common pleas.

§ 532. When the proceedings of a justice of the peace
are taken on error, to the court of common pleas, in manner
aforesaid, and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed,
or set aside, thelcourt shall render judgment of reversal, and
for the costs that have accrued up to that time, in favor of
the plaintiff in error, and award execution therefor; and the
cause shall be retained by the court for trial and final judg-
ment, as in cases of appeal. '

§ 533. The final orders, or decrees of courts of chancery
heretofore rendered, or which may hereafter be rendered in
any chancery proceeding pending at the time this code takes
effect, may be reviewed in the same manner, and within the
same time, as if this code had not taken effect; and all suits
in chancery, pending at that time, maybe prosecuted to final
decree in like manner.

\

PROCEEDINGS T0 REVERSE, VACATE, OR MODIFY JUDGMENTS AND
ORDERS IN THE COURTS IN WHICH THEY ARE RENDERED.

§ 534. A court of common pleas, or district court, shall
have power to vacate, or modify its own judgments, or
orders, after the term at which such judgment, or order, was

made :
1. By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time,

and in the manner prescribed in section three hundred and
one :

2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defend-
ants constructively summoned, as provided in section seventy:

3. For mistake, neglect or omission, of the clerk, or irreg-
ularity in obtaining a judgment, or order :

4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in ob—
taining the judgment or order :

5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married
woman, or person of unsound mind, where the condition of
such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error
in the roceedings : ‘

6. or the death of one of the parties before the judgment
in the action :

7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing
the party from prosecuting or defending :

8. For errors in a judgment shown by an infant in twelve
months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section
three hundred and eighty-six:

9. For taking judgments, upon warrants of attorney, for
more than was due to the plaintiff, when the defendant was
not summoned, or otherwise legally notified of the time and
place of taking such judgment.

§ 535. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions
of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment, or order,
shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party, or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate
a judgment because of its rendition before the action regu-
larly stood for trial, can be made only in the first three days
of the succeeding term. .

§ 536. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or
order on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six,
seven, eight and nine of section live hundred and thirty-four,
shall be by petition verified by aliidavit, setting forth the
judgment or order, the grounds to vacate, or modify it,
and the defence to the action, if the party applying was
defendant. On such petition a summons shall issue and be
served as in the commencement of an action.

§ 537. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate, or modify a judgment, or order, before
trying, or deciding upon the validity of the defence or cause
of action.

§ 538. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defence to
the action in which the judgment is rendered; or if the plain-
tiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action ;
and where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities
obtained under it, shall be preserved to the modified judg-
ment.

§ 539. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judg-
ment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceed-
ings on the whole or part thereof, which injunction may be
granted by the court or any judge thereof, upon its being
rendered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the record,
that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order va-
cated or modified.

§ 540. When the judgment was rendered before the
action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as pro-
vided in the last section, although no valid defence to the
action is shown; and the court shall make such orders con-
cerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, as‘ shall
give to the defendants the same rights of delay he would have
had, if the judgment had been rendered at the proper time.

§ 541. Proceedings to vacate, or modify a judgment, or
order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five
and seven of section five hundred and thirty-four, must be
commenced within two years after the judgment was ren-
dered, or order made, unless the party entitled thereto be
an infant, married woman, or person of unsound mind, and
then within two years after removal of such disability.
Proceedings for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three
and six of the same section, shall be within three years,
and in subdivision nine within one year after the defend-
ant has notice of the judgment.

§ 542. The provisions of this title subsequent to section
533, shall apply to the supreme court, and probate court, so
far as the same may be applicable to the judgments, or final
orders of such courts. The parties shall be limited to the
same time in which to commence proceedings, and in esti-
mating time, the Probate Court shall, for this purpose, be con-
sidered as holding, in each year, three terms of four months
each, the first commencing on the first of January of each

year.

'1‘ I '1‘ I. E XVII.
COSTS.
CHAPTER I. '

§ 543. In all cases in which the plaintiff is a non-resident
of the county in which the action is to be brought, before
commencing such.action the plaintiff must furnish a suffi-
cient surety for costs. The surety must be a resident of the
county where the action is to be brought, and approved by
the clerk. His obligation shall be complete, simply by indors-
ing the summons, or signing his name on the complaint as
security for costs. He shall be bound for the payment of all
costs, which may be adjudged against the plaintiff in the
court, in which the action is brought, or in any other to which
it may be carried, and for the costs of the plaintiff ’s witness-
es, whether the plaintiff obtained judgment, or not.

§ 544. An action in which security for costs is required
by the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed
on the motion and notice by the defendant at any proper
time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to be
allowed by the court, such security for costs be given.

§ 545. If the plaintiff in an action, after its commence-
ment, become a non-resident of the county in which it is
brought, he shall give security for costs, in the manner, and
under the restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.

§ 546. In an action in which security for costs has been
given, the defendant may at any time before judgment,
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for
. additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if, on
such motion, the court be satisfied that the surety has remov-
ed from this State, or is not sufficient, the action may be dis-
missed, unless, in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court,
sufiicient security be given by the laintiff.

§ 547. After final judgment as been rendered in an
action, in which security for costs has been given, as required
by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant, or
any other person having a right to such costs, or any part
thereof, after ten days notice of such motion, may enter
up judgment in the name of the defendant, or his legal rep-
resentatives, against the surety for costs, his executors, or
administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged against the
plaintiff, or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution
may be issued on such judgment, as in other cases, for the
use and benefit of the persons entitled to such costs.

\

—vv

§ 548. If any informer, under a penal statute, to whom
the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall
dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall
pay all costs accruing on such suit, or prosecution, unless

e be an officer, whose duty it is to commence the same.

§ 549. Where defendants disclaim having any title, or
interest in land, or other property, the subject matter of the
action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special rea-
sons, the court decide otherwise.

§ 550. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs of
motions, continuances, amendments, and the like, shall be
taxed and aid, as the court, in its discretion, may direct.

§ 551. here it is not otherwise provided by this and
other statutes, costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plain-
tiff upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recovery
of money only, or for the recovery of specific real or perso-
nal property. ‘

§ 552. If it shall appear that a justice of the peace has
jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been brought in
any other court, the plaintiff shall not recover costs : and in
all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault,
assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversa-
tion, or seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a justice
of the peace for misconduct in office, if the damages assess-
ed be under five dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover any
costs.

§ 553 Costs shall be allowed, of course, to any defendant
upon a- judgm/ent in his favor in the actions mentioned in
the last two sections.

§ 554. In other actions the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the
same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right
and equitable. ' _

§ 555. Where several actions are brought on one bill of
exchange, promissory note, or other obligation or instrument
in writing, against several parties, who might have been
joined as defendants in the same action, as allowed by sec-
tion thirty-eight, no costs shall be recovered by the plaintiff
in more than one of such actions, if the parties proceeded
against in the other actions, were at the commencement of
the previous action, openly within the State.

§ 556. When a summons is issued to another county
than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it
may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to
the same fees, as if the summons had issued in the county

of which he is sheriff.

TITLE XVIII.

ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR
CASES.

Cam Actions concerning real. property.

1.
2. Actions on oEcial securities.

3. Actions for the partition of real property.
4. Proceedings upon mandamus.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.

§ 557. An action may be brought by any person in pos-
session by himself or tenant, of real property, against any
erson, who claims an estate or interest therein, adverse to

im, for the purpose of determining such adverse estate or in-
terest.

§ 558. In an action for the recovery of real property, it
shall be sufficient, if the plaintiff state in his petition, that he
has a real estate therein and is entitled to the possession
thereof, describing the same, as required by section one
hundred and twenty-six, and that the defendant unlawfully
keeps him out of the possession. It shall not be necessary
to state how the plaintiff ’s estate or ownership is derived.

“§ 559. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the defend-

ant in his answer, deny, generally, the title alleged in the pe-
tition, or that he withholds the possession, as the case may
be; but if he deny the title of the plaintiff, ossession by the
defendant shall be taken as admitted. W ere he does not
defend for the whole premises, the answer shall describe the
particular part for which defence is made.

§ 560. In an action by a tenant in common of real prop-
erty, against a co-tenant, the plaintiff must state, in addition
to what is required in section five hundred and fifty-eight,
that the defendant either denied the plaintiff ’s right or did
some act amounting to such denial.

§ 561. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time. the ‘
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has ter-
minated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and
judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintiff may
recover for withholding the roperty. .

§ 562. In an action for t e recovery of real preperty, the
party against whom judgment is rendered, may, at any time
during the term, at which the judgment is rendered, demand
another trial by notice on‘the journal, and thereupon the judg-

ment shall be vacated, and the action shall stand for trial at
the next term.

§ 563. N 0 further trial can be had in such action, except
upon appeal, unless for good cause shown as in other actions.

§ 564. The parties in an action for the recovery Of real
property, may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, Of the
relief of the statutes in force for the relief of occupying claim-
ants Of land. '

§ 565.‘ The action Of waste is abolished, but any pro-
ceedings heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or
right acquired, shall not be affected thereby: ‘and where the
action Of waste is specially mentioned and authorized in any
statute, it may be used until otherwise provided; but it shall
be commenced and proceeded in throughout, in the manner
prescribed for the civil action of this code. Wrongs hereto-
fore remediable by actions of waste, are subjects Of action as
other wrongs, and the same relief shall be granted, as may
now be granted under the action of waste.

CHAPTER H.
ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES.

§ 566. When an officer, executor or administrator, within
this State, by misconduct or neglect Of duty, forfeits his bond
or renders his sureties liable, any person injured thereby, or
who is, by law, entitled to the benefit Of the security, may
bring an action thereon, in his own name, against the Oilicer,
executor, or administrator, and his sureties, to recover the
amount, to which he may be entitled, by reason Of the delin-
quency. The action may be instituted and proceeded in on
a certified copyl of the bond, which copy shall be furnished
by the person olding the original thereof.

§ 567. A judgment in favor Of a party for one delin-
quency, does not preclude the same or another party, from
an action on the same security, for another delinquency.

 

CHAPTER III.
ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 568. The provisions Of the existing statutes relating to
the partition Of lands, tenements and hereditaments, are not
affected by this code, and partition may be made under the

same, as heretofore, until the legislature shall otherwise pro-
vide. The provisions of such statutes shall, also, apply to
actions for such partition brought under this act, so far as
the same can be so applied ti) the substance and subject mat-

ter of the action, without regard to its form.

CHAPTER IV.

PROCEEDINGS UPON MANDAMUS.

§ 569. The writ of mandamus may be issued to any infe-
rior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the
performance of an act, which the law specially enjoins as a
duty resulting from an office, trust, or station. But though
it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment,
or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot
control judicial discretion.

§570. This writ may not be issued in any case, where
there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary course
of the law. It may issue on the information of the party
beneficially interested.

§ 571. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing the
obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omis-
sion to perform it, and command him, that immediately upon
the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, he do
the act required to be performed, or show cause before the
court whence the writ issued, at a specified time and place,
why he has not done so; and that he, then and there, return
the writ,-with his certificate of having done as he is com-
manded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form,
exce t that the words requiring the defendant to show cause
why he has not done as commanded, must be omitted.

§ 572. When the right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be
given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may
be allowed in the first instance. In all other cases, the
alternative writ must be first issued. '

§ 573. The motion for the writ must be made upon affida-
vit, and the court may require a notice of the application to
be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to
show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice.

§ 574. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed there-
on, signed by a judge of the court granting it, and the writ
must be served personally upon the defendant. If the de-

fendant duly served neglect to return the same, he shall be
proceeded against, as for a contempt. ,

§575. On the return-day of the alternative writ, or such
further day, as the court may allow, the party on whom the
writ shall have been served, may show cause, by answer
made, in the same manner as an answer to a petition, in a
civil action. .

§ 576. If no answer be made, a eremptory mandamus
must be allowed against the defen ant. If an answer be
made, containing new matter, the same shall not in any res-
pect, conclude the plaintiff, who may on the trial or other
proceeding, avail himself of any valid ob'ection to its suffi-
ciency, or may countervail it by proof, eit er in direct denial
or by way of avoidance.

§ 577. No other pleading or written allegation'is allowed,
than the writ and answer. These are the pleadings in the
case, and have the same effect and are to be construed and
may be amended in the same manner, as pleadings in a civil
action; and the issues thereby joined, must be tried and the
further proceedings thereon had in the same manner, as in
a civil action.

§ 578. If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be
ascertained by the court or a jury or by referees, in a civil
action, and costs; and a eremptory mandamus shall, also,
be granted to him withou delay.

§ 579. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter,
against a party, who shall have made a return to a writ of
mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same
party for the making of such return.

§ 580. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to
any public oflicer, body or board, commanding the perform-
ance of any public duty, pecially enjoined by law, if it ap-
pear to the court, that such officer, or any member of such
body, or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neglected
to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every such ofiicer
or member of such body or board. Such fine, when collected,
shall be paid into the treasury of the county, where the duty
ought to have been performed; and the payment thereof, is a
bar to an action for any penalty incurred by such officer, or
member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or
neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE
WHOLE CODE.

Process.

Duties of Clerks.

Duties of Sheriffs.

Miscellaneous provisions.

Provisions respecting existing act-ions.
Provisions as to the operation of the Code.

CHAPTER I.

PROCESS.

CHAPTER

9553‘?pr

§ 581. The style of all process shall be, “ The State of
Ohio -——————— county.” It shall be under the seal of the
court from whence the same shall issue, shall be signed by
the clerk and dated the day it issued.

§ 582. An order for a provisional remedy or any other
process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is in-
terested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these offi-
cers are interested, the process shall be directed to and ex-
ecuted by a person appointed by the court or judge. ,

§ 583. The court or judge, for good cause, may appoint
a person to serve a particular process or order, who shall
have the same power to execute it, which the sheriff has.
The person may be appointed on the motion of the party
obtaining the process or order, and the return must be veri-
fied by afiidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed
to the sheriff for similar services.

CHAPTER II.

DUTIES OF CLERKS.

§ 584. All writs and orders for provisional remedies, and
process of every kind shall be issued by the clerks of the
several courts. Before they shall be issued, a precipe shall
be filed with the clerk demanding the same.

§ 585. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts to
file together and carefully preserve in his ofiice, all papers
delivered to him for that purpose, in every action or special
proceeding.

§ 586. He shall endorseupon every (paper filed with him,
the day of filing it; and upon every or er for a provisional

remedy, and upon every undertaking given under the same,
the day of its return to his office.

§ 587. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or
defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each
one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of the
summons, in case of the loss thereof.
§ 588. He shall keep the records, and books and papers
appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.
§ 589. The provision of Article VIII. of Title IX. pre-
scribing the duties of clerks of the court of common pleas,
shall, as far as they are applicable, apply to the clerks of
other courts of record.
§ 590. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise the
owers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon
him by other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by
the common law. In the performance of his duties, he shall
be under the direction of his court.

O

CHAPTER III.

DUTIES OF‘ SEERIFFS.

§591. The- sheriff shall indorse upon every summons,
order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of attach-
ment or injunction, the day and hour it was received by
him.

9 592. He shall execute every summons, order, or other
rocess, and return the same as required by law; and if he
ail to do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction of

the court, that he was prevented by inevitable accident, from
so doing, he shall be amerced by the court in a sum not ex—
ceeding one thousand dollars, and shall be liable to the
action of any person aggrieved by such failure.

§ 593. If the judge of a court having but one judge, or

if a quorum of the judges of any court having two or more,
fail to attend at the time and place appointed for holding
their respective courts, the sheriff shall have power to ad-
journ the court from day to day until the single judge at-
tends, or a quorum is convened; but, if the single judge be
not present in his court, or the uorum of judges in their
court, within two days after the rst day of the term, then
such court shall stand adjourned for the term.

§ 594. The sheriff shall exercise the owers and perform'
the duties conferred and imposed upon ‘m by other provi-
sions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common

law. '

CHAPTER IV.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

‘§ 595. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial
officer, and any act ermitted to be done by him, may be
performed by his law ul deputy.

§ 596. Whenever an oath is required by this code, the
affirmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of taking
an oath, shall have the same effect.

§ 597. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shall be com uted by excluding the first
day and including the last: the last day be Sunday, it

shall be excluded.
§ 598. Section three hundred and swenty-six shall not

be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury, if he
appear at the trial by himself or attorney, and demand the

same.

§ 599. The ministerial officer, whose duty it “is to take
security in any undertaking provided for by this code, shall
have the right to require the person offered as surety, to
make an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit may
be made before such officer. The taking of such an affidavit
shall not exempt the oflicer from any liability, to which he
might otherwise be subject, for taking insuflicient security.

§ 600. The surety in every undertaking provided for by this
code, msust be a resident of this State, and worth double the
sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and have
property liable to execution in this State, equal to the sum
to be secured. Where there are two or more sureties in the
same undertaking, they must in the aggregate, have the
qualifications prescribed in this section.

§ 601. The judges of the supreme court shall, during the
month of the first January after this code shall take effect, and
every two years thereafter, meet at the capitol of the State
and revise their general rules, and make such amendments
thereto as may be necessary to carry into effect the provis-
ions of' this code: and they shall make such further rules
consistent therewith, as they may deem proper. The rules
so made shall apply to the supreme court, the district courts,
and the courts of common pleas.

CHAPTER V.

PROVISIONS RESPECTING EXISTING ACTION S.

§ 602. The provisions of this code do not apply to pro-
ceedings in actions, or suits pending when it takes effect.
They shall be conducted to final judgment, or decree, in all
respects, as if it had not been adopted: but the provisions of
, this code shall a ply after a judgment, order, or decree here-
tofore, or here er rendered, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate, modify, or reverse it, except as provided in section

five hundred and thirty-three.

u,

CHAPTER VI.

PROVISIONS AS TO THE OPERATION OF THE CODE.

§ 603. Rights of civil action given, or secured by existing
laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided by this
code, except as provided in section six hundred and four. If
a case ever arise, in which an action for the enforcement or
protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong,
cannot be had under this code, the practice heretofore in
use, may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent
a failure of justice.

§ 604. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this
code shall not affect proceedings on habeas corpus, quo
warranto,‘or to assess" damages for private property taken
for public uses; nor proceedings under the statutes for the
settlement of estates of deceased persons; nor proceedings
under statutes relating to dower, divorce, or alimony; or to
establish, or set aside a will; nor proceedings under statutes
relating to apprentices, arbitration, bastardy, insolvent debt-
tors; nor any special statutory remedy not heretofore obtain-
ed by action; but such proceedings may be prosecuted under
the code, whenever it is applicable.

§ 605. Where, by statute, a civil action, legal or equitable,
is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed,
this code shall not affect the proceedings under such statute,
until the legislature shall otherwise provide; but the parties
may, if they see fit, proceed under this act: and in all such
cases, as far as it may be consistent with the statute giving
such action and practicable under this code, the proceedings

shall be conducted in conformity thereto. Where the statute
designates by name or otherwise, the‘kind of action, but does
not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action
shall be commenced and prosecuted in conformity to this
code ; where the statute gives an action, but does not desig-
nate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding
therein, such action shall be held to be the civil action of this
code, and proceeded in accordingly.

TITLE XX.

ACTS REPEALED AND OTHER PROVISIONS.

§ 606. The following acts and parts of acts are hereby
repealed:

An act allowng and regulating writs of attachment,
passed January 17, 1824.

An act pointing out the manner in which suits may be
prosecuted on the bonds of executors, administrators and
ofiicers, passed February 23, 1816.

An act to provide for the taking of depositions, passed
March 3, 1831.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act to provide for
the taking of depositions,” passed February 24, 1834.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act dispensing with
proof in certain cases,” passed March 9, 1838.

An act dispensing with proof in certain cases, passed De-
cember 18, 1823.

An act providing the mode of perpetuating testimony in
certain cases, passed February 6, 1824.

Section VII, of an act to regulate the taxation and collec-
tion of costs, passed March 9, 1835.

An act regulating judgment and executions, passed
March 1,1831.

An act to amend an act entitled “ an act regulating judg-
ments and executions,” passed April 3, 1837.

An act to abolish imprisonment for debt, passed March 19,
1838.

An act amendatory of an act entitled “ an act to abolish
imprisonment for debt,” passed March 16, 1839.

The first seven sections of an act concerning mesne pro-
cess in civil and criminal cases, passed February 10, 1831.

An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts,
passed March 8, 1831.

An act to amend the act to regulate the practice of the
judicial courts, passed February 24, 1834.

An act to amend the act entitled “ An act to regulate the
practice of the judicial courts,” passed March 9, 1835.

An act further to amend the act to regulate the practice
of the judicial courts, passed March 14, 1837.

An act directing the mode of proceeding in chancery,
passed March 1831.

An act to amend an act entitled “An act directing the
mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed March 14, 1838.

' Section 3 of an act in relation to incorporated religious
societies, passed March 5, 1836.

An act allowing and regulating writs of replevin, passed
February 17, 1831.

An act to amend an act allowing and regulating writs of
replevin, passed February 13, 1833.

An act to amend the act allowing and regulating writs of
replevin, passed March 10, 1837 .

An act allowing mutual debts and demands to be set
off, and concerning tenders, passed February 19, 1824.

An act for the relief of sureties and bail in certain cases,
passed February 22, 1820.

Section nineteen of an act to provide for the regulation
of turnpike companies, passed January 7, 1817.

An act further to amend the act entitled “ An act to abolish
imprisonment for debt,” passed March 19, 1838. -

An act to amend the act entitled “An act to amend an
act entitled an act directing the mode of proceeding in chan-
cery,” passed March 13, 1843.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act defining the
powers and duties of justices of the peace, and constables in
civil cases,” passed March 12, 1844.

An act to dispense with taking records in certain cases,
and recording depositions, passed March 12, 1844.

An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts,
passed March 12, 1844.

Section two of an act to regulate judicial proceedings.
where banks and bankers are a'rties, passed March 8, 1845.

An act to regulate the judicial courts and the practice
thereof, passed March 12, 1845.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act to amend the
act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts,” passed
March 12, 1845.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act directing the
mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed March 12, 1845.

Sections three and four of an act to amend the act entitled
" An act dedning the powers and duties of justices of the
peace and constables,” passed February 17, 1846, and sec-

tions eighty-eight and eighty-nine of an act defining the

powers and duties of justices of the peace and constables in
civil cases, passed March 14, 1831.

An act to rovide for the attendance of witnesses where
the venue is cianged, and in other cases, passed January 22,
1846. '

An act in relation to writs of error, passed January 31,
1846.

An act to amend an act directing the mode of proceeding
in chancery, passed February 21, 1846.

An act to authorize suits upon contracts of insurance to be
brought in the county in which the contract is made, passed
January 21, 1847.

An act authorizing sub cenas to run into any county in
in civil cases in which the gtate is a party in interest, passed
February 5, 1847.

An act to amend the act regulating judgments and execu-
tions, passed February 8, 1847.

An act to amend section CV., of the practice act, passed
January 11, 1848. ‘

An act to provide for the service of process in local actions,
passed February 2, 1848. -

Section two of an act to amend an act fixing the rate of
interest, passed February 18, 1848.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act to regulate the
practice of the judicial courts,” passed February 24, 1848.

An act to amend “ An act directing the mode of proceed-
ings in chancery,” passed February 25, 1848.

An act further to amend the act entitled “ An act to regu-
late the practice of the judicial courts,” passed February 23,
1849.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act to amend an act
directing the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed March
21,1849.

An act to amend “ An act allowing and regulating attach-
ments, and an act allowing and regulating writs of attach-
ment before justices of the eace,” passed February 6, 1850.

An act in amendment of e practice of the judicial courts,
passed March 21, 1850.

An act further to amend the act regulating judgments and
executions, passed March 20, 1850. ‘

An act to amend the several acts directing the mode of
proceeding in chancery, passed March 22, 1850.

An act to improve the law of evidence, passed March 23,
1850.

Section four of an act directing the manner of serving
mesne process against railroad companies, passed March 21, '
1850.

Sections three and four of an act to amend the act entitled
“ An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts,”
passed January 25, 1851.

An act further to amend the act entitled “ An act to regu- .
late the practice of the judicial courts,” passed March 7,
1851.

Section three, of an act to amend the act entitled “An .
act to amend the act to regulate the practice of the judicial
courts,” assed February 25, 1848: also, to amend the act
passed arch 21, 1850, “in amendment of the practice of
the judicial courts,” passed March 20, 1851.

An act to provide for the service of mesne process in cer- .
tain cases therein named, passed March 20, 1851.

An act to amend an act entitled “ An act to improve the .
law of evidence,” passed March 22, 1851.

Section three, of an act for the more speedy collection of
debts, &c., from executors, administrators, and guardians in
certain cases, passed March 18, 1851.

An act to repeal the 57th section of an act directing the
mode of proceeding in chancery, passed March fourteenth,
one thousand eight hundred and thirty one, and to direct
the manner of, and terms upon which decrees may be
opened in causes where the same have been rendered
against parties without actual notice, passed March 24,
1852.

An act to authorize courts of common pleas to appoint re-
ceivers in cases of attachment, and to repeal section four,
of the act entitled “ An act allowing and regulating writs of
attachment,” passed November 24, 1852.

Section nineteen of an act for opening and regulating
roads and high ways, passed January nineteen, eighteen
hundred and fifty-three.

“An act to facilitate the administration of justice in Ham-
ilton county, passed February 20, 1851, is not repealed by this
code.

An act to fix permanently the terms and manner of hold-
ing the courts of common pleas and the district court in Ham-
ilton county, and to provide for the organization and prac-
tice thereof, passed January 23, 1852, is not repealed by sec-
tion three hundred and seven, or any other section of this
code.

§ 607 Executors, administrators and guardians, who have
given bond in this State with sureties, according to law, are
not required to give the undertaking mentioned in section
five hundred and nineteen.

§ 608. If the district courtafiirm a judgment on petition
in error, it shall also render judgment against the plaintiff
in error for five per cent. upon the amount due from him to
the defendant in error, unless the court shall enter upon its
minutes that there was reasonable ground for the proceed-
ings in error.

§ 609. A summons in error shall not be issued in any
case in which there is upon the minutes of the court, or

among the tiles of the case, a waiver of error by the party or
his attorney, endeavoring to commence such proceedings,
unless the court in which the petition is to be filed, or a judge
thereof, shall endorse on the same,permission to issue such
summons.

§ 610.. Cases pending in appellate courts on writs of error
or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be conducted
to final judgment, as if it had not been adopted, and the
liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it takes effect,
shall be preserved. They shall be enforced as provided in
section six hundred and two; but process already issued at
such time, shall be carried on and executed.

§ 611. The court of common pleas may appoint in each
county such number of persons as shall be necessary to be
master commissioners, who shall hold their office for the term
of three years unless removed by the court for good cause.

§ 612. Before entering upon the duties of his ofiice, a
master commissioner must be sworn to perform them faith—
fully, and with one or more sureties approved by the court,
execute an undertaking to the State of Ohio, in such sum as
the court shall direct, to the effect that he will pay over all
moneys and faithfully discharge the duties of his oflice. The
undertaking shall be filed in the office of the county auditor,
and may be sued upon as provided in section five hundred
and sixty—six.

§ 613. A master commissioner shall be allowed such fees
as are allowed for similar services to other officers.

TITLE XXI.

614. This act shall take effect on the first day of July
eighteen hundred and fifty-three.
JAMES C. JOHNSON,
Speaker qf the House a R esentatives.
WILLI M DILL,
President of the Senate.
March 11, 1853. '

AN ACT
Mning the Jurisdiction and regulating the Practice of Probate Courts.

CHAPTER I.
JURISDICTION or PROBATE COURTS.

§l. Be it enacted by the General AssemblyhW Stateqf
Ohio, There is established in each county 0 this State, a
Probate Court, which shall be held at the county seat of each
county :

§ 2. The probate court shall have exclusive jurisdiction

in probate and testamentary matters, except as hereinafter
provided.

1. To take the proof of wills, and to admit to record
authenticated copies of wills executed, proved and allowed
in the courts of any other state, territory or county:

2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary, and of ad-
ministration:

3. To direct and control the conduct, and settle the ac-
counts of executors and administrators :

4. To enforce the payment of the debts and legacies of

deceased persons, and the distribution of the estates of in—
testates: '

5. To appoint and remove guardians, to direct and con-
trol their conduct, and to settle their accounts :

6. To grant marriage licenses, and licenses to ministers
of the Gospel to solemnize marriages:

7. To make inquests respecting lunatics, insane persons,
idiots, and deaf and dumb persons subject by law to guar-

dianshilp:
8. 0 make inquests of the amount of compensation to
be made to the owners of real estates, when appropriated by
any corporation legally authorized to make such appropria»
tions:

9. In the criminal cases hereinafter specified :

10. To try contests of the election of justices of the
peace.

§ 3. Probate courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction:

dash!

I

1. In the sale of lands on petition by executors, adminis- 1:

trators and guardians, and the assignment of dower in such
cases of sale :

2. In the completion of real contracts on petition of ex-
ecutors and administrators:

3. In allowing and issuing writs of habeas corpus, and
in determining the validity of the caption and detention of

the persons brought before them on such writs of habeas
corpus.

§. 4. Probate judges shall have power to administer
oaths in all cases, where oaths are required by law ; to take
' the acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages, and other instru-
ments of writing, required by law to be acknowledged, and
to take depositions in all cases where the same are author-
ized to be taken by the laws of this State.
; § 5. The jurisdiction acquired by any probate court over
', a matter or proceeding, is exclusive of that of any other
probate court, except where otherwise provided by law.

CHAPTER II.
ORGANIZATION or THE COURT.

§ 6. Before any probate judge shall enter upon the dis-
charge of the duties of his ofiice, he shall take an oath or ‘
affirmation to sup ort the constitution of the United States,
the constitution of the State of Ohio, and that he will faith-
fully, diligently and impartially discharge the duties of pro-
bate judge to the best of his skill and ability. He shall also
give an undertaking to the State of Ohio, with suliicient se-
curity to be approved by the board of county commissioners
of the proper county; or in the absence of any two of said
commissioners from the county, by the anditor and recorder
of the proper county, in any sum not less than five thousand
dollars, to the effect thathe will truly and faithfully pay over
all moneys that may by him be received in his ofiicial capa-
city, that he will enter and record all the orders, judgments
and proceedings of said court, and faithfully and impartially
discharge and perform all the duties of his said oflice ;
which undertaking, with his oath or affirmation endorsed
upon the same, shall be lodged with the county treasurer,
and such additional or further undertaking may be required
by the county commissioners from said probate judge, from
time to time, as the state of business in his office may ren-
der necessary.

§ '7. No probate judge shall practice or be associated
with another as a partner in the practice of law in any of
the courts of record of this State, or appear as counsel be-
fore any justice of the eace or board of arbitrators, or
referees; but nothing in this section contained shall prevent
any probate judge of this State from finishing any business
by him commenced prior to the passage of this act, not con-
nected with his oflicial business.

§ 8. No probate judge shall act as executor or adminis—
trator of any estate, or as guardian for any minor, idiot, or

lunatic; and if he shall be interested as heir, legatee, de-
visee, or in any other manner, in any estate which may be
required to be settled in the county where he resides, all such
estates and accounts of guardianship shall be settled by the
court of . common pleas of such county; but any probate
judge who was acting as executor, administrator or guar-
dian on the 25th day of February, 1852, may continue to
discharge the duties thereof, till said trusts can be duly
closed and settled.

§ 9. The probate court shall have a seal to be provided
by the commissioners of the proper county, having the same
device as the seals of the court of common pleas except
there shall be engraved around the margin thereof, in addi-
tion to the name of the proper county, the words “ Probate
Court,” instead of the words “ Common Pleas.” All writs
and process issuing from said court shall be under the seal
thereof, and shall be dated and signed by the judge issuing
the same, and all transcripts issuing from said court under
the seal thereof, and signed by the judge thereof, shall be re-
ceived as evidence of the facts therein contained in all the
courts of this State.

§ 10. The judges of said courts shall have the care and
custody of all files, papers, books and records belonging to
the probate oflice, and are hereby authorized and empowered
to perform the duties of clerks of their own courts. Every
probate judge shall have power to appoint a deputy clerk
or clerks, each of whom shall, previously to entering upon
the duties of his appointment, take an oath or afiirmation,
faithfully to perform all his duties as deputy clerk, and when
so qualified, said deputy may do and perform any and all the
duties appertaining to the oflice of clerk of said court.
Every probate judge may take such security from his deputy,
as he may deem necessary to secure the faithful performance
of the duties of his appointment.

§ 11. The following books shall be kept by the probate
court, and blank books for the purpose, shall be procured by
the county auditor, at the expense of the county:

1. A criminal record, in which shall be made a fair and ;
accurate entry of all criminal actions instituted in said court,
with the proceedings had therein:

2. A civil docket, in which shall be noted the names of ‘
parties to all actions and proceedings, and the name of the
deceased person, infant, insane person, idiot, or lunatic, in
the matter of whose estate the said court shall exercise ju-
risdiction: It shall also contain a minute of the time of the
commencement of such actions and proceedings, and filing
the papers relating to any matter in such court, and also a
brief note of all orders made in such action, proceeding, or
matter, and the time of entering the same :

3. A journal, in which shall be kept minutes of all oflicial '

business transacted in the probate court, or by the Probate
Judge in all civil actions and proceedings:

4. A record of wills in which shall be recorded all wills
proven in such court, with a certificate of the probate there-
of, and all wills proven elsewhere, with the certificate of pro-
bate, authenticated copies of which have been admitted to

record by said court:

’ 5. A final record, which shall contain a complete record
in each cause or matter of all petitions, answers and demur-
rers, motions, returns, reports, verdicts, awards, orders and
judgments; and which record shall be made up and com-
pleted within ninety days after the final order or' judgment
shall have been made in any of the matters aforesaid; and
he shall also, within thirty days after the return of the same,
record all inventories, sale bills, and allowances to widows,
in a book to be provided for that purpose:

6. A final record of' accounts, which shall contain an en-
try of the appointment of executors, administrators and
guardians, and all partial and final accounts of executors,

administrators and guardians, and the orders and proceedings
of the courts thereon :

7. An execution docket in which shall be entered a mem-
orandum of all executions issued by the probate judge both
in civil and criminal cases, stating the names of the parties,
the name of the person to whom delivered and his return
thereon. It shall also contain the date of issuing the exe-
cution and the amount ordered to be collected, stating the
costs separately from the fine or damages, and all payments
thereon and the satisfaction thereof when the same is sat-
isfied. '

§ 12. To each of said books shall be attached an index
securely bound in the volume, which shall at all times be
kept up with the entries therein, and refer to such entries
alphabetically, by the names of the parties or person in
which it is originally entered,indicating the page of the book
where the entry is made.

§ 13. The probate judge must keep an office at the coun-
ty seat, open at all reasonable hours suitable for the trans-
' action of business, and for the deposit and safe keeping of
the public books, records and papers under his charge.
Such oche shall be furnished by the county commissioners,
and provided with suitable cases, for the safe keeping and
preservation of the books and papers of' such court, and also
with such stationery as may be required by such judge in the
discharge of his ofiicial duties, at the expense of the county.

CHAPTER III.

POWERS AN D DUTIES OF THE PROBATE JUDGE IN CIVIL CASES.

§ 14. The several probate judges shall. from time to time,
make rules not inconsistent with the laws of this State, for reg-
ulating the practice and conducting the business in their re-
spective courts; and they shall within one year after this act
shall take effect, return a statement of their rules and course
of proceedings to the supreme court, and shall make a like
return of all their rules thereafter made, as soon as convenient
after making the same; and the supreme court shall have pow-
er to alter and amend all such rules, and to make other and
further rules, from time to time, for regulating the proceed-
ings in all the probate courts of this State, as they shall
judge necessary in order to introduce and maintain regular-
ity and uniformity in the said proceedings.

§ 15. Orders for the payment of money may be enforced
by execution or otherwise, in the same manner as judgments
in the courts of common pleas. All such executions shall be

directed to the sheriff, or in his absence or disability, to the
coroner. ‘

§ 16. If any person shall neglect or refuse to perform
any order or judgment of a robate court, other than for the
payment of money, he shall e deemed guilty of a contempt
of court, and said probate judge shall issue a summons
directing him to appear before said Judge within two days
from the service thereof, and show cause why he should not
be punished for his contempt; or if it appear to such judge
that he is secreting himself to avoid the process of the court,
or is about to leave the county for such purpose, Said judge
may issue an attachment instead of the summons above men-
tioned, commanding the ofiicer to whom the attachment shall
be directed, forthwith to bring such person before such judge
to answer for his contempt; and if no suflicient excuse be
shown, he shall be punished in the same manner as provided
for the punishment of contempts in the court of common

leas.
p § 17. If any sheriff, coroner or constable shall neglect, or
refuse to serve and return any process issued by said probate
judge, and to him directed and delivered, or shall neglect or
refuse to pay over any moneys by him collected, to the pro-
bate judge, or any other person, when so directed by such
probate judge, he shall be subject to fine and amercement,
as in the next section provided.

§ 18. In the cases enumerated in the preceding section, it
shall be the duty of the probate judge to issue a summons
directed to the sheriff, or other officer therein named, com-

manding him to summon the officer guilty of such miscon-
duct, to appear within two days after the service of such
summons, and show cause why he should not be amerced,
specifying the cause for such amercement ; and in case of
neglect or refusal to serve or return any process issued by
such probate judge, and directed and delivered to such officer,
if no sufficient excuse be shown, such officer shall be fined
by said probate judge in any sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars, to be paid into the county treasury ; and he and his
sureties shall moreover be liable upon his official bond for
all damages sustained by any person by reason of such mis-
conduct; and in case of refusal to pay over any moneys by
him collected, to the probate judge,or any other person, when
so directed by such probate judge, he shall be amerced for
the use of the parties interested, in the amount by such pro-
cess required to be collected, together with ten per cent there-
on; and such probate judge may enforce the collection there—
of by execution or other process, or by imprisonment, as for
a contempt of court, or both; the delinquent officer and his
sureties, shall moreover be liable on his official bond for the
amount of' such amercement at the suit of the person or per-
sons interested.

§ 19. Depositions taken according to the provisions of'
the law for taking depositions to be used on the trial of' civil
causes, may be taken and used on the trial of any question
before the probate court, where such testimony may be pro-
per.

§ 20. It shall be the duty of the probate judge to cause
notice to be published in some newspaper of the county, if
any be published therein, or if not, by posting the same upon
the door of the court house of' said county, of' the filing of
any accounts by executors, administrators or guardians, spe-
cifying the time when such accounts will be board, which
shall not be less than three weeks after the publication of
such notice, at which time it shall be competent for said pro-
bate judge, for cause, to allow further time to file exceptions
to said account; and the costs of' such notice shall he paid,
if more than one account be specified in the same notice, in
equal proportions by the executors, administrators, or guar-
dians respectively.

§ '21. The probate judge shall have full power and author-
ity to examine under oath, all executors, administrators and
guardians, touching their accounts; and if he shall think pro-
per to do so, he may reduce such examination to writing, and
require such executor, administrator, or guardian, to sign the
same, and such examination shall be filed with the papers in
the case.

§ 22. In case of the refusal to admit a will to probate,
any person aggrieved thereby may appeal from such decision

to the next term of the court of common pleas, by filing
notice of his intention to ap eal within ten days.

§ 23. The person appe ' g shall procure and file in the
court of common pleas a certilied copy of the order of said

probate court rejecting the will, and thereupon said appeal
shall be deemed perfected.

§ 24. When a will shall be admitted to probate in the
probate court, or court of common pleas on appeal, any per-
son interested shall have a right to contest its validity by
petition to the court of common pleas of the proper county,
and upon filing such petition the clerk of the court of com-
mon pleas shall certify that fact to the probate court in which
the will was admitted to probate.

§ 25. When a petition to contest the validity of a will is
filed, as provided in the last section, the will, testimony and
all papers relating thereto, shall be transmitted by the pro-
bate judge to the court of common pleas, and the judgment
of the court of common pleas shall be certified by the clerk
thereof, to the probate court. When the case is finally de-
termined, the will shall be deposited in the probate court.

§ 26. All undertakings required or authorized by law to
be given in the probate court shall be, on being accepted and
ap roved by the probate judge, filed in his office.

g) 27. When notice of any proceedings in a probate court
shall be required by law, or be deemed necessary by the pro-
bate judge, and the manner of giving the same shall not be
directed by any statute, the probate judge shall order notice
of such proceedings to be given to all persons interested
therein, in such manner and for such length of time as he
shall deem reasonable. ‘ -

§ 28. All questions, except those arising in criminal
actions and proceedings, unless otherwise provided by law,
shall be determined by the probate judge, unless in his dis-
cretion he shall order the same to be tried by a jury, or refer-

red, as provided in section two hundred and eighty-five of
the Code of Civil Procedure of this State.

 

CHAPTER IV.

HIS POWERS AND DUTIES IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS.

§ 29. The several probate courts in this State shall not
have jurisdiction of any crime, offence or misdemeanor, the
punishment whereof is capital, or by imprisonment in the
penitentiary, nor for any offence or misdemeanor, the origin-
al and exclusive jurisdiction of which is vested in justices of
the peace, or in any ma or or magitrate of any town or city,
nor of the crimes or o ences mentioned in an act entitled

“an act to punish certain crimes therein named,” passed
March 18, 1839, nor of the crimes or offences enumerated in
the act entitled “an act to provide for the punishment of cer-
tain crimes therein named,” passed February 27, 1834, nor
for violations of the “ act to prevent obstructing navigable
. streams therein named,” passed March 1, 1834; but they
shall have exclusive cognizance of all other crimes, offences
or misdemeanors, unless otherwise provided by law.

§ 30. All recognizances which hall hereafter be taken
by justices of the peace and other officers authorized to take
the same, and all transcripts in criminal cases, within the
jurisdiction of the probate court, shall be returned to the
probate judge forthwith after the commitment of a person
charged with an offence, or the taking of a recognizance for
his appearance before the probate court.

§ 31. The second section of the act entitled “an act to
ppnish betting on elections, and for other purposes,” passed

arch 18, 1839, and the fifty-second section of “an act for
the punishment of certain offences therein named,” passed
March 18, 1831, are repealed.

§ 32. All fines imposed by the probate judge for crimes,
offences or misdemeanors, shall be paid into the county
treasury so soon as the same shall be collected.

§ 33. The provisions of this act which relate to the
exercise of criminal jurisdiction by the robate courts, shall
not extendto any county in and for whic a special criminal
court is now, or may hereafter be established by law.
, § 34. In no prosecution for crimes, offences and mis-

demeanors, cognizance of which is by this act conferred upon
probate courts, shall an indictment by a grand jury be re-
quired; but in all criminal cases brought before the probate
court by filing a recognizance and transcript, as hereinbe-
fore provided, the probate judge shall immediately give no-
. tice to the prosecuting attorney of his county, of the pend-
_ ency of such cause; and such prosecuting attorney shall
immediately file with said probate court an information set-
ting forth briefly but distinctly, in plain and ordinary lan-
guage, the charge against the accused person, on which
charge such person shall be tried.

§ 35. Informations may be amended at any time ILbe-
fore or during the trial, upon such terms as the court may
direct; and in all cases where such amendment is material,
the defendant may elect to continue the case.

§ 36. In the cases in which the probate court shall
have criminal jurisdiction when the defendant is brought
before the probate judge, the charge against him shall be
distinctly read to him, and 'he shall be required to plead
thereto.

§ 37. The defendant may plead,

1. Guilty:

2. Not guilty:

3. A former judgment of conviction or acquittal of the
offence charged, which may he pleaded either with or with-
out the plea of not guilty.

§ 38. Every plea shall be oral, and shall be entered
on the minutes of the court in substantially the following
form:

1. If the defendant plead guilty-“ the defendant pleads
that he is guilty of the offence charged against him :”

2. If he plead not guilty—“ the defendant pleads that he
is not guilty of the offence charged against him :”

3. If he plead a former conviction or acquittal—“ the de-
fendant pleads that he has already been convicted [or ac-
quitted, as the case may be] of the offence charged against
him, by the judgment of the court of —— [naming it]——
ordered at ——-— [naming the place] on the day
 .n '

 

 

§ 39. The court may at any time before judgment, upon
a plea of guilty, permit [it] to be withdrawn, and a plea
of not guilty substituted.

§ 40. The plea of not guilty shall be deemed a denial
of every material allegation in the information, and all mat-
ters of fact, tending to establish a defence, may be given in
evidence under the plea of not guilty.

§ 41. If the defendant refuse to answer the informa-
tion, a plea of not guilty shall be entered.

§ 42. Upon a plea other than a plea of guilty, if the
defendant do not demand a trial by jury, the probate judge
shall proceed to try the issue.

§ 43. Before the court shall have heard any testimony
upon the trial, the defendant may demand a trial by jury.

§ 44. When the defendant pleads guilty, or is convict-
ed either by the probate judge or by a jury, the probate judge
shall render judgment thereon, of line or imprisonment, or
both, according to law.

§ 45. When the defendant is acquitted, either by the
probate judge or by a jury, he-shall be immediately dis-
charged; and if the probate judge certify in his minutes, that
the prosecution was malicious or without probable cause, he
may order the prosecutor to pay the costs of the proceedings,
and enter up judgment therefor, which may be enforced by
execution.

§ 46. The prosecuting attorney, if he be satisfied that
the State will fail in the action, or if the prosecutor refiise to
endorse the information when required so to do, may enter a
nolle prosequi upon the information.

§ 47. The probate judge shall be paid for his services,
in criminal cases, such sum as the commissioners of the
county may allow, not less than one hundred dollars per an-

num in any county, nor more than three hundred dollars in
any county containing less than fifty thousand inhabitants,
which sum shall be payable at the county treasury ; and the
probate judge shall not receive any compensation by way of
fees, for services in criminal business, in addition to the com-
pensation herein provided for: Provided, however, the said
probate judge shall tax, in all criminal cases, the fees to
which he would otherwise be entitled, and all other costs of
the roceedings, which shall, when collected, together with
all nes, be paid into the county treasury.
- § 48. In the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction, the

probate court shall be considered as holding monthly terms,
each commencing on the first Monday of the month.

§ 49. One hundred and eight judicious persons, having
the qualifications of electors, shall be annually selected in
each county to attend as jurors in the probate court, in the
manner prescribed by law for the selection of jurors to attend
the court of common pleas ; and such separate list shall be
delivered to the probate judge by the trustee or judge of
election at the same time the list for the court of common
pleas is required to be delivered to the clerk of that court;
and the persons named in the list delivered to the probate
judge shall serve as jurors in the probate 'court under the
provisions of this act: Provided, that prior to the selection
and return of such jurors for the year 1853, as provided by
law, said probate court shall cause to be summoned for each
term the proper number of persons having the required qual-
ifications, to serve as jurors for such term.

§ 50. The names of the persons selected to serve as
jurors in the probate court shall be written on separate
pieces of paper and deposited in a box to be provided at the
expense of e county; and at least ten days before a term
of the probate court, unless by a written entry in his min-
utes the judge shall dispense with or postpone the attendance
of a jury, he shall,in the presence of the sheriff of the county,
proceed to shake the box and draw therefrom six ballots,
and shall forthwith deliver a list of the jurors drawn to the
sheriff, deputy sheriff, or a constable of the county, with an
endorsement thereon signed by him, with his name and seal
of oflice to the following effect: “ A. B., sheriff [or deputy
sheriff, or constable,] of the county of , to which this is
delivered, is required to summon the persons named in the
within list to appear before me at [naming the place]
on, [naming the day and hour,] to serve as jurors at a pro-
bate court to be then and there held. Dated at —, the

day of , 18—.
J. W. SEAL]
Probate udgc.

 

 

 

§ 51. The oiiicer to whom the list is delivered, shall forth-
with' summon each of the jurors named therein, personally,
or by leaving a written notice at his place of residence, with
some person of suitable age and discretion. He shall also,
at or before the time named therein, return the list to the

probate judge, specifying the persons summoned, and the
manner of service in respect to each of them.

§ 52. Each party shall be entitled to two peremptory
challenges, and such other challenges for cause, as the pro-
bate judge may allow; and if six jurors do not attend or be
not obtained, the judge may direct the sheriff or other offi-
cer in attendance to summon any of the bystanders or others,
who may be competent, against whom no suflicient cause of
challenge shall appear,to act as jurors. \Vhen six jurors ap-
pear, and are accepted, they shall constitute the jury. The
failure to attend by any person when duly summoned, shall
be punished as in like cases in the court of common pleas.
And the jury, when so sworn or affirmed, shall hear the
proofs of the parties, which must be delivered in public and
in the presence of the defendant.

§ 53. The probate judge shall thereupon administer to the
jury the following oath or affirmation: “ You do solemnly
swear ” [or “you do solemnly affirm,” as the case may be,]
“ that you [will] well and truly try the issue between the State
of Ohio, and the defendant, and a true verdict give according
to law and evidence. So help you God.”

§ 54. The jury shall not be discharged after the cause is
submitted to them, until they have agreed upon and rendered
their verdict, unless the probate judge, upon their disagree-
ment, shall sooner discharge them; and when they shall have
so agreed upon their verdict, they shall deliver it publicly to
the probate judge, who shall enter it in his minutes.

‘§ 55. If the jury be discharged, as provided in the last
section, the probate judge may proceed again to the trial in
the same manner as upon the first trial, and so on until a
verdict shall be rendered.

§ 56. The fees of the witnesses, officers and jurors, shall
be certified to by the probate judge, and paid out of the
county treasury, in the same manner as such fees are now
paid for like services in the court of common pleas.

CHAPTER V.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 57. The fees of witnesses, jurors, sheriffs, coroners and
constables, for all services rendered in the probate court, or
by order of the probate judge, shall be the same as is pro-
vided by law for like services in the court of common pleas.

§ 58. In the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by this
act, the probate judge shall have the same powers, perform
the same duties, and be governed by the same rules and reg-
ulations, as are provided by law for the courts of common'
pleas and the judges thereof, in vacation, so far as the same
may be consistent with this and other acts now in force.

§ 59. The probate judge shall have power to keep order
in his court, and to punish any contempt of his authority, in
like manner as such contempt might be punished in the court
of common pleas. .

§ 60. He shall have power to issue all warrants, a’ttach-
ments, and other process, and all notices, commissions, rules,
and orders, not contrary to law, that may be necessary and
proper to carry into effect the powers granted to him.

§ 61. Sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, coroners and constables,
shall, when required by the probate judge, attend the pro-
bate court, and shall serve and return all process directed to
them by the probate judge, except as provided in section 17
of this act.

§ 62. The several clerks of the courts of common pleas
of this State, are hereby required to transfer tothe probate
court of their respective counties, all records, files, papers
and proceedings, appertaining to the exclusive jurisdiction
of said probate courts, so far as the same are capable of
being separated from the proper journals and records of
the courts of common pleas, and shall also make out and
certify full transcripts of any journal entries relating to the
probate matters which may be pending in said courts on re-
quest of any probate judge, or person interested.

§ 63. Actions and procedings now pending in the courts
of common pleas and in the robate courts shall not be af-
fected by the provisions of '8 act. They shall be con-
ducted throughout, as if it had not been adopted, and no
rights acquired shall be affected by it. “ An act defining the
jurisdiction and regulating the practice of probate courts,”
passed February 25, 1852, is repealed.

§ 64. And this act shall take effect and be in force from
and after the first day of July, 1853.

JAMES C. JOHNSON,
Speaker of the House 0 Representatives.
GEORG REX,
President of the Senate pro tem.

March 14, 1853.

AN ACT

Of the Jurisdiction and Procedure before Justices of the Peace, and of the
Duties of Constables in Civil Cases.

ARTICLE 1.

OF THE JURISDICTION OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State qf Ohio :

‘ ‘.§ 1. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in civil
cases shall, unless otherwise directed by law, be limited to
the township wherein they may have been elected, and
where they shall reside.

§ 2. Justices of the peace within and co—extensive with .

their respective counties, shall have jurisdiction and au-
thority:

1. To administer any oath or aflirmation authorized or
required by law to be administered:

2. To take the acknowledgement of deeds, mortgages,
and other instruments of writing:

3. To solemnize marriages : ’

4. To issue subpoena for witnesses and coerce their at-
tendance in causes or matters pending before them, or other
cause or matter wherein they may be required to take depo-
sitions :

5. To try the action for the forcible entry and detention,
or the detention only, of real property:

6. To proceed against security for costs and bail for the
for the stay of execution on their dockets :

7. To issue attachment and proceed against the goods
and effects of debtors in certain cases:

8. To issue executions on judgments rendered by them:

9. To proceed against constables failing to make return,
making false return, or failing to pay over money collected
on execution issued by such justice:

10. To try the right of the claimant to property taken in
execution or on attachment:

11. To act in the absence of the probate judge in the
trial of contested elections of justices of - the peace :

- § 3. N o householder or freeholder resident of the county,
shall be held to answer any summons issued againsthim by
a justice, in a civil matter, in any township of such county
other than the one where he shall reside, except in the cases
following:

-A-A~M J‘k‘

1. Where there shall be no justice of the peace for the
township in which the defendant may reside ; or

2. Where the only justice residing therein is interested in
the controversy; or

3. Where he shall be related, as father, father-in-law,
son, son-in-law, brother, brother—in-law, guardian, ward,
uncle, nephew, or cousin, to either of the parties, and there
is no justice in the township competent to try the cause.
In the foregoing excepted cases, the action may be brought
before any justice of an adjoining township of the same
county, and the justice shall state on his docket the reason of
his taking jurisdiction :

4. Where the summons is accompanied with an order to
attach property, the jurisdiction shall be co-extensive with
the county:

5. When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly
and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different town—
ships of the same county, the plaintiff may commence his
action before a justice of the township in which any of the
persons liable reside, except that in joint actions against the
makers and endorsers of notes, due-bills, or bills of ex-
change, the action shall be commenced in the township
where one of the original makers, drawers, or endorsers re-
side, and if it. be claimed by the plaintiff that an endorser
endorsed the note or bill at the time it was made, and the ju-
risdiction depend thereon, before the justice shall take juris-
diction, the plaintiff, or some person for him, shall file an affi-
davit setting forth that. fact:

6. In cases of trespass, to real or personal property, it
shall be lawful to bring the action in the township where the
trespass was committed, or in the township where the tres-
passer, or any one of several trespassers reside.

§ 4. Under the restrictions and limitations herein pro-
vided, justices of the peace shall have cognizance of any
sum not exceeding one hundred dollars.

§ 5. When the balance claimed to be due on any open
or unsettled account, or on any bill, note, or bond, shall be
less than one hundred dollars, the party by whom such bal-
ance shall be claimed, may commence his action therefor be-
fore a justice of the peace : who shall have power, and he is
hereby authorized to hear and determine the matters in con-
troversy without regard to the amount of the original account
or contract, and he may render judgment for any balance
found due, not exceeding one hundred dollars, and if any
plaintiff appeal from a judgment entered in his favor for
such balance, and shall recover judgment for a sum greater
than one hundred dollars, besides interest and costs, he shall
not recover costs on such appeal.

§ 6. In actions founded upon an undertaking given in
pursuance of law in any civil proceeding pending before a

justice, such justice or h1s successor in office, shall have juris- ‘

diction co-extensive with his county, and where the sum due
or demanded on such undertaking exceeds one hundred dol-
lars, the jurisdiction shall be concurrent with the court of
common pleas of the proper county.

I

§ 7. If any debtor shall appear before a justice of the peace .

without process, and confess that he is indebted to another,
it shall be lawful for such justice, on the application of the
creditor, to render judgment on such confession against the
debtor for any sum not exceeding two hundred dollars.

1

§ 8. Whenever the ofiice of coroner shall become vacant, ‘

in any county, by death, resignation, expiration of the term
of oflice, or otherwise, or where the coroner shall be absent
from the county, or unable from sickness or other cause to
discharge the duties of his office, or shall reside more than ten
miles distant from the place where the dead body of any
person supposed to have come to his or her death by violence
or casuality, may be found, any justice of the peace of the
county, shall be vested with all the powers, and shall perform
all and singular the duties appertaining to the oflice of
coroner, so far as it respects the power and duty of a coroner
to hold inquisition over any dead body found as aforesaid.
And when acting in the capacity of a coroner, every such
justice shall be entitled to the same fees as ‘are or may be
allowed by law to coroners in such cases.

§9.

Justices shall have jurisdiction in actions for .

trespass on real estate, where the damages demanded for '

such trespass shall not exceed one hundred dollars, and no
claim of title to such real estate set up by the defendant,
shall take away, or affect the jurisdiction hereby given.

§ 10. Justices shall not have cognizance of any action:

1. To recover damages for an assault, or assault and 1

battery; or
2. In any action for malicious prosecution; or

3. In actions against justices of the peace, or other ofli- ‘
cers for misconduct in office, except in the cases provided'for -‘

in this act; or

4.‘ In actions for slander, verbal or written; or

5. In actions on contracts for real estate; or

6. In actions in which the title to real estate is sought to
be recovered, or may be drawn in question, except actions of
trespass on real estate, which are provided for in this act.

1
l

1

ARTICLE 11.

OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS, SERVICE AND RETURN OF
PROCESS, AND PROCEEDIN GS IN ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.

§ 11. Actions before justices of the peace are commen-
ced by summons, or by the ap earance and agreement of
the parties without summons. 11 the former, the action is
deemed commenced u on delivery of the writ to the consta-
ble to be served, and e shall note thereon the time of re-
ceiving the same. In the latter case, the action is deemed
commenced at the time of docketing the case.

§ 12. When a guardian to the suit is necessary, he must
be appointed by the justice, as follows:

1. If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must be
made before the summons is issued, upon the application of
the infant if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards;
if under that age, upon the application of some friend.

The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed,
and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the action, must
be filed with the justice.

2. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be
appointed before the trial. It is the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian if the infant be over fourteen
years of age and the proposed guardian be present and con-
sent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the justice may
appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.

§ 13. The style of the summons shall be, “ The State of
Ohio, county :” it shall be dated the day it is issued,
signed by the Justice issuing the same, directed to a consta-
ble of the proper township, (except in case a person be de-
puted to serve it, in which case it shall be directed to such
person,) must contain the name or names of the defendant
or defendants, if known ; if unknown, give a description of
him or them, and command the officer or person serving the
same to summon the defendant or defendants to appear be-
fore such justice at his office in township, at a time
specified therein, and must describe the plaintiff ’s cause of
action in such general terms as to apprise the defendant of
the nature of the claim against him, and there shall be en-
dorsed on the writ the amount for which the plaintiff will
take judgment if the defendant fail to ap ear. If the de-
fendant fail to appear, judgment shall not e rendered for a
larger amount and the costs.

§ 14. The summons must be returnable not more than
twelve days from its date, and must, unless accompanied

 

 

with an order to arrest, be served at least three days before
the time of appearance, as follows :

1. By delivering a copy of the summons with the en-
dorsement thereon, (certified by the constable, or person
serving the same to be a true copy) to the defendant, or leav-
ing the same at his usual place of residence.

2. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons,
or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to
servwe. . ,

§ 15. A summons against a corporation may be served
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of direct-
ors or trustees, or Other chief officer; or, if its chief oflicer is
not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secreta-
ry, clerk, or managing agent; or, if none of the aforesaid
oflicers can be found, by a copy left at the office, or usual
place of business of such corporation, with the person hav-
ing charge thereof.

§ 16. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance
company, and the action is brought in a county, in which
there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the
chief oflicer of such agency.

§ 17. Where the I,defendaut is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this State, the service may be
upon such agent.

§ 18. When the defendant is a minor under the age of four-
teen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guar-
dian, or father; or, if neither of these can be found, then
upon his mother, or the person having the care or control of
the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these can
be found, or, if the minor be more than fourteen years of
age, service on him alone, shall be squicient. The manner
of service may be the same as in the case of adults. '

APPEARANCE.

§ 19. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to
appear after the time mentioned in the summons for appear-
‘ance, but are not bound to remain longer than that time, un-
less both parties have appeared, and the justice being pres-
ent, is engaged in the trial of another cause. In such .case,
the justice may postpone the time of appearance untll the

close of such trial.

ARREST BEFORE JUDGMENT.

§ 20. An order for the arrest of the defendant in a
civil action, shall be made by the justice of the peace
before whom the same is brought, when there is filed in his
oflice an aflidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized agent or
attorney, made before any person authorized by law to ad-

ministor oaths, stating 111s nature of the i')la1i11t'ili"s Claim,
that it. iri jun-t, tin: amount {lit-rmli'as l'u'ar as may he, and
establishing one or more of [he lbllmringj partiL-lilzirs:

1. That the defendant has removed or begun to remove
any of his property out of the county with intent to defraud
his creditors :

2. That the defendant has begun to convert his property
or any part thereof into money for the purpose of defrauding
his creditors : r .

3. That he has property or rights inaction which he
fraudulently conceals :

4. That he has assigned, removed’or disposed of, or has
begun to assign, remove or dispose of his property or any
part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors .'

5. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt
or.incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be
brought.

The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or more
of the above particulars.

§ 21. The order of arrest may‘ be made to accompany
the summons, or at any time afterwards before judgment.

§ 22. The order of arrest shall not be issued by a justice
of the peace until there has been executed by the plaintiff, if
a resident freeholder of the township where suit is brought,
otherwise by one or more sufiicient sureties of the plaintiff,
a written undertaking to the effect that the plaintiff shall
pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by rea-
son of the arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not
exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff’s claim, stated
in the affidavit.

§ 23. The order of arrest shall be addressed and deliver-
ed, with a copy of the afiidavit, to a constable of the proper
township ; it shall state the names of the parties, the amount
of the plaintiff ’s claim specified in the affidavit, be signed
by the justice of the peace issuing it, and shall require the
constable to arrest the defendant and bring him forthwith
before said justice. .

§ 24. The ofiicer receiving said order, shall execute the
same by forthwith arresting the defendant and delivering to
him a copy thereof, and 0f the afiidavit ; and the defendant,
so arrested, unless the claim of the plaintiff specified in the
affidavit and costs of suit are paid, or unless discharged from
custody by order of the plaintiff, shall be taken by such con-
stable forthwith before the justice of the peace by whom
said order of arrest was issued, and kept in custody until
discharged by law.

§ 25. Upon the return of said order of arrest, executed
in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of said cause
_hall proceed, unless, for good cause shown, upon the appli-

cation of either party, or at the instance of the justice him-
self, the same shall be continued as is provided for in other
cases, before justices of the peace. And when the trial of
said cause is continued for any period, the defendant, upon
executing, with one or more sufficient sureties, a written un-
dertaking, to the effect that he will pay the amount of the
judgment that may be rendered against him upon the final
determination of the action, or upon depositing in the hands
of the justice of the peace the amount of money mentioned
in the order of arrest, and the probable amount of costs of
suit, shall be forthwith discharged from custody : Pro-'
sided, however, that in no case shall the defendant be de-
tained in the custody of the officer, when said continuance
has been for a period’ of more than forty-eight hours, unless
said continuance has been made at the instance, or with the
consent of the defendant himself.

ARREST AFTER JUDGMENT.

§ 26. On the judgment against the defendant in any
‘ civil suit before a justice of the peace, when the defendant
is in the custody of the officer as hereinbefore provided for,
or if after judgment against him, there is filed in the office of
such justice an affidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized agent
or attorney, made before any person competent to adminis-
ter‘ an oath, stating the amount of said judgment remaining
unpaid, and establishing one or more of the particulars men-
tioned in section twenty, aid justice of the peace shall, un-
less otherwise ordered by the plaintiff, issue an execution
and accompany the same with an order for the arrest of
the defendant.

§ 27. Said order of arrest shall be addressed and deliver-
ed, with a copy of the affidavit, to the constable having said
execution, and shall state the names of the parties, be signed
by the justice issuing it, and state the amount of the judg-
ment and costs unpaid, and shall require the officer, in case
the same shall not be paid, or an amount of property of the
defendant whereon to levy execution, sufficient to satisfy
the same cannot be found in his township, to arrest the de-
fendant, if not already in the custody of the officer, and
deliver him to the sheriff of the proper county, to be com—
.mitted by him to the jail of the county, and kept in custody
until discharged by law: Provided, however, that no such
order of arrest shall be issued until the undertaking required
by the twenty-second section of this act shall have been exe-

cuted.
ATTACHMENT.

§ 28. The plaintiff shall have an order of attachment
against the property of the defendant in a civil action before
a justice of the peace for the recovery of money, before or

after the commencement thereof, when there is filed in his
office an aflidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
showing the nature of the plaintiff ’3 claim; that it is just ;
the amount which the aiiiant believes the plaintiff ought to
recover; and the existence of some one or more of the fol-

lowing particulars:

1. That the defendant or one of the several defendants, is a
foreign corporation, or is a non-resident of the county ; or,

2. Has absconded with intent to defraud his creditors; or

3. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the ser-
vice of a summons; or,

4. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him; or,

5. Is about to remove his property or a part thereof out
of the county, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,

6. Is about to convert his property or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his
creditors; or,

7. Has property or rights in action which he conceals ; or,

8. Has assigned, removed or diposed of, or is about to
dispose of his property or a part thereof, with intent to de-

fraud his creditors ; or,

9. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obli-
gation for which suit is about to be, or has been brought.
When the defendant is a foreign co oration or a non-resi-
dent of the county, the attachment 8 all not be granted un-
less the claim is for a debt or demand arising upon contract,
judgment or decree.

, § 29. When the ground of attachment is, that the de-
fendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the
county, the order of attachment may be issued without
an undertaking, but in all other cases, the order of attach-
ment shall not be issued by the justice until there has been
executed in his ofiice by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintiff to be approved by the justice, an undertaking
not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff ’s claim, to
the effect that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all dam-
ages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
. the order be wrongfully obtained.
l § 30. The order of attachment may be made to accom-
pany the summons or at any time afterwards, before judg-
ment; it shall be addressed and delivered to any constable of
the pro er township, and shall require him to attach the
goods, c attels, stocks, or interests in stocks, rights, credits,
moneys and effects of the defendant in his county, not ex-
e'mp b law from being applied to the payment of the plain-
tiff ’s claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintiff’s
claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the
probable costs of the action, not exceeding tifty dollars.

§ 31. The return day of the order of attachment, when
issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall
be executed and returned forthwith.

§ 32. When there are several orders of 0attachment
against the same defendant, in the hands of the same officer,
they shall be executed in the order in which they were re-
ceived by said ofiicer; he shall go to the place where the
defendant’s property may be found, and there, in the pres-
ence of two credible persons, declare that by virtue of said
order, he attaches said pro erty at the suit of such plaintiff ;
and the officer, with two grouseholders of the county, who
shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a
true inventory and appraisement of all pro erty attached,
which shall be‘signed by the officer and said) householders,
and returned with the order; when the property can be come
at, he shall take the same into his custody, and hold it sub-
ject to the order of the justice.

§ 33. The constable shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the ex-
ecution by such person, in the presence of the constable, an
undertaking of the laintiif, with one or more suflicient
sureties resident in e county, to the effect that the par-
ties to the same are bound in double the appraised value
thereof, that the property or its appraised value in money
shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in
the action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part
of said property. has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable
accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person or
persons so bound.

§ 34. Different attachments of the same property may
be made, and. one inventory and appraisement shall be suf-
ficient. The lien of the attachments shall be in the order in
which they are served, and the subsequent attachments shall
be served on the property as in the hands of the officer, and
subject to the prior attachments. The justice who issued the
attachment having the priority of lien, shall determine all
questions as to the priority of liens on the property attached.

§ 35. Ifthe order of attachment is made to accompany
the summons, a copy thereof and the summons shall be
served upon the defendant in the usual manner for the ser-
vice of a summons, if the same can be done within the
county, and when any property of the defendant has been
taken under the order of attachment, and it shall appear
that the summons issued in the action has not been, and can-
not be served on the defendant in the county in the manner
prescribed by law, the justice of the peace shall continue
the cause for a period not less than forty nor more than sixty
days. Whereupon the plaintiff shall proceed for three con-

secutive weeks to publish in some newspaper printed in the
county, or if none be printed therein, then in some newspa—
per of general circulation in said county, a notice stating the
names of the parties, the time when, by what justice of the
peace, and for what sum said order was issued, and shall
make proof of such publication to the justice, and thereupon
said action shall be proceeded with the same as if said sum-
mons had been duly served.

§ 36. When the cause is continued as provided for in the
preceding section, and it shall apear that any of the property
taken under the attachment is live stock, or is of a perisha-
ble nature, the justice may issue his order directing the offi-
cer having the custody thereof, to dispose of the same as
upon execution, and the moneys realized therefrom shall be
paid over to the justice and applied as other money realized
from the sale of the property attached is applied.

§ 37. When the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, shall
make oath in writing, that he has good reason to, and
does believe, that any person or corporation, to be named
and within the county where the action is brought, has pro-
perty of the defendant (describing the same) in his posses-
sion, if the oHicer cannot come at such property, he shall
leave with such garnishee, a .copy of the order of attach-
ment, with a written notice, that he appear before the Just-
ice, at the return of the order of attachment, and answer,
as provided in section thirty-nine.

§ 38. The copy of the order and notice shall be served
upon the garnishee, as follows : If he be a person, they shall
be served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of
residence; if a corporation, they shall be left with the re-
sident, or other head of the same, or the secretary, cas ier
or managing agent thereof.

§ 39. The garnishee shall appear before the justice in
accordance with the command of the notice, and shall an-
swer, under oath, all questions put to him touching the pro-
perty of every description and credits of the defendant, in
his possession or under his control, and he shall disclose,
truly, the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether
due or not; and in the case of a corporation, any stock
therein held by, or for the ber‘efit of, the defendant, at or
after the service of notice.

§ 40. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the de-
fendant by him, to the constable having the order of attach-
ment, or into the court. He shall be discharged from liability
to the defendant, for any money so paid, not exceeding the
plaintiff ’8 claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond
those caused by his resistance of the claim against him; and
if he disclose the property in his hands or the true amount
owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the
order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

§ 41. If the garnishee do not appear and answer, as re-
quired by section thirty-nine,the Justice may proceed against
him by attachment as for a contempt.

§ 42. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is dis-
covered on hisexamination, that,'at or after the service of
the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was pos-
sessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to
him, the Justice may order the delivery of such property and
the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into the
court ; or may permit the garnishee to retain the property or
the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to
the plaintiff by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect,
that the amount shall be paid, or the property forthcoming,
as the court may direct. .

§ 43. If the garnishee. fail to appear and answer, or if he
appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to
the plaintiff; or if he fail to comply with the order of the
justice to deliver the property and pay the money owing, into
court, or give the undertaking required in the preceding sec-
tion, the plaintiff may proceed against him in an action, in
his own name, as in other cases, and thereupon such pro-
ceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may
berendered in favor of the plaintiff, for the amount of the
property and credits of every kind of the defendant in the
possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be
owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceed—
ings against the garnishee. If the plaintiff proceed against
the garnishee by action, for the cause that his disclosure
was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action that such
disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff shall pay the costs
of such action. The judgment in this action may be en-
forced as judgments in other cases. When the claims of I
the plaintiffs in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in at- :
tachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintiff in
the judgment.

§ 44. Final judgment shall not be rendered against the 
garnishee, until the action against the defendant in attach-
ment has been determined ; and if in such action judgment
be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee
shall be discharged and recover costs. If the plaintiff shall re-
cover against the defendaiit in attachment, and the garnishee
shall deliver up all property, moneys and credits of the de-
fendant in his possession, and pay all the moneys from him
due as the court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged,
and the costs of the proceedings against him shall be paid
out of the property and moneys so surrendered, or as the
court may think right and proper.

§ 45. If judgment be rendered in the action for the de-
fend ant, the attachment shall be discharged and the property
attached or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.

§ 46. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall be
satisfied as follows: So much of the pro erty remaining in
the hands of the oflieer, after applying t e moneys arising
from the sale of perishable property, and so much of the per-
sonal property, if any, whether held by legal or equitable ti—
tle, as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be
sold by order of the justieeh under the same restric-
tions and regulations, as if the same had been levied on
by execution; and the money arising therefrom, with the
amount which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be
applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If there be not
enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and
execution may issue thereon, for the residue, in all respects
as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached property, or
its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.

§ 47. The justice may order the constable to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached
property, which may have passed out of his hands without
having been sold or converted into money; and the consta-
ble shall, under such order, have the same power to take the
property, as he would have under an order of attachment.

§ 48. If any of the property which has been attached, be
claimed by any person other than the defendant, the claim—
ant may have the validity of such claim tried, and such pro-
eeedings must be had thereon, with like effect, as in case the
property had been seized upon execution issued by the jus-
tice and claimed by a third person.

§ 40. Where several attachments are executed on the
same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,the
J ustiee issuing the first order served on the motion of any of
the plaintiffs, may determine the amounts and priorities of
the several attachments, and the proceeds shall be applied
accordingly.

§ 50. The officer shall return upon every order of attach-
ment what he has done under it. The return must show the
property attached, and the time it was attached. When gar-
nishees are served, their names and the time each was served
must be stated. The ofiicer shall also return with the order
all undertakings given under it.

§ 51. An order of attachment binds the property attached
from the time of service, and the garnishee hall stand liable
to the plaintiff in attachment for all property, moneys and
credits in his hands, or due from him to the defendant from
the time he is served with the written notice mentioned in
section thirty-seven, but when property is attached in the
hands of a consignee or other person having a prior lien, his
liens thereon shall not be affected by the attachment.

§52. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at
any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be exe-
cuted to the plaintiff by one or more sureties resident in the

county, to be approved by the justice in double the amount
of the plaintiff ’s claim be to stated in his afiidavit, to the effect,
that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the justice,
the attachment in such action, shall be discharged, and resti-
tution made of any property taken under it, or the proceeds
thereof; such undertaking shall also discharge the liability
of a garnishee in such action for any property of the defend-
ant in his hands.
§53. If in any case where an order of attachment has
been issued by a justice of the peace, it shall appear from
the return of the ofiicer, and from the examination of the
garnishee, that no property, moneys, rights, credits or ef-
fects of the defendant has been taken under the attachment,
but that the defendant is the owner of an interest in real
estate in the county, the justice before whom said action
is pending, shall, at the request of the plaintiff, forthwith
certify his proceedings to the court‘of common pleas of the
proper county, and thereupon the clerk of said court shall
docket said cause, and the action shall be proceeded with in
. said court in all respects as if the same had originated therein.

ARTICLE III.

BILL OF PARTICULARS.

§ 54. In all cases before a justice, the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, shall file with such justice a bill of the particu—
lars of his demand, and the defendant, if required by the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall file a like bill of the
particulars he may claim as a set-off, and the evidence on
the trial shall be confined to the items set forth in said bills.

§55. The bills of particulars must state in a plain and
direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action, or
the claim to be set-off.

§ 56. The bill of particulars may be amended at any time
before the trial or during the trial, or upon appeal to supply any
deficiency, or omission in the items, when by such amend-
ment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the amend-
ment be made at the time of, or during the trial, and it be made
to appear to the satisfaction of the justice by oath, that an
adjournment is necessary to the adverse party in conse-
quence of such amendment, an adjournment must be grant-
ed. The justice may also in his discretion, require as a
condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the ad-
verse party, to be fixed by the justice; but such payment
cannot be required, unless an adjournment is made necessary
by the amendment.

ARTICLE IV.

CHANGE OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL.

§ 57. If on the return of process, or at any time before
trial shall have commenced, it shall be made satisfactorily to
appear to the justice of the peace before whom any cause
is instituted or is ending for trial, by the affidavit of either
of the arties in the case: ‘ .-

l. ’l‘lhat such justice is a material witness for either par-
ty; or,

2. If a jury be demanded by the adverse party, then that
he cannot as he verily believes have a fair and impartial tri-
al in such township, on account of the bias or prejudice of
the citizens thereof.

§ 58. If the place of the trial he changed, on account of
the justice being a material witness in the cause, such cause
shall be transferred for trial before some other justice of
the peace of the same township, if there be one there le-
gally competent to try such cause; if there be no such
justice Within such township, or if such change be granted
on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of such
township against such party, or because the adverse party
has an undue advantage over him therein, the case shall
be taken! to some justice in an adjoining township of the
same county.

§ 59. The justice granting such change, shall deliver or
transmit the papers in the cause, together with a certified
transcript of the proceedings before him, to the justice to
whom such change may be granted,who shall proceed there—
in, and have the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties, in all
respects whatever, as if such suit had been originally insti-
tuted before him.

§ 60. Before any such change shall be allowed, the costs
as specified in the next following section, shall be paid by
the party applying for such change, or he shall have con-
fessed a judgment therefor before the justice granting the
change.

§ 61. When such change is at the instance of the plain-
tiff, he shall be taxed with all the costs which have accrued,
and which shall accrue in the cause until such transcript
and papers shall be delivered to the justice to whom such
cause is removed for trial, and when on the application of
the defendant, he shall be taxed with the costs which have
accrued for issuing subpoenas for witnesses and service
thereof, witness fees, and‘costs of the justice for transferring
the cause to the docket of the other justice.

ARTICLE V.

ADJ OURNMENTS.

§ 62. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or if
the justice be actually engaged in other oH‘icial business, he
may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party as
follows: ' ,

1. Where a party is in attendance, who is not a resident
of the county, or where the defendant is in attendance
under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed forty-eight
hours; and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in
custody. . h

2. In other cases, not to exceed eight days, unless by
consent of parties. If the trial be not adjourned, it must
take place immediately upon the return of the summons.

§ 63. The trial may be adjourned upon the application
of either party, without the consent of the other, for a
period not exceeding thirty days as follows:

The party asking the adjournment must, if required by
his adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he
cannot for want of material testimony which he expects to
procure, safely proceed to trial.

§ 64. An adjournment may be had either at the return
day, or at any ubsequent time to which the cause may
stand adjourned, on the application of either party, for a
period longer than thirty days, but not to exceed ninety days
from the time of the return of the summons upon compli—
ance with the provisions of the preceding section, and upon
proof by the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfac—
tion of the justice that such party cannot be ready for trial
before the time to which he desires an adjournment for the
want of material evidence, describing it, that the delay has
not been made necessary by any act, or negligence on his
part since the action was commenced, and that he expects to
procure the evidence at the time stated by him.

 

ARTICLE VI.

WITNESS.

§ 65. Any justice may issue subpcenas to compel the at-
tendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending
before himself, or for the purpose of taking depositions, or
to perpetuate testimony.

§ 66. A subpcena may be served by a constable or any
other person, and shall be served by reading the same or
stating the contents thereof to the witness, or by leaving a
copy thereof at his usual place of residence.

«5 67. When not served by a constable or some person
deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be
charged in the suit for serving it. ‘

§ 68. If any Witness having been subpoenaed, attend and
be not examined by either party, the costs of such witness shall
be paid by the party ordering the subpazna, unless the ad~
verse party, by confessing the matter or otherwise, render
unnecessary the examination of such witness.

§ 69. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of a
justice, by proof made before him, that any 'person has been
duly served with a subpcena to appear and give testimony
before him in any matter in which he has authority to require
such witness to appear and testify, that his testimony is
material and that he refuses or neglects to attend as such
witness in conformity with such subpcena, the justice shall
issue a warrant to arrest the delinquent for the purpose of
compelling his attendance and punishing his disobedience.

§ 70. When the person arrested is brought before the
justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify as
a witness, and no valid excuse be shown, the justice may
impose a fine on him not exceeding five dollars. An entry
of such fine stating the reason therefor, must be made by the
justice in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of
a judgment in favor of the State of Ohio against the delin-
quent, and may be enforced against his person or property.

§ '71. Every person subpcnnaed as aforesaid, and neg-
lecting to appear or refusing to testify, shall also be liable to
the party in whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed,

for all damages which such party shall sustain by reason of
such delinquency.

DEPOSITIONS.

§ 72. Depositions may be taken to be read in any cause
pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner and
subject to the same restrictions and rules of law as in cases
pending in the court of common pleas.

ARTICLE VII.

THE TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

§ 73. At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall have
been demanded by either arty, the justice shall proceed to
try the action, shall hear the proofs and determine the cause
according to law and the right.
' § 74. Where parties agree to enter without process be-
fore a justice, any action of which such justice has cogni-
zance, such justice shall enter the same on his docket and
proceed to trial; judgment and execution, in all respects in
the same manner as if summons had been issued, served
and returned.

JURY.

§ 75. In all civil actions after an appearance of the de-
fendant, and before the court shall proceed to enquire into
the merits of the cause, either party may demand a jury to
try the action, which jury shall be composed of six good and
lawful men, having the qualifications of electors, unless the
parties shall agree on a less number.

§ 76. When a jury is demanded the trial of the case must
be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the jury.
If neither party desire an adjournment, the time must be de-
termined by the justice, and must be on the same day, or
within the next two days ; the jury must be immediately se-
lected, as herein provided. ‘

§ 77. The justice shall write in apannel, the names of
eighteen persons, citizens of the township, or if the action
be one in which the jurisdiction is not limited to the town-
ship, then citizens of the county, from which the defendant,
his agent or attorney, shall strike one name, the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, one, and so alternately until each shall
have stricken six names, and the remaining six shall consti-
tute the jury to try such case, and if either party neglect, or
refuse to aid in striking the jury as aforesaid, the justice
shall strike the same in behalf of such party.

§ 78. The justice thereupon shall issue a summons for
the jury, in which the following form shall be observed in
substance as near as practicable :

The State of Ohio, county:
To -—-——-‘—- Constable of ‘ township:
You are hereby commanded to summon —— to
appear before 'me at —— in said township, on the
day of , A. D. , at o’clock in the
noon, to serve as a Juror in a case ending before me,
then and there to be tried. And this they s all in nowise omit.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

And have you then there this writ with your doings
thereon.
Given under my hand this A. D. ——

 

 

day of

Justice of the Peace.

§ 76. The constable shall serve such summons by a per-
sonal service thereof, and return the same endorsed With the
names of the persons summoned, at the time appointed for
the trial of the cause.

§ 80. Jurors for neglecting or refusing to attend when
properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in attendance,
shall be liable to the like penalty, and he proceeded against
in the same manner, as witnesses who fail to attend or re-
fuse to testify.

§ 81. The constable shall be in attendance on the court
at and during the progress of the trial, and if from challenge
or other cause the pannel shall not be full, he may fill the
same in the same manner as is done by the sheriff in the
Court of Common Pleas.

§ 82. When a jury shall be in attendance and the cause
shall be continued, the jurors must attend at the time and
place appointed for trial without further notice.

§ 83. If either party object to the competency of a juror, ’
the question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by
the justice, who may examine the juror or other witness un-
der oath.

§ 84. The Justice shall administer an oath or affirmation
to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in difference be-
tween the parties and a true verdict give according to the .
evidence. v

§ 85. After the jury shall have been sworn they shall sit
together and hear proofs and allegations of the parties, and
after hearing the same shall be kept together in some con-
venient place under the charge of a constable until they have
agreed upon their verdict, or shall be discharged by the justice.

§ 86. When the jurors shall have agreed upon their ver-
dict they shall deliver it to the justice publicly, who shall en-
ter it upon his docket. _

§ 87. Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that a jury
sworn in any cause before him cannot agree in their verdict
after having consulted upon it areasonable time, he may
discharge them and continue the cause, and may, if required
by either party, proceed to strike another jury as hereinbe-
fore provided; the cause shall be continued to such time as
the justice thinks reasonable, unless the parties or their at-
torneys agree on a longer or shorter time, or unless they may
agree that the justice may render judgment on the evidence

already heard before him.

§ 88. It shall be lawful for the justice before whom a
cause has been tried, on motion, and being satisfied that the
verdict was obtained by fraud, partiality, or undue means, at
any time within four days after the entering of judgment, to
grant a new trial, and he shall set a time for the new trial,
of which the opposite party shall have at least three days
notice.

§ 89. The opposite party shall also have a reasonable no-
tice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is not made
on the day of the former trial, and in the presence of such
party, such notices to be given by the applying party. If the
new trial shall be granted, or the jury be unable to agree,
the proceedings shall be in all respects as upon the return
of the summons.

§ 90. If either the plaintiff or defendant, in their bill of
particulars, claim more than twenty dollars, the case may be
appealed to the court of common pleas; but if neither party
demand a greater sum than twenty dollars, and the case is
tried by jury, there shall be no appeal.

§ 91. If on appeal by the plaintiff, he shall not recover a
larger sum than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest since
the rendition of the judgment before the justice, he shall be
adjudged to pay all costs in the court of common pleas, (in-
cluding a fee of five dollars, to defendant’s attorney,) and in
case the defendant shall demand a set-off greater than twenty
dollars, and he appeal, and do not recover twenty dollars,he
shall in like manner pay all costs in the appellate court, in-
cluding a like fee to plaintiff ’s attorney.

§ 92. Upon the verdict being delivered to the justice, and
before judgment being rendered thereon, each juror shall be
entitled to receive fifty cents at the hands of the successful
party, which shall be taxed in the costs against his adver-
sary. When the jury shall be unable to agree upon a ver-
dict, the same compensation shall be paid them by the party
calling the jury, and the same shall be taxed in the cost bill
against the losing party.

§ 93. In all cases which shall be tried by a jury before a
justice of the peace, either party shall have the right to ex-
cept to the opinion of the justice upon any question of law
arising during the trial of the cause; and when either party
shall allege such exception, it shall be the duty of the jus-
tice to sign and seal a bill, containing such exception, if truly
alleged, with the point decided, so that the same may be
made part of the record in the cause.

ARBITRATIONS.

§ 94. At any time before trial and judgment rendered,
the plaintiff and defendant, consenting thereto, may have

the cause submitted to the arbitrament of ' three disinterested
men, who shall be chosen by the parties ; and if the arbitra-
tors be present, they shall hear and determine the cause on
oath or afiirmation, to be administered by the justice. But
if the persons chosen as arbitrators be not present, the jus-
tice shall issue a summons for them to attend at the time
and place appointed for the trial, which shall be served by
any constable, or the parties, as they may agree. The fees
of arbitrators shall be the same as that paid to jurors.

§ 95. When the arbitrators shall convene and be quali-
fied, they shall proceed to hear and determine the cause, and
make out their award in writing, which shall be valid when
signed by any two of them, and return the same to the jus-
tice ; who shall thereupon enter such award on his docket,
and thereon render judgment and issue execution, as in other
cases.

§ 96' Every judgment rendered on such award, shall con-
clude the rights of the parties thereto; unless it shall be
made to appear to the justice of the peace who rendered
such judgment, and within ten days from the rendition of the
same, or to the court of common pleas, on appeal, that
such award was obtained by fraud, corruption, or other un-

due means.
§ 97. Whenever satisfactory proof shall be adduced be-

fore such justice, within the period aforesaid, that such award
was obtained by fraud, corruption, or other undue means, it
shall be competent for such justice to set aside such, award
and his judgment thereon rendered, and thereupon proceed
to such final trial and judgment, as if such award had never
been made. ,

§ 98. But no appeal shall be allowed to the court of
common pleas, from a judgment of a justice of the peace
rendered on an award, unless the party praying such appeal
shall file with such justice an affidavit, therein stating that
he or she does verily believe that such award was obtained
by fraud, corruption, or other undue means.

§ 99. And if on appeal from the judgment of a justice
rendered on any such award, the court of common pleas shall
be satisfied that the award was obtained by fraud, corrup-
tion, or other undue means, such court shall set aside the
award, and proceed to hear and determine the cause on the
merits, as in other cases of appeal.

§ 100. But if the said court shall be of opinion that the
award was not obtained by fraud, corruption, or other undue
means, they shall render judgment thereon, and for the costs
of suit, and award execution as- in other cases.

TRIAL OF THE RIGHT  PROPERTY LEV IED ON OR ATTACHED.

§ 101. When a constable shall levy on or attach prop
erty, claimed by any person or persons, other than the par-
ty against whom the execution or attachment issued, the
claimant or claimants shall give three days notice in writing,
to the plaintiff or his agent, or if not found withih the coun-
ty, then suchnotice shall be served by leaving a copy thereof
at his usual place of abode in such county, of the time and
place of the trial of the right to such property, which trial
shall be had before some justice of the township at least one
day prior to the time appointed for the sale of such property.

§ 102. If on the trial the justice shall be satisfied from
the probf that the property, or any part thereof, belongs to
the claimant or claimants, such justice shall render judgment

against the party in whose favor such execution or attach-
ment issued for the costs, and issue execution therefor, and

shall, moreover, give a written order to the constable who
levied on, or who may be charged with the duty of selling
such property, directing him to restore the same, or so much
thereof as may have been found to belong to such claimant
or claimants.

§ 103. But if the claimant or claimants fail to establish '
his or their right to such property or to any part thereof, the
justice shall render judgment against such claimant or
claimants for the costs that have accrued on account of such
trial, and issue execution therefor, and the constable shall
not be liable to the claimant or claimants for the property
so taken.

ARTICLE VIII.

JUDGMEN TS.

§ 104. Judgment that the action Fbe dismissed . with-
dut prejudice to a new action may be entered with costs, in
the following cases :

1. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action be-
f'bre it is finally submitted. .

2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the
summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour there—
after.

3. When it is objected at the trial and appears by the ev-
(dence that the action is brought in the wrong township.

§. 105. If the plaintiff fail to appear at the return day of
die summons, and his bill of particulars be not filed and ev.

idence before the justice, the action must be dismissed. If
the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the sum-
mons, or if either party fail to attend at the time to which a
trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary bill of
particulars, or fail in the proof on his part, the cause may
proceed at the request of the adverse party, and judgment
must be given in conformity with the bills of particulars and
)roofs.

I § 106. \Vhen judgment shall have been rendered against
a defendant in his absence, the same may be set aside upon
the following conditions:

1. That his motion be made within ten days after such
judgment was entered. .

2. That he pay or confess judgment for the costs award-
ed against him. ' '

3. That he notify in writing the opposite party, his agent
or attorney, or cause it to be done, of the opening of such
judgment and of the time and place of trial at least five
days before the time, if the party reside in the county, and
if he be not a resident of the county by leaving a written
notice thereof at the oflice of the justice ten days before the
trial. '

§ 107. Upon a verdict the justice must immediately ren-

‘der judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice,
judgment must [be] entered immediately after the close of the
trial if the defendant has been arrested or his property at-
tached; in other cases it must be entered either at the close
of the trial, or if the justice then desire further time to con-
sider, on or by the fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive.
§ 108. When the amount due to either party exceeds the
sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment,
such party may remit the excess and judgment may be en-
tered for the residue. A defendant need not remit such ex-
cess, and may withhold setting the same off, and a recovery
‘for the amount set off and allowed, or any part thereof, shall
not be a bar to his subsequent action for the amount with-
held.

§ 109. If the defendant any time before trial offer in
writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a spe-
cified sum, the plaintiff may immediately have judgment
therefor with the costs then accrued. But if he do not ac-
cept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the ac-
tion a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover costs ac-
crued after the offer; but costs must be adjudged against
him. But the offer and failure to accept it cannot be given
in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to costs
as above provided.

§ 110. Where judgment is rendered in a case where the
defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment, it must be
so stated in the judgment, and entered in his docket.

ARTICLE IX.

APPEALS.

§ 111. In all cases not otherwise specially provided for
by law, either party may appeal from the final judgment
of any justice of the eace to the court of common pleas
of the county, where t, e judgment was rendered.

§ 112. The party appealing shall, within ten days from
the rendition of the judgment, enter into an undertaking to
the adverse party with at least one good and sufficient surety
to be approved of by such justice, in a sum not less than
fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the amount
of the judgment and costs, conditioned: '
' 1. That the appellant will prosecute his appeal to effect,
and without unnecessary delay :

2. That if judgment be adjudged against him on the ap-
peal, he will satisfy such judgment and costs.

Such undertaking need not be signed by the appellant.

§ 113. And the said justice shall make out a certified
transcript of his proceedings, include the undertaking taken
for such appeal, and shall, on demand, deliver the same
to the appellant, or his agent, who shall deliver the same
to the clerk of the court to which such appeal may be
taken, on or before the second day of the term thereof, next
following such appeal; and such justice shall also deliver or
transmit the bill or bills of particulars, the depositions, and
all other original papers, if any, used on the trial before him,
to such clerk, on or before the said second day of such term;
and all further proceedings before the justice of the peace, in
that case, shall cease and he stayed, from the time of enter-
ing into such undertaking.

§ 114. The clerk, on receiving such transcript, and other
papers as aforesaid, shall file the same, and docket the ap-

eal.
p § 115. The plaintiff in the court below shall be plaintiff
in the court of common pleas; and the parties shall proceed,
in all respects, in the same manner as though the action
had been originally instituted in the said court.

§ 116. If the appellant shall fail to deliver the transcript,
and other papers, if any, to the clerk, and have his appeal
docketed as aforesaid, on or before the second day of the
term of the said court next after such appeal, the appel-
lee may, at the same term of said court, file a transcript
of the proceedings and judgment of such justice, and the
said cause shall, on motion of the appellee, be docketed ;
and the court is authorized and required, on his applica-
tion, either to enter up a judgment in his favor, similar to

that entered by the justice of the peace, andfor all the .costs
that have accrued in the court, and award execution thereon;
or such court may, with the consent of such appellee, dis-
miss the appeal, at the cost of the appellant, and remand the
cause to the justice of the peace, to be thereafter proceeded
in as if no appeal had been taken.

§ 117. If the plaintiff, in the action before the justice,
shall appeal from any judgment rendered against such plain-
tiff, and after having filed his transcript and caused such
appeal to be docketed, according to the provisions of this act,
shall fail to file a petition, or otherwise neglect to prosecute
the same to final judgment, so that such plaintiff shall be-
come nonsuit, it shall be the duty of the court to render
judgment against such appellant, for the amount of the
judgment rendered against him by the justice of the peace,
together with interest, accrued thereon, and for costs of .suit,.
and to award execution therefor, as in other cases. .

§ 118. If both parties fail to enter such appeal within
the time limited as aforesaid, the justice, on receiving a cer-
tilicate from the clerk of the court, stating that the ap eal
was not entered, or being entered, was dismissed as a orc-
said, shall thereupon issue execution upon the judgment, in
the same manner as if such appeal had never been taken.

§ 119. If any person appealing from a judgment ren-
dered in his favor, shall not recover a greater sum than the
amount for which judgment was rendered, besides costs and
the interest accruing thereon, every such appellant shall pay
the costs of such appeal.

§ 120. When any appeal shall be dismissed, or when
judgment shall be entered in the court of common pleas
against the appellant, the surety in the undertaking shall be
liable to the appellee for the whole amount of the debt, costs
and damages, recovered against the appellant.

§ 121. When an appeal taken to the court of common
pleas shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in
taking or consummating the same, the cause for quashing
shall be stated in the order of the court, and a transcript
of such order shall be lodged with such justice, who shall
thereupon proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as
if no appeal had been taken.

§ 122. In roceedings on appeal, when the surety in the
undertaking s all be insuflicient, or such undertaking may
be insufficient, in form or amount, it shall be lawful for the
court, on motion, to order a change or renewal of such un-
dertaking, and direct that the same be certified to the justice
from whose judgment the appeal was taken, or that it be re-
corded in said court.

§ 123. Appeals in the following cases shall not be al-
lowed:

I. On judgments rendered on confession:

2. In jury trials where neither party claim in their bill of
particulars a sum exceeding twenty dollars:

3. In the action for the forcible entry and detention, or
forcible detention of real property.

4. In trials of the right of property, under the statutes,
either levied upon by execution or attached.

§ 124. rWhen the term of office of a justice shall expire
between the date of the judgment and the time limited for
appeal, such justice may take the undertaking for appeal, at

\ any time before he has delivered his docket to his successor,

and give the appealing party a transcript. After the delivery,
of the docket, the undertaking shall be given to his successor,
and it shall be his duty to give the transcript and do and per-
form all things required of his predecessor.

 

ARTICLE X.

01" THE ACTION FOR THE FORCIBLE' ENTRY AND DETENTION ,
. OR FORCIBLE DETENTION ONLY OF PROPERTY.

§ 125. Any justice, within his proper county, shall have
power to enquire in the manner hereinafter directed, as well
against those who make unlawful and forcible entry into
lands and tenements, and detain the same, as against those
who having a lawful and peaceable entry into lands or tene-
ments unlawfully, and by force hold the same ; and if it be
found upon such enquiry that an unlawful and forcible entry
has been made, and that the same lands or tenements are
held by force, or that the same, after a lawful entry, are held
unlawfully, then said justice shall cause the party complain-
ing, to have restitution thereof.

{5 126. Proceedings under this Article may be had in all
cases against tenants holding over their terms; in sales of real
estate, on executions, orders, or other judicial process, when
the judgment debtor was in possession at the time of the ren-
dition of the judgment or decree, by virtue of which such
Sale was made ; in sales by executors, administrator, guar-
dians, and on partition, where any of the parties to the peti-
tion were in possession at the commencement of the suit,
after such sales, so made on execution, or otherwise shall
have been examined by the proper court, and the same by
said court adjudged legal; and in cases where the defendant
is a settler, or occupier of lands or tenements, without color
of title, and to which the complainant has the right of pos-
session ; this section not to be construed as limiting the pro-
visions of the first section of this article.

§ 127. Judgments either before the justice, or in the court
of common pleas, under this article, shall notbe abar to any
after action brought by either party.

§ 128. It shall be the duty of the party desiring to com-
' mepce an action under this article, to notify the adverse
party to leave the premises, for the possession of which the'
action is about to be brought, which notice shall be served
at least three days before commencing the action, by leaving
a written copy with the defendant or at his usual place of
abode, if he cannot be found.

§ 129. The summons shall not issue herein until the
plaintiff shall have filed his complaint in writing with the
justice, which shall particularly describe the premises so en:
tered upon or detained, and shall set forth either an unlaw-
ful and forcible entry and detention, or an unlawful and
forcible detention after a peaceable or lawful entry of the de-
scribed premises. The complaint shall be copied into and
made a part of the record.

§ 130. The summons shall be issued and directed, shall
state the cause of complaint, and the time and place of trial,
shall be served and returned as -in other cases; such service
shall be three days before the day of trial appointed by the
justice. .

§ 131. If the defendant does not appear in accordance
with the requisitions of the summons, and it shall have been
properly served, the justice shall try the cause as though he
was present.

§ 132. No continuance shall be granted for a longer pe-
riod than eight days, unless the defendant applying therefor,
shall give an undertaking to the adverse party, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by the justice, condi-
tioned for the payment of the rent that may accrue, if judg-
ment be rendered against the defendant.

§ 133. 'If the suit be not continued, place of trial changed,
or neither party demand a jury upon the return day of the
summons, the justice shall try the cause; and if, after hearing
the evidence, he shall conclude that the complaint is not
true, he shall enter judgment against the plaintiff for costs ;
if he find the complaint true, he shall render a general judg-
ment against the defendant and in favor of the plaintiff for
restitution of the premises and costs of suit; if he find the
complaint true in part, he shall render a judgment for the
restitution of such part only, and the costs shall be tax ed as
the justice shall deem just and equitable.

§ 134. If a jury be demanded by either party, the pro-
ceedings, until the empanneling thereof, shall be in all re-
spects as in other cases. The jury shall be sworn or affirm-
ed, to well and truly try and determine whether the complaint
of [naming the p1aintifl',] about to be laid before them, is
true according to the evidence. If the jury shall find the
complaint true, they shall render a general verdict of guilty
against the defendant; if not true, then a general verdict of

not guilty; if true in part, then a verdict setting forth the
facts they find true.

§ 135. The justice shall enter the verdict upon his docket,
and shall render such judgment in the action as if the facts
authorizing the finding of such verdict had been found to be
true by himself. .

§ 136. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in cases
under this Article, upon questions of law and evidence,
may be taken by either party, whether tried by jury or other-
w1se. ’

§ 137. Where a judgment of restitution shall be entered
by a justice, he shall, at the request of the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, issue a writ of execution thereon, which shall be
in the following form, as near as practicable:

The State of Ohio, county:
To any Constable of township:

Whereas, in a certain action for the forcible entry and deten-
tion, (or the forcible detention, as the case may be,) of the
following described premises, to wit: , lately tried be-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fore me, wherein was plaintiff, and was
defendant, judgment was rendered on the day
of , A. D. , that the plaintid' have restitution of said

 

 

 

Vomises; and also that he recover costs in the sum of .
ou, therefore are hereby commanded to cause the defend-
ant to be forthwith removed from-said premises, and the said
plaintiff to have restitution of the same ; also that you levy
of the goods and chattels of the said defendant, and make
the costs aforesaid, and all accruing costs, and of this writ
make legal service and due return.

Witness my hand this day of , A. D. -———.

 

 

 

 

Justice of the Peace.

§ 138. The officer shall, within ten days after receiving
the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintiff to the
possession of the premises, and shall levy and collect the
costs and make return, as upon other executions. If the
officer shall receive a notice from the justice that the pro-
ceedings have been stayed, by an allowance of a writ of
error, he shall immediately delay all further proceedings
uponthe execution ; and if the premises have been restored
to the plaintiff, he shall immediately place the defendant
in the possession thereof, and return the writ with his pro.
ceedings and costs taxed thereon.

ARTICLE XI.

OF THE REPLEVIN OF PROPERTY.

§ 139. The plaintiff may recover the possession of spe-
cific ersonal property of less value than one hundred dol-
lars, liefore a justice of the peace, as herein provided.

§ 140. An action for this purpose, shall not be brought
until there is filed in the oflice of the justice, an affidavit of
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing: .

l. A description of the property claimed:

2. That the plaintiff is the owner thereof, or has a special
ownership therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and
that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the pro-

er :
p 3?, That the property is wrongfully detained by the de-
fendant :

4. That it was not taken in execution on any order or

judgment against said plaintiff, or for the payment of any
tax, fine or amercement assessed against him, or by virtue of
an order of delivery issued under this article, or any other
mesne or final process issued against said plaintiff. '
. § 141. U on such affidavit being made and filed with the
' justice, he s all issue a summons as in other cases, but in
addition commanding the constable immediately to seize
and take into his custody, wherever they may be found in the
county, the goods and chattels mentioned in the aflidavit,
and deliver the same to the laintiif.

§ 142. The constable s all execute the writ by taking
the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a
copy of the summons to the persons charged with the unlaw-
ful detention of property, or leave such copy at his usual
place of residence, and shall make return of the time and
manner of service, the appraisement of the property and any
undertaking taken by him.

§ 143. The constable shall not deliver to the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, the property so taken until there has been
executed by one or more suflicient sureties of the plaintiff,
a written undertaking to the defendant in at least double the
value of the property taken ; but in no case less than fifty
dollars, to the effect that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the
action and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him. ’

§ 144. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the
undertaking, the value of the property taken shall be ascer-
tained by the oath of two responsible persons, whom the
constable shall swear truly to assess the value thereof.

§ 145. Whenever the appraised value of the property so
taken, shall exceed one hundred dollars, the Justice shall
certify the proceedings upon the said writ to the court of
common pleas of his county, and thereupon shall file the
original papers, together with a certified transcript of his
docket entries in the clerk’s office of said court, the case
there to he proceeded in as if such suit had commenced in
said court.

§ 146. If the undertaking required by section one hun-
dred and forty-three be not given within twenty-four hours
‘ from the taking of the property under said order, the ofiieer
shall return the property to the defendant. And if the
officer deliver any property so taken, to the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, or keep the same from the defendant,
without taking such security within the time aforesaid, or if
he take insufficient security, he shall be liable to the defend-
ant in damages.

§ 147. If the property have been delivered to the plain-
tiff, and judgment be rendered against him, or of he other-
wise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the jus-
tice shall, on application of the defendant, or his attorney,
implannel a jury to inquire into the right of property and
rig t of possession of the defendant to the property taken.
if the jury shall be satisfied the said property was the prop-
ty of the defendant at the commencement of the action, or
if they shall find that the defendant was entitled to the pos-
session only of the same, at such time, then, and in either
case, they shall assess such damages for the defendant, as
are right and proper, for which, with costs of suit, the justice
shall render judgment for the defendant.

§ 148. In all cases, when the property has been deliver-
ed to the plaintiff where the jury shall find for the defendant,
they shall also find, whether the defendant had the right of
. property, or the right of possession only, at the cemmence-
ment of the suit; and if they find either in his favor, they
shall assess such damages, as they think right and proper
for the defendant, for which, with costs of suit, the court shall
render judgment for the defendant.

§ 149. In all cases, when the preperty has been delivered
to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on
trial, or on inquiry of damages, they shall assess adequate
damages to the plaintiff for the illegal detention of the prop-
erty, for which, with costs of suit, the justice shall render
judgment against the defendant.

§ 150. When the property claimed, has not been taken,
or has been returned to the defendant, for want of the under-
taking required by section one hundred and forty-three, the
action may proceed as one for damages only, and the plain-
tiff shall be entitled to such damages as are right and prop-
er; but if the property be returned for want of the undertaking

required by said section, the plaintiff shall pay all costs made
by taking the same.

§ 151. The constable in executing the writ, may break
open any building, or enclosure, in which the property claim-
ed, or any part thereof, is concealed; but not until he has
been refused an entrance into said building, or enclosure,
and the delivery of the property, after having demanded the
same.

§ 152. No suit shall be instituted. on the undertaking
given under section one hundred and forty-three before an
execution issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in ‘
in the action, shall have been returned, that suliicient prop-
erty, whereon to levy and make the amount of such judg-
ment, cannot be found in the county.

§ 153. If any justice shall issue. a writ to replevin prop-
erty, as is provided by this article, without the affidavit being
made and filed in his office, as is provided in section one
hundred and forty, the same shall be set aside at his costs,
and he shall be liable in damages to the party injured.

ARTICLE XII.

EXECUTION — RETURN —STAY OF EXECUTION — NOTICE OF
SALE — DELIVERY —UN DERTAKIN G.

§ 154. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
before a justice of the peace (except when it has been taken
to’the common pleas on error, or appeal, or docketed there-
in, or during the time it may he stayed, as provided by this
act,) may issue ,by the justice before whom the judgment was
rendered, or by his successor in office, on the application of
the party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from
the entry of the judgment, or the date of the last execution
issued thereon.. '

§ 155. It shall be the duty of the justice, if the case be
not appealed, taken up on error, docketed in the common
pleas, or bail has not been given for the stay of execution at
the expiration of ten days from the entry of the judgment,
to issue execution without a demand, and proceed to collect
the judgment, unless otherwise directed by the judgment
creditor.

§ 156. Any person against whom judgment may be ren-
dered under the provisions of this act, except as hereinafter
excepted, may have stay of execution for the several periods
hereinafter mentioned, by entering into an undertakingto

the adverse party, within ten days after the rendition of such
judgment, with good and sufficient surety, resident of the
county, as the justice shall approve, conditioned for the pay-
ment of the amount of such judgment, interest and costs,
and costs that may accrue ; which undertaking shall be en-
tered on the docket of the justice, and be signed by the surety.
§ 157. The stay of execution hereby authorized, shall he
graduated as follows, namely:
. First: On any judgment for five dollars and under, the
stay shall be for sixty days.

Second : On any judgment exceeding five dollars, and
under twenty dollars, the stay shall be for ninety days.

Third: On any judgment for twenty dollars, and under
fifty dollars, the stay shall be for one hundred and fifty days.

Fourth: On any judgment for fifty dollars or upwards, the
stay shall be for two hundred and forty days.

Fifth: Where judgment is obtained against a surety, and
he takes a stay thereon, and he obtains judgment against
the principal, stay of execution must be allowed on the judg-
ment against the principal only so long that the stay will
expire one month before that allowed to the surety on the
judgment against him. ,

§ 158. No stay of execution on judgments rendered in
the following cases, shall be allowed:

1. On judgments rendered against justices of the peace
for refusing to pay over money by them collected, or received
in their official capacity.

2. On judgments against justices for not reporting annu-
ally to the auditor all fines, as required by law.

3. On any judgment rendered against a constable for fall-
ing to make return, making a false return, or refusing to pay
over money collected in his official capacity.

4. On judgments against bail for the stay of execution.

5. Where judgment is rendered in favor of bail who have
been compelled by judgment to pay money on account of
their principal.

6. On judgments obtained by constables on undertakings
executed to them for the delivery of property.

§_ 159. If the execution issued before the undertaking for
stay, or that required in case of appeal be given, and such
undertaking be given afterwards, and within the time allow-
ed, the justice shall recall the execution.

§ 160. Where any person who has become bail for stay
of execution, shall remove before the expiration of such
stay, into any other county or State, the justice shall, on
demand, issue execution against the goods and chattels of
the defendant, or other party against whom the original judg-
ment was rendered, to be proceeded with as in other cases.

§ 161. When any surety for the stay of execution shall
become apprehensive that by delaying the execution until

the expiration of the full time of such stay, he or she may
be compelled to pay the judgment, it shall be lawful for such
surety to make and file afiidavit of that fact, before the jus-
tice on whose docket the judgment is entered; whereupon,
such justice shall issue execution against the judgment debt-
or, which shall be proceeded in as in other cases: Provided,
such bail shall not thereby be discharged from liability, but
may he proceeded against after the expiration of the term of
stay, in the same manner as if execution had not issued as
aforesaid.

§ 162. If the judgment debtor shall, within ten days after
levying such execution, enter into a farther undertaking for
the stay of execution, during so much of the first stay as
remains then unexpired, and shall pay the costs of the exe—
cution issued against him, as aforesaid, it shall be the duty
of the justice to take such further undertaking, and recall
the execution; and the person who last became surety, shall
first he proceeded against, until it shall appear, by the return
of the constable, that he or she has no goods and chattels
whereon to levy, before proceedings shall be instituted on
the undertaking first given.

_ § 163. When any judgment shall be obtained against
any person who shall have entered himself bail on the dock-
et of any justice of the peace, agreeably to the provisions of
this act, the original judgment shall remain good and valid
in law, for the use of such bail; who, at any time thereafter,

' may sue out execution, on such judgment, against the goods
and chattels of the defendant, for the use of such bail, which
shall be so endorsed by the justice : and such bail shall also
be entitled to a transcript of such judgment, for his own use;
which shall have the same force and effect as transcripts in
other cases.

§ 164. At any time before the stay shall expire, if the

‘ justice taking the surety, or his successor in office, shall
become satisfied that the surety is insufficient, it shall be his
duty to cause written notice thereof to be given to the de-
fendant, or if he be absent, that the same be left at his resi-
dence, requiring him to give additional surety. If such
defendant shall not have given such additional surety, on
or by the third day after the giving of such notice, such fact
shall be entered on the docket, and he shall immediately
issue execution against the defendant for the collection of
the judgment. If within ten days after the issuing of such
execution, surety to the satisfaction of the justice be given,
the execution shall be recalled and stayed until the expira-
tion of the original stay.

§ 165. The execution must be directed to a constable of

' the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judg-
ment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and must
bear date the day of its delivery to the ollicer, to be execu-

ted. It must intelliginy refer to the judgment by stating the
names of the parties and the name of the justice before
whom, and of the county and township where, and the time
when it was rendered, the amount of the judgment, and if
less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It
must require the constable substantially as follows :

1. If it be a case where the defendant cannot be arrest-
ed, it must direct the officer to collect the amount of the
judgment out of the personal property of the debtor, and pay
the same to the party entitled thereto.

2. If it be a case where any of the judgment debtors are
certified on the docket as surety, it shall command that the
money be made of the personal property of the principal
debtor, and for want thereof, of the personal property of the
surety. In such cases, the personal property of the princi-
pal subject to execution within the jurisdiction shall be ex-
hausted before any of the property of the bail shall be taken
in eXecution.

3. If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested,
in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if suf-
ficient pro erty of the defendant subject to the execution
cannot be ound to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest the
debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he pay
the judgment, or be discharged according to law, unless the
execution be accompanied by an order of arrest, as provided
in sections twenty-six and twenty-seven.

4. It must in all cases direct the officer to make return of
the execution and a certificate thereon, showing the manner
in which he has executed the same, in thirty days from the
time of his receipt thereof.

§ 166. Upon an execution on a judgment against joint
debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons was not
served, the execution must contain a direction to collect the
amount out of the joint property of all the defendants, or
the separate property of the persons upon whom the sum-
mons was served, to be specified by name. If such judg-
ment bealso such that the defendants are subject to arrest
thereon, the justice must further specify the names of those
defendants served with the summons, who may be arrested
for want of property.

§ 167. A constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest a
debtor, or after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the
return day, subject only to his liability for an escape, or for
omitting to arrest if he fail to have either the money or the
person of the debtor in custody at the expiration of the thir-
t (18. 's.

y§ 368. It shall be lawful for the sheriff or jailor, receiv-
ing any person imprisoned on eXecution issued in any civil
proceeding at any time when there is no money in his hands
to pay for the sustenance of such prisoner, to discharge him

him from prison. The jailer may, however, detain such
prisoner, the adverse party being liable for such sustenance.

§ 169. The debtor committed as herein provided, may be
held in prison ten days, and if he be a person without a fam-
ily, for which he provides, one day in addition for every dol-
lar over ten due on the execution, or if he have a family for
which he provides, one day in addition for every two dollars
over twenty due on the execution.

§ 170. The aflidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that he
has a family for which he provides, specifying by name, one
or more persons, members of such family, and the place of
their residence, is sufiici'ent evidence thereof to authorize his

discharge by the jailer.

' § 171. A constable is liable to the party in whose favor
an execution issued to him for the amount thereof, in the fol-
lowing cases :

1. Where he suffers thirty days to elapse without making
a true return thereof to the justice, and paying to him, or to
the party entitled, the money collected thereon by him.

2. Where he wilfully and carelessly omits to levy on pro-
perty within thirty days, or if the defendant be liable to be
imprisoned, then to arrest and commit him to the jail of the.
county within thirty days.

§ 172. When an execution shall be returned unsatisfied
for the want of goods and chattels, the justice shall, unless
otherwise directed by the party for whom the execution
issued, commence an action on the undertaking for the stay
of execution, and so soon as judgment is obtained thereon
shall issue execution, and if such execution be returned un-
satisfied in whole or in part for want of goods and chattels
of the bail whereon to levy, then the plaintiff may demand
and have execution on the original judgment for the amount
remaining due. ' - .

§ 173. Where bail is given for the stay of execution, and
the defendant against whom the judgment was rendered shall
die before the same is satisfied, the creditor may proceed
against the surety in the undertaking in like manner as if
execution had been issued against the defendant, and return-
ed not satisfied for want of goods and chattels whereon to
levy.

SALE ON EXECUTION.

§ 174. All property taken in execution under the provis-
ions of this act, shall be advertised for sale, at four of the most
public places within the township where such property was
seized, at least ten days previous to the time appointed for
such sale, which sale shall be held between the hours of ten
o’clock, A. M., and four o’clock, P. M., at the house, or on
the premises, where such property was taken, or at one of x
the most public places within the township.

§ 175. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace
who-issued the execution, nor for the constable holding the
execution, to purchase either directly or indirectly, any prop-
erty sold on such execution. And any justice or constable
who shall offend against the provisions of this section, shall
forfeit and pay, for every such offence, any sum not exceed-
ing one hundred dollars, nor less than five dollars ; to be re—
covered by civil action, in the name of the State of Ohio,
before any court having jurisdiction thereof, for the use of
the township where such oifencc was committed; and shall
moreover be liable to the action of the party injured thereby.

§ 176. When any cattle or other live stock shall be taken
in execution,it shall be the duty of the justice who issued
. the execution, or other justice charged with the duty of col-
lecting the judgment, whereon such execution issued, to al-
low the constable, for keeping of the same, a reasonable

compensation; to be taxed and collected as other costs in
the suit. -

'§ 177. When a constable shall levy on and sell any goods
and chattels, he shall make out and annex to his return to
the execution, in virtue of which such sale was made, a true
inventory of all such property, and of each article thereof,
and the price at which the same was sold; and for each and
every neglect to return a true and accurate schedule or in-
ventory of property sold, or remaining unsold for want of
bidders, or other just cause, and if sold, the price at which
the same was sold; each and every constable guilty of such
neglect, shall forfeit and pay, on conviction thereof, any sum
not exceeding one hundred dollars ; to be recovered by
action in the name of the State of Ohio, for the use of the

party injured thereby, to be prosecuted before any court
aving cognizance thereof. °

§ 178. Where a constable shall have levied on any goods
and chattels which remain unsold for want of bidders, or
other just cause, it shall be his duty to return with the execu-
tion a schedule of all such goods and chattels. And the
justice shall, unless otherwise directed by the party for
whom such execution issued, or his agent, immediately there-
after, issue an order, thereby commanding any constable to
whom the same may be directed or delivered, to expose such
property to sale; which sale, and the proceedings thereon,
shall ‘be the same as if such property had been sold on the
original execution.

§ 179. Any constable having levied on goods and chattels,
of which he permits the party against whom the execution
issued to retain the possession, is hereby authorized to take
such security for his own indemnity as he may requiregthat

such property shall be delivered at the time and place ap-
pointed for the sale thereof.

aunt.-

I‘k

l
l
l

§.180. In all cases where any lands may [have] been let,
reserving rent in kind, and when the crops or emblements
growing or grown thereon, shall be levied on or attached, by
virtue of any execution, attachment or other process, against
the landlord or tenant, the interest of such landlord or tenant
against whom such process was not issued, shall not be af-
fected thereby; but the same may be sold, subject to the
claim or interest of the landlord or tenant against whom such
process did not issue.

§ 181. In cases where the constable shall make it appear
to the satisfaction of the justice, that he has been deprived of
an opportunity of levying an execution within the time pre-
scribed by this act, or otherwise prevented from making the
whole of the money therein required to be made, and shall-
make return to the justice who issued the same to that effect,
such justice is hereby authorized and required to issue fur-
ther process of execution, for the amount or balance remain-
ing unsatisfied; which shall be served and returned, in .all
respects, as other executions are under this act.

 

ARTICLE XIII.
or CONSTABLES AND THEIR DUTIES.

§ 182. Constables shall be elected for the term of one
year, and shall continue in ofiice until their successors are
elected and qualified. '

§ 183. Every constable, before he enters upon the duties
of his oilice, shall take an oath, or affirmation, before a per-
son authorized to administer the same, to support the consti-
tution of the State of Ohio, and faithfully to discharge his
duties as constable during his continuance in office, accord-
ing to the best of his skill and ability.‘

§ 184. Every constable, within ten days after his election,
and before he shall take the oath of office, shall give an un-
dertaking to the State of Ohio, in a sum nOt exceeding two
thousand dollars, nor less than five hundred dollars,with one
or more sureties, resident in the proper townshi , such as the
trustees thereof shall approve, conditioned for the safe-keep-
ing, and paying over to the proper person, or authority, all
moneys which may be collected or received by him, or which
may otherwise come into his hands by virtue of his oflice,
and for the due, honest and faithful discharge, and perform-
ance of all and singular, his duties as such constable ac-
cording to law, during his continuance in oihce.

§ 185. When such undertaking shall have been given to
the satisfaction of the township trustees, the township clerk
shall make an entry of the same, and file the same in his

office.

§ 186. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the oflice of
constable in any township by death, removal, resignation, or
non-acceptance of the person elected, or where there shall
be a failure to elect, the township trustees shall appoint a
suitable person to fill such vacancy until the next annual
election for constable, and until a successor be elected and
qualified.

§ 187. The constable so appointed, shall take a like oath
and give a like undertaking as is required in other cases of
constables.

§ 188. A justice of the peace may appoint a constable or
constables for a special purpose, either in civil or criminal

cases, whenever such appointment may become necessary,
in the following cases :

1. Where there is no constable in the township :

2. In the case of disability of one of the regular consta-
bles in the township :

3. Where the constable therein is a party to the suit:

4. When from the pressure of official business, the con-
stables therein are not enabled to perform the duties re-
quired by the oflice.

The justice making the appointment, shall make a memo-
randum thereof on his docket, and shall require the person
appointed to take an oath, as required in other cases.

§ 189. The person so appointed by the justice, after
taking such oath, shall have the same authority, be subject
to the same penalties and entitled to the' same fees as other
constables.

§ 190. Such justice shall stand as surety, and shall be in
that character liable, he and his sureties, for any neglect of

duty or any illegal proceedings on the part of such constable
so by him appointed.

§ 191. All constables shall be ministerial officers in jus-
tices’ courts, in their respective townships, in civil cases, and
in their respective counties, in criminal cases, and civil pro-
cess may be executed by them throughout the the county,
under the restrictions and provisions of the law.

§ 192. It shall be the duty of every constable to serve
and execute all warrants, writs, precepts, executions, and
other process to him directed and delivered, and in all res-
pects whatever to do and perform all things pertaining to the
office of constable. ‘

§ 193. In discharging their duties, constables may call to
their aid the power of the county, or such assistance as may
be necessary.

§ 194. It shall be the duty of every constable to make
due return of all process to him directed and delivered, at
the proper ofiice and on the proper return day thereof; or
if the judgment be docketed in the common pleas, appealed

or stayed, upon which he has an execution, on notice to re-
turn the execution, stating thereon such fact.

§ 195. It shall be the duty of every constable, on the re-
ceipt of any writ or_ other process, (subpcenas excepted,) to
note thereon the time of receiving the same ; he shall also
state in hi return on the same, the time and manner of exe-
cuting it.
_ § 196. No constable shall make a return on any process

of “ Not found,” as to any defendant, unless he shall have
been once at least to the usual place of residence of the de-

fendant, if such defendant have any in the county.
' § 197. It shall be the duty of every constable to appre-
hend on view or warrant, and bring to justice, all felons and
disturbers and violators of the criminal laws of this State, to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlanul assemblies, which
may come to his knowledge, and generally to keep the peace
in his proper county.

§ 198. In serving all process either civil or criminal, and
in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise restricted
by law, the authority of a constable shall extend throughout
the whole county in which he may be appointed ; and in ex-
ecuting and serving process issued by a justice of the peace,
he shall have and exercise the same authority and powers
over goods and chattels, and the persons of parties as is
granted by law to a sheriff or coroner under like process

issued from courts of record.
' § 199. When it shall become the duty of the constable to
take the body of any person to the jail of the county, he
shall deliverI to the sheriff or jailor a certified copy of the ex-
ecution, commitment or other process, whereby he holds such
person in custody, and return the original to the justice who
issued the same; which copy shall be suiiicient authority
to the sheriff or jailor to keep the prisoner in jail, until dis-
charged by due course of law.

§ 200. Constables shall pay over to the party- entitled
thereto, all money received by them in their oflicial capacity,
if demand be made by such party, his agent or attorney, at
any time before he returns the writ upon which he has- re-
ceived it ; if not paid over by that time,he shall pay the same
to the justice when he returns the writ.

§ 201. Constables shall be liable to ten per cent. penalty
upon the amount of damages for which judgment may be
entered against them for failing to make return, making a
false return, or failing to pay over money by them collected,
or received in their official capacity, and such judgment must
include, in addition to the damages and costs, the penalty
herein provided.

ARTICLE XIV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 202. The provisions of the act entitled “ An act to es—
tablish a code of civil procedure,” passed March 11, 1853,
which are in their nature applicable to the jurisdiction and
proceedings before justices, and in respect to which no spe-
cial provision is made by statute, are applicable to the pro—
ceedings before justices of the peace. ‘

§ 203. Every justice of the peace must keep a book de-
nominated a docket, which shall be furnished by the trustees
of the roper township, which must be entered by him :

l. The title of every action in which the writ is served
or when the parties voluntarily appear:

2. The date of the writ, the time of its return, and if an
order to arrest the defendant or attach roperty was made,
such fact must be stated, together wit the aflidavit upon
Which such order was made:

3. The filing of the bill of particulars of either party
and nature thereof, and when not of too great length, the
same shall be entered at length on the docket:

4. Which of the parties, if either of them, appear at the
trial:

5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application,
whether on oath, or consent, and to what time :

6. When trial by jury is demanded, the demand must be
stated, and by whom made, the names of the jurors selected,
and the time appointed for the trial : ‘

7. The names of the jurors who appear and of those
sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose re-

uest : ‘ .
q 8. The exceptions to the ruling of the Justice on questions
of law taken by either party:

9. The verdict of the jury, and when received ; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, that fact must be stated :

10. The judgment of the justice, specifying the items of
costs included, and the time when rendered :

11. The issuing of execution and orders to sell, when
issued, and to whom, the renewals thereof, if any, when
made, the return, and when made, and a statement of any
money lipid to the justice, and by whom:

12. be giving of a transcript, to be filed in the clerk’s
oilice, and when given:

13. If appeal be taken, the undertaking and the time of
entering into the same, and by which party taken :

14. The undertaking for stay of execution, and time of
giving the same : i

15. The satisfaction of the judgment, and the time of
satisfying the same. . .

§ 204. The several particulars in the last section speci-
fied, must be entered under the title of the action to which
they relate, and at the time when occurred—(except that bills
of exceptions, in regard to the ruling 0n questions of law or
evidence, need not be entered until after the judgment, un-
less required by the justice or one of the parties.) Such
entries in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified
by the justice or his.successor in office, shall be evidence to
prove the facts stated therein. -

§ 205. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties to
each judgment, with reference to the page of the entry ; the
names of the plaintiffs must be entered in the index in the
alphabetical order of the .first letter of the family names;
he shall number the cases progressively upon his docket, and
shall correspondingly number the papers in each case; he
shall keep the entire papers in each action together, and in
packages of a proper and convenient size, and in the order
in which the cases are numbered on his docket.

§ 206. It is the duty of every justice upon the ex iration
of his term of office, to deposit with his successor, is offi-
cial docket, as well his own as those of his predecessors,
which may be in his custody, together with all files and pa-

ers, laws and statutes, pertaining to his office, there to be
kept as public records and property. If there be no suc-
cessor elected and qualified, or if the oflice become vacant
by death, removal from the township or otherwise before his
successor is elected and qualified, the dockets and papers in
‘ the possession of such justice must be deposited with the
nearest justice in the township, if any there be, and if there
be none, then with the nearest in the county, there to be kept
until a successor shall be chosen and qualified, then to be
delivered over to such successor on request.

§ 207. A justice receiving by succession, or on deposit,
’ any such docket, papers and laws, shall, if requested, give
a receipt therefor to the person from whom he receives the
same. '

§ 208. The justice with whom the docket of another may
be deposited, either during a vacancy, or as the successor is
. hereby authorized, while having such docket legally in his
possession, to issue execution on any judgment there enter-
ed, and unsatisfied, and not docketed in the court of common
pleas, in the same manner and with the same effect as the
justice by whom the judgment was rendered, might have
done; to take bail in a peal, or for stay of execution, to issue
certified transcripts o judgments on such docket, and pro—
ceed in all cases in like manner, as if the same had been
originally had, or instituted before him.

§ 209. When two or more justices are equally entitled to
be deemed the successor. in otlice of a justice, the trustees
of the township shall designate which justice is to be deemed
the successor of the justice going out of oflice, or whose
office has become vacant, and shall enter a certificate in the
last docket of the justice going out of office or whose office
is vacant, of their determination, before the same is deliv-
ered to such successor.

§ 210. In case of the sickness or other disability or neces-
sary absence of a justice at the time appointed for trial,
another justice of the same township may, at his request,
attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested .with
the power for the time being of the justice before whom the
summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of
the proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by

- him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom
the writ was returnable. If the case be adjourned the jus-
tice before whom the summons was returnable must resume
jurisdiction. ‘

§ 211. The summons, execution, and every other paper
made or issued by a justice, must be filled u without a
blank to be filled by another, otherwise it is voi .

§ 212. A justice at the request of a party, and on being
satisfied that it is ex edient, may specially depute any dis-
creet person of suita le age, and not interested in the action,
to serve a summons or execution, with or without an order
to arrest the defendant or to attach property. Such deputa-
tion must be in writing on the process. '

§ 213. The person so deputed has the authority of a con-

’ stable in relation to the service, execution and return of
such process, and is subject to the same obligations, but
there can be no fee for his services taxed in the bill of costs.

§ 214. A justice may punish, as for a contempt, persons
guilty of the following acts, and no others:

1. Disorderl , contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward
the justice, ten ing to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial roceeding before him:

2. A breacK of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceeding :

3. Wilful resistance in the presence of the justice, to the
execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by
him.

. § 215. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such jus- ,
tice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and
brought before the justice, when an opportunity to be heard
in his defence or excuse must be given. The justice may
thereupon discharge him, or may convict him for the offence,
and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, or both;

such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such imprison-
ment ten days. ‘

§ 216. The conviction, specifying particularly the offence
and the judgment thereon, must be entered in his docket; a
warrant of commitment to the jail of the county until the
the fine be paid, or for the term of imprisonment, may then
be issued; such warrant must contain a transcript of the
entry in the docket, and the same must be executed by any
constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailor of the
count '.
, § 2i7. When a person intending to bring an action be-
; fore a justice of the peace is a non-resident of the township
in which he intends to commence such action, the justice
may, previous to his issuing process, require such person to
give security for the costs of suit, which may be done by de-
positing a sum of money deemed by the justice to be suffi-
cient to discharge the costs that may accrue in the action, or
by giving an undertaking with surety approved by the jus-
tice, payable to the adverse party, for the payment of all costs
that may accrue in the action. '

§ 218. If any plaintiff or plaintiffs after commencing an
action before a justice in the township in which he or they
reside, remove out of the county, the justice may re-
quire such plaintiff or plaintiffs to deposit a sum of money
equal to the costs that have accrued and that probably will
accrue, or require in place thereof that such party give suffi-
cient surety for all costs which have accrued or which may
accrue in the action, and in default to do either shall enter a
nonsuit against the plaintiff or plaintiffs.
, § 219. That in all actions instituted before a justice of

the peace founded upon any bond, sealed bill, promissory
note, or other instrument of writing for the payment of asum
of money certain, upon which the whole amount of money
therein promised is due, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, to file said bond, sealed bill, promis—
sory note, or other written evidence of indebtedness, upon
which such suit is brought with such justice of the peace ;
and if upon the trial, judgment shall be entered thereon, in
favor of the plaintiff, such bond, sealed bill, promissory note,
or instrument of writing shall be retained by the justice so
‘ rendering judgment, who shall endorse thereon the sum for
which he shall have entered judgment, (provided the same
shall in nowise exceed one hundred dollars, unless judgment
thereon shall have been confessed,) and shall subscribe his
name thereto. And upon payment or tender of the amount
of such payment, together with the costs accruing thereon,_
or securing the payment of the same by putting in bail for
‘7 the stay of execution, it shall not be lawful for the plaintiff
to institute any other suit or suits upon said bond, sealed
bill, promissory note, or other instrument of writing, for the

recovery of any farther sum or sums, the payment, of which
is secured by the same bond, sealed bill, promissory note,
or other written evidence of indebtedness: Provided, that
when an appeal shall be taken from the judgment of such
justice, it shall be his duty to deliver or transmit any bond,
scaled bill, promissory note, or other written evidence pro-
ducedbefone him on trial, to the clerk of the court of com-
mon pleas, to which such cause shall have been appealed,
on or before the second day of the term of the court next
after taking such appeal: Provided, also, that nothing here-
in contained shall be construed to lessen or in any wise
affect the right which any creditor now have to demand from
any justice of the peace, any joint and several obligations
for the purpose of prosecuting any party to said obligation
other than the party against whom judgment may have been
rendered.

§ 220. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace
to purchase any judgment upon any docket in his posses-
sion, and for so doing for every such offence such justice
shall forfeit and pay a bum not more than fifty nor less than
ten dollars, to be recovered by an action before any court
having jurisdiction thereof, and when collected shall be paid
into the treasury of the township where such offence was
committed. ‘.

§ 221. The provisions of this act do not apply to pro-
ceedings in actions or suits ending when it takes efi'cct.
They shall be conducted to nal judgment and determina-
. tion in all respects as if it had not been adopted.

ARTICLE XV.

§ 222. The act defining the powers and duties 0f justices
of the peace, and constables, passed March 14th, 1831, and
acts amendatory thereto, passed December 31st, 1831, Feb-
ruary 25, 1833, March 3d, 1834, March 12th, 1844, February
17th, 1846, February 8th, 1847, February 24th, 1848, March
23d, 1849, the act allowing jurors before justices of the
peace, passed February 14th, 1840, and acts amendatory
thereof, passed March 4th, 1845, February 23d, 1846, the act
allowing and regulating attachments before justices of the
peace, passed January 7th, 1824, and acts amendatory there-
of, passed January 16th, 1839, February 6th,.and March
14th, 1850, the act to revive certain acts therein .named,
passed March 12th, 1845, sections one, five and six of an act
to regulate proceedings before justices of the peace, passed
March 24, 1849, and an act defining the duties of justices of

