// is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows:
Section 1. The forms of writs of arrest, original sum
mons, executions and other writs herein after mentioned, to be
used in the several courts of this state, shall be substantially
as follows, to wit :
Writ of Arrest.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. —To the Sheriffs of our several counties or to
their deputies greeting :
We command you to arrest the body of (if may
be found in your precinct) and for want of body to at
tach goods and chattels to the value of dol
lars, and or those in safe custody keep, to answer the com
plaint of at the next court of common pleas to be holden
at within and for our said county of on the
Monday of next ensuing the date hereof, in an action
of as by declaration to be filed in court will be fully set
forth : to the damage of the plaintiff dollars. Hereof
fail not, and make true return of this writ with your doings
thereon. Witness, Esq. at this day of
in the year Clerk.
Writ of Summons.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. —To the Sheriffs of our several counties or io
their deputies greeting :
We command you to summon (if may be found
in your precinct) to answer the complaint of at the
next court of common pleas to be holden at within and
for our said county of on the Monday of next
ensuing the date hereof, in an action of as by declara
tion to be filed in court will be fully set forth : to the damage
of the plaintiff dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true
return of this writ with your doings thereon. Witness,
Esq. at this day of in the year Clerk.
Execution.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc.—To the Sheriffs of our several counties or to
their deputies greeting:
Whereas of by the consideration of our court
of holden at within and for our county of
on the Monday of recovered judgment against
of for the sum of debt or damages and
costs of suit, as to us appears of record, whereof exe
cution remains to be done : we command you, therefore, that
of the goods and chattels of the said within your pre
cinct, you cause to be levied and paid unto the said the
aforesaid sums, being in the whole, with twenty-five
cents more for this writ ; and thereof also to satisfy yourself
for your own fees : and for want of the goods and chattels of
the said to be found in your precinct, to satisfy and pay
the same as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of
the said and commit unto our jail in in our
county of therein to be kept until pay the full sums
above mentioned, with your fees, or that be discharged
by the said or otherwise by order of law. Hereof fail
not, and make true return of this writ and of your doings
thereon, to our next to be holden at within and
for our county of on the Monday of next.
Witness, Esq. at this day of in the
year
Clerk.
Execution on judgment for possession of real estate.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. —To the Sheriffs of our several counties or to
their deputies greeting :
Whereas by the consideration of our court
holden at within and for our said county of on
the Monday of recovered judgment for the posses
sion of with the privileges and appurtenances thereto
belonging, against who had unjustly withholden him
from the possession thereof; and also, by the consideration of
the same court recovered judgment against the said for
the sum of costs of suit, as to us appears of record,
whereof execution remains to be done : we command you,
therefore, that without delay, you cause the said to have
possession of and in the said with the privileges and
appurtenances thereunto belonging. We also command you,
that of the goods and chattels of the said within your
precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to the said the
aforesaid sum of with twenty-five cents more for this
writ ; and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own fees :
and for want of the goods and chattels of the said to be
found in your precinct, to satisfy and pay the same as afore
said, we command you to take the body of the said and
commit to our jail in our county of therein to be
kept until _ pay the full sums above mentioned, with your
fees, or that be discharged by the said or other
wise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make true return
of this writ and of your doings thereon, to our next to
be holden at within and for our county of on the
Monday of next. Witness, Esq. at
this day of in the year Clerk.
Writ of Arrest to be issued by a Justice of the Peace.
[seal.] sc.—To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the
town sergeants or constables in the county of greeting :
You are hereby, in the name of the state of Rhode-Island
and Providence Plantations, required to arrest the body of
(if may be found in your precinct,) and for
want of body to attach goods and chattels, to answer
the complaint of at a justices' court to be holden
at in on the day of at
o'clock in the noon, in an action of to the damage
of the plaintiff (as says) dollars. Hereof fail not,
and make true return of this writ with your doings thereon.
Given under my hand and seal, at aforesaid, the
day of in the year
Justice of the Peace.
Execution to be issued by a Justice of the Peace.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc.— To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the
town sergeants or constables in the county of greeting :
Whereas at a justice's court holden at
on the day of recovered judgment of said court
against for the sum of debt (or damages,) and
costs of suit, taxed at as of record of said court doth
appear ; which sums, in the whole, amount to for which
execution remains to be done : We command, you therefore,
that of the goods and chattels of the said (within your
precinct) you levy the said sum of together with
for this execution, as also your lawful fees for serving the
same, and therewith satisfy and pay the said ; and for
want of sufficient goods and chattels of the said to be
by you found, to satisfy and pay the same sums as aforesaid,
we command you to take the body of the said into your
custody, and safely secure in our jail in until
satisfy and pay the said the sums aforesaid and your fees,
or until be by the said therefrom discharged, or oth
erwise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make true re
turn of this writ, in three months from the date hereof, and
of your doings thereon. Given under my hand and seal,
at aforesaid, this day of in the year
Justice of the Peace.
Summonsfor a Witness.
sec. 1 To of greeting.
You are hereby required, in the name of the state of
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, to make your ap
pearance before the court of next to be holden at
within and for our county of on the Monday of
to give evidence of what you know relating to an action
or plea of then and there to be heard and tried, be
twixt plaintiff, and defendant. Hereof fail not,
as you will answer your default under the penalty of the law,
in that behalf made and provided. Dated at the
day of in the year Clerk.
Sec. 2. All writs, original and judicial, issued by the su
preme court, or by any court of common pleas, shall issue in
the name of the state of Rhode-Island and Providence Plan
tations ; shall be under the seal of the court from which they
issue, shall be signed by the clerk of the court, shall bear teste
of the chief justice of the supreme court ; shall run through
out the state, and shall be directed to the sheriffs of all the
counties in the state, or their deputies: provided however,
that if the said chief justice be a party to the suit, the writ
shall bear teste of any associate justice of the supreme court
not a party to it ; if the clerk be a party to the suit, the writ,
if from the supreme court, shall be signed by one of the asso
ciate justices of that court, and if from any court of common
pleas, by one of the associate justices of the same court ; and
if the sheriff of any county be a party to the suit, the process,
if to be served in that county, shall, in addition to the former
direction, be directed to the town sergeants in the county ; and
may be served by any one of them not a party thereto.
Sec. 3. Whenever a writ of arrest, or other writ author
izing an arrest, shall be delivered to an officer for service, he
shall use his best endeavors to arrest the body of the defend
ant ; but if such officer cannot find the body of the defendant
within his precinct he shall attach his goods and chattels, to
the value commanded in the writ, if so much can be found,
and may attach any less value if the plaintiff or his attorney
shall give order therefor on the back of such writ ; and when
any attachment is made in manner aforesaid, the same shall
be sufficient to bring the cause to trial; and the officer who
shall make any attachment as aforesaid, shall immediately af
ter leave an attested copy of such writ, with a copy of his
doings thereon, at the defendant's usual place of abode, with
some person there, that the defendant may have knowledge
of the suit.
Sec. 4. When any officer shall attach any goods or chat
tels on original writ, he shall keep the same in his hands as
security to satisfy such judgment as the plaintiff may recover.
Sec. 5. When any officer shall attach on original writ
any live animals, or any goods or chattels which are liable to
perish or waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping,
or which cannot be kept without great and disproportionable
expense, the court in which the same may be pending, in term
time, or either of the justices of the court before which the
suit is commenced, in vacation, or either of the justices of the
supreme court, may, on the written application of any person
interested in such property, cause the defendant and the at
taching creditor to be notified to appear at a time and place
appointed for that purpose, to show cause why the same
should not be sold ; and if after reasonable notice, no person
appears or no sufficient cause to the contrary be shown, the
said court or justice may direct the said officer to sell the same,
in the manner prescribed by law for selling goods and chattels
on execution ; and such officer shall hold the proceeds of such
sales, after deducting therefrom the necessary charges thereof,
as security to satisfy such judgment as the attaching creditor
may recover, in the same manner as he held the property itself.
Sec. 6. Whenever final judgment shall be rendered for
the plaintiff in any suit in which the writ was served by at
tachment of real estate, goods and chattels, or stock or shares
in any incorporated company, the execution issued on such
judgment shall be levied on the property so attached, as soon
as may be ; but if the same shall not be so levied before the
return day thereof, the property attached shall be discharged
of such attachment.
Sec. 7. In all cases when execution shall be levied on any
goods or chattels, such goods and chattels shall be kept in the
officer's hands and be advertised at least ten days before they
shall be exposed and offered for sale, in order that the person
who owned such goods or chattels may, if he thinks fit, pay
the money due, together with the costs which shall have ac
crued thereon, and thereupon have his said goods or chattels
restored to him again. But in case such owner shall not re
deem them as aforesaid, the officer shall sell the same, at pub
lic auction, to the highest bidder ; and if any overplus shall re
main after the debt or damages and costs and charges are
paid, the same shall be delivered by the officer to the owner
or to any person legally qualified, on his behalf, to receive
the same.
Sec. 8. The household furniture and family stores of a
house-keeper shall not be liable to attachment on any war
rant of distress or on any other writ, original or judicial : pro
vided the whole, including beds and bedding, do not exceed
in value the sum of two hundred dollars ; neither shall the
necessary wearing apparel of such house-keeper and his fami
ly, nor one cow, nor one hog, nor his working tools necessary
for his usual occupation : provided the said tools do not ex
ceed in value the sum of fifty dollars ; neither shall the work
ing tools not exceeding in value the sum of fifty dollars, nor
the necessary wearing apparel of any debtor, be liable to dis
tress or attachment.
Sec. 9. In case any officer for taxes, or by any warrant
of distress whatsoever, shall distrain the goods and chattels of
any person, he shall proceed in the same manner, and be
holden to the same rules, as herein before directed in attach
ments in civil actions.
Sec. 10. Whenever any original writ shall issue against
more than one defendant, the forms afore given may be alter
ed so as to combine both the writ of arrest and the writ of sum
mons ; so that the same may be served on one of said defend
ants by arrest or attachment, and on the other by summons.
Sec. 1 1 . When a writ shall be taken out from any court
of common pleas, against any person whose body or personal
estate cannot be found within this state, the words " or real
estate," may be added in the writ next to the words " goods
and chattels ;" and the officer to whom the writ is delivered
for service shall attach the real estate of the defendant, in the
same manner as is directed by law for attaching personal es
tate ; and the officer, upon attaching any real estate as afore
said, shall leave a copy of the writ by which the same shall be
attached, and of his doings thereon, with the person in pos
session, and also with the town clerk of the town in which
said real estate lies ; but if no person be in possession, then
the officer shall set up notifications thereof, in three public
places in the town where such real estate lies ; and if the per
son whose real estate shall be attached as aforesaid shall be
absent out of the state at the time of attaching his estate, and
shall not return within the same before the time at which such
writ is returnable, and shall not answer the suit in which his
real estate shall be attached as aforesaid, the court shall con
tinue the same for one term ; and the defendant, in such case,
shall have a right to answer the same six days previous to the
term to which such case shall be continued ; and in all cases
where real estate shall be attached and the plaintiff shall re
cover judgment therein, he shall have execution granted
against the real estate attached as aforesaid ; and the officer
charged with the service of the execution, if he shall levy the
same on such real estate, shall set up notifications of said levy,
in three or more public places in the town where said real es
tate lies, for the space of three months after said levy, and
before the same shall be exposed to sale, notifying all persons
concerned of the levy and intended sale of said estate, that
the owner thereof may have an opportunity to redeem the
same ; and he shall also notify said sale, by causing an adver
tisement thereof to be published, once a week, for the space
of three weeks next before the time of such sale, in some
newspaper in the county where said estate lies ; and if no
newspaper be printed therein, then in some one printed in
Newport or Providence. But if no person appear to redeem
the said estate, then the officer shall sell the same, or so much
thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the judgment obtained,
and the costs and charges,, at public auction ; and a deed
thereof, by him given, shall vest in the purchaser all the es
tate, right and interest which the debtor had therein, at the
time such estate was attached as aforesaid ; and the surplus
of the money that shall arise from the sale of said estate, af
ter satisfying the execution and the costs and charges, shall
be lodged in the general treasury for the owner thereof, and
be liable to be attached for his other debts. And such sale
shall be made under the execution levied thereon, although
the return day thereof may have passed. And in all cases
when execution shall be issued upon any judgment where
real estate was not attached by the officer on the original
writ, if no personal estate can be found, nor the debtor's body,
the party obtaining judgment may cause execution to be
levied on real estate in manner aforesaid.
Sec. 12. The return of any officer that the body of the
defendant named in any writ of arrest) served by the attach
ment of goods and chattels or real estate, cannot be found
within his precinct, or within this state, shall be prima facie
evidence only, of such fact ; which return may be rebutted
by other evidence on issue joined upon such fact, in the suit
in which such attachment shall be made : provided, however,
that such fact shall be deemed and taken to be conclusively
proved by a judgment for the plaintiff in said suit, whether
the same shall be put in issue therein, or not.
Sec. 13. In all attachments of real estate or goods and
chattels, and in all foreign attachments, he who first procures
any such attachment to be made for any just debt or damages,
shall be entitled to have his said debt or damages satisfied be
fore any other demand for which the same may be attached,
or taken by execution, at the suit of any other person ; and
all others in order of attachments. And as divers attach
ments of the same real and personal estate may happen to be
made on the same day, the officer who shall make any such
attachment, whether of real or personal estate, or by service
of a copy of a writ on any person or body corporate for at
taching any estate in his or their hands, shall be obliged in
his return to set forth the time of the day when such attach
ment was made, to the end that the priority of attachment
may be known.
Sec. 14. The following shall be substantially the form of
the deed to be given when real estate is attached and sold as
aforesaid, viz :
To all people to whom these presents shall come,
send greeting :
"Whereas, an execution against at the suit of
was by me the said on the day of levied on,
(here describe the premises,) and whereas on the day of
all the estate, right, title, interest and property of the
said in the premises aforesaid, were by me the said
sold at public auction, for the satisfaction of the said
execution, to who was the highest bidder, for the sum of
which the said hath since well and truly paid
me the said Now know ye, that by force and virtue
of the law in such case made and provided, 1 the said
in consideration of the sum of money paid unto me as afore
said, do, by these presents, bargain, sell, assign and set over
unto the said heirs and assigns forever, all the es
tate, right, title, interest, property, freehold and inheritance
of the said of, in and to the said premises, and appur
tenances at the time of the attachment thereof: To have and
to hold the said premises and appurtenances to the said
heirs and assigns forever. In witness, &c.
Provided, however, that when the attachment shall have
been made by original writ, the officer shall insert the time
thereof, and vary his deed accordingly.
Sec. 15. Personal estate when mortgaged and in the pos
session of the mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable,
may be attached on mesne process or execution against the
mortgagor in the same manner as his other personal estate.
Sec. 16. When the attachment of such mortgaged estate
is on mesne process, it may be sold upon the application of
the mortgagee or of either of the parties to the suit, in the
same manner as by law provided for the sale of perishable
goods and chattels, when attached on mesne process.
Sec. 17. Upon any such sale the attaching officer shall
first apply so much of the proceeds of the sale as may be ne
cessary to pay the amount for which the said property was
mortgaged, with such deduction for interest for the anticipa
ted payment or allowance for damages for such anticipated
payment, as may be allowed by the court or judge directing
the sale ; and the officer shall hold only the balance, for the
purposes of the attachment.
Sec. 18. When the attachment of such mortgaged estate
is upon execution, it shall be sold as in cases of other attach
ments on execution ; and the proceeds of the sale shall be ap
plied to the payment of the amount due on the mortgage,
with the deductions or damages above mentioned, to be as
certained and allowed by the court to which the execution is
returnable ; and the balance shall be applied to the payment
of the amount due on the execution.
Sec. 19. The plaintiff in any such attachment may re
deem the mortgaged estate in the same manner as the mort
gagor might have done. And in case of such redemption,
the plaintiff shall have the same lien on the property for the
amount paid by him, with interest, as the mortgagee had.
Sec. 20. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plain
tiff or sold as before mentioned, before the time of redemp
tion expires, the attachment shall become void.
Sec. 21. When any person shall reside or be absent out
of this state, or shall conceal himself therein so that his body
cannot be arrested, and when any incorporated company es
tablished out of this state, shall be indebted or liable to any
person, then the personal estate of such absent or concealed
person or foreign corporation, lodged or lying in the hands of
their attorney, agent, factor, trustee or debtor, shall be liable
to be attached, the plaintiff giving special order therefor on
the back of his writ, to answer any just debt or demand; and
the serving of any person or body corporate or any member of
any firm or copartnership who have such personal estate in
their hands, with a copy of a writ taken out against such ab
sent or concealed person or foreign corporation, shall be a
good service of said writ. Such writ shall be served by leav
ing an attested copy thereof with the person hereinafter re
quired to make oath relative to the personal estate of the de
fendant intended to be attached thereby ; and the person, cor
poration, firm or copartnership so served with a copy, shall
be obliged to render an account upon oath, of what estate
they had of the defendant in their hands at the time such writ
was served, if any, or otherwise to make oath that they had
not, directly or indirectly, any such estate in their hands ;
which oath shall be made before the court to which such writ
shall be brought, or before any justice of the supreme court,
or any justice of the court of common pleas in the county
where he on whom such copy shall be served dwells or corpora
tion is located, and be filed in the clerk's office in the county
where the action shall be brought, before the sitting of the
court ; and if such oath be made out of court, the plaintiff
or his attorney shall be first notified by such justice of the time
and place of taking the same ; and, in all cases, the person so
making oath shall be subject to examination by either party
to the suit.
Sec. 22. Whenever any body corporate within this state
shall be served with a copy of a writ as aforesaid, it shall be
the duty, if a bank, of the cashier thereof, if an insurance com
pany, of the president or secretary thereof, and if any other
corporate body, of the treasurer thereof, or person executing
the duties of treasurer, to render an account, upon oath, of
what personal estate said body corporate had in their hands
or possession at the time said writ was served, if any, or oth
erwise that they had not, directly or indirectly, any such es
tate in their hands ; which oath shall be made in the same
manner as is prescribed in the preceding section of this act.
Sec. 23. If it shall appear by the account or oath of any
person or body corporate or by the accouut or oath of any
member of any firm or copartnership served with a copy of a
writ as aforesaid, that at the time of the service of said writ,
such person, body corporate, firm or copartnership, had any
of the personal estate of the defendant in their hands, then
and in such case, the plaintiff, after having recovered judg
ment against such defendant, may bring his action against
such garnishee, to recover so much as will satisfy such judg
ment with interest and costs, if there shall appear by said ac
count to be a sufficiency for the same, otherwise for so much
as shall appear by said account to be in his hands : and if it
shall appear that several garnishees had property of the de
fendant as aforesaid, then the plaintiff may sue each separate
ly, and recover the amount in his hands, until such plaintiff re
ceive full payment of his judgment against the defendant with
interest and costs : provided always, that any garnishee, after
final judgment against the defendant, may satisfy such judg
ment or any part thereof to the amount of the estate attach
ed in his hands, before any suit shall be brought against him
therefor.
Sec. 24. If any person, body corporate, firm or copart
nership, after being served with a copy of any writ against
any absent or concealed person or foreign corporation as
aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to render an account on oath
as aforesaid, of what personal estate of the defendant they had
in their hands at the time of the service of such copy, such
garnishee shall be liable to satisfy the judgment that the plain
tiff shall obtain against the defendant in such writ, to be recov
ered by special action on the case. If several garnishees
shall neglect or refuse to render an account upon oath as
aforesaid in the same case, then the plaintiff shall bring his
action against all such garnishees, jointly, and in no other
manner.
Sec. 23. Any attorney, agent, factor, trustee or debtor,
who shall be served with a copy of a writ against any defend
ant as aforesaid, shall have liberty to file an answer to such
action and defend the suit in behalf and in the name of the
defendant. In case any such action shall not be answered,
and the defendant shall not return into this state before the re
turn day of such writ, the court shall continue the action one
term, and the defendant shall have a right to answer the same
six days previous to the term to which such case shall be con
tinued. If it shall appear by the oath of the person or body
corporate or by the oath of any member of any firm or co
partnership as aforesaid, who have been served with a copy
of any writ as aforesaid, that they had not any of the personal
estate of the defendant in their hands, then such action shall
be dismissed, and the person who shall appear to defend said
suit shall recover his costs.
Sec. 26. Every person, body corporate, firm or copart
nership, served with a copy of a writ for attaching the estate
of another in their hands, shall be paid all lawful costs and
charges which they shall be at in consequence of their being
served with such writ of attachment, by the person who brings
the action ; and so much of said charge as shall be judged rea
sonable by the court before whom the cause shall be pending,
shall be allowed in the bill of cost.
Sec. 27. Whenever it shall appear by the oath of any
person, or body corporate, or by the oath of any member of
any firm or copartnership, served with a copy of any writ, as
provided for by the twenty-first section of this act, that the per
sonal estate in their hands belonging to the defendant in such
action did not consist of money, but of one or more specific
articles, it shall be lawful for such garnishee, after final judg
ment shall be rendered against the defendant, to surrender or
deliver to the officer charged with the execution issued on said
judgment, such specific articles, that the same may be taken
thereon, and which shall be a good discharge to such gar
nishee.
Sec. 28. Mariners' wages shall not be liable to attach
ment under this act, until after the termination of the voyage
in which such wages shall have been earned ; nor shall any
debt which is secured by bill of exchange or negotiable pro
missory note.
Sec. 29. The stock or shares of any body corporate es
tablished out of this state, and the stock or shares of any per
son who shall reside or be absent out of this state, or shall
conceal himself therein, in any bank, insurance company or
other incorporated company within this state, shall be liable
to be attached to answer any just debt, claim or demand ;
and whenever any writ shall be sued out as aforesaid, the
plaintiff or his attorney shall, on the back of said writ, direct
the officer who may be charged with the service thereof, to
attach the defendant's stock or shares in such incorporated
company ; and the leaving an attested copy of such writ, with
a copy of the plaintiffs direction thereon, if a bank, with the
cashier thereof, if an insurance company, with the president
or secretary thereof, and if any other corporate body, with
the treasurer thereof or person executing the duties of treas
urer, shall be sufficient to attach such defendant's stock or
shares in said company, and the same shall be held to answer
the said debt, claim or demand.
Sec. 30. Whenever any incorporated company as afore
said shall be served with a copy of such writ as aforesaid, it
shall be the duty, if a bank, of the cashier thereof, if an in
surance company, of the president or secretary thereof, and
if any other corporate body, of the treasurer thereof or person
executing the duties of treasurer, to render an account, upon
oath, to the court to which said writ shall be returnable, of
what stock or shares the defendant had in said company at
the time of the service of such writ, as aforesaid ; and the said
cashier, or president, or secretary, or treasurer or person exe
cuting the duties of treasurer as aforesaid, may be compelled
to testify like witnesses in other cases ; and when execution
issues against the defendant for any such debt, claim or de
mand, the officer charged therewith shall serve a copy of the
same, if a bank, upon the cashier thereof, if an insurance
company, upon the president or secretary thereof, and if any
other corporate body, upon the treasurer thereof or person
executing the duties of treasurer ; which shall be deemed a
good and sufficient levy of such execution upon the stock or
shares of the defendant in such company ; and the said stock
or shares shall be advertised and sold, (or so much thereof as
shall be necessary,) in the same manner as other personal
property attached on execution ; and a deed or deeds thereof
given by the officer aforesaid shall vest in the purchaser
all the defendant's right, title and interest in such stock or
shares so sold as aforesaid ; and said deed shall be duly re
corded by the recording officer of such company.
Sec. 31. The stock or shares of any body corporate es
tablished without this state, or of any person whatsoever in
any incorporated company within this state, shall be liable to
be attached on execution duly obtained, like other personal
property ; and such execution being directed to the proper
officer, according to law, he may levy the same in the man
ner set forth in the preceding section, upon any stock or
shares of the defendant to be found within his precinct; and
shall proceed to advertise, and sell, and give deeds thereof, in
the manner therein prescribed.
Sec. 32. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed
to destroy or impair any lien or claim which any incorporated
company aforesaid or any person whatsoever may have upon
any such stock or shares so attached or levied upon as afore
said ; but the said lien or claim aforesaid shall be and remain
as if this act had not been passed.
Sec. 33. The same proceedings respecting foreign at
tachments shall be observed in justice's courts, as in the su
preme court or in any court of common pleas.
Sec. 34. When any incorporated company established
without this state shall be indebted or liable to any person, the
personal and real estate of such company within this state
shall be liable to be attached and held to answer any just debt,
claim or demand ; and a writ directed to the proper officer
may be issued by any competent court, commanding such of
ficer to attach the goods and chattels or real estate of such
corporation, to the amount named in such writ ; and also to
summon said corporation to appear at the proper court, by
leaving a copy of the summons with any known agent of said
corporation in this state.
Sec. 35. Upon making such attachment, the officer
making the same shall leave an attested copy of such writ
with the person in possession of such goods and chattels or
real estate, if any person be in possession ; and if real estate
be attached, he shall also leave an attested copy with the town
clerk of the town where the real estate is situated.
Sec. 36. If there be no agent or attorney of such corpo
ration within this state known to such officer, upon whom
such summons can be served, he shall publish a notification
of such attachment for the space of two weeks, once a week,
in some newspaper printed in the town nearest the place where
the real or personal estate may be situated, and state all the
facts in his return, to the end that the court may order further
notice if they shall deem the same necessary.
Sec. 37. Whenever final judgment for any sum shall be
rendered by any court against any incorporated company, (ex
cept corporations for charitable, literary or religious pur
poses, and banks,) execution on such judgment shall be issued
against the goods, chattels and real estate of such corpora
tion ; and when any such execution shall be, by the officer
charged with the service thereof, returned that he cannot find
sufficient property of such corporation whereon to levy the
same, it shall and may be lawful for the party in whose favor
such judgment shall have been rendered, to sue out of the
clerk's office of the court in which such judgment was ren
dered, a writ of scire facias against the president and directors
of such corporation, if any such there be, and if none, then
against so many of the stockholders thereof as he may think
fit, return able to the next term of said court ; and on the re
turn thereof, unless such president and directors or stockhold
ers shall make it appear that they had not, at the time of the
service of such writ of scire facias, within their possession
and control, sufficient property of such corporation to satisfy
said judgment or any part thereof, said court shall issue exe
cution against such president and directors or stockholders,
for the amount of such judgment, with interest and cost as for
their own private debt ; but if it shall appear that such presi
dent and directors or stockholders had property as aforesaid
to satisfy part of said judgment only, then execution as afore
said shall issue for such amount with costs.
Sec. 38. An original summons shall be served by reading
the same to the person to be summoned, or by leaving an at
tested copy thereof at his last and usual place of abode, by
the officer to whom the same shall be directed ; said writs, if
against any company incorporated in this state, shall be served
by leaving an attested copy thereof, if a bank, with the cashier
thereof, if an insurance company, with the president or secre
tary thereof, and if any other corporate body, with the trea
surer or person executing the duties of treasurer thereof, un
less provision to the contrary be made in the charter of such
corporation, or in some general law of the state, relating to
some particular class of corporations ; and a certificate of such
service by the officer who made the same shall be considered
as due proof thereof.
Sec. 39. All writs of scire facias may be served by sum
mons, arrest or attachment, at the election of the plaintiff, and
the torm of such writs may be so varied as to adapt them to
either manner of service ; but no attachment of personal or
real estate, or by trustee process, shall be made thereon, ex
cept in such cases as is by law provided for such attachment
on writs of arrest.
Sec. 40. A summons for a witness shall be served by
reading the same to him ; and every witness so summoned,
and having his lawful fees tendered to him for his travel from
his place of abode to the place at which he shall be sum
moned to attend, and for one day's attendance, shall be obli
ged to attend accordingly ; and if he does not appear accord
ing to the tenor of such summons, having no reasonable let
or hindrance to the contrary, he shall be liable to the action
of the aggrieved party for all damages sustained in conse
quence of such default ; and the court or justice of the peace
shall have power, by writ of attachment, to bring such wit
ness into court and to fine him, not exceeding twenty dollars,
and to order him to pay the costs of such attachment, and to be
committed to prison until such fine and costs be paid ; but a
witness summoned in behalf of the state shall have no right
to have his fees paid or tendered to him before he shall be
bound to obey the same.
Sec. 41 . No civil process whatsoever shall be served on
Sunday, but every such service shall be utterly void.
Sec. 42. All the waters of Narragansett bay situated to
the northward of Field's Point shall be deemed a part of the
county of Providence, and be within the jurisdiction of said
county ; and all the other waters of the said bay shall not be
deemed to make part or be within the sole jurisdiction of any
one particular county ; but it shall be lawful for any sheriff or
other officer duly authorized, to serve any writ or other pro
cess, whether of a civil or criminal nature, within any part of
the waters of said Narragansett bay.
Sec. 43. Every original writ issued against any female)
founded on a contract not under seal, shall be a writ of sum
mons and not a writ of arrest. No execution shall issue
against the body of any female, on any judgment founded on
contract not under seal, where the debt or damages recover
ed do not exceed the sum of fifty dollars. In such cases ex
ecutions shall issue against the goods and chattels and real
estate of the defendants.
Section 1. All actions and appeals in the supreme court
and in the several courts of common pleas, shall be entered
on the first or second days of the termr and not afterwards,
without special leave of the court ; which they are hereby em
powered to grant, in their discretion, in case the party who
Drought the action to the same court, and whose duty it was
to enter it, was prevented from so doing by mistake, inevita
ble accident or misfortune. But no action shall be consid
ered as entered until the necessary papers are filed with the
clerk, and the legal entry paid.
Sec. 2. In every indictment, and in every warrant or
other process to arrest the body of any person in a criminal
suit, and in every writ of arrest or original summons in a civil
action, there shall be added to the name of the person against
whom the same shall be issued, the place to which he shall, at
the time of finding such indictment or issuing such writ, sum
mons, warrant or other process, belong, or the place in which
he is, or of late was, commorant, and also his degree or mys
tery ; and in case such additions shall be omitted in any such
indictment, writ, summons, warrant or other process, the same,
upon exception being taken thereto, by the person with re
spect to whom such omission shall be made, shall be quashed
or abated : provided, that nothing herein contained shall pre
vent the amendment of any process in the manner by law pre
scribed.
Sec. 3. It shall and may be lawful for any defendant in
any action or suit, and for any plaintiff in replevin, in any
court or before any justice of the peace, with leave of such
court or justice, to plead as many several matters thereto as
he shall think necessary to his defence ; and, with like leave,
any plaintiff may reply as many several matters to the de
fendant's plea or pleas as he shall think necessary.
Sec. 4. The defendant in every action of debt, action of
covenant, and in every action on the case grounded on an
express or implied contract, in every action of trespass for
breaking and entering the plaintiff's close, wherein the de
fendant shall, in his plea, disclaim all right, title and interest
in and to the said close, and in every action of trespass or
trespass on the case for any injury done to personal property,
or for trover, that may be pending before any court or before
any justice of the peace, shall have a right to make and plead
a tender ; or may have leave to bring into court the money
which he shall acknowledge to be due on such contract or
sufficient amends for such trespass or injury, together with
the plaintiff's lawful costs expended up to the time of the ten
der made or pleaded, or the bringing of the money into court;
and the plaintiff shall have a right to take the same in full or
in part satisfaction of the demand made in such suit ; but if he
shall receive the same in part satisfaction only, and shall pro
ceed further in the same suit, and the court or jury or justice
of the peace, who shall finally assess the damages in such case,
shall determine that no more was due on the demand made in
such suit than was tendered or brought into court as afore
said, at the time the same was tendered or brought in, the
plaintiff shall not recover costs, but shall be obliged to pay
the defendant his costs, after said tender or after the money
was brought into court as aforesaid, as the case may be.
Sec. 5. When any action of debt shall be brought upon
any bond without condition, or when an action of debt or writ
of scire facias shall be brought on any judgment, if the de
fendant hath paid the money due upon such bond or judg
ment, such payment shall and may be pleaded in bar of such
action or suit ; and when an action of debt is brought upon
any bond which hath a condition or defeasance to make void
the same upon the payment of a less sum at a day or place
certain, if the obligor, his heirs, executors or administrators,
have, before the action brought, paid to the obligee, his ex
ecutors or administrators, the principal and interest due by
the defeasance or condition of" such bond, though such pay
ment was not made strictly according to the condition or de
feasance, yet it shall and may, nevertheless, be pleaded in bar
of such action ; and shall be as effectual a bar thereof as if the
money had been paid at the day and place, according to the
condition or defeasance, and had been so pleaded.
Sec. 6. When an action shall be brought to recover a
debt due on any book account, the plaintiff shall annex to his
declaration on filing the same, an account of particulars ; and
the defendant in such case, and also in all actions on an ac
count stated by the parties, a quantum meruit, quantum valebat,
or for goods sold, or for services done at an agreed price,
may plead the general issue and may file any account he hath
with his said plea ; and the court or jury who shall assess the
damages in such case shall determine the balance due to
either party ; and the party in whose favor the balance shall
be found shall recover judgment therefor, together with his
costs, and shall have execution acordingly ; and whenever
any defendant shall have any demand on the plaintiff for any
sum liquidated, or for one which may be ascertained by calcu
lation, and which is founded on a judgment, or upon a con
tract, whether express or implied, and whether with or without
a seal, and which existed at the time of the commencement
of the action and then belonged to the defendant, in his own
right, and for which he might maintain a suit in his own name,
he may set off the same in any action founded upon any de
mand which could itself be set off: to entitle the defendant to
a set off, he shall file a statement of his demands in court, or
in the clerk's office, at the term in which the action is entered,
on or before the second day of said term, or within such fur
ther time as the court shall allow : in such statement the de
fendant shall set forth his demands with as much certainty as
would be required in a declaration : and the court in which
the action may be pending may render judgment for the de
fendant for the balance due to him, with costs.
Sec. 7. Whenever any court shall, at the same term, ren
der final judgment for debts or damages, in two or more per
sonal actions, in which the parties shall be reversed, and shall
sue and be sued in the same right and capacity, such court
shall set off the debts or damages recovered in the said judg
ment, and issue execution for the balance only, in favor of the
party to whom it shall be due, with costs if costs were recov
ered, and a separate execution in favor of the other party for
costs if costs were recovered by him.
Sec. 8. If any officer shall, at the same time, have two or
more executions delivered to him to serve, in which the par
ties shall be reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the same
right and capacity, he shall set off the debts or damages in
the same, and levy and collect the balance only that will re
main due thereon, with the costs on all said executions.
Sec. 9. In all actions brought for the breach of the con
dition of a bond, or to recover a penalty for the non-perform
ance of any covenant, contract or agreement, when it shall
appear by verdict, default, submission or otherwise, that the
condition is broken or the penalty forfeited, judgment shall
be entered in the common form for the penal sum, but no
execution shall issue thereon, except as is provided in the two
following sections.
Sec. 10. The court shall award an execution in such case
for so much of the penal sum as shall then be due and paya
ble in equity and good conscience, for the breach of the con
dition, or other non-performance of the contract ; which sum
shall be ascertained and determined by the court, unless either
party shall move to have it assessed by a jury, or unless the
court shall think it proper to have the question so decided; in
which case the sum so due shall be assessed by a jury.
Sec. 11. If any further sum shall afterwards become due
on such bond or other contract, the plaintiff, or his executor
or administrator, may have a scire facias on the judgment
from the court in which it was rendered, against the original
defendant or his executors, administrators, heirs, devisees or
assigns, as the case may be, suggesting such further breaches
of the contract as shall have occurred, and summoning the
adverse party to shew cause why execution should not be
awarded upon the judgment for the damages caused by such
further breaches.
Sec. 12. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed and
determined in the same manner as in the original suit, and
execution shall be awarded accordingly ; and the like proceed
ings may be repeated upon occasion of any further breaches
of the same contract, as often as they shall occur, until the
whole of the penalty is exhausted.
Sec. 13. Nothing herein contained shall prevent any per
son from bringing an action for the breach of any covenant
or other contract, instead of suing for the penalty by which
the performance of the covenant or contract may have been
secured.
Sec. 14. In all cases in the supreme court and courts of
common pleas, except when otherwise provided, when judgment
shall be rendered on default, discontinuance, submission or de
murrer, damages shall be assessed by the court, with or with
out the intervention of a jury, at the discretion of such court.
Sec. 15. In all cases relating to the realty, either party
may have a jury to view the place in question, if the court
shall be of opinion that such view is necessary ; provided the
party moving therefor shall advance such reasonable sum of
money to the sheriff to defray the expenses of the jury on such
view as the court shall order ; and the amount of those expen
ses shall be taxed against the adverse party if he who advanc
ed the same shall recover costs in the suit.
Sec. 16. The supreme court and courts of common pleas
may permit the parties in any suit pending in said courts re
spectively, to enter into a rule of such court to refer such suit
to the decision of one or more referees, to be agreed upon by
the said parties; and also to refer, in the same rule, any other
actions or causes of action that may subsist between them,
either jointly or severally, generally or specially ; and the said
court shall also have power to permit any persons who may
have causes of action subsisting between them, to enter a
rule of said court, to refer the same to a decision of a referee
or referees as aforesaid, generally or specially : and the parties
to any rule may agree upon the time and manner of making re
port and of issuing execution on the judgment that may be ren
dered thereon, consistently with law ; and every such agree
ment, made in manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the
parties : and the court shall render judgment upon the report
of referees conformable thereto, and issue execution accord
ingly : provided nevertheless, that the court may, at any time,
in their discretion, or on motion of either party, discharge (he
rule or recommit the said rule and report to the same referees;
but such rule shall remain in full force until so discharged,
and shall be continued from term to term until the report shall
be made thereon. And each referee, before he proceeds to
the business of the reference, shall take an oath faithfully and
impartially to hear and examine the cause, and make a true
and just report, according to the best of his skill and under
standing ; which oath may be taken before any judge of any
court of record, or any justice of the peace or public notary;
and the referees aforesaid shall have power to administer oaths
to all witnesses in any matter tried before them, and shall also
have power to compel the attendance of witnesses before them,
in the same manner and by a similar process as courts of re
cord are authorized to compel the attendance of witnesses;
but any summons for witnesses may be issued and signed by
any one referee, or, by the clerk of the court from which the
rule is issued.
Sec. 17. The parties to any suit that may be pending be
fore any justice of the peace shall have a right to enter into
a rule to refer the same, and to include therein any other de
mands between them, not exceeding in the whole, on either
side, the amount of twenty dollars, and in which the title to real
estate shall not be concerned ; and the justice shall have like
power, and similar proceedings shall be had thereon, as are
given and prescribed in this act respecting rules that may be
entered in the supreme court and courts of common pleas.
Sec. 1 8. Any persons having any action or cause of action
subsisting between them, may file with the clerk of the su
preme court or court of common pleas in the county where
either or all of them reside, in the vacation of the said courts',
a petition, setting forth said facts, and that they have mutu
ally agreed to refer the same to the decision of certain per
sons named therein as referees ; whereupon the clerk shall
enter said petition on the docket of the business of said court
for the next term ; make out a writ to said referees, annex
thereto or embody therein said petition, which shall authorize
them to hear and determine said dispute, with the same pow
ers, in the same manner and with the same effect as though
said petition had been filed in open court : provided however,
that the report of said referees shall be made to the next or
some other term of said court : and said court shall have the
same powers over a petition so filed, as over one filed in open
court.
Sec. 19. No summons, writ, declaration, return, process,
judgment or other proceeding in civil causes, in any of the
Courts, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed for any
defect or want of form ; but the said courts respectively shall
proceed and give judgment according as the right of the cause
and matter in law shall appear unto them, without regarding
any imperfections, defects or want of form in such writ, de
claration or other pleadings, return, process, judgment or pro
ceeding whatsoever ; and the said courts respectively shall
and may, by virtue of this act, from time to time, amend all
and every such imperfections, defects and want of form, and
may, at any time, permit either of the parties to amend any
defect in the process or pleadings, upon such conditions as
the said courts respectively shall, in their discretion, or by
general rule, prescribe.
Sec. 20. If any writ or process shall be brought against any
trading or manufacturing company, not incorporated, which
shall not be served on all the partners, or in which the
name of any partner shall be omitted, the court on motion
of any person, party thereto, may, and in case the same be
pleaded shall, issue a summons to the partner omitted or not
served, if within this state ; said motion or plea being accom
panied with an affidavit of the person making the same : such
partner being served with such summons twenty days at least
before trial, shall be deemed to be a party to the suit, to all
intents and purposes, and the writ and declaration shall be
amended accordingly ; and such partner may file his plea in
said action at any time within said twenty days, or after that
time by leave of court on cause shown. But if it shall be
found that the party summoned was not a partner with the
original defendants, the court shall render judgment against
the party summoning him, in favor of such party for his costs,
and in favor of the plaintiff against the original defendants
for the damages or debts proved, with costs, unless such party
summoned was made party on motion of the plaintiff; in which
case judgment shall be rendered in favor of all the defend
ants for their costs against the plaintiff.
Sec. 21. In all actions relative to partnerships and all
other joint accounts, and in all actions involving matters of
book account, the supreme court and any court of common
pleas are authorized and empowered, upon motion of either
party, to appoint an auditor or auditors, who shall have the
same powers, and be sworn, and proceed in the same man
ner as auditors in a proper action of account : and the court
upon the reception of the report of the auditor or auditors,
s"hall render judgment in pursuance thereto.
Sec. 22. When several persons shall be made defendants
in an action of trespass or ejectment, and the same shall be
discontinued as to any one or more of said defendants ; or if
upon the trial thereof any one or more of them shall be ac
quitted by verdict, or upon a demurrer, every defendant so
discharged or acquitted, shall have and recover his costs.
Sec. 23. The plaintiff in any cause shall not have a right
to be non-suit or to discontinue the same, in the supreme
court, after the same shall be submitted to the decision of the
jury ; but the cause shall proceed and the verdict of the jury
shall be taken therein, whether the plaintiff shall appear or
not.
Sec. 24. If there shall in any case be two or more plain
tiffs, or defendants, and one or more of them shall die, if the
cause of action shall survive to the surviving plaintiff or plain
tiffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ
or action shall not be thereby abated, but such death being
suggested upon the record, the action shall proceed at the
suit of the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the sur
viving defendant or defendants.
Sec. 25. In addition to the actions which survive by the
common law, the following shall also survive, viz : actions of
replevin and trover ; actions of waste ; actions of trespass for
assault, battery, imprisonment, or for goods taken and carried
away ; and actions of trespass and trespass on the case for
damages done to real or personal estate : all the actions here
in before mentioned may be originally commenced and pros
ecu ted by and against executors and administrators: and if
commenced by or against the original party, in his life time,
they may be prosecuted or defended by or against his execu
tor or administrator : whenever any of said actions are com
menced or prosecuted against the executor or administrator,
of the original party, the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover
only the value of the goods taken, or the damage actually
sustained, without any vindictive or exemplary damages, or
damages for any alleged outrage to the feelings of the in
jured party ; but in no case, shall the title to real estate be
settled or affected, except so far as relates to the case on
trial, if the same shall be prosecuted or defended by an exec
utor or administrator.
Sec. 26. In case of the death of any party, either the ap
pellant or appellee, before the sitting of the court appealed
to, or where any action or suit is commenced or shall be pend
ing in any court of common pleas, or in the supreme court,
and it shall so happen that either party shall die before final
judgment, the executor or administrator of such deceased par
ty, in case the cause of action doth survive, shall have full
power to prosecute or defend any such action or suit from
court to court until final judgment ; and is hereby obliged to
prosecute or defend the same accordingly ; and if any execu
tor or administrator shall neglect to appear and take upon
himself the prosecution or defence of any action or suit as
aforesaid, being duly notified thereof, by order of the court
where the same shall be pending, or if having appeared and
become a party thereto, judgment shall pass against such ex
ecutor or administrator, the said courts are hereby respec
tively authorized and empowered, unless the estate shall have
been represented insolvent, to enter up judgment against the
estate of the deceased in the hands of such executor or ad
ministrator ; and the like process shall be had thereon as if the
action had been originally commenced against them in their
said capacity.
Sec. 27. Writs of attachment and execution, shall run
against the goods, chattels, rights and credits of the person
deceased only, in the hands of the executor or administrator;
nor shall any executor or administrator be holden to bail upon
mesne process, nor his own proper goods or estate be attach
ed, nor his person be arrested or taken in execution for the
debts or legacies of the testator or intestate, but upon sugges
tion of waste, founded on a return made by the officer on an
execution issued against the estate of the testator or intestate
as aforesaid, that he could not find any such estate whereon
to levy such execution ; in which case a writ of scire facias
shall be issued out of the clerk's office of the same court
against such executor or administrator ; which writ being duly
served by the officer to whom it shall be directed, and return
ed, if the executor or administrator make default of appear
ance, or coming in shall not show sufficient cause to the con
trary, execution shall be awarded against him of his own pro
per estate for the sum recovered, with the interest due thereon,
with costs ; and for want of estate, against the body of such
executor or administrator, as for his own proper debt.
Sec. 28. No action shall be brought against any execu
tor or administrator in his said capacity, within one year after
the will shall be proved or administration granted ; except for
medicines and attendance in the last sickness, and funeral
charges of the deceased, and excepting also actions brought
in pursuance of the fourth section of an act entitled " an act
for the limitation of certain personal actions ;" nor shall any
action be brought against any executor or administrator in
his said capacity, unless the same shall be commenced within
three years next after the will shall be proved or administra
tion shall be granted : provided, such executor or administra
tor shall give notice of his appointment, by publishing the same
in some public newspaper in the state, nearest to where the
deceased person last dwelt ; and in such other manner as the
court of probate shall direct.
Sec. 29. When any judgment shall be had by or in the
name of any executor or administrator, in such case, an ad
ministrator de bonis non, may sue out a writ of scire facias
and take execution upon such judgment.
Sec. 30. The appellant shall in all cases file his reasons
of appeal in the clerk's office of the court appealed to at least
ten days before the sitting of such court ; and shall at the time
of entering his appeal file in the same office a certified copy
of the whole case : provided however, that whenever any party
who shall appeal to the court of common pleas or supreme
court, shall, through mistake, accident or misfortune, omit to
file his reasons of appeal at the time prescribed as aforesaid,
the said courts respectively, in their discretion, on sufficient
cause being shown therefor, may, on the first or second day
of the term of the court appealed to, permit such party to file
his reasons of appeal in court, on such terms as they shall
prescribe.
Sec. 31. If the appellant in any case shall enter his ap
peal at the court appealed to, the cause shall be tried and de
cided in the same manner as if both parties had appealed ,'
and if the appellant shall neglect to enter his^ appeal as by
law required, the adverse party, in case he did not also appeal,
may at any time during the term appealed to, or at the next
succeeding term, enter his complaint and obtain a confirma
tion of the former judgment, as of the third day of the said
term ; with double interest from the time of the rendition of
the judgment appealed from, to said third day, if damages
were therein given, and double costs ; unless the court appeal
ed to shall be satisfied that such appellant had reasonable
ground to appeal, and that such appeal was not taken solely
for delay ; and in such case, with single interest on such dama
ges and single costs only.
Sec. 32. If any party shall obtain a new trial in any cause
by act or by order of the general assembly, supreme court or
any court of common pleas, and shall neglect to enter such
action for trial on the first or second day of the court at which
such trial was to be had, by such act or order, the adverse
party may enter his complaint, and the said court shall there
upon affirm the last judgment rendered in said cause, with in
terest, if damages or debt were therein recovered, and addi
tional costs.
Sec. 33. If the plaintiff in any case shall file his declara
tion in the clerk's office of the court of common pleas, as is
by law provided, and shall afterwards withdraw or discontinue
his suit before the sitting of the court and after answer filed,
the defendant in such case shall recover his costs ; and in all
other civil causes the party prevailing shall recover costs, ex
cept in cases where other provision is specially made by law ;
and all bills of costs shall be taxed by the clerks of the re
spective courts, and shall be examined and allowed by one of
the justices thereof; except that in justices' courts they shall
be taxed and allowed by the justice who signed the original
writ ; and the clerk's fees in the case shall be paid before the
execution shall be issued ; and the justice of any court who
shall examine and allow any bill of cost shall strike out and
disallow any sum that may be taxed or demanded for the ex
pense of any witness or any evidence whatsoever that shall
appear to such justice frivolous, or not material to the issue
of the cause ; and no costs shall be allowed for any written
evidence unless the fees be noted thereon or certified by the
officer who issued or made out the same. Costs taxed in any
court of common pleas may be revised, in case of appeal to
the supreme court, in the taxation of costs there.
Sec. 34. In all actions of assumpsit, trespass or trespass
on the case, where judgment is rendered on appeal, the court
rendering judgment may award costs for or against the plain
tiff or defendant, or for neither, in their discretion, according
to the circumstances of the case.
Sec. 35. In all actions of the case for slanderous words
or malicious prosecutions, and in all actions for trespass, for
assault and battery or imprisonment, that shall be commenced
at any court of common pleas, if the court or jury who shall
finally assess the damages in such case, shall assess the same
at a less sum than seven dollars, the plaintiff in such case,
shall recover no more costs than damages.
Sec. 36. Any one of the justices of the supreme court or
courts of common pleas respectively, shall have power to ad
journ such courts from day to day, in case a quorum is not
formed on the day appointed by law for holding thereof, or
on the day to which such courts may be adjourned, until a
quorum shall be formed ; and the clerks of the several courts
are hereby vested with similar powers, to adjourn the same
courts respectively, in case one of the justices thereof shall not
attend for that purpose : provided however, that such courts
shall not be adjourned from day to day by one justice, or the
clerks as aforesaid, for more than six days.
Sec. 37. Whenever it shall happen that a quorum of the
supreme court, or any court of common pleas, cannot probably
convene within six days from the time by law appointed for
holding the same, by reason of the death or sickness of any of
the justices of such court, or any other necessary and una
voidable let or hindrance of their attendance, it shall be law
ful for any one of the justices of such court respectively, at
any time within said six days, by writ under his hand and seal,
directed to the sheriff of the county, therein inserting the oc
casion thereof, to adjourn the said court to a further day, as
in said writ shall be expressed ; at as little distance of time
as may be from the day wherein by law the court should
have met, so that justice may not be delayed ; and the sheriff
upon the receipt of such writ, shall cause publication to be
made of the same at the court house in the county, and some
other of the most public places within the same county; and
also cause a notification of such adjournment, and the time to
which it is made, to be posted up at or near the said court
house and other public places as aforesaid, to the intent that
unnecessary travel, charge and attendance of all persons con
cerned, may be prevented ; and the sheriff shall return such
writ with his doings thereon into the clerk's office of such
court ; and all pleas, writs, actions, suits, processes, precepts,
recognizances and other things whatsoever, returnable or hav
ing day in said court, shall stand, abide and continue unto
the said adjournments, and be holden, deemed and adjudged
to be as good, effectual and available in law, to all intents,
constructions and purposes, as if such court had been holden
and kept on the day appointed by law for holding the same,
and no adjournment thereof had been made.
Sec. 38. If the supreme court or court of common pleas
shall not be holden at the time appointed by law for holding
the same, or to which the same may be adjourned, as by this
act provided, all the business of every kind and nature that
might have been pending at such court shall be heard, pro
ceeded upon and determined at the next term of such court,
in the same manner as it might have been heard, proceeded
upon and determined at the term which was to have been
but was not holden as aforesaid.
Sec. 39. The foreman of any grand jury which may be
empannelled shall have full power and authority to administer
all necessary oaths and affirmations to witnesses who may be
examined before the grand jury of which he is foreman.
Sec. 40. Each grand and petit juror, before his acting
as such, shall take the oath herein prescribed : the oath to
the grand jurors shall be as follows : You severally and sol
emnly swear, (or affirm,) that, as members of the grand in
quest for the body of the county of you shall dili
gently inquire and true presentment make of all such crimes
and misdemeanors cognizable by this court as shall come to
your knowledge ; the state's counsel, your fellows' and your
own, shall keep secret ; shall present no person for envy, ha
tred or malice ; neither shall you leave any person unpresented,
for love, fear, favor, affection or hope of reward ; but you
shall present things truly, as they come to your knowledge,
according to the best of your understanding; so help you
God ; or, this affirmation you make and give upon peril of
the penalty of perjury. The oath of the petit jurors in a
criminal case shall be as follows: You swear, (or affirm,)
that you will well and truly try, and true deliverance make,
between the state of Rhode-Island and Providence Planta
tions and the prisoner (or defendant) at the bar, according
to law and the evidence given you ; so help you God ; or,
this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the penalty
of perjury. The oath of the petit jurors in civil cases shall
be as follows : You swear, (or affirm,) that in all cases be
tween party and party that shall be committed to you, you
will give a true verdict therein, according to law and the
evidence given you: so help you God; or, this affirmation
you make and give upon peril of the penalty of perjury.
Sec. 41. Any inhabitant of any town shall be a compe
tent witness in any cause, either civil or criminal, in which the
town to which he belongs, or in which he may own any tax
able estate, shall be interested, as well for as against such
town ; provided he hath no other interest in such cause than
as an inhabitant of such town, or as owning an estate there
in, and is not otherwise legally disqualified.
Sec. 42. No judge of any court or justice of the peace
shall sit in judgment, in any cause brought to any court by
appeal, in which he shall have before given judgment in
chief, on trial, as a judge or justice.
Sec 43. The clerks of the several courts shall, in the
record of every judgment, recite the substance of the declar
ation and pleadings in such case ; and whenever, by accident,
neglect or otherwise, any clerk may have failed to record the
proceedings of the court of which he is clerk, in any cause
pending before them, said court may direct the acting clerk
to record said proceedings, upon such evidence as may seem
satisfactory to them ; giving notice to the parties interested or
their attornies, whenever they may deem it proper from the
circumstances of the case.
Sec. 44. No execution shall be issued on any judgment
rendered by the supreme court or by any court of common
pleas until the expiration of five days next after the rising of
the court at which such judgment shall be rendered ; and
every execution issued from either of the said courts shall be
made returnable to the next succeeding term thereof, and
shall be returned by the officer charged therewith, within five
days from the day appointed by law for the sitting of the
court from whence it issued ; and if such officer shall not re
turn the same within that time, he shall be liable therefor, as
by law prescribed : provided, Jiowever, that the supreme court
are hereby authorized and empowered, in their discretion, on
motion, to direct execution to issue, in due form of law, upon
any judgment rendered by said court, at any time during the
term of the court at which such judgment shall be rendered ;
with the same effect as if said execution had issued five days
after the rising of said court.
Sec. 45. The representatives of one jointly bound with
another, for the payment of any debt, or for performance or
forbearance of any act, or for any other thing, and dying in
the life time of the latter, may be charged, by virtue of such
obligation, in the same manner as such representative might
have been charged, if the obligors had been bound severally,
as well as jointly ; provided, however, that the plaintiff shall
first pursue the survivingdebtor to final judgment and execution.
Sec. 46. No judgment rendered against a part only of
the defendants in an action upon a joint contract, shall be a
bar to any future action on said contract against such of the
defendants upon whom or whose estate the writ in the orig
inal action may not have been served.
Sec. 47. AH persons appealing from any judgment render
ed by any of the courts of common pleas to the supreme court,
upon any bond for money or upon any promissory note for
money, or upon any bill of exchange against the acceptor
thereof, whether interest be expressed to be payable in the
same or not, shall pay down the costs of the court of common
pleas and give bond to prosecute the appeal so made ; and if
the appellee in such case shall recover therein at the supreme
court, he shall also recover double costs at such supreme
court, and also double interest on the debt from the day of
the judgment of the court of common pleas appealed from, to
the time of the final trial in the supreme court : provided, how
ever, if the supreme court on such final trial shall be satisfied
that such appellant had reasonable ground of defence, and
that such appeal was not solely for delay, they shall allow only
single interest from the day of the judgment of the court of
common pleas appealed from to the time of such final trial,
with single costs.
Sec. 48. All original writs in which the plaintiff is not an
inhabitant of this state shall, before the service of such writ,
be endorsed by some sufficient person who is an inhabitant
of the state ; and in any case the court or justice of the peace
before whom the same is pending may, upon motion of any
defendant, upon cause shown, require the plaintiff to procure
another or a sufficient endorser ; and upon his neglecting to
comply with such order, such case shall be dismissed with
costs for the defendant.
Sec. 49. Every such endorser shall be liable, in case the
plaintiff make not his plea good, to pay all costs that shall be
awarded against the plaintiff: provided, suit be brought there
for within one year after final judgment in such suit.
Sec. 50. All actions and suits, as well in law as in equity,
which concern the realty or any easement therein, or posses
sion thereof; all actions of trespass for breaking and entering
the close of the plaintiff, and all other actions in which title to
real estate may be tried and determined, shall be brought and
tried in the county in which the land lies ; all other actions
and suits shall be brought and tried in the county where the
plaintiff or defendant, or some one of them if there be more
than one plaintiff or defendant, shall dwell, if the plaintiff or
defendant or any one of them, if there be more than one
plaintiff or defendant, dwell in this state, or in that county in
which the defendant or some one of them if there be more
than one, shall be arrested. But if neither plaintiff nor de
fendant shall dwell in this state, such actions may be brought
and tried in any county. Actions commenced by or against
corporations established in this state shall be brought and
tried in the county in which such corporation was located by
its charter, if there be any such location ; if not, then in the
county in which the annual meetings of such corporation are
required to be holden, or are actually holden, or in which the
other party dwells ; actions commenced by or against corpo
rations established out of this state shall be brought and tried
in any county in this state ; all actions commenced contrary
hereto, except as in the next succeeding section provided,
shall be abated.
Sec. 51. All actions commenced on any promissory note
in the name of an assignee or endorsee against the original
promisor, shall be commenced in the same county wherein
such action ought by law to have been commenced if no as
signment or endorsement of such note had been made ; and
no more costs shall be taxed, in any such action, than would,
by law, be taxable, if the same had been commenced in the
name of the original promisee.
Sec. 52. The plaintiff or appellant in every civil cause in
the supreme court or any court of common pleas, shall pay
to the clerk thereof the sum of five dollars, for the trial of
each issue tried separately to a jury in every such cause be
fore the verdict on such issue shall be recorded ; and the sum
of two dollars and fifty cents for each cause which shall be
opened to a jury, and disposed of without a verdict being ren
dered ; to be paid by the clerks respectively into the general
treasury.
Sec. 53. Every judgment rendered by the supreme court
or any court of common pleas, for debt or damages to the
amount of twenty dollars, shall draw interest on such debt or
damages, from the time of its rendition to the time of its dis
charge.
Sec. 54. The clerks of said courts shall note on the mar
gin of every execution the time when the judgment recited
in the same was rendered ; also, whether the execution was
awarded against the defendant, in any suit brought against
him for trespass or other injuries attended with force, or for
any malicious injury to the person, health, liberty or reputa
tion of the plaintiff in the suit, and whether the cause of ac
tion accrued before the fifteenth day of June, one thousand
«ight hundred and thirty nine.
Sec. 55. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff and town sergeant,
charged with the service of any execution issued by either of
said courts, for twenty dollars or upwards, debt or damages,
shall levy, collect, receive and pay over, interest on the same
debt or damages, from the date so entered on the margin, up
to the time of its discharge by him.
Sec. 56. Every judgment shall be entered as of the last
day of the term in which it is rendered, unless there is an ex
press order of the court for the entry thereof on some other
day ; in which case the day shall be noted by the clerk on his
-docket.
Sec. 57. Executions, original or alias, may be issued at
any time within six years from the rendition of the judgment
originally, or from the return day of the last execution.
Sec. 58. The supreme court and courts of common pleas
shall have power to divide or apportion between the parties
in a suit pending, the fees of surveyors and other persons
performing services therein by direction of the court.
An Act establishing and regulating Fees.
Section
1. Fees of certain officers stated, to wit:
Supreme Court,
Court of Common Pleas,
Secretary of State,
Attorney General,
Clerks ol Supreme Court,
Clerks of Court of Common Pleas,
Justices of the Peace,
Courts of Probate,
Town Clerks,
Public Notaries,
Sheriff and Constables.
2. Officers serving process to indorse
their fees thereon.
Suction
3. Witnesses to leave certificates of at
tendance or lose their fees.
4. Strict conformity required to this act
in taxation of costs.
5. In suits for or against a firm, one only
to be allowed for travel and attend
ance.
6. Petitioners for benefit of insolvent act
to pay prison fees when discharged
from jail.
7. Fees of sheriffs, &c. in criminal mat
ters before j ustices of the peace.—Of
justices of the peace.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows:
Section 1 . The fees of the several officers herein after nam
ed, for the services herein after enumerated, shall be as follows :
Justices of the Supreme Court.
For every writ granted out of term, #0 25
For examining every bill of costs, 10
For every judgment, order or decree on any petition,
or in any cause in equity, made in vacation, by a
single justice, $\ 00
For every mile's travel from the residence of the jus
tice to the clerk's office or place of hearing, 08
To be paid, in the first instance, by the applicant
for the same, and to be taxed in the bill of costs
in the cause.
For examining every applicant for relief under the
act entitled " An act for the relief of poor persons
imprisoned for debt," 50
Courts of Common Pleas and the Justices thereof.
For the entry of every action, petition and complaint, 1 00
For the entry of every special court action, if answer
be filed and the justices meet, 3 00
But if no answer be filed, 1 00
For examining every applicant for relief under the act
entitled " An act for the relief of poor persons im
prisoned for debt," 50
For examining and allowing every bill of costs, 10
For receiving complaint against any turnpike road,
and issuing notice thereon, 1 00
For every day spent in examining a turnpike road, 2 00
To be paid by complainant in the first instance.
The Secretary of State.
For receiving and allowing a bond, 15
For all copies, for every page of two hundred words, 10
For searching records, by the hour, 10
For making a certificate and affixing seal of the state
where the state is not a party, ] 00
For examining and allowing every bill of costs on pe
titions to the general assembly, 10
For each petition entered in the senate, 12
For each petition filed in the office, 10
For the continuance of every petition, each term, 10
For recording votes on petitions, for every page of two
hundred words, 10
For every citation or notice, 25
For every writ of execution issued by him, 25
The Attorney General.
For every indictment drawn which shall be found by
the grand jury, 1 50
For the argument of every indictment within the ex
clusive jurisdiction of the supreme court, in which
issue is joined in law or in fact, $5 00
For the argument of every other indictment in which
issue is joined in law or in fact, 4 00
For attending the general assembly, the supreme courts
and the courts of common pleas, by the day, 1 00
Clerks of the Supreme Court.
For the entry of every writ, action or petition, 25
For all copies of every lawful page of two hundred
words, 10
For every writ, 25
For searching records, by the hour, 10
For attending the court, by the day, 50
For subpoena in equity, 75
For writ and rule to referees, 52
For acknowledging satisfaction of judgment upon re
cord, 10
For taxing and examining every bill of costs, 12
For recording return of partition, for every page of
two hundred words, 10
For all civil actions, if disposed of the first term, 2 00
For every continuance, 1 50
For all suits in equity, same as in civil actions, with
the addition of ten cents for recording every page of
two hundred words.
For all petitions, except for the benefit of the insolvent
act, if disposed of the first term, 2 00
For every continuance, 1 00
For indictment, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
supreme court, if disposed of the first term, 6 00
For every continuance, 2 50
For every other indictment, if disposed of the first term, 4 00
For every continuance, 2 00
For every petition for the benefit of the insolvent act,
if disposed of the first term, 1 50
For every continuance, 50
For every recognizance, if disposed of the first term, 1 00
For every continuance, 50
Clerks of Courts of Common Pleas.
For every nil dicit, 75
For every answered action, if disposed of the first term, 1 25
For every continuance, 1 00
For every appeal, if disposed of the first term, 01 25*
For every continuance, 1 OO
For every petition, if disposed of the first term, 1 25-
For every continuance, 1 OO
For every indictment, if disposed of the first term, 3 00
For every continuance, 2 00
For every recognizance, if disposed of the first term, 76-
For every continuance, 50
For certified copies, for every page of two hundred words, "10
For searching the records, by the hour, 10
For every writ of execution, 25
For every other writ, other than a summons to voucher, 15=
For every summons to voucher, 50
For writ and rule to referees, 52
For every appeal bond, 10
For taxing and examining every bill of costs, 12
For attending court, by the day, 50
For recording partition, for every page of two hun
dred words, 10
For recording deputations and revocations of deputa
tions, by the sheriff, for every page of two hundred
words, 10
Justices of the Peace.
For rendering judgment in any civil case in which no
answer is filed, and no appearance of the defendant
entered, and for recording the judgment, 90
For trial of every civil case and recording judgment, 1 00
For examination of any person accused of a crime be
yond the jurisdiction of a justice to determine, ex
cluding mittimus or recognizance, 1 25
If more than one day is employed, for every day after
the first, 75
For trial of any person accused of crime within the
jurisdiction of a justice, excluding mittimus, 1 00
If more than one day is employed, for every day after
the first, 50
No additional fee to be charged or taken if more than
one person is included in the same process, if all be
tried or examined at the same time.
For every writ of execution, 16
For every mittimus in a criminal case, 25
For every recognizance taken for the appearance of a
party or witness at a higher court, and recording
the same, 30
For entering a rule of court, issuing commission, re
ceiving report and recording same, #1 00
For every appeal bond, 10
For all copies, for every page of two hundred words, 10
For taking the acknowledgment to any instrument of
one or more persons at the same time, 12
For engaging every officer, 12
For examining every applicant for relief under the act
entitled " an act for the relief of poor persons im
prisoned for debt," 50
For every warrant issued not served, to be paid by
complainant in cases where recognizance is given
to prosecute, 25
For every writ in a civil case upon which no judgment
is rendered, 25
Fees for taking depositions by any officer, for every
page of two hundred words, 20
For every mile's travel to the place of caption, 08
For every hour necessarily employed, 25
Courts of Probate.
For the probate of every will, granting letters testa
mentary thereon, and allowing bond of executor to
return an inventory, 1 00
For the probate of every will, granting letters testa
mentary thereon, and allowing bond of executor to
pay debts and legacies : in addition to the foregoing
the same per cent. on the amount of the personal
property of the testator as would be payable if an
inventory had been returned : such amount to be
ascertained by the examination of the executor un
der oath.
For the filing of every will proved out of the state, 1 00
For granting letters of administration on an intestate
estate and allowing bond of the administrator, 1 00
For every warrant to appraisers, and engaging ap
praisers, 25
For receiving and allowing an inventory, and en
gaging the executor, administrator or guardian ex
hibiting the same, when the amount thereof shall
be less than one hundred dollars, 25
If amounting to one hundred dollars and not exceed
ing five hundred dollars, 50
If amounting to five hundred dollars and not exceed
ing one thousand dollars, 1 00
If over one thousand dollars, one tenth of one per
cent., not exceeding in any case, #50 00
For allowing an account of an executor, administra
tor or guardian, and engaging the person exhibit
ing the same, 75
For granting letters of guardianship over a minor or
other person, 50
For granting a warrant for dividing real estate or as
signing dower, and engaging the persons appointed
therein, 1 00
For receiving and allowing a division of real estate,
or assignment of dower, 50
For every decree on petition for sale of real estate,
giving instructions and approving bond, 50
For each decree, judgment or order, other than as
above, 25
Town Clerks.
For registering and copying, for every page of two
hundred words, 10
For receiving and filing a certificate of attachment of
real estate, 10
For receiving and filing an account under the hen
law, 10
For recording every certificate of marriage, 05
For recording every birth or death, 05
For every certificate of the qualification of a voter, 10
For drawing bond and license for keeping tavern,
retailing liquor or other purpose, 50
For allowing a discharge of a mortgage on the record, 25
For receiving an appeal bond and filing the same, 10
For taking bond and issuing letters testamentary, of
administration or of guardianship, 50
For every warrant to commissioners to set off dower
or make partition, 50
For warrant or citation, 20
For drawing probate of a will or codicil, decree of ac
ceptance or allowance of an inventory, commission
ers' report, account or guardians' list of debts, 25
For searching records, by the hour, 10
For every summons for witnesses, 06
For engaging officers and taking the acknowledgment
of instruments, same as justices of the peace for the
same services.
For noting a marine protest, #1 00
For drawing and extending such a protest and record
ing same, 1 50
For taking affidavits, 25
For noting any note, bill of exchange, order or check,
for non-payment or non-acceptance, 25
For every notice more than one, 10
For travel of more than one mile, per mile, 08
For extending a protest for the non-acceptance or the
non-payment of a note, bill of exchange, order or
check, and recording the same, 75
For engaging officers, same as justices of the peace.
For taking the acknowledgment of any instrument
and affixing his seal, 25
Sheriffs—in civil cases.
For serving a writ, citation, subpoena or monition,
by arrest, by leaving a copy, by reading the same
to the party to be served, or by attaching real es
tate, if not more than one mile from the place of
appearance, 30
If the damage laid in the writ served by arrest or at
tachment is over five hundred dollars, one twentieth
of one per cent. for all sums over.
If more than a mile, 22
If by attachment of personal property, 50
And for every hour after the first actually employed
in making a schedule of the property attached, 20
For taking bail, whether by bond or endorsement, 12
For committing a person on mesne process, 30
For committing a person on execution, 70
For serving all executions where the money due there
on is collected and does not exceed four dollars, 30
If above four and not exceeding seven dollars, 40
If above seven and not exceeding twenty dollars, 60
If above twenty and not exceeding fifty dollars, 1 00
If above fifty and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 1 50
If above one hundred and not exceeding two hundred, 2 00
If above two hundred dollars, one per cent. ; none of
the less sums to be included in the greater.
For serving an execution by levy on, or attachment
of real estate, 30
For serving an execution by levy on, or attachment of
personal estate, the same as for serving a writ by
attachment of like property.
For delivering possession of lands while actually em
ployed, by the day, $1 00
For advertising real or personal estate to be sold at
auction, 50
For advertising every adjournment of same, 50
For selling at public auction real or personal estate, if
one hundred and fifty dollars or under, two per cent
If over one hundred and fifty dollars and under three
hundred dollars, one and one-half per cent.
On all sums over three hundred dollars, one per cent.,
to be computed on the amount of the sales ; and
none of the less sums to be included in the greater.
In criminal cases.
For serving a warrant or capias and conveying the
prisoner to court, if not more than one mile, 60
For committing a prisoner to any jail or to the state
prison, 70
For travel with a prisoner in custody to county jail or
to the state prison, per mile, 20
Other Fees.
For the copy of any writ or process, not to be charged
unless actually given, for every two hundred words, 1 0
For serving a summons on a witness, if not more than
one mile from the place of appearance, 12
For travel per mile to serve a summons or writ, to be
computed from the place where the same is return
able ; and if more than one person is named therein,
the travel shall be computed from the place of ser
vice which shall be nearest, adding thereto the extra
travel which shall be necessary to serve it on the
others, 08
For attending a justice's court, by the day, in a civil
case, 25
For attending a justice's court, by the day, in a crim
inal case, 50
For attending the supreme court or any court of com
mon pleas, by the day, 1 00
Deputy sheriffs, town sergeants and constables shall
be allowed the same fees as sheriffs for the same
services.
For taking custody of each prisoner committed to his
custody, whether on civil or criminal process, $0 25
For discharging every such prisoner, and entering the
same on the jail book, 25
For each bond for the liberty of the jail yard, drawn
and furnished by the jailer, 25
For board of state prisoners and others, by the week, 1 00
Other fees to be allowed in court.
For the writ and declaration in every civil cause en
tered in the supreme court or any court of common
pleas, 1 00
For every bill in equity, 5 00
For attorney or counsel's fee in the court of com
mon pleas, 1 00
For same in the supreme court, 2 00
For answer to every bill in equity, 5 00
Only one to be taxed, even if more than one are
filed, if the defence be joint.
For the attendance of every witness before the su
preme court or court of common pleas, by the day, 80
For his travel, per mile, 08
For attendance and travel of a witness before any
other tribunal, including giving depositions, per
day, 40
Travel, per mile, 04
For the attendance of the party, in a civil cause, re
covering judgment, by the day, 12
For the travel of the same, per mile, 04
Only two days' attendance to be taxed in a nil
dicit case.
Sec. 2. Every officer who shall serve any process, civil
or criminal, shall endorse thereon the several items which
constitute the amount of his fees ; and on failure thereof the
same shall not be taxed in any bill of costs, nor be recovera
ble by law.
Sec. 3. Every witness, previous to his obtaining any fees
except the amount which in certain cases must be tendered
to him before he can be compelled to attend, shall give a cer
tificate to the clerk of the court or justice of the peace where
in or before whom his attendance shall be given, certifying
the number of days he shall have attended, and the number of
miles he shall have travelled, in pursuance of a summons is
sued for that purpose ; which certificate shall be subject to the
examination of the court or justice, and such allowance shall
be made thereon as shall be lawfully due. Unless such cer
tificate shall be filed within four days after the rising of such
court, no more fees shall be taxed for his attendance and
travel than shall appear by the return on the summons to have
been tendered to him, nor shall they be recoverable of the
party that summoned him.
Sec. 4. Every person appointed and empowered to tax
and allow costs shall conform strictly to this act, and shall
disallow and reject all unlawful fees.
Sec. 5. In all civil actions brought by or against a firm,
company or copartnership, and where there is a joint cause
of action, or joint defence, costs for travel and attendance of
one only of the parties recovering judgment shall be taxed.
Sec. 6. Whenever any petitioner for the benefit of the
act entitled " an act for the relief of insolvent debtors" shall,
on the reception of his petition, be liberated from jail on con
dition that he give bond to return again in case the prayer
thereof should not be granted, or he be discharged from jail
by the court upon the granting of his petition, he shall, before
his liberation from jail, pay to the jailer in whose custody he
may be, the sums which may be due to said jailer on account
of his prison fees, and other incidental charges which may
have accrued on such commitment.
Sec. 7. The attendance and fees of sheriffs, deputy sher
iffs, town sergeants and constables, in criminal process issued
by a justice of the peace, and of justices of the peace in crim
inal and civil cases, shall be as before in this act prescribed.
In case other or greater fees are claimed in any criminal case,
they shall be presented to the general assembly for allowance.
A reasonable allowance may be made by any court or justice
of the peace to any person employed by any officer as aid
in the service of any process, when the same shall be adjudg
ed necessary, by such court or justice, not exceeding in any
case one dollar per day to each person employed as aid.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows :
Section 1. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff, town sergeant
and constable, who shall arrest any person by virtue of any
writ or mesne process in a civil action, shall let the person so
arrested to bail, upon his giving sufficient surety, in man
ner by this act prescribed, for his appearance at the court to
which such writ or process shall be returnable, and to abide
the final judgment which shall be rendered thereon.
Sec. 2. He who becomes bail for any person shall give
bond to the sheriff, if the writ or process shall be served by
the sheriff or his deputy ; and if the writ or process shall be
served by a town sergeant or constable, the bail bond in such
case shall be given to the officer serving the same ; or the
person becoming bail as aforesaid may endorse his christian
and surname on the back of the writ or process, which shall
hold him as bail, for all the purposes mentioned in this act.
Sec. 3. Any person who shall become bail as afore
said may discharge himself as bail, either by bringing his
principal into court where the original writ or process shall
be pending, and there delivering him into the custody of such
court ; or by committing his principal, at any time before final
judgment shall be rendered against such bail on scire facias,
to the jail in the county in which he became bail, or in which
the original writ was returnable ; paying the cost, if any, which
may have accrued on a writ of scire facias against him as
bail, and leaving with the keeper of such jail a certified copy of
the original writ and the officer's return thereon, and giving to
the plaintiff, if in this state, or his agent or his attorney of re
cord, notice in writing, of the time and place of such com
mitment, within six days after making the same ; or by bring
ing his principal into the court where the writ of scire facias
against him as bail shall be pending, before final judgment
shall be rendered thereon ; paying the costs on such writ of
scire facias, and delivering his principal into the custody of
said court.
Sec. 4. Any person who shall be committed to jail in any
county, except the county of Providence, by virtue of an ar
rest on any writ or mesne process in any civil action, or by sur
render of former bail in the same action, as herein provided,
shall be let to bail or to new bail, as the case may be, in man
ner as before provided, at any time before the rendering of
final judgment on the original writ on which the arrest was
made.
Sec. 5. Any person who shall be committed to jail in the
county of Providence, on any writ or mesne process in any
civil action, or by surrender of former bail in the same action,
may be let to bail or to new bail, as the case may be, by the
keeper of said jail, or by the officer who served the process,
at any time before final judgment shall be rendered on the
writ on which the arrest was made, upon his giving sufficient
surety for his appearance at the court to which such writ is
returned, and to abide the final judgment which shall be ren
dered thereon. In case bail be taken by said keeper the
person becoming bail shall give bond to said keeper in a penal
sum equal to the damages laid in said writ ; but if bail be taken
by the officer who served said writ, the person becoming bail
shall give such bond to such officer, or may endorse his christian
and surname on the back of said writ or process, which shall
hold him as bail, as in other cases.
Sec. 6. If the principal shall be surrendered by his bail
to the court in which the original writ or process is pending,
he shall be by said court committed to jail, and there remain
to be taken in execution or to be discharged in the same man
ner as though committed for want of bail in the first instance ;
and he shall remain in jail in like manner if committed by his
bail before final judgment be rendered on such original writ
or process. If he shall be committed after such final judg
ment he shall there remain for the space of thirty days. If
surrendered by his bail to the court before which scire facias
is pending against the bail, he shall be by said court commit
ted to jail, there to remain for the space of thirty days from
such surrender.
Sec. 7. If the creditor shall not take in execution the
principal who is committed in the first instance for want of
bail, or who is surrendered to the court in which the original
writ or process is pending and by said court is committed, or
who is committed by his bail before final judgment shall be
rendered on such original writ or process, within thirty days
after he shall have obtained final judgment against him, or
within thirty days after he shall have been committed by his
bail, after such final judgment, or within thirty days after he
shall have been surrendered in court by his bail, during the
pendency of a writ of scire facias against the bail, in all and
either of such cases the said principal shall be discharged
from jail upon paying prison fees.
Sec. 8. When the principal shall avoid, so that his goods
and chattels cannot be found to satisfy the execution, nor the
body found to be taken thereby, the plaintiff in the original
writ may sue out his writ of scire facias against the bail, from
the same court wherein final judgment was rendered against
the principal, returnable to the term of the court which shall
commence next after twenty days after such writ shall be
served ; and in case no legal cause be shown to the contrary,
judgment shall be given against the bail for the debt or dam
ages and costs recovered against the principal, with interest
and costs, and execution shall be awarded accordingly.
Sec. 9. The plaintiff in any suit wherein judgment shall
be rendered at any justices' court, and the amount of debt,
cost and interest due upon said judgment shall exceed twenty
dollars, may be entitled to his writ of scire facias against the
bail from the court of common pleas in the county in which
such judgment shall be rendered ; upon which writ the pro
ceedings shall be the same, in all respects, as if the judgment
had been rendered in said court of common pleas.
Sec. 10. No writ of scire facias shall be served upon the
bail unless it be within two years next after the entering up
of final judgment against the principal : povided, however,
that if by reason of the absence of the bail from the state,
service of the writ of scire facias cannot be made within the
time before mentioned, the said writ may be served at any
time within two years next after the return of the bail into the
state.
Sec. 1 1 . The death of the principal before the return day
of the execution against him shall discharge his bail.
Sec. 12. The bail may have remedy by action on the
case against his principal for all damages sustained by his
becoming bail as aforesaid.
It is enacted by the -General Assembly, as folUnos :
Section 1. All persons who are -qualified to vote upon
any proposition to impose a tax, or for the expenditure of
money in any town, shall be liable to serve as jurors, except
as is herein after provided.
Sec. 2. The following persons shall be exempted from
serving as jurors, viz : the governor, lieutenant governor, at
torney general, justices of the state and United States courts,
clerks of courts, sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, town sergeants and
constables, the marshal of the district and his deputies, minis
ters of the gospel, practising attornies, physicians and sur
geons, president, professors, tutors, librarian, registrar and
students of Brown University, cashiers of banks, school-mas
ters, town clerks, revenue officers of the United States, one
ferry-man to each ferry who usually navigates the boat, post
masters, post-riders, one miller to each grist-mill who usually
tends the same, the keepers of asylums for the poor in the
several towns, all persons over sixty-five years of age, all
members of the fire engine, hydraulion, hose and fire-hook
and ladder companies in the city of Providence, all members
of similar companies in other towns which shall be elected
members thereof by such towns, and all members of private
incorporated companies for similar purposes in other towns,
who shall be exempted by their several charters, so long as
such persons continue members of such companies.
Sec. 3. The town council of each town shall in the month
of April in every year make a list of such persons inhabiting
the town, not exempted as aforesaid, as they shall think well
qualified to serve as jurors, being persons of good moral char
acter, of sound judgment, and free from all exceptions. The
name of each of these persons shall be written on a separate
piece of paper and placed in a box provided for that purpose
by each town, which box shall be delivered to the town clerk,
to be by him kept locked. The town council of each town
shall at a meeting thereof, not more than six weeks previous
to each term of the supreme court and court of common pleas
in the county, draw from said box the names of so many per
sons as such town is or shall be required to send for grand
and petit jurors to such court.
Sec. 4. When the name of any person who is sick, out of
the state, or exempted from serving as a juror, shall be drawn
out, it shall be returned again into the same box and another
drawn in his room. In case any drawn juror shall be excused
by the court for which he is drawn, on the first or second day
of the term, the clerk of such court shall, as soon as may be,
give notice thereof to the town clerk of the town from which
he came, and his name shall be returned into the same box.
The names of all persons drawn as jurors, except as afore
said, shall be put into another box provided for that purpose
by each town, and kept locked by the town clerk, until the
names in the first box shall be all drawn out, when the whole
shall be returned into the first box.
Sec. 5. Immediately upon drawing jurors for any court
the town council of each town shall issue a notification, un
der the seal of the council and hand of the clerk, to the per
sons so drawn, designating therein who are grand and who
are petit jurors, and requiring them, except as is herein after
provided, in the name of the state to attend the court for
which they are drawn jurors, at a day and hour named there
in, which shall be nine of the clock in the forenoon of the
second day of the term ; which notification shall be served by
the town sergeant or one of the constables of such town, six
days at least before the time at which they are required to ap
pear, by reading the same in the presence and hearing of
each of said persons, or by leaving a true and attested copy
thereof at his last and usual place of abode ; which notifica
tion when served shall be returned by the officer serving the
same to the clerk of the court for which such jurors were
drawn, before or at the opening of said court on the second
day thereof; and the said sergeant or constable shall be paid
twenty-five cents out of the town treasury for warning each
person.
Sec. 6. When jurors for the supreme court and for the
court of common pleas are to be drawn at the same session
of the council, those for the supreme court shall be first
drawn, and grand jurors shall be drawn before petit jurors.
Sec. 7. There shall be drawn in the county of Newport
for the supreme court, when holden in said county, and for
the court of common pleas in said county, thirteen grand ju
rors and sixteen petit jurors, that is to say ; by the town of
Newport, four grand and six petit jurors ; Portsmouth, two
grand and three petit jurors ; Jamestown, one grand and one
petit juror; Middletown, two grand and two petit jurors;
Tiverton, two grand and two petit jurors ; LitUe-Compton,
two grand and two petit jurors, for each of said courts.
There shall be drawn in the county of Providence, thirteen
grand and twenty-four petit jurors, that is to say; Provi
dence, one grand and five petit jurors; Smithfield, three
grand and four petit jurors ; Scituate, one grand and three
petit jurors ; Glocester, one grand and two petit jurors ;
Cumberland, one grand and two petit jurors ; Cranston, two
grand and two petit jurors ; Johnston, one grand and two
petit jurors ; North-Providence, one grand and two petit ju
rors ; Foster, one grand and one petit juror ; and Burrillville,
one grand and one petit juror, for each of said courts. There
shall be drawn in the county of Washington, thirteen grand
and sixteen petit jurors, that is to say ; Westerly, two grand
and two petit jurors ; North-Kingstown, two grand and two
petit jurors ; South-Kingstown, four grand and four petit ju
rors ; Charlestown, one grand and two petit jurors ; Exeter,
two grand and two petit jurors ; Richmond, one grand and
one petit juror ; Hopkinton, one grand and two petit jurors,
for each of said courts. There shall be drawn in the county
of Bristol, thirteen grand and thirteen petit jurors, that is to
say ; Bristol, seven grand and six petit jurors ; Warren, three
grand and four petit jurors ; and Barrington, three grand and
three petit jurors, for each of said courts. There shall be
drawn in the county of Kent, thirteen grand and fifteen petit
jurors, that is to say ; East-Greenwich, four grand and three
petit jurors; Warwick, three grand and five petit jurors;
West-Greenwich, three grand and two petit jurors ; and Cov
entry, three grand and five petit jurors, for each of said courts.
Sec. 8. Any town council who shall neglect to make a
list of persons liable to do duty as jurors, as provided in the
third section of this act, or shall neglect to draw jurors as
provided in the said section of this act, or shall neglect to is
sue a notification to persons drawn as jurors, as required in
the fifth section of this act, or shall draw as a juror any per
son exempted from serving as juror, according to the second
section of this act, shall forfeit for each and every offence,
the sum of twenty dollars for the use of the state.
Sec. 9. Any officer charged with any notification to any
persons drawn as jurors, who shall neglect to serve and re
turn the same according to the provisions of the fifth section
of this act, shall forfeit for each and every offence, the sum
of twenty dollars for the use of the state.
Sec. 10. The supreme court and the court of common
pleas, in term time, may issue writs of venire for additional
jurors, whenever it shall be found necessary for the conven
ient despatch of their business ; such writs to be served and
returned, and the jurors required to appear at such times as
shall be prescribed in such writs.
Sec. 1 1 - Any person who shall be notified to attend any
court as a juror, as prescribed in the fifth section of this act,
or who shall be returned on any venire in pursuance of the
tenth section of this act, and who shall not attend as therein
required, or shall afterward absent himself, or neglect to ap
pear according to the directions of the court, shall forfeit for
every offence, the sum of twenty dollars for the use of the
state.
Sec. 12. All fines incurred by jurors and persons returned
or notified as jurors, under this act, shall be levied and col
lected by warrant of distress from the court, directed to the
sheriff or his deputy, of the county in which such person
dwells or his estate is to be found. All other fines and pen
alties imposed by this act shall be recovered by complaint or
information before the court for which the jurors were, or
should have been drawn.
Sec 13. Each grand and petit juror who shall attend the
supreme court or any court of common pleas shall be al
lowed one dollar per day for his attendance thereon, and four
cents per mile for his actual travel going, and four cents per
mile returning, if over one mile. If either of said courts shall
adjourn or dismiss all the jurors summoned and attending for
one day or more, exclusive of Sundays, the jurors shall be al
lowed travelling fees at the above rate ; and, in the discretion
of the court, they shall be allowed for their travel and attend
ance whenever the general assembly shall by special act ad
journ any court, if they attend in pursuance of their notifica
tion without knowing of such adjournment.
Sec. 14. The person and estate of every drawn juror at
tending any court in this state, shall be free and exempt from
all process in any civil action during the sitting of the court
for which he was drawn, if not dismissed before, and for three
days before the time he was required to appear, and for the
three days next after he is discharged. Jurors taken on ve
nire and attending court shall enjoy the same exemptions
from the time they shall be required to appear, until the ex
piration of the three days after they shall be discharged.
The service of all process contrary hereto shall be absolutely
void.
Sec. 15. In complaints, indictments and penal actions,
for the recovery of any sum of money or other thing for
feited, it shall not be cause of challenge to a juror that he
resides or is liable to pay taxes in any town which may be
benefitted thereby.
Sec. 16. If a party know of any objection to a juror
before the jury are empannelled in his cause, and omits to
suggest it to the court, he shall not afterwards make the same
objection, unless upon express leave of the court.
An Act authorizing and regulating the taking of Depositions.
Section
1. Who may take depositions.
2. Governor may appoint a commissioner
in each of the United States to take
depositions.
3. Depositions taken before such com
missioners of same effect as though
taken by an officer in this state.
4. Commissioners before acting as such
to file in secretary's office, in this
state, a certificate of their being sworn
on their commissions.
5. Adverse party to be notified how, when
and in what manner, before any depo
sition shall be taken.
6. Depositions how to be taken and re
turned.
7. Adverse party to be notified when de
positions are taken within 100 miles
of place where court sits.
8. Depositions when taken according to
this act to be used by party taking
them, or other party may use copies
of them.
Section
9. Depositions unduly taken not to be
used as evidence.
10. Depositions taken out of the slate, how
and by whom to be taken in order to
be used as evidence.
11. Supreme court and court of common
pleas may grant commissions to tale
testimony.
12. Judges of supreme court and court of
common pleas may take depositionsm
perpetual memory to be used in cer
tain cases.
13. Formalities to be observed in taking
depositions in perpetual memory.
14. Depositions taken during sitting of
court not to be used as evidence, if
taken within 100 miles.
15. Depositions may be token to be used
out of the state by any commissioner
appointed for that purpose.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows :
Section 1 . It shall and may be lawful for any justice of
the supreme court, justice of the court of common pleas, jus
tice of the peace or public notary, to take the deposition of
nny witness to be used in the trial of any civil suit or action
in which he is not interested, nor of counsel nor the attorney
of either party, and which shall then be commenced or pend
ing in this state or in any other state or government.
Sec. 2. The governor may appoint in each of the Uni
ted States one or more commissioners under the seal of this
state, to continue in office during the pleasure of the governor,
for the time being ; who shall have power to administer oaths
and to take depositions and affidavits to be used in this state ;
and also to take the acknowledgment of any deed or other
instrument, to be used or recorded in this state.
Sec. 3. All oaths administered by such commissioners,
and all affidavits and depositions taken by them, and all ac
knowledgments aforesaid certified by them, shall be as ef
fectual in law, to all intents and purposes, as if done and cer
tified by any judge, justice of the peace or public notary
within this state.
Sec. 4. Before any commissioner appointed as aforesaid
shall proceed to perform any of the duties of his office, he
shall take and subscribe an oath before any justice of the peace
or other officer authorized to administer oaths in the state for
which such commissioner is appointed, that he will faithfully
discharge all the duties of his office ; a certificate of which
shall be filed in the office of the secretary of this state within
six months after the taking of the same.
Sec. 5. It shall be the duty of every justice or notary,
previous to the taking of any deposition as aforesaid within
this state, to cause the adverse party, if residing in this state,
or within one hundred miles of the place of caption, or in
case of his absence his attorney, to be notified of the time and
place appointed for taking the same, and that he may attend
and put interrogatories to the deponent if he think fit ; and
the notification shall be issued by the justice or notary who
shall take such deposition, and shall be directed to any pro
per officer or to any impartial and disinterested person ; and
shall be served a reasonable time, not less than twenty-four
hours, before the time of taking such deposition. And the
officer or other person charged as aforesaid with such notifi
cation, shall serve the same by reading it to the party to be
cited, if to be found, and if not to be found, by leaving a copy
thereof at his usual place of abode ; and shall in his return
state the hour of the day when the service was made ; and
when such service shall be made by any person other than a
sworn officer, he shall verify the same under oath before some
justice or notary.
Sec. 6. Every person before deposing shall be carefully
examined, cautioned and sworn to testify the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth. He shall subscribe the tes
timony by him given after the same shall be reduced to wri
ting, which shall be done only by the justice, notary or com
missioner taking the deposition, or by the deponent in his
presence ; and the deposition so taken shall be retained by
such justice, notary or commissioner, until he deliver the same
with his own hand to the court for which it is taken, or shall,
together with a certificate of its having been duly taken, be
by said justice, notary or commissioner, sealed up and di
rected to such court, and remain so sealed until opened in
court ; and any person may be compelled to appear and de
pose as aforesaid within this state, in the same manner as to
appear and testify in court.
Sec. 7. In the taking of all depositions without the limits
of this state and within one hundred miles of the place where
the court shall sit in which such depositions are to be used, it
shall be the duty of the party causing such depositions to be
taken, to notify the adverse party or his attorney of the time
and place appointed for taking the same ; and such notifica
tion issued by any justice or notary in this state shall be ser
ved in the manner herein before provided, such reasonable
time before the taking of such depositions as will give the ad
verse party a full opportunity to be present in person, or by at
torney, and put interrogatories to the deponent if he thinks fit.
Sec. 8. The deposition of any person taken pursuant to
this act shall be used as evidence in the trial of any cause in
which it shall have been taken to be used ; and if the party
that took the same shall neglect to produce and use it, the
adverse party may use in such trial a copy of such deposition,
certified by the magistrate before whom it was taken, with the
same effect as if the original deposition had been produced
and used by the party taking the same.
Sec. 9. If any witness shall be induced to go out of this
state in order that his deposition may be taken without the
adverse party's having due notice, the deposition of such wit
ness taken by such undue means shall not be used or admit
ted as evidence in any court in this state.
Sec. 10. Depositions taken without this state to be used
in the trial of any cause pending in any court in this state,
shall be received as evidence, unless such depositions are
taken in the manner in the preceding section mentioned :
provided, such depositions shall be taken with the formalities
required by the law of the state or country in which the same
shall have been taken, or before some commissioner appoint
ed in pursuance of the second section of this act, or by some
judge, chancellor or other civil magistrate of such state or
country, in conformity to the provisions of this act.
Sec. 1 1 . The supreme court of this state or either of the
courts of common pleas on the motion of either party in any
civil suit pending therein, shall be authorized to grant a com
mission to take depositions according to common usage, when
it may be necessary to prevent a failure or delay of justice.
Sec. 12. Any justice of the supreme court or any justice
of any court of common pleas, as well before as after the com
mencement of any civil suit or action, on application, shall be
authorized to take depositions in perpetuam rei memoriam ;
which depositions in case of the death of any deponent, his
becoming non compos mentis, his absence from this state or
inability to attend, may be used as evidence in any court in
this state against any person who shall have had due notice of
the taking of such deposition, his heirs, executors, adminis
trators or assigns.
Sec. 13. The same formalities shall be observed in tak
ing depositions in perpetuam rei memoriam, as in taking
other depositions. The justice taking any such deposition
shall seal up and direct the same to the clerk of the supreme
court in the county in which some one of the persons notified
of the taking of the same shall reside ; which clerk on re
ceiving such deposition so directed and sealed up, upon pay
ment of legal fees for recording as in other cases, shall open
and record the same, and the certificate of the caption there
of, in a book to be specially kept for that purpose ; noting on
said deposition the time when he received it, and the page
of the book in which it is recorded ; after which he shall de
liver the original deposition to the party who took it : and no
such deposition, not so recorded, shall be received as evi
dence in any court in this state, unless the same shall be
opened in such court.
Sec. 14. No deposition taken within one hundred miles
of the place of trial shall be used on the trial of any cause in
any court in this state, which shall have been taken during
the sitting of the court before which the cause may be pend
ing, unless the same shall be taken by order of such court.
Sec. 15. Depositions may be taken in this state, to be
used on the trial of any cause pending in any other state or
government, by any person residing in this state, to whom
a commission shall be directed and sent by such court, with
such formalities as shall be prescribed in such commission, or
as are prescribed in this act.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows :
Section 1. The jail limits in the county of Newport
shall be as follows: beginning at the south end of Washington
street; thence northerly along the salt water to the street
north of Fort Greene called Pine street; thence easterly
along the north side of said Pine street to Third street; thence
southerly along the east side of said Third street to Walnut
street ; thence easterly along the northerly side of said Wal
nut street to Farewell street ; thence southerly along the east
erly side of Farewell street to Warner street; thence easterly
along the northerly side of said Warner to Spruce street;
thence southerly along the easterly side of said Spruce street
to Tanner street ; thence easterly along the northerly side of
said Tanner street to equality tree, standing on the intersec
tion of Tanner and Broad streets; thence south westerly
along the easterly side of said Broad street to Bull street;
thence easterly along the northerly and easterly side of said
Bull street to Catharine street; thence easterly along the
northerly side of said Catharine street to Fir street ; thence
southerly along the easterly side of said Fir street to Beach
road ; thence westerly along the southerly side of said Beach
road to a street running southerly from said Beach road,
west of Job and Joseph Tew's rope walk ; thence southerly
along the easterly side of said street to the southerly end
thereof; thence westerly to Bellevue street, now East Touro
street ; thence southerly along the easterly side of said East
Touro street, late Bellevue street, to Perry street; thence
westerly along the southerly side of said Perry street to Spring
street ; thence southerly along the easterly side of said Spring
street to the northerly contemplated road to run westerly
through the land of the heirs of William Lee, on the south
erly side of said contemplated road, to Thames street ; thence
westerly in the same direction to the salt water ; thence north
erly along the salt water so as to embrace within said north
erly line all the wharves and docks, and fifty feet west of the
heads of said wharves, to the place of beginning.
Sec. 2. The jail limits in the county of Providence shall
be as follows: beginning at the southerly line of Hopkins
street, on the easterly side of South Main street ; thence run
ning easterly on the southerly line of Hopkins-street to the
westerly line of Benefit street ; thence easterly directly across
Benefit street to the easterly line thereof; thence northerly on
the easterly line of Benefit-street to a point directly opposite
to the northerly line of Star street ; thence westerly directly
across Benefit street to the northerly line of Star-street ;
thence westerly on the northerly line of Star-street to the
easterly line of North Main street ; thence westerly directly
across North Main street to the westerly side thereof; thence
southerly on the westerly line of North Main street to the
northerly line of Smith street ; thence westerly on the north
erly line of Smith-street to the north-easterly corner of Shin
gle bridge, so called ; thence westerly to the north-westerly
corner thereof; thence northerly six feet to the north line of
Smith street; thence on the northerly line of said Smith
street, north seventy-five degrees west, forty-one rods, to the
corner of Alexander Duncan's lot, west side of Davis-street ;
thence north seventy-seven and a half degrees west, on the
north side of Smith-street fifty-four rods ; thence north fiftyfour
and a half degrees west, fifteen rods, to North- Providence
line ; thence south thirty-two degrees west to Four stack
meadow, to low water mark ; from thence a straight line to
the south-west corner of the wall on the south side of the
state prison lot ; thence on the south side of the wall to the
south-east corner of the state prison lot ; thence north eightytwo
and a half degrees east, to a jog in the wall on Canalstreet,
a little south of the canal basin ; thence southerly on
the line of the caplogs on the westerly side of Canal street to
the platform of the fish-market ; thence around and includ
ing the fish-market and the platform thereof, to the south
westerly corner of said fish-market ; thence in a straight line
to the north-westerly corner of the wooden side-walk on the
easterly side of the river between the two bridges ; thence
southerly on the westerly side, and including said side-walk,
and in a line with the side-walk till it meets the caplog on
the south-easterly corner of the bridge in South Water street ;
thence southerly on the westerly line of the wooden side-walk
and the caplogs on the westerly side of South Water street,
to a point directly opposite to the north-west corner of the
brick store late occupied by William Blodget and company ;
thence easterly directly across South Water street to the north
west corner of the said store ; thence easterly on a southerly
line of a gangway to the westerly line of South Main street ;
and thence on a straight line to the first mentioned bound, on
the easterly side of said South Main street.
Sec. 3. The jail limits in the county of Kent shall be as
follows : beginning at the north-east corner of the Wanton Ca
sey dwelling-house, situated on the main street in the village
of East-Greenwich ; thence southerly, bounded by the build
ings on the west side of said main street, to the street which
runs west, next north of the state house ; thence westerly, on
the north side of the said street, until a south line will strike
a wall on the west side of said state house lot ; thence south
erly and easterly, by a wall and fence enclosing said lot, to
the north-east corner of the house owned by Eleanor and Amy
Fry ; thence southerly, bounded by the buildings on the west
side of said main street, to the south-east corner of the dwell
ing-house lately owned and now occupied by Clark Brown ;
thence easterly across the street or highway, to the north
west corner of Thomas Bateman's land ; thence easterly on said
Bateman's land until it comes to the north-east corner there
of; thence east to the salt water, at low water mark ; thence
northerly on the said salt water at low water mark, to the south
east corner of the wharf owned by Pierce Salisbury and com
pany; thence northerly by the plate of said wharf to the north-.
east corner thereof; thence northerly on a straight line to the
south-east corner of the wharf owned formerly by Ethan
Clarke, deceased ; thence northerly by the plate of said wharf
to the north-east corner thereof; thence northerly on a straight
line to the south-east corner of the wharf now owned by
Pierce Salisbury and company ; thence northerly by the plate
of said wharf to the north-east corner thereof; thence on a
straightline to the south-east corner of the wharf now owned by
Christopher Hawkins ; thence northerly by the plate of said
wharf to the north-east corner thereof ; thence on a straight
line to the north-east corner of the wharf owned by Ezra Pol
lard and company ; thence northerly and easterly on said salt
water at low water mark so far as that a west line will strike
a whitish rock at high water mark, called Coon rock ; thence
west to the east side of the track of the rail-way of the NewYork,
Providence and Boston rail road company ; thence
southerly by said east side of said rail road track to the high
way dividing Warwick from East-Greenwich ; thence west
erly, bounded by the fence and wall on the north side of said
highway, to the south-west corner of Arnold Weaver's dwell
ing-house, standing on or near the dividing line of said towns ;
thence on a straight line to the south-east corner of John G.
Mawney's dwelling-house ; thence southerly on a straight line
to the first mentioned bound.
Sec. 4. The jail limits in the county of Bristol shall be as
follows : to comprehend all the lot of land whereon the jail
stands, the land leading thereto from Hope street, John street,
and all those parts of Thames, Hope and High streets, inclu
ded between the north line of State-street and the south line
of Church-street ; and all those parts of State and Churchstreets
included between the west line of Thames street and
the range of the front of the public buildings standing on the
common, so called, near the east line of said High street ; also
the court house, Episcopal, Baptist and Methodist churches.
Sec. 5. The jail limits in the county of Washington shall
be as follows : beginning on the south-west corner of a lot of
land occupied by Thomas P. Wells ; thence northerly to the
north-west corner thereof; thence easterly along the north
erly side thereof and the north line of land of Robinson &
Anthony, and around land late John G. Clarke's, and a lot of
Dr. Thomas A. Hazard, to the high-way, and straight across
said highway ; then by the east line of the road to the north-west
corner of a lot occupied by Jesse Babcock ; then around said
lot, and land of John N. Reynolds', to the other highway and
straight across the same ; then along the south side thereof,
going around and including the house formerly of John P.
Case, and the yard attached to it, to said highway again ;
then along the south side thereof to the lot of Jeremiah S.
Sherman ; then around said lot to lot of John H. Clarke, and
around said lot to the land that John T. Nichols bought of
William H. Case, and land of Luke Aldrich, to the highway
and across the same ; then by the west line thereof to Chris
topher Gardner's lot ; then along said lot and around and
along the south side of the lot late belonging to the shoe
company, and the lot late occupied by Lewis Jansen, and
from the south-west corner of said last mentioned lot to the
south-east corner of Matthew Waite's lot ; then along the
south line of said lot and the village lots to the south-west
corner of the jail lot ; thence as the wall that runs south of
the tan-yard lot to the factory road, and northerly by the east
line thereof to the highway leading west from Kingston vil
lage ; thence to the place of beginning.
Sec. 6. Said jail limits shall respectively include all the
lands and buildings within the bounds aforesaid.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows:
Section 1. Whenever any person shall be imprisoned for
want of bail in any civil action ; or upon surrender or com
mitment by bail in any such action ; or on execution in any
civil action, (except on executions awarded in actions on
penal statutes or on bonds given in pursuance of this section,
or in any actions of trover, detinue or trespass, other than
trespass quare clausum fregit, In which title to the close was
in dispute between the parties, and trespass and ejectment;)
or for non-payment of any military fine or town or state
taxes, the sheriff or keeper of the jail may grant to such per
son a chamber or lodging in any of the houses or apartments
belonging to such prison, and liberty of the yard within the
limits thereof, upon reasonable payment to be made for
chamber room ; such prisoner first leaving with such sheriff
or keeper of the jail, a bond to the creditor with two or more
sufficient sureties being inhabitants of this state, bounden
jointly and severally, in double or not less than double the
sum for which he is imprisoned, with condition in form fol
lowing, viz : " That if the above now a prisoner in
the jail in within the county of at the suit
of do and shall from henceforth continue and be a true
prisoner in the custody, guard and safe keeping of
keeper of the said prison, and in the custody, guard and safe
keeping of his deputy, officers and servants, or some
one of them, within the limits of the said prison, until he shall
be lawfully discharged, without committing any manner of
escape or escapes, during the term of his or her restraint,
then this obligation to be void, or else to remain in full force
and virtue."
Sec. 2. If the creditor shall obtain judgment on such
bond for the breach of the condition thereof, he shall recover
his just debt with interest from the time judgment was ren
dered in the original suit, and twelve per cent. interest on
such debt for his damages ; and the court shall render judg
ment thereon accordingly.
Sec. 3. Any one of the Narragansett tribe of Indians
committed to jail for debt, upon mesne process or execution,
shall be considered as a poor prisoner, within the true intent
and meaning of this act, notwithstanding such prisoner may
have estate, real or personal, in common with the said tribe
or otherwise ; and shall be entitled to and may receive all the
benefits and advantages hereof.
Sec. 4. Any person who shall become surety in any bond
given by any debtor for the liberty of the jail yard as afore
said, shall have a right at any time to deliver up the principal
in said bond to the sheriff of the county in which such debtor
may have been committed, or to the keeper of the jail there
in, and within such jail ; whereupon he shall be detained by
such sheriff or keeper in close prison, in the same manner as
though he had not been liberated on bond, until he shall give
other bond according to this act, or be otherwise discharged
according to law ; and none of the sureties, after the principal
has been delivered up as aforesaid, shall be liable for any es
cape thereafter committed by the principal aforesaid.
Sec. 5. Any person confined in any jail who may hereaf
ter give bond for the liberty of the yard pursuant to this act,
may and shall be at liberty thereafter to pass over any high
way or into any houses, lands or tenements or public buildings
within the exterior limits of the yard, as they are or shall be
established by law ; and to abide and remain therein without
being deemed to have committed an escape or to have for
feited such bond : provided, however, that nothing herein con
tained shall be construed to authorize any trespass upon the
property or possession of the owner or tenant of any such
houses, lands or tenements whatever.
Sec. 6. No action shall be hereafter maintained for the
breach of any bond given for the liberty of the jail yard as
aforesaid, unless the same be brought within one year from
and after such breach committed.
Sec. 7. No person committed on execution shall have
the liberty of the prison yard for more than thirty days after
his commitment, unless he shall within the said thirty days
execute an assignment of all his estate of every kind not ex
empted from attachment by law, and wherever the same
may be, to some citizen of this state, his heirs and assigns, in
trust for the equal benefit of all his creditors in proportion to
their demands. And if any person so committed shall neglect
to render himself to the keeper of the jail in said jail within
said thirty days, or make an assignment as herein before pro
vided, he shall be deemed to have committed an escape under
his bond for the liberty of the prison yard.
Sec. 8. Whenever any person who shall be imprisoned for
debt, whether on mesne process or execution, or for non
payment of any military fine, or town or state taxes, or on
execution awarded against him as defendant in any action of
trespass and ejectment, or trespass quare clausum fregit, in
which title to the close was in dispute between the parties,
shall complain to any justice of the supreme court or to any
justice of the court of common pleas, or any justice of the
peace of the county where such person shall be committed,
that he hath no estate, real or personal, wherewith to support
himself in prison, or to pay prison charges, and shall request
the privilege and benefit prescribed by this act, such justice
shall forthwith issue a notification to the creditor, if within
this state, or if such creditor does not live within this state,
then to his agent or attorney on record within this state, to
appear at such time and place as the said justice shall appoint,
to shew cause, if any he hath, why the person complaining as
aforesaid should not have the benefit of this act.
Sec. 9. The notification referred to in the next preced
ing section shall be served on the creditor, his agent or at
torney as aforesaid, seven days at least before the time ap
pointed as aforesaid, by reading the same to him ; or by leav
ing an attested copy at his last and usual place of abode, by
the sheriff, his deputy or either of the town sergeants or con
stables in the county in which such creditor, his agent or at
torney shall reside.
Sec. 10. Any justice of the supreme court or any justice
of the court of common pleas of the county where such per
son shall be committed, and any justice of the peace in the
said county who shall be disinterested, are hereby empowered,
at the time and place appointed as aforesaid, to examine the
return of said notification ; and if it shall appear to have been
duly served, to administer the oath herein after prescribed to
the party imprisoned as aforesaid, if after fully examining the
prisoner under oath, and hearing the parties, the said justices
shall think it proper so to do : provided such applicant shall
then and there first make and execute a deed of assignment
of all his estate of every kind, except what is exempted from
attachment by law, and wherever the same may be, to such
keeper and his successor in his said office and his assigns in
trust, for the benefit of all his creditors in proportion to their
respective demands.
Sec. 11. The oath to be administered in such a case shall
be as follows : I do solemnly swear, (or affirm,) that I have
not any estate, real or personal, in possession, remainder or
reversion, over ten dollars ; and that I have not since the
commencement of this suit against me, or at any other time,
directly or indirectly, sold, leased or otherwise conveyed or
disposed of to, or entrusted any person or persons whomso
ever with, all or any part of the estate, real or personal,
whereof 1 have been the lawful owner or possessor, with any
intent or design to secure the same, or to receive, or to ex
pect any profit or advantage therefrom, for myself or for any
of my children or family or any other person ; or have caused
or suffered to be done any thing else whatsoever, whereby
any of my creditors may be defrauded : so help me God : or,
this affirmation I make and give upon peril of the penalty of
perjury.
Sec. 12. Any person imprisoned as aforesaid shall be al
lowed to avail himself of the provisions of this act, if he will
make oath as aforesaid, that he hath not any estate, real or
personal, in possession, remainder or reversion, except what
is exempt from attachment by law ; and the said justices are
hereby authorized to vary the form of the oath aforesaid ac
cordingly.
Sec. 13. The oath above described, being administered
by said justices and taken by said prisoner, the said justices
shall deliver him a certificate thereof, under their hands and
seals, in the following form, viz :
To keeper of the jail at in the county
of We, the subscribers, authorized by the statute in
such case made and provided, do certify, that a poor
prisoner confined upon mesne process, (or otherwise as the
case may be,) in the prison at aforesaid, hath
caused the party at whose suit he was so confined,
to be notified according to law, of his the said
desire of taking the benefit of an act entitled " an act for the
relief of poor persons imprisoned for debt ;" that in our opin
ion the said hath not any estate, either real or
personal, except what is exempt from attachment by law,
sufficient to support himself in prison ; and that he hath not
conveyed or concealed his estate with design to secure the
same to his own use, or to defraud his creditors ; and that
we have, after due caution to the said adminis
tered to him the oath, (or affirmation,) prescribed in the act
aforesaid. Witness our hands and seals this
day of A. D.
C Justice of the supreme court, or
< Justice of the court of common
( pleas, of the county of
Justice of the peace.
Sec. 14. No keeper of any jail receiving an assignment
under the tenth section of this act shall be held responsible
to any person for any property of any assignor, except such
as he has actually received into his possession : provided he
shall assign all the interest he shall obtain thereby to the com
mitting creditor on his request ; to be held by such creditor,
his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, for the pur
poses and trusts set forth in said deed. No person who has
been admitted to take the oath prescribed in the eleventh sec
tion of this act shall be retained in jail for the prison fees, or
for the fees of the justices before whom he may have taken
such oath.
Sec. 15. No person who shall be committed on execu
tion awarded against him as plaintiff in replevin, or as defend
ant in any action on a penal statute, or in any action of tro
ver or detinue, or for any malicious injury to the person,
health or reputation of the plaintiff in such suit, or for breach
of promise of marriage, or for seduction, or for any trespass
excepting only such as are particularly named in the eighth
section of this act, shall be deemed to be within the meaning
of the provision of that section or entitled to any benefit there
from.
Sec. 16. The person to whom the debt appears by the
process to belong at the time complaint is made shall be
deemed the creditor within the meaning of the eighth section
of this act
Sec. 17. It shall furthermore be the duty of any justice
of the peace and the clerk of any court issuing an execution
against any person, to note on the margin thereof the cause
of action on which the same issued ; to the end that the keep
er of the jail may ascertain whether such person, if commit
ted, be entitled to the liberty of the jail yard ; and it shall be
the duty of any officer committing any person to jail on such
execution to note in his commitment the cause of action on
which the execution is founded, according to the note or
memorandum of the justice of the peace or clerk ; and if no
such memorandum be made by such justice or clerk on any
execution, or if the officer shall not note the same in his com
mitment, the keeper of the jail shall be held harmless if he
permit the person committed to have the liberty of the jail
yard, or discharge him on his producing a certificate of hav
ing taken the oath herein before prescribed.
Sec. 18. If a debtor takes out a citation to his commit
ting creditor and has the same served and subsequently with
draws the same, or if upon trial he shall not be admitted to
take the oath prescribed in the eleventh section of this act,
he shall not be entitled to another citation to the same creditor
unless on proof of some change ofcircumstances after the taking
out of the first citation ; which change of circumstances shall
be annexed to or recited in the second citation and form a
part thereof.
Sec. 19. The court before which any action is pending
for the recovery of any debt or demand for which the defend
ant if committed to jail therein would be entitled to the bene
fit of the oath mentioned in the eleventh section of this act,
may administer the said oath to the defendant as herein after
mentioned.
Sec. 20. The defendant in such case may apply to any
justice of the peace in the county in which he resides for a
citation to the creditor to appear at the court in which such
action is pending, to shew cause why the defendant should
not be allowed the benefit of said oath.
Sec. 21. Such citation shall be served by any sheriff, de
puty sheriff, town sergeant or constable, at least four days
before the time therein appointed for taking said oath, by
reading the same to the plaintiff or by leaving an attested copy
thereof at his last and usual place of abode in this state ; and
such citation shall be returned to the court in which such ac
tion is pending. If the plaintiff do not reside in this state,
service of said citation may be made in like manner upon the
agent or attorney of record of the plaintiff in this state.
Sec. 22. If it appear to the court in which the said action
is pending that notice has been given as before provided, said
court shall examine the defendant on his oath concerning his
estate and effects and the disposal thereof, and may also re
ceive any other evidence offered by the defendant or the plain
tiff ; and upon such examination, the court may in its discre
tion administer to the defendant the said oath.
Sec. 23. If said oath be administered, the execution
which may be issued against the defendant in said action
shall run against the goods and chattels or real estate of the
defendant, and not against his body.
Sec. 24. Any defendant in any execution who would if
committed to jail thereon be entitled to the benefit of the oath
mentioned in the eleventh section of this act, may apply in
the manner herein before mentioned, for a citation to his
creditor to shew cause why he should not be allowed the
benefit of said oath ; such citation shall be served in the same
manner as is required in the twenty-first section of this act.
Sec. 25. Upon the return of any such citation, any jus
tice of the supreme court, or any justice of the court of com
mon pleas in the county in which such defendant is liable to be
imprisoned, and any justice of the peace in said county, may
administer the said oath to the defendant, if upon examination
of the defendant on oath, and of such other evidence as
either party may produce, they may think proper.
Sec. 26. If the defendant be allowed to take the said
oath, he shall thereafter be exempted from imprisonment on
said execution or any future execution that may be issued
on said judgment ; and execution on said judgment may is
sue against the goods and chattels or real estate of the said
defendant.
Sec. 27. Before the said oath shall be administered to
any defendant under this act, he shall first make an assign
ment of all his estate, real and personal, not exempted from
attachment by law, to some responsible inhabitant of this
state, his heirs and assigns, in trust for the benefit of all his
creditors, in proportion to their demands.
Sec. 28. Nothing contained in the nine preceding sec
tions shall affect any debts contracted before this act takes
effect.
Sec. 29. Whenever any prisoner shall present such a
certificate as is prescribed in the thirteenth section of this
act, to the keeper of the jail in which he is imprisoned, such
Keeper shall forthwith discharge him from his commitment at
the suit of the creditor named therein. Neither the commit
ment of the prisoner nor his discharge shall be a satisfaction
of the debt for which he was committed. If committed on
execution, the plaintiff may take out another execution, which
shall not however run against the body of the defendant : if
suit be brought on the judgment, execution in such suit shall
not run against the body of the defendant, nor shall the de
fendant be held to bail on the writ in such case. If the de
fendant be committed on mesne process, when he receives a
certificate as aforesaid, if that fact be shown by plea to the
court or justice before whom the action is pending, then ex
ecution shall not issue against the body of the defendant ; but
in no case shall the real estate be attached, unless the defend
ant at the time of such attachment be absent from this state
or concealed therein.
Sec. 30. It shall and may be lawful for any justice of the
supreme court, or any justice of the court of common pleas,
or any justice of the peace of the same county, who shall be
present at the time and place to which any citation in behalf
of any poor prisoner issued under the provisions of this act
shall be duly returned, in the absence of another magistrate,
to adjourn the hearing thereon to any other time or place, as
he may think proper, with the same effect as if another jus
tice were present.
Sec. 31 . If any sheriff, deputy sheriff, town sergeant, con
stable or keeper of any jail, shall take or receive from any pris
oner in his custody, any bond, obligation, covenant, promise
or assurance whatever, to indemnify and save harmless the
person taking the same, for the enlargement or ease of such
prisoner, in any other form or manner than is prescribed by
law for taking bail on mesne process in a civil action, or is
prescribed in this act, every such bond, obligation, covenant,
promise or assurance whatever, shall be utterly void.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows:
Section 1. Every person imprisoned in any common
jail, or otherwise restrained of his liberty, by any officer or
other person, except in cases mentioned in the following sec
tion, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, according to the
provisions of this act, to obtain relief from such imprisonment
or restraint, if it shall prove to be unlawful.
Sec. 2. The following persons confined in any jail shall
not be entitled of right to demand and prosecute said writ:
First. Persons convicted of treason against this state,
murder, rape, robbery, arson, burglary, or as accessories be
fore the fact in either of those crimes, or committed on sus
picion of being guilty of either of those crimes, or as acces
sories thereto before the fact, when the cause is plainly and
specifically expressed in the warrant of commitment.
Secondly. Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal
process, civil or criminal.
Thirdly. Persons committed on mesne process in any
civil action on which they were liable to be arrested and im
prisoned, unless when excessive and unreasonable bail is re
quired.
Sec. 3. Application for such writ shall be made to the
supreme court, if in actual session in any county, and if not,
to any justice of said court, by complaint in writing, signed
by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person
in his behalf, setting forth,
First. The person by whom, and the place where, the
party is imprisoned or restrained ; naming the prisoner and
the person detaining him, if their names are known, and de
scribing them if they are not known.
Secondly. The cause or pretence of such imprisonment
or restraint, according to the knowledge and belief of the
person applying.
Thirdly. If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of
any warrant or other process, a copy thereof shall be an
nexed, or it shall be made to appear that a copy thereof has
been demanded and refused, or that for some sufficient rea
son a demand of such copy could not be made ; and
Fourthly. The facts set forth in the complaint shall be
verified by the oath of the person making the application, or
by that of some other credible witness ; which oath may be
administered by the court or justice to whom the application
is made, or by any justice of the peace or public notary.
Sec. 4. The court or justice to whom such complaint
shall be made shall, without delay, award and issue a writ of
habeas corpus ; if against any sheriff, or deputy sheriff of this
state, or against the keeper of any jail or prison in this state,
or against any marshal or deputy marshal of the United States,
it shall be substantially of the following form :
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To greeting:
We command you, that the body of of
in our prison, in your custody, (or by you imprisoned and re
strained of his liberty, as the case may be,) as it is said, to
gether with the day and cause of his taking and detaining, by
whatsoever name the said shall be called or charged,
you have before our supreme court, holden at within
and for the county of immediately after the receipt of
this writ, to do and receive what our said court shall then and
there consider concerning him in this behalf; and have there
this writ Witness, Esq., at this
day of in the year Clerk.
And if not against such officer, it shall be substantially in the
following form :
The State of Rhode- Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and their
deputies, greeting:
We command you, that the body of of by
of imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it
is said, you take and have before our supreme court, holden
at within and for the county of immediately after
the receipt of this writ, to do and receive whatever said court
shall then consider concerning him in this behalf; and sum
mon the said then and there to appear before our said
court, to show the cause of the taking and detaining of the
said and have you there this writ with your doings
thereon. Witness at this day of in
the year Clerk.
Sec. 5. When the writ is issued by the supreme court in
session, it shall be signed by the clerk and tested like other
writs in this state ; when issued by a justice, it shall be signed
by him.
Sec. 6. If the court to which the writ is returnable shall
be adjourned before its return, the return shall be made before
any one of the justices of said court. If issued by a single
justice and the court shall be in session before its return, he
may and shall adjourn the case into court, to be there heard
and determined in like manner as if it had been returned into
the court.
Sec. 7. If the party is confined in a common jail, or in
the custody of any civil officer, the court or justice who grants
the writ, shall certify thereon the sum to be paid for the ex
pense of bringing him from the place of imprisonment; and
the officer to whom the writ is directed shall not be bound
to obey it unless that sum be paid or tendered to him.
Sec. 8. Any person to whom the writ is directed shall
receive it, and upon payment or tender of charges, if any
demandable for the execution of it, he shall make due return
thereof within three days after receiving it.
Sec. 9. If the writ be directed to any sheriff, deputy
sheriff, keeper of any jail, marshal or deputy marshal, as herein
provided, such officer shall state in his return thereon :
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
power, or under restraint.
Secondly. If he has the party in his custody or power, or
under restraint, he shall set forth at large the authority, and
the true and whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint,
with a copy of the writ, warrant or other process, if any, upon
which the party is detained ; and
Thirdly. If he has had the party in his custody or power,
or under restraint, and has transferred such custody or restraint
to another, he shall state particularly to whom, at what time,
for what cause, and by what authority such transfer was made.
If the writ be directed to no such officer, the person sum
moned shall state the same particulars in writing to the court
or justice before whom the writ is returnable.
Sec. 10. The return or statement shall be signed by the
person making it, and it shall also be sworn to by him, unless
he is a sworn public officer, and shall make the return in his
official capacity.
Sec. 11. The person who makes the return or statement,
shall at the same time bring the body of the party, if in his
custody or power, or under his restraint, according to the
command of the writ, unless prevented by the sickness or in
firmity of the party.
Sec. 12. When from the sickness or infirmity of the party
he cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appointed
for the return of the writ, that fact shall be stated in the re
turn ; and if it be proved to the satisfaction of the court or
justice, the said court or justice may proceed to the jail or
other place where the party is confined, and there make the
examination ; or may adjourn the same to another time, or
may make such other order in the case as law and justice
shall require.
Sec. 13. When the writ of habeas corpus is returned, the
court or justice shall, without delay, proceed to examine the
causes of the imprisonment or restraint ; but the examination
may be adjourned from time, to time as circumstances may
require.
Sec. 14. When it appears from the return of the writ or
otherwise, that the party is detained on any process under
which any other person has an interest in continuing his im
prisonment or restraint, the party shall not be discharged
until sufficient notice shall have been given to such other per
son or his attorney, if within the state, or within thirty miles
of the place of examination, to appear and object to such dis
charge if he thinks fit ; which notice shall be given by the
party imprisoned, in the manner prescribed by the court or
justice ; or in default thereof he shall be remanded to the cus
tody of the person against whom the writ of habeas corpus
issued.
Sec. 15. When it appears from the return of the writ or
otherwise, that the party is imprisoned on any criminal accu
sation, he shall not be discharged until sufficient notice shall
have been given to the attorney general, or to the complain
ant in the matter, that he may appear and object to the dis
charge, if he thinks fit ; which notice shall be given by the
party imprisoned, in the manner prescribed by the court or
justice ; or in default thereof he shall be remanded to the
custody of the person against whom the writ of habeas corpus
issued.
Sec. 16. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny
any of the facts set forth in the return or statement, and may
allege any other facts that may be material in the case ; and
the court or justice shall proceed in a summary way to ex
amine the causes of imprisonment or restraint, and to hear
the evidence that may be produced by any person, interested
and authorized to appear, both in support of such imprison
ment or restraint and against it, and thereupon to dispose of
the party as law and justice shall require.
Sec. 17. If no legal cause can be shown for the impris
onment or restraint, the court or justice shall discharge the
party therefrom.
Sec. 1 8. If the party is detained for any cause or offence
for which he is bailable, of right, he shall be admitted to bail,
if sufficient bail be offered ; and if not, he shall be remanded,
with an order of the court or justice, expressing the sum in
which he shall be held to bail, and the court at which he shall
be required to appear ; and any justice of the peace may, at
any time before the sitting of said court, bail the party pur
suant to such order.
Sec. 19. If the party is committed on mesne process in
any civil action, for want of bail, and if it shall appear that
the sum for which bail is required is excessive and unreason
able, the court or justice shall decide what bail is reasonable,
and shall order, that on giving such bail the party shall be
discharged.
Sec. 20. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained,
and is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be
remanded to the person from whose custody he was taken, or
to such other person or officer as by law is authorized to de
tain him.
Sec. 21. Until judgment be given, the court or justice
may remand the party, or may bail him to appear from day
to day, or may commit him to the sheriff of the county, or
place him under such other care and custody as the circum
stances of the case may require.
Sec. 22. Any officer who shall refuse or neglect, for six
hours, to deliver a true copy of the warrant or process, by
which he detains any prisoner, to any person who shall de
mand such copy, and tender the fees therefor, shall forfeit
and pay to such prisoner the sum of one hundred dollars.
Sec. 23. If any person to whom such writ of habeas cor
pus shall be directed shall refuse to receive the same, or shall
neglect to obey and execute it, according to the provisions of
this act, and no sufficient excuse shall be shown for such re
fusal or neglect, the court or justice before whom the writ is
returnable shall proceed forthwith, by process of attachment
as for a contempt, to compel obedience to the writ, and to
punish the person guilty of the contempt.
Sec. 24. If such attachment shall be issued against a
sheriff or his deputy, it may be directed to any town sergeant,
or to any other person, to be designated therein, who shall
have full power to execute the same ; and if the sheriff or
deputy should be committed upon such process, he may be
committed to the jail of any other county than his own.
Sec. 25. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person to
whom the writ of habeas corpus is directed, the court or jus
tice may also issue a precept to any officer or other person
to be designated therein, commanding him to bring forthwith
before such court or justice, the person for whose benefit the
writ of habeas corpus was issued ; and the prisoner shall be
thereupon discharged, bailed or remanded, in like manner as
if he had been brought in upon the writ of habeas corpus.
Sec. 26. Every person guilty of such refusal, or neglect
to receive and execute a writ of habeas corpus, shall more
over forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thereby, a sum
not exceeding one thousand dollars.
Sec. 27. If any one who has in custody or under his
power any person entitled to any writ of habeas corpus,
whether any writ has issued or not, shall, with intent to elude
the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, trans
fer such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the
power or control of any other person, or conceal him, or
change the place of his confinement, the person so offend
ing shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thereby a
sum not exceeding one thousand dollars.
Sec. 28. The recovery of any penalty imposed by this
act shall not bar any action at the common law for false im
prisonment, or for a false return to the writ of habeas corpus,
or for any other injury or damage sustained by the aggrieved
party.
Sec. 29. No person who has been discharged upon a writ
of habeas corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrained for
the same cause, unless he shall be indicted therefor, or con
victed thereof, or committed for want of bail by some court
of record having jurisdiction of the cause ; or unless after a
discharge for defect of proof, or for some material defect in
the commitment, in a criminal case, he shall be again arrest
ed on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the
same offence.
Sec. 30. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed
to restrain the power of the supreme court, or any one of the
justices thereof, to issue a writ of habeas corpus at their discre
tion ; and thereupon to bail any person, for whatever cause
he may be committed or restrained, or to discharge him, as
law and justice shall require.
Sec. 31. When any person is committed to jail on any
criminal accusation, for want of bail, any justice of the court
of common pleas, or justice of the peace of the same county,
may admit him to bail, in like manner as might have been
done by the court or magistrate who committed him ; and
the said justices, respectively, shall have power to issue a writ
of habeas corpus, and to cause such prisoner to be brought
before them, when it shall be necessary for the purpose ex
pressed in this section.
Sec. 32. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed
to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas
corpus, when necessary, to bring before them any prisoner
for trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in the same
court ; or to bring in any prisoner to be examined as a witness
in any suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such
court, when they shall think the personal attendance and exa
mination of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice.
DECTION
An Act concerning Actions of Account.
1. Action of account may he sustained by
one tenant in common, &c, against
his fellow commoner.
2. Defendant may appeal from judgment.
3. Court shall appoint auditors in case of
final judgment to account.
4. Defendant neglecting to appear, &c.,
auditors may award whole demand
Section
against him —auditors may administer
oaths—party refusing to be sworn may
be committed.
5. Court shall render judgment on report
of auditors—for costs, &c.
6. Award as conclusive if signed by ma
jor part of auditors as if signed by all,
if all met.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows :
Section 1. When two or more persons have and hold
any estate, interest or property, whether real or personal, in
common, as joint tenants, tenants in common, coparceners or
joint owners, and one or more of the owners of such common
property shall take, receive, use or have benefit thereof, in
greater proportion than his or their interest therein, such
owner or owners, his or their executors and administrators,
shall be liable to render his or their account of the use and
profit of such common property, to his or their fellow com
moner or commoners, jointly or severally ; and such the fellow
commoner or commoners, or any or either of them, their ex
ecutors or administrators, may and are hereby authorized to
have his or their action of account against such receiver or
receivers, or either of them, as his or their bailiff or bailiffs,
for receiving more than his or their part or proportion as
aforesaid.
Sec. 2. Any defendant in such action may appeal to
the next term of the supreme court to be holden in the
same county, from a judgment of the court of common pleas
against him that he shall account ; but if no such appeal be
prayed in open court, within two days next after such judg
ment, the same shall be final.
Sec. 3. Upon rendering final judgment against the de
fendant in such action that he shall account, the court ren
dering the same shall appoint not exceeding three auditors ;
who, upon being sworn by said court or any justice of the
peace or public notary, to a faithful and impartial discharge
of their duties, shall appoint a time and place to meet the
parties in said action, and to take the account as required in
said judgment, and give notice thereof to said parties.
Sec. 4. When any defendant shall unreasonably refuse
or neglect to appear at the time and place assigned by said
auditors, or after appearing shall refuse or neglect to render
an account, the auditors may award to the plaintiff the whole
of his demand ; and it shall be in the power of the auditors to
administer an oath to the parties respectively, and to exam
ine them respecting their accounts and the matters submitted
to them ; and upon either of the parties refusing to take an
oath, truly to answer such questions as shall be asked, or to
answer directly to the interrogatories put to him, it shall be
in the power of the auditors to commit him to jail, there to
remain at his own charge until he consent to take such oath
and answer such interrogatories.
Sec. 5. When the auditors appointed in any case shall
have made their report or. award concerning the matters sub
mitted to them to the court from whence they shall have re
ceived their appointment, if no legal cause shall be shown for
setting aside such award or report, judgment shall be ren
dered in conformity thereto, and also for costs, including such
reasonable allowance to the auditors for their service as the
court shall judge proper to make ; and the said compensation
to the auditors shall be paid down by the party in whose favor
final judgment shall be rendered, before he shall have execu
tion on said judgment.
Sec. 6. A major part of the auditors appointed in any
case agreeing and signing said report or award, the same
shall be equally binding and conclusive as if agreed to and
signed by all of them : provided always, that it shall be ne
cessary in order to give validity to such report or award, that
all the auditors shall accept of their appointment, and meet
on the subject matter thereof.
An Act regulating Proceedings in Replevin.
Section
1. Goods, &c, attached or detained may
be replevied.
2. Form of writ of replevin.
3. Sheriff being party to such writ the
same to be directed to and served by
a town sergeant in the County.
4. The officer charged with a writ of re
plevin to take bond before he serves
the writ.
5. Defendant dissatisfied with amount or
sureties on bond, court may order fur
ther bond.
6. Plaintiff neglecting to enter suit, de
fendant to have judgment for a return
and damages, on complaint filed.
Section
7. Damages in case judgment be Tender
ed on trial for defendant.
8. If plaintiff make good his plea, to have
damages of defendant.
9. How judgment shall be rendered if
plaintiff make good his plea for par-.
of the goods only.
10. Goods taken on execution or mesne
process, how long to be responsible af
ter judgment for a return.
11. Damages recovered by an officer in
replevin to enure to the creditor.
12. Form of writ of return.
13. Justice of the peace may issue writ»
of replevin.
It is enacted by the General Assembly, as follows :
Section 1. When any goods or chattels of more than
twenty dollars value, shall be unlawfully taken or unlawfully
detained from the owner or from the person entitled to the
possession thereof, and when any goods or chattels of that
value, which are attached on mesne process or execution, or
warrant of distress, are claimed by any person other than the
defendant in the suit or process in which they are attached,
such owner or other person may cause the same to be re
plevied.
Sec. 2. The writ in such case shall be substantially as fol
lows :
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
deputies, greeting :
We command you, that you replevy, if to be found within
your precinct, the goods and chattels following, viz : (here
enumerate and particularly describe them) belonging to
of now taken (detained or attached as the case may be)
by of at in the county of and them
deliver unto the said provided the same are not taken,
attached, or detained upon mesne process, warrant of distress,
or upon execution as the property of the said and sum
mon the said that he appear before our court of com
mon pleas next to be holden at within and for the
county of on the Monday of to answer unto
the said in a plea of replevin ; that the said on
the day of at said unlawfully, and without
justifiable cause, took the goods and chattels of the said
as aforesaid, and them unlawfully detained unto this day, (or
unlawfully detained the goods and chattels aforesaid, as the
case may be,) to the damage of the said as he says,
dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this
writ with your doings thereon, together with the bond you shall
take of the plaintiff.
Witness, Esq. at this day of in
the year Clerk.
Sec. 3. If any sheriff or deputy sheriff be party to such
suit, then the writ shall be directed to and served by either of
the town sergeants in the county in which the same is to be
served.
Sec. 4. The officer charged with the service of any such
writ shall, before serving the same, take from the plaintiff or
from some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant, with
sufficient sureties in double the value of the goods and chat
tels to be replevied ; with condition tojprosecute the said writ
of replevin to final judgment, and to pay such damages and
costs as the defendant in said writ shall recover against him,
and also to return and restore the same goods and chattels in
like good order and condition as when taken, in case such
shall be the final judgment on said writ
Sec. 5. In case the defendant shall, at any time pending
the writ of replevin, be dissatisfied with the amount or the
sureties in such bond, the court before which the same shall
be pending may, on his motion, and for cause shown, in their
discretion, order the plaintiff to give further bond or further
surety ; and if the plaintiff do not comply with said order, his
action shall be dismissed, and judgment shall be rendered for
the defendant for a return and restoration of the goods and
chattels replevied, and for damages and costs, the same as if
the plaintiff had neglected to enter his writ of replevin.
Sec. 6. Whenever any plaintiff in replevin shall neglect
to enter and prosecute the suit, the defendant may upon com
plaint have judgment for a return and restoration of the goods
and chattels replevied, and damages for the taking, to the
amount of six per cent. on the penal sum of the bond, with
reasonable costs ; and a writ of return and restoration there
upon accordingly.
Sec. 7. If upon trial of the writ of replevin judgment
shall be rendered for a return and restoration, the defendant
shall recover for his damages six per cent. on the penal sum
of the bond, if such judgment shall be recovered within one
year from the date of such writ ; but if such judgment shall
be recovered after the expiration of one year from the date
of said writ, the defendant shall have for his damages six per
cent. per annum on the penal sum of the bond.
Sec. 8. If upon trial of the writ of replevin the plaintiff
shall make good his plea, he shall recover of the defendant
his reasonable damages for the taking and detention of the
goods and chattels and his costs.
Sec. 9. If upon trial of the writ of replevin the plaintiff
shall make good his plea for part of the goods replevied, and
shall fail to make it good as to the other part, he shall have
judgment for his reasonable damages for the taking and de
tention of the part adjudged to be his, and his costs ; and the
defendant shall have judgment for a return and restoration, as
provided in the seventh section of this act, for the goods and
chattels adjudged to him, with damages, to be estimated as
provided in said section, according to the relative value of
such part, and all the goods and chattels replevied, with or
without cost at the discretion of the court ; but the court
before whom such trial shall be had shall in such case set off
the damages recovered by each.
Sec. 10. When the goods and chattels replevied shall
have been taken on execution or warrant of distress, they shall,
in case of a judgment of return and restoration, be held re
sponsible for the space of twenty days after the return there
of; if on mesne process, until thirty days shall have expired
after final judgment thereon, in case judgment shall not then
have been given ; but if final judgment on mesne process shall
have been given before the return, then for the space of
twenty days only after the return ; to the. end the creditor at
whose suit they were originally taken may have a complete
remedy, and the benefit of his attachment.
Sec. 11. The money recovered by way of damages by
any officer who has taken or attached goods and chattels at
the suit of a creditor, shall be deemed to be recovered to the
use of the attaching creditor, and when received shall be paid
over to him.
Sec. 12. The writ of return and restoration shall substan
tially be as follows :
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or
to their deputies, greeting :
Whereas of in the county of lately re
plevied the following goods and chattels, viz : (here enume
rate and particularly describe them:) which of in
our said county of had unlawfully taken, (detained or
attached, as the case may be,) as the said suggested,
and caused the same to be summoned to appear before
our court of common pleas then next to be holden at
within and for our said county of to answer unto said
for such unlawful taking, (detaining or attaching, as
the case may be,) on the Monday of And
whereas to our said court at their said term, begun and holden
as aforesaid, upon a full hearing of the cause of the taking,
(detaining or attaching, as the case may be,) it appeared that
the said taking, (detaining or attaching, as the case may be,) was
lawful and justifiable ; whereupon it was then and there by said
court considered, that the same be returned and restored unto
the said irrepleviable ; and that the said recover
against the said the sum of dollars damages for
his taking the same by the said process of replevin, and his
costs of defence, taxed at as to us appears of record,
whereof execution remains to be done : We command you
therefore, that you forthwith return and restore the same
goods and chattels unto the said and also that of the
goods and chattels of the said within your precinct, you
cause to be levied and paid unto the said the aforesaid
sums, being in the whole with twenty-five cents more
for this writ, together with your fees ; and for want of such
goods and chattels of the said to be by you found with
in your precinct to satisfy and pay the sums aforesaid, we
command you to take the body of the said and him
commit to our jail in in our county of therein to
24
be kept until he pay the sums aforementioned with your fees,
or until he be discharged by the said or otherwise by
order of law. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this
writ and your doings thereon to our next court of common
pleas to be holden at in our said county of on the
Monday of next.
Witness Esq. at this day of in the
year Clerk.
Sec. 13. Justices of the peace shall have power to issue
writs of replevin where the goods and chattels to be replevied
are of twenty dollars or less in value, if they were taken, at
tached or detained in the town in which the justice dwells
who issues the writ. They are also empowered to try the
same and to award execution therein, adhering in their pro
ceedings, as near as may be, to the forms herein prescribed.
