RULE I.
Every Clerk of the Circuit Court who cannot produce the

statutes ami
Rules

Statutes at Large, the Rules of Court and the Bar Calendar,
when required, shall be fined ten dollars for each default.
RULE II.
The several Clerks of the Circuit Courts shall keep in their ciexk to keep
respective offices a book, properly indexed, in which shall be
entered the titles of all civil papers filed, the orders made, and
the steps taken therein, with the dates of the several proceed
ings ; also, an index of all undertakings filed in the office, stat
ing, in appropriate columns, the title of the cause or proceeding
in which it is given (with a general statement of its condition)
or a reference to the Statute under which it is given, the date,
when and before whom approved, and when filed, with a state
ment of any disposition or order made of or concerning it ; and
such other books, properly indexed, as may be necessary to enter
the minutes of the Court, record judgments, enter orders and all
necessary matters and proceedings.
RULE III.
The Clerk shall not enter, without special leave of the Court, Entry of jua>
any judgment until the expiration of five days after the Court menu
has adjourned for the term.
RULE IV.
SHERIFF.

The Sheriff shall file with the Clerk the affidavits on which an sheriff to aie
arrest is made, within five days after the arrest.
?°tdsftTltoon lir"
sheriff com- At any time after the day when it is the duty of the Sheriff, or
piwwM. re ur° other officer, to return or deliver or file any process, undertak
ing, orders, or other papers, by the provisions of the Code of
Procedure, any party entitled to have such act done may serve
on the officer a notice to return, deliver or file such process, un
dertaking, order, or other paper, as the case may be, within ten
days, or show cause, at a time to be designated in said notice,
why an attachment should not issue against him.
RULE VI.
Appointment No person other than the general guardian of an infant shall be
'litem*™'"1 ad appointed guardian ad litem, either on the application of the
infant or otherwise, who is not fully competent to understand
and protect the rights of the infant ; who has any interest adverse
to that of the infant, or who is connected in business with the
attorney or counsel of the adverse party ; nor shall the attorney
of the adverse party represent the guardian ad litem. And the
same rule as to the appointment of guardian ad litem shall apply
to other persons incapable of representing themselves.
RULE VII.
Attobneys and Officers.
change of at- An attorney may be changed by consent, or upon cause shown,
'""" .
and upon such terms as shall be just,4upon the application of the
client, by order of the Circuit Judge, and not otherwise.
RULE VIII.
Drew of attor-

The habit of the gentlemen of the Bar shall be brack coats ;
and no gentleman of the Bar shall be heard if otherwise habited ;
and it shall be the duty of the Sheriff to attend to the execution
of this Rule.
RULE IX.

Attorneys and ^o attorney or other officer of the Court shall become surety
notbtorbeiBur™ upon any recognizance in the Court of General Sessions, or upon
Uvsany undertaking in the Court of Common Pleas. Attorneys and
other officers violating this Rule shall be punished as for a con
tempt of Court.
RULE X.
If the plaintiff resides beyond the State, security for costs may security for
be required. Whenever security for costs shall be required, the CC8ts.
following form, and no other, shall be regarded as a compliance
with the order :
State of South Carolina,
County, j)
A B)
vs. > Complaint for

CDJ
I (or we as the case may be) acknowledge myself (or ourselves)
liable for the costs of this case, and consent that if the plaintiff
fail to recover, the defendant may have execution for his costs
against me, (or us as the case may be.)
Given under
hand this
day of
, A. D. 18 . . .
E F,
Witness :
Approved :
G H,
G H,
C. C. P. and G. S.
C. C. P. and G. S.
This Rule shall not be construed as to prevent the plaintiff, or
others for him, when security is required, from depositing with
the Clerk a sum sufficient to meet the costs of the action.
In case of deposit the amount shall be fixed by the Clerk after
a careful examination of the whole case, and he shall receipt
therefor.
RULE XI.
Counsel shall not attempt to argue or explain a case, or any Argument and
matter arising therein, after he has been heard and the opinion J^g^e68' t°
of the Court has been pronounced ; nor shall one attorney inter
rupt another in the course of his argument without first obtaining
the permission of the Court.
Before the argument of the case commences the counsel on
either side shall read and submit to the Court in writing such
propositions of law as they propose to rely on, which shall consti
tute the requests to charge : Provided, however, That nothing
herein contained shall prevent either counsel at the close of the
argument from submitting such additional requests as may be
suggested by the course of the argument, or from withdrawin.
RULES OF PRACTICE FOR CIRCUIT COURTS.
any or all of the requests submitted at the beginning of the
argumeut.
Counsel shall note in the margin opposite each request the
authorities relied on in support of the propositions of law therein
contained, and produce the same when required by the Court.
RULE XII.
Manner of All pleadings and other proceedings shall be written on each
preparing pa- sicle Qf ^egal cap paper, except when type written or printed,
(with a margin of one and a half inch on the left.) If more
than two pages are used they shall be fastened at the top so as
to read continuously. Papers shall be folded from the bottom
in four equal folds, and endorsed with the style of the Court,
the names of the parties, the nature of the paper, and the name
of the attorney.
RULE XIII.
pleadings to All pleadings and other proceedings, and copies thereof, shall
ten 'andendor^ 'De fairly and legibly written or printed, and endorsed with the
ed-

title of the cause ; and if not so written or printed and endorsed,
the Clerk shall not file the same, nor will the Court hear any
motion or application founded thereon.

RULE XIV.
consent must No agreement or consent between the parties, or their attorbem writing. nevg, in respect to the proceedings in a cause shall be binding,
unless the same shall have been reduced to the form of an
order by consent and entered ; or unless the evidence thereof
shall be in writing, subscribed by the party against whom the
same shall be alleged, or by his attorney or counsel ; or unless
made in open Court and noted by the presiding Judge or the
Stenographer on his minutes by the direction of the presiding
Judge.
RULE XV.
DEFAULT ORDERS.

„ ,

.

Orders by de-

When anv order is obtained
by default the counsel obtaining
.

fault taken by the same shall endorse his name as counsel
on the xpaper
containcuunsel.
,
x

ing the proof of notice, and the Clerk in entering the order shall
specify the name of such counsel.
RULE XVI.

lxxiii
A. D. 1894.

v—v

'

master's or referee's report.
The Master or Referee in all cases of reference, having pre- Master or Refsree to flic T&pared his report, shall file the same in the Clerk's office, and at port in clerk.s
,
office.
the same time give notice to the attorneys engaged m the cause
of such filing, and the party who shall be dissatisfied therewith
shall, within ten days after such notice, serve his exceptions
thereto. Such notice of the filing of the Master's or Referee's
report shall be deemed and taken as service of such report.
RULE XVII.
Service of notice of appearance or retainer generally by an Notice of apattorney for the defendant shall in all cases be deemed an appear- taJner"* °r re~
ance, and the plaintiff on filing such notice, at any time there
after, with proof of service thereof, may have the appearance of
the defendant entered as of the time when such notice was served.
RULE XVIII.
In all cases of more than one distinct cause of action, defense, Numbering
counter-claim or reply, each shall be separately stated and num- oT^rounda of
bered ; and where the defendant intends to set up a counter- e ense°
claim, it shall be distinctly entitled and designated as such.
A demurrer must, in every case, be accompanied by a certifi- Demurrer,
cate of the counsel filing it that it is meritorious and not
intended merely for delay.
A motion to dismiss a complaint or answer on the ground that Motion to aisthe complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause ™ c
of action, or the answer does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a defense, must be in writing, stating wherein the pleading
objected to is insufficient.
RULE XIX;
No order extending the time to answer or demur to a com- Time to anplaint shall be granted unless the party applying for such order Je^aed without
shall present to the Judge to whom the application shall bej^erits.C8'6 °'
made a certificate of the attorney or counsel retained to defend
the action, that, from the statement made to him by the defend
ant, he verily believes that the defendant has a good and substantial defense upon the merits to the cause of action set forth
subseq
u
e
n
t in. the complaint
or to some *part thereof. And if anyJ extenextenslon.
r
sion of time to answer or demur has been previously granted, by
stipulation or order, the fact shall be stated in the certificate.
RULE XX.
Motions to Motions to strike out of any pleading matter alleged to be irrelngs.
levant or redundant, and motions to correct a pleading on the
ground of its being "so indefinite or uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent," must be noticed
before demurring or answering the pleading, and within twenty
days from the service thereof.
RULE XXI.
Defense of The defense of plene administravit shall not be effectual
t'ravit'.11 """ " unless the party making such defense shall file with the plead
ing, on oath, a full and particular account of the administration
of the estate, with a certified copy of the inventory and appraise
ment ; or, if the party be charged as executor of his own wrong,
a full statement, on oath, of all the assets which have come into
his possession, and the value thereof, and an account showing
the manner in which the same may have been disposed of.
RULE XXII.
Real owner Where a tenant is sued for land of which he is in possession,
fend action the real owner may, on motion, be admitted as a defendant to
agains nan . ^e action, and shall be entitled to the service of a copy of the
complaint, and to answer or demur thereto, as if he had been the
original defendant.
Whenever an action to recover the possession of real estate
shall be brought against any person claiming to be the owner
thereof, and such person intends to vouch any grantor under
and through whom he claims title, he shall vouch such person in
writing and before the time for answering has expired ; and the
person so vouched may, if he desires, be permitted to apply to
the Judge of the Circuit Court in which the action is brought,
within twenty days from being so vouched, to come in and make
such additional defenses as he may desire.
To all writs of venire for jurors, the Sheriff and his deputies Venire and
/~.i
summons for
make a return, on oath, before the Clerk of the Court from jurors,
which the venire issues, including in one class the names of those
who have been summoned personally ; in the second clas3, of
those for whom summonses have been left at their houses ; and in
the third class, of those who could not be found. The summons
for each juror shall state the day, the hour, and the Court, at
which he is to appear, the penalty for default, and, also, whether
he is to serve as a grand or petit juror.
RULE XXIV.
If any juror, in attendance upon the Court, shall refuse or Defaulting
neglect to attend punctually, and to answer to his name when- Jurors,
ever the same shall be called, the Clerk shall note such default,
and the defaulter shall forthwith be served with a rule to show
cause why he should not be fined therefor. Upon the adjourn
ment of each term of the Court, the Clerk shall cause to be
served by the Sheriff on each and every juror noted for nonattendance at that Court a notice, requiring him to show cause,
by affidavit, at ten o'clock on the first day of the next regular
term, why he should not be fined, according to law, for failing to
attend and serve as a grand or petit juror, as the case may be.
And on or before the first day of the next regular term the Judgment
uiraiiist.
Sheriff shall make return of all such notices to the Clerk, who
shall, after entering the same on the Contingent Docket, deliver
them to the Attorney-General or Solicitor, and the AttorneyGeneral or Solicitor shall, upon the call of the docket, move for
the judgment of the Court thereon.
RULE XXV.
In the empaneling of a jury in criminal cases, where the right jury in erimiof peremptory challenge is claimed and allowed, a child under
ten years of age shall, in the presence of the Court, draw one
from the names of all the jurors in attendance, which one, hav
ing answered, shall be presented to the accused ; and so on until,
in regular course, the panel be exhausted or a jury formed.
RULE XXVI.
common pleas

No Clerk shall enter a cause on the Calendar until the plead
ings are made up. And no cause shall be entered on the Calen
dar except by the Clerk or his Deputy.
No cause shall be on more than one Calendar at the same time ;
except in cases in which some of the defendants have pleaded
and others have made default.
Causes may be entered on Docket 3 at any time after the time
for answering has expired and before the beginning of the term ;
after the beginning of the term no cause shall be entered on said
Docket by the Clerk or his Deputy except by leave of the Court.
Where an issue has been settled by an order of the Court, the
Clerk shall give it place on the Calendar according to the date
of the order.
The Clerk shall preserve the Calendars as records of the Court.
He shall not only number the causes thereon, but shall indicate
the number of terms they "may have been at issue ; and he shall
also, in a separate column, copy the memoranda of the disposi
tion of the case at the previous term.
During the daily sessions of the Court the Calendars shall not
be subject to the inspection of the Bar ; but it shall be the duty
of the Clerk to make a copy of the several Calendars, in a Book
designated " Bar Calendar,.' for the use of the Bar.
RULE XXVII.

Motions for
continuance.

No motion for the postponement of trial beyond the term,
either in the Common Pleas or General Sessions, shall be granted
on account of the absence of a witness, without the oath of the
party, his counsel or agent, to the following effect, to wit : That
the testimony of the witness is material to support the action or
defense of the party moving ; that the motion is not intended
for delay, but is made solely because he cannot go safely to trial
without such testimony ; that he has made use of due diligence
to procure the testimony of the witness ; or of such other cir
cumstances as will satisfy the Court that his motion is not in
tended for delay. In all such cases where a writ of subpoena has
been issued, the original shall be produced, with proof of service,
or the reason why not served, endorsed thereon, or attached
thereto ; or, if lost, the same proof shall be offered, with addi
tional proof of the loss of the original subpoena.
A party applying for such postponement on account of the
absence of a witness shall set forth under oath in addition to
lxxvii
~

the foregoing matters what fact or facts he believes the witness .
if present would testify to and the grounds of such belief.

A. D. 18M.

v

'

RULE XXVIII.
In equity cases where a trial by jury of issues of fact may be issues in equity
desired, the party desiring a jury trial shall within ten days after tiiedby jury,
issue joined give notice in writing of his intention to move the
Court, upon the first day of the next term, immediately after the
call of Docket No. 3, for an order requiring that the whole issue,
or certain specified questions of fact involved, be tried by a jury.
With the notice of motion shall be served a copy of the questions
of fact proposed to be submitted to the jury for trial and in
proper form to be incorporated in the order. If the adverse party
desires to submit any other issue of fact to the jury, he shall
within four days from the service of such motion upon him
notify the party giving the notice, in writing, of his intention to
move the Court, at the same time, to submit certain issues to the
jury for trial, specifying the issues.
The Court on hearing the motion may settle the issues, if any
are deemed necessary.
RULE XXIX.
It shall not be necessary to call the plaintiff when the jury calling piainreturn to the bar to deliver their verdict, and the plaintiff shall to nonsuit,
have no right to submit to a nonsuit after the jury have gone
from the bar to consider of their verdict.
RULE XXX.
•
On a hearing before a Master or Referee, the plaintiff may submitting to
submit to a nonsuit or dismissal of his complaint, or may be non- missai before a
suited, or his complaint be dismissed, in like manner as upon a fereo; form or
trial, at any time before the cause has been finally submitted to reree.s report, "
the Master or Referee for his decision ; in which case the Master
or Referee shall report according to the fact, and judgment may
thereupon be perfected by the defendant.
Upon a trial by a Master or Referee, he shall, in his decision proceedings on
or report, state the facts found by him and his conclusions of PhTna>of°tnee
law separately, a copy of which shall be served with notice of l88"e8.
the judgment ; and the time within which exceptions may be
taken to the report shall be computed from the time of such
service.
In references other than for the trial of the issues in an action,
upon the coming in of the report of the Master or Referee the
same shall be filed, and a note of the day of the filing shall be
entered by the Clerk in the proper book, under the title of the
cause or proceeding ; and the said report shall become absolute
and stand as in all things confirmed unless exceptions thereto
are filed and served within ten days after service of notice of the
filing of the same. If exceptions are filed and served within
such time, the same may be brought to a hearing on the notice
of any party interested therein.
RULE XXXI.

Examination On the trial of issues of fact, one counsel only, on each side,
how'oiinducted; shall examine or cross-examine a witness, and not more than one
m™engrup"or counsel on each side shall sum up or be heard in any cause ; and
hearing.
during such examination the examining counsel shall stand ;
and the testimony, if taken down in writing, shall be written
by some other person than the examining counsel, but the
Judge who holds the Court may otherwise order, or may dis
pense with this requirement : Provided, That the time of two
hours, allowed by Statute, may be distributed among as many
counsel on each side as they may desire.
RULE XXXII.
Papers to be The papers to be furnished on motions shall be a copy of the
by whom. ""' pleadings, when the question arises on the pleadings, or any part
thereof, or of such parts only as relate to the question raised by
the demurrer.; a copy of the special verdict, return or other
papers on which the question arises.
Penalty for The party whose dutv it is to furnish the papers shall serve a
failure.
*
copy on the opposite party (except upon trial of issues of law)
at least four days before the time the matter may be noticed for
argument. If the party whose duty it is to furnish the papers
shall neglect to do so, the opposite party shall be entitled to
move, on affidavit and notice of motion, that the cause be
stricken from the Calendar (whichever party may have noticed
it for argument), and that judgment may be rendered in his
favor : Provided, however, That in mortgage and partition cases
where the plaintiff's rights arc not contested no copies of plead
ings need be furnished the Court.
The papers shall be furnished by the plaintiff when the ques
tion arises on special verdict, and by the party demurring in
cases of demurrer, and in all other cases by the party making the
motion.
RULE XXXIII.
CHANGE OF VENUE.

Xo order to stay proceedings for the purpose of moving to order to staychange the place of trial shall be granted unless it shall appear changewnue.'°
from the papers that the party moving has used due diligence in
preparing the motion for the earliest practicable day after issue
joined. Such order shall not stay the plaintiff from taking any Revoking stay;
steps except subpoenaing witnesses for the trial without a special cation,
clause to that effect.
RULE XXXIV.
Commissions when executed shall be sealed up by the Commis- commissions,
sioners who shall have executed the same, and directed to the and tow'opened
Clerk of the Court from which they were issued. Upon the
envelope shall appear the names of the Commissioners, written by
themselves across the place where the same is sealed, the title of
the cause, and, when sent by mail, the proper post-mark. Com
missions shall not be opened but upon motion in open Court,
or before a Master, or Referee or Referees, hearing the cause, or
by consent of the parties, in writing, or by the Clerk, or Master,
or Referee, upon request of any of the parties, and four days'
notice to all parties of the time and place of such opening.
Whenever an original document or paper is enclosed in a com
mission, and such commission is opened in the manner herein
before provided, it shall be lawful, and the Clerk is hereby
authorized, to take such original document or paper out of such
commission and deliver the same to the party entitled thereto,
to be used in taking other and further testimony in reference to
such document or paper, the same having first been marked for
identification.
RULE XXXV.
TRIAL IN GENERAL SESSIONS.

No person shall be tried on an indictment unless personally presence of
present, except for misdemeanors ; and upon the trial of any per- [rf'ai.amlsed °n
son charged with an offense for which the law requires that he
should be arraigned the prisoner shall be placed in the dock.
RULE XXXVI.
SURVEYS.

surveys, how Surveys of land in any quantity of two hundred acres or less
ordered by the shall be laid down by a scale of ten chains to the inch ; all over
court; noticeof that quantity, by a scale of twenty chains to the inch.
No survey made under an order of the Court shall be received
in evidence unless it appear that at least ten days' notice of the
time and place of commencing such survey has been given to the
parties.
Particulars re- Every surveyor shall represent in his plat, as nearly as he can.
"' ""''
the different enclosures of the parties, and the extent or bound
aries within which each party may have exercised acts of owner
ship. He shall also represent a fence, buildings, or the like, by
a mark in due proportion in size, according to the scale of the
plat. He shall, by some small but distinct letter or figure, dis
tinguish every corner, station, blazed tree, or other point which
is likely to be the subject of dispute. He shall take care not to
render the plat confused or indistinct by crowding too much
upon it ; but he shall rather refer the letters or figures to a table
(which may contain the courses and distances of lines, the marks
at corners, stations and noted points, explanations and remarks,)
than attempt to write much on the lines, or near to points on the
plat. He shall also make two drafts or duplicates of the plat, so
that on the trial there- may be one for the use of the Judge, and
the other for the parties in Court,
objections.
After a cause has gone to a jury, and any evidence has been
heard on it, neither party shall be allowed to make any objection
to the order of survey, or the manner in which it may have been
obtained, or the survey executed,
copy of Kuie. A copy of this Rule shall be appended to every order of survey
served on a surveyor.
RULE XXXVII.
JUDGMENT AND .EXECUTION.

Judgment on When the plaintiff in the action is entitled to judgment upon
swerTwben to the failure of the defendant to answer the complaint, and the
be applied for. reiief demanded requires application to be made to the Court,
such application must be made to the Circuit .Court in the *~—v~—'
County in which the action is triable.
RULE XXXVIII.
In actions for the recovery of money only, when the summons Judgment after
has been served by publication, under Section 156 of the Code, ifcation ;iam&and the defendant is a non-resident of the State, no judgment ing..
shall be entered unless the plaintiff, at the time of making the
application for judgment, shall show, by affidavit, that an attach
ment has been issued in the action and levied upon property
belonging to the defendant, which affidavit shall contain a spe
cific description of such property and a statement of its value
and shall be attached to and filed with the affidavit of publica
tion ; nor unless the plaintiff shall at the same time produce
and file with the Clerk an undertaking with two sureties to be
approved by the Court, or the Clerk thereof, that the plaintiff
will abide the order of the Court touching the restitution of any
estate or effects which may be directed by such judgment to be
transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may
be collected under or by virtue of such judgment, in case the
defendant, or his representative, shall apply, and be admitted to
defend the action, and shall succeed in such defense.
RULE XXXIX.
The Clerk shall record in the Judgment Book, at length, all Judgment roii;
judgments entered in his office, with the names of all parties,
plaintiff or defendant, who have appeared, or been served with a
summons therein, and the names of the attorneys, with the time
and place of the rendition of such judgment and the number of
the roll ; and when, by any judgment, any matter shall be ad
judged, or act or thing commanded, other than the payment of
money, space sufficient shall be left after the entry thereof for
the entering of such proceedings as may be thereafter had for
the enforcement or satisfaction of such judgment.
RULE XL.
When a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court shall be Recording
certified to the Circuit Court it shall be the duty of the Clerk of &%TencoU!
the Circuit Court to adjust the costs and disbursements in the
Supreme Court.,,.,,
to which anyJ r.
party
upon
,, may
,. be entitled
»
f . due
xi
Adjusting costs
notice, as provided in the case of the adjustment of costs in the tuereon.

A. D. 1894.

' Circuit Court ; and he shall record such judgment and enter an
abstract thereof in like manner as is provided in the case of
judgments rendered by the Circuit Court. At the foot of such
record a reference shall be made to the page at which the judg
ment appealed from is recorded, and a like reference shall be
entered at the foot of the entry of the original judgment to the
page at which the judgment on appeal is recorded.
RULE XLI.
SALE OF LANDS.

sales of land

When lands are directed to be sold at auction, notice of sale
shall be given for the same time and in the same manner as is
required by law on sales of real estate by Sheriffs on execution.
RULE XLII.
INFANTS' MONEY.

General guar- After the appointment of the general guardian of an infant
dian ; security, j^ shall not be entitled to receive any money or other prop
erty to which the ward shall thereafter become entitled until the
Court is satisfied, upon due inquiry, that he has given a good
and sufficient bond to account therefor.
RULE XLIII.
DISCOVERY OF BOOKS AND PAPEKS.

Application Applications may be made in the manner provided by law to
hownmd^very. compel the production and discovery of books, papers and docu
ments relating to the merits of any civil action pending in this
Court, or of any defense in such action, in the following cases :
1. By the plaintiff, to compel the discovery of books, papers
or documents in the possession or under the control of the de
fendant which may be necessary to enable the plaintiff to frame
his complaint or to answer any pleading of the defendant.
2. The plaintiff may be compelled to make the like discovery
of books, papers or documents when the same shall be necessary
to enable the defendant to answer any pleadings of the plaintiff.
:{. Either party may be compelled to make discovery, as pro
vided by Section 380 of the Code.
RULE XLIV.
The moving papers, upon the application for such discovery, Moving papers,
shall state the facts and circumstances on which the same is w attos te.
claimed, and shall be verified by affidavit stating that the books,
papers and documents whereof discovery is sought are not in
the possession nor under the control of the party applying there
for. The party applying shall show to the satisfaction of the
Court or Judge the materiality and necessity of the discovery
sought and the particular information which he requires.
RULE XLV.
Discovery may be compelled by requiring the party to produce order for disand deposit the matters to be discovered with the Clerk for the covery,
County in which the trial is to be had, or by requiring him to
deliver sworn copies thereof to the moving party, or in such
other manner as may be directed by the Court. The order
therefor shall specify the mode of making the discovery and the
time within which it is to be made ; and when papers are required
to be deposited the order shall specify the time that the deposit
shall continue.
RULE XLVI.
The order directing the discovery of books, papers or docu- order Jordisments shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings in the cause ate"ag a stayer
until such order shall have been complied with or vacated, and procee 88the party ohtaining such order after the same is complied with
or vacated shall have the time to prepare his complaint, answer,
reply or demurrer to which he was entitled at the making of the
order ; but the Judge in granting the order may limit its effect
by declaring how far it shall operate as a stay of proceedings.
RULE XLVII.
NEW TRIAL AND APPEALS.

"Whenever it shall be intended to move the Circuit Court for a settiing cases,
new trial (except for irregularity, surprise, or on the minutes of t^MT^dicm.
the Judge,) in an action tried by a jury, a case or exceptions, or
case containing exceptions, as may be proper and the party may
elect, shall be prepared by the party intending to make the
motion or to review the trial, and a copy thereof shall be served
on the opposite party within ten days after trial if by a jury, or

A. D. 1894.

v

.

within ten days after written notice of the filing of the decision
if the trial be by referees ; aud the party served may, within ten
days thereafter, propose amendments thereto and serve a copy
on the party proposing the case or exceptions, who may then,
within four days thereafter, serve the opposite party with a
notice that the case or exceptions, with the proposed amend
ments, will be submitted at a time and place to be specified in
the notice to the Judge or Referee before whom the cause was
tried for settlement. The Judge or Referee shall thereupon cor
rect and settle the case as he shall deem to consist with the
truth of the facts. The time for settling the case must be speci
fied in the notice, and it shall not be less than four, nor more
than twenty, days after service of such notice. The lines of
the case shall be so numbered that each copy shall correspond.
Cases reserved for argument, and special verdicts, shall be set
tled in the same manner.
RULE XLVHI.

Exceptions, Exceptions shall only contain so much of the evidence as may
nrnend'me'n1^! be necessary to present the questions of law upon which the same
how to be mark- were taken on the trial ; and it shall be the duty of the Judge
upon settlement to strike out all the evidence and other matters
not necessarily inserted.
Whenever amendments to a case or exceptions are proposed,
the party proposing such case or exceptions shall, before submit
ting the same to the Judge for settlement, mark upon the sev
eral amendments his proposed allowance or disallowance thereof.
RULE XLIX.
case and ei- Where a party makes a case and exceptions, he shall procure
nied in oBice of the same to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit
circuit court: Court within ten days after such "case" has been settled or
and now order agreed upon ; and upon failure so to do, the respondent may,
peal "abandoned by notice in writing, require the filing of such case and excepaiay be obtained ^ons witnm ten dav-s after the service of such notice; and if
the same are not so filed within said ten days the appellant shall
be deemed to have abandoned the appeal ; and on satisfactory proof
that the case and exceptions have not been filed within the time
required by such notice in the office of the said Clerk the
respondent shall be entitled to an order of the Supreme Court
(if the appeal has been perfected) or (if not) to an order of the
Circuit Court declaring the appeal abandoned, and the respond
ent may proceed as if no notice of appeal had been given.
RULE L.
In every appeal to the Supreme Court from matter appealable, Mode of prethe appellant, or his attorney, shall, within ten days after written appeal,
notice of the filing of such matter appealable, or, if filed within
term time, within ten days after the rising of the Circuit Court,
give written notice to the opposite party, or his attorney, of his
intention to appeal therefrom, and within thirty (30) days after
such notice the appellant, or his attorney, shall prepare a case or
exceptions, or a case containing exceptions (which exceptions
shall have been taken and served within the time prescribed by
law), and serve them on the opposite party, or his attorney, or
within such further time as, upon ten (10) days' notice to the
opposite party, or his attorney, the Judge who tried the cause
may for good cause grant. But should the parties, within the
times above named, be unable to agree upon a case, then the
proposed case, with the proposed amendments and allowances
and disallowances, shall be, within ten days after failing to agree,
referred for settlement to the Circuit Judge who heard the cause,
who shall settle the same within the time and in the manner pro
vided for settling a case in Rule XLVII.
The parties, if they agree on a case, or the Circuit Judge who
may settle the same, must see that the case shall, as to the matter
it contains, conform to the requirements of the Rules of the
Supreme Court in regard to the form and substance of a case for
hearing before that Court.
RULE LI.
If the party shall omit to make a case, or exceptions, or state- c a „ e% bow
ment of facts, within the times above limited, he shall be deemed ^ £ ^"deemed
to have waived his right thereto ; and when the same is made, set0edand the parties shall omit, within the several times above limited,
the one party to propose amendments, and the other to notify
an appearance before the Judge, Master or Referee, they shall
respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the case as
proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as
proposed.
RULE LIL
If in an action to foreclose a mortgage the defendant fails to If Inan action
answer within the time allowed for that purpose, or the right of t o'Tore"*' os^
the plaintiff as stated in the complaint is admitted by the mortgageanswer, the plaintiff may have an order referring it to the Master,
Clerk, or some suitable person as Referee, to compute the amount
A. D. 1894.

~~

*~-~-y~~~i due to the plaintiff, and to such of the defendants as are prior
incumbrancers of the mortgaged premises, and to examine and
report whether the mortgaged premises can be sold in parcels,
if the whole amount secured by the mortgage has not become
due. If the defendant is an infant, and has put in a general
answer by his guardian, or if any of the defendants are absentees,
the order of reference shall also direct the person to whom it is
referred to take proof of the facts and circumstances stated in
the complaint, and to examine the plaintiff or his agent, on oath,
as to any payments which have been made, and to compute the
amount due on the mortgage, preparatory to the application for
judgment of foreclosure and sale.
The plaintiff in such case, when he moves for judgment, must
show, by affidavit or otherwise, whether any of the defendants
who have not appeared are absentees ; and, if so, he must pro
duce the report as to the proof of the facts and circumstances
stated in the complaint, and of the examination of the plaintiff,
or his agent, on oath, as to any payments which have been made.
And in all foreclosure cases the plaintiff when he moves for
judgment must show by affidavit, or by the certificate of the Clerk
for the County in which the mortgaged premises are situated,
that a notice of the pendency of the action containing the names
of the parties thereto, the object of the action, and a description
of the property in that County affected thereby, the date of the
mortgage, and the time and place of recording the same, has
been filed at least twenty days before such application for judg
ment, and at or after the time of filing the complaint, as required
by Section 153 of the Code of Procedure.
RULE LIII.
Judgmeut for Unless otherwise specially ordered by the Court, the judgment
gaged premises; shall direct that the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as
what to contain! may be sufficient to raise the amount due to the plaintiff for
principal, interest and costs, and which may be sold separately
without material injury to the parties interested, be sold by or
under the direction of the Sheriff of the County or the Clerk or
Master, and that the plaintiff or any other party may become a
purchaser on such sale ; that the officer making the sale execute
a deed to the purchaser ; that out of the proceeds of the sale he
pay to the plaintiff or his attorney the amount of his debt,
interests and costs, or so much as the purchase money will pay of
the same, and that he take the receipt of the plaintiff or his
attorney for the amount so paid and file the same with his report
of sale; and that the purchaser at such sale be let into possession
of the premises on production of the deed.
All surplus moneys arising from the sale of mortgaged pre
mises under any judgment shall be paid or deposited by the
Sheriff or other officer making the rule, within five days after the
same shall be received, in the manner provided by law for the
securing of moneys in the custody of this Court.
RULE LIV.
On filing the report of the sale, any party to the action, or any ciaimsror surperson who had a lien on the mortgaged premises at the time of plus money,
the sale, upon filing with the Clerk where the report of sale is filed
a notice stating that he is entitled to such surplus money or some
part thereof, and the nature and extent of his claim, may have an
order of reference to ascertain and report the amount due to him
or to any other person which is a lien upon such surplus moneys
and to ascertain the priorities of the several liens thereon ; to the
end that on the coming in and confirmation of the report on
such reference such further order may be made for the distribu
tion of such surplus moneys as may be just. Every party who
appeared in the cause, or who shall have filed such notice with
the Clerk previous to the entry of the order of reference, shall
be entitled to service of a notice of the application for the order
of reference and to attend on such reference and to the usual
notices of subsequent proceedings relative to such surplus. But
if such claimant has not appeared or made his claim by an attor
ney of this Court, the notice may be served by putting the same
iuto the postoffice directed to the claimant at his place of resi
dence, as stated in the notice of his claim.
RULE LV.
No partition of real estate of a deceased person shall be had Requisites for
unless the legal representative or representatives of such deceased on^ernfor part"
person be made parties to the action and it be made to appear to uon.
the Court that the debts of such deceased person are fully paid,
or that the personal estate in the hands of the personal represent
ative or representatives is sufficient for the payment of the debts
of such deceased person, or unless in the decree due provision is
made for the payment of the debts.
Where several tracts or parcels of land lying in this State are
owned by the same persons in common, no separate action for partition of a part thereof only shall be brought without the
consent of all the parties interested therein ; or if brought with
out such consent the share of the plaintiff may be charged with
the whole costs of the proceeding. And when infants are inter
ested, it shall be stated whether the parties own any other lands
in common.
RULE LVI.
Reference as Where the rights and interests of the several parties, as stated
defense i» inter- in the complaint, are not denied or controverted, if any of the
,1""M .
defendants are infants, or absentees, or unknown, the plaintiff,
on an affidavit of the fact, and notice to such of the parties as
have appeared, may apply for an order of reference, to take
proof of the plaintiff's title and interest in the premises, and of
the several matters set forth, and to ascertain and report the
rights and interests of the several parties in the premises and an
abstract of the conveyances by which the same are held.
RULE LVII.
How questions All (piestions for argument, and all motions, shall be brought
tneloourt.be'ore before the Court on a notice, or by an order to show cause ; and
if the opposite party shall not appear to oppose, the party mak
ing the motion or obtaining the order shall be entitled to the
rule or judgment moved for on proof of due service of the notice,
or order, and papers required to be' served by him, unless the
Court shall otherwise direct,
order to show Such order to show cause shall only be granted when a special
granted. when reason for a notice, less than four days, appears on the papers
presented ; and the party shall, in his affidavit, state the present
condition of the action, and whether at issue.
And when the motion is for irregularity, the notice or order
shall specify the irregularity complained of.
RestraininR No restraining order pending return to a rule to show cause
sranted.When shall be granted unless it shall be made to appear, by affidavit
to the satisfaction of the Judge, that irreparable injury is likely
to result to the moving party in the meantime.
RULE LVIII.
Points on In all calendar motions, each party shall briefly state upon his
cuslions on facts points the leading facts which he deems established, with a refer
ence to their folios where the evidence of such facts may be
found ; and the Court will not hear an extended discussion on a
mere question of fact.
RULE LIX.
OPENING AND REPLY.
On all rules to show cause, where a party failing to answer Argument ami
would be in contempt, the party called on shall begin and end
his cause ; and on all motions or special matters, either spring
ing out of a cause or otherwise, the actor or party submitting the
same to the Court shall in like manner begin and close ; and
so shall the defendant, where he admits the plaintiff's cause by
the pleadings, and takes upon himself the burthen of proof, have
the like privilege.
The party having the opening in an argument shall disclose his
entire case ; and oh his closing shall be confined strictly to a
reply to the points made and the authorities cited by the opposite
party.
RULE LX.
Where a party has suffered a nonsuit, or discontinuance, or costs of former
has otherwise let fall his action, all proceedings in any new action
for the same cause shall be suspended until the costs of such
former action have been paid.
RULE LXI.
If any application for an order be made to any Judge and such subsequent aporder be refused in whole or in part, or be granted conditionally § eCr after°rr°eor on terms, no subsequent application upon the same state of f"8a1.
facts shall be made to any other Judge ; and if upon such subse
quent application any order be made it shall be revoked ; and in
the affidavit for such order the party or his attorney shall state
whether any previous application for such order has been made.
RULE LXII.
In the Court of General Sessions, the defendant, after verdict Affidavit in
against him, shall not be permitted to submit any affidavit to the mb'miuw".. hm
Court which goes to deny matters of fact, but he may submit
affidavits as to matters in extenuation or mitigation : Provided,
They are filed so as to allow the Attorney-General or Solicitor a
reasonable time to answer them.
RULE LXIII.

Timeforcom- In all cases where a motion shall be granted on payment of
orders,
costs or on the performance of any condition, or where the order
shall require such payment or performance, the party whose duty
it shall be to comply therewith shall have twenty days for that
purpose unless otherwise directed in the order ; but where costs
to be adjusted are to be paid the party shall have fifteen days to
comply with the order after the costs shall have been adjusted by
the Clerk on notice unless otherwise ordered.
RULE LXIV.
orders on pcti-

Orders granted on petitions or relating thereto shall refer to
such petitions by the name and description' of the petitioners,
and the date of the petitions if the same be dated, without recit
ing or setting forth the tenor or substance thereof unnecessarily.
Any order or judgment directing the payment of money, or affect
ing the title to property, if founded on petition, where no com
plaint is filed, may, at the request of any party interested, be
enrolled and docketed as other judgments.
RULE LXV.

order to stay No order to stay a sale under a judgment in partition, or for
obtained. °w the foreclosure of a mortgage, shall be granted or made by a
Judge out of Court except upon notice of at least four days to
the plaintiff or his attorney.
undertaking No order to stay a sale under execution shall be granted with" "''"""• out requiring a written undertaking, with sureties, from the
moving party to the effect that he will pay to the adverse party
such damages, not exceeding an amount to be fixed by the order
and specified in the undertaking, as he may sustain by reason of
the injunction, if the Court shall finally decide that he was not
entitled thereto. Such damages may be ascertained by a refer
ence or otherwise as the Court shall direct.
RULE LXVI.
SURETIES.

sureties to Whenever a Justice or other officer approves of the security to
justify.
De given in any case or reports upon its sufficiency it shall be his
duty to require personal sureties to justify. And all bonds and
undertakings shall be duly proved by a subscribing witness, or
acknowledged in like manner as deeds of real estate, before the
same shall be received or filed.
RULE LXVII.
Wherever sureties are required to justify they shall justify where the
within the County where the defendant shall have been arrested,- side,
or where the sureties reside.
RULE LXVIII.
FILING PAPEKS.

Papers shall be filed in the County specified in the complaint where papers
as the place of trial, or in the County to which the place of trial
has been changed. And in case the place of trial is changed for
the reason that the proper County is not specified, papers on file
at the time of the order making such change shall be transferred
to the County specified in such order ; and all other papers in
the cause shall be filed in the County so specified.
RULE LXIX.
It shall be the duty of the plaintiff's attorney forthwith to file whatpapere to
with the Clerk for the proper County all undertakings given when.
an
upon procuring an order of arrest, an injunction order or an
attachment, with the approval of the Judge or officer taking the
same endorsed thereon ; and in case such undertaking shall not
be filed within ten days after the order for arrest, of injunction
or attachment has been granted the defendant shall be at liberty
to move the Court to vacate the proceedings for irregularity, with
costs, as if no undertaking had been given. It shall also be the
duty of the attorney to file, within the same time and under the
like penalty, the affidavits upon which an injunction or attach
ment has been granted, and also the affidavit upon which an
order for the service of a summons by publication or an order
for a substituted service of a summons has been granted, together
with the order for such service.
RULE LXX.
RECEIVERS.

Every receiver of the property and effects of the debtor shall, powers of reunless restricted by the special order of the Court, have general or'J estate.°ebt~
power and authority to sue for and collect all the debts, demands
and rents belonging to such debtor, and to compromise and
settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful character. He may
also sue in the name of a debtor where it is necessary or proper
for him to do so.
RULE LXXI.
No action for No action for malicious prosecution based upon an indictment
cution to be had tried by the Court of Sessions shall be commenced unless a copy
der or the Judge of the indictment has been first obtained by order of the Judge
indictment. B before whom the case was tried.
RULE LXXII.
Damages on After a judgment has been recovered on an official bond it
holv^recoverod! shall stand as a security for any former or subsequent breach of
it, and any one who may conceive himself aggrieved by the mis
conduct of the officer shall have a right to come in and suggest
the breach of the bond of which he complains and pray execution
for his damages ; and upon serving a twenty-day rule upon such
officer and his sureties, or such of them as judgment has been
rendered against in the first action, requiring them to plead to
the suggestion, shall in default of such plea, or upon issue joined,
have his damages assessed by the verdict of a jury and have exe
cution for the penalty to enforce the payment of the damages
assessed.
Sec. LXXIII.
Motion tor ar- If a motion in arrest of judgment or for a new trial in a crimnfe n t ; when inal case be intended to be made, the party shall give notice
"lJ.
thereof and of his grounds within two days after verdict.
No motion in arrest of judgment shall be heard after a motion
for a new trial, but the motion in arrest of judgment and for a
new trial may, in the first instance, be made simultaneously.
RULE LXXIV.
ah former All Rules heretofore adopted for the government of the pracRuies repealed. tice rf the circuit oourte of this State shall be, and they are
hereby, repealed. In cases where no provision is made by Stat
ute or by these Rules the proceedings shall be according to the
practice as it has heretofore existed in the Courts of Law and
Equity of this State in cases not provided for by Statute or the
written Rules of the Court.
Section 1. Remedies in the Courts of justice are divided Division of
into : 1. Actions. 2. Special proceedings.
~1(i70 .x~y^
The General Statutes and tho amended Code having been adopted at the
same time, they mast be regarded as one Act and construed together. —Fooshe
v. Merriwether, 20 S. C, 337 ; City Council v. Welter, 34 S. C, 357.
The Code does not change the practice in actions, except as to the pleading
and its incidents.— Price v. Brown, 4 S. C, 144. It has abolished distinctions
in forms, but not between causes of action.—McConnell v. Kennedy, 29 S. C,
180.

Sec. 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a Court of jus- Definition o f
tice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforce- ib ^
ment or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a
wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
There is no cause of action under the Code, which did not maintain an
action at law or a bill in equity, before its adoption. —Southern Porcelain Co.
v. Thew, 5 S. C, 5. Under the Code equitable relief may be enforced in an
action which seeks relief formerly obtainable only in a Court of law. —Parker
v. Jacobs, 14 S. C, 112. Attachment being a form of process incident to an
action, is embraced in the term "action'"; is not a special proceeding. —Camp
bell v. Home In. Co., 1 S. C, 158 ; Allen v. Partlow, 3 S. C, 417. Appeal from
Probate Court to Circuit Court upon the merits is an action, not a special pro
ceeding.—Henderson v. Hyatt, 8 S. C, 112.


Sec. 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

Definition of a

Rule against Sheriff for official misconduct is a special proceeding.—Emory ing.
v. Davis, 4 S. C, 23. Attachment of crop under lien is a special proceeding.— ~/6., 88,
Johnstone v. Manigault, 13 S. C, 4CK5.

Sec. 4. Actions are of two kinds : 1. Civil. 2. Criminal,
tions into civil 
Sec. 5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the State, as a
an/b. 84.n~ ~ partv> against a person charged with a public offense, for the
Deanition of a punishment thereof.
C /™.!tsV*—: 
Sec. 6. Every other is a civil action.
Definition of a
—lb., 8o. J—
civil a n d
dies not merged
~phTif.—~
Division of the


Sec. 7. Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged
in the other,

Sec. 8. This Code of Procedure is divided into two Parts:
tne first relates to Courts of justice and their jurisdiction ; the
second relates to civil action in the Courts of this State.
it8 jurisdiction. Section 11. The Supreme Court shall have exclusive juris1873, xv., 4ns.8i (}iction to review, upon appeal :
1. Any intermediate judgment, order, or decree, involving
the merits in actions commenced in the Courts of Common Pleas
and General Sessions, brought there by original process, or
removed there from any inferior Courts or jurisdiction, and final
judgments in such actions : Provided, If no appeal be taken
until final judgment is entered, the Court may, upon appeal from
such final judgment, review any intermediate order or decree
necessarily affecting the judgment not before appealed from.
An order to involve the merits must finally determine some substantial right
in the case. —Henderson v. Hyatt, a S. O, 112; Blakely v. Frazier, 11 S. C,
122.
The terms " involving the merits " and " necessarily affecting the judgment "
are equivalent.—Blakely v. Frazier, 11 S. C, 122.
What orders involve the merits and are so reviewable before judgment :—
An order setting aside verdict for plaintiff without notice to him. — Williams
v. Charleston, 7 S. C, 71.
An order refusing to change place of trial to County where defendant re
sides. —Blakely v. Frazier, 11 S. C, 122.
An order refusing an oral demurrer. —Elliott v. Pullitzer, 24 S. C, S0 ;
McCown v. MeSween, 2!' S. C, 131.
An order refusing to allow amendment, upon legal grounds.—SibUy v. Young,
26 S. C, 415.
An order of reference that deprives party of mode of trial which the law
allows him. —Ferguson v. Harrison, 34 S. C, Kid.
Orders that are based upon error in law and will prejudice trial. —Bank v.
Stelling, 32 S. C, 102 ; Sease v. Dobson, 34 S. C, 345 ; Capell v. Moses, 36 S. C,
559.
An appeal from an intermediate order, leaving unaffected a former order, is
conclusive of appeal from former order.—Pringle v. Sizer, 7 S. C, 131.
What orders do not involve the merits and are not so reviewable before
judgment :—
An order requiring security for costs or nonsuit, and an order discharging
Clerk on rule for refusing to enter judgment, and reinstating the case. —
McMillan v. McCall, 2 S. C, 390.
Orders on motions to dissolve attachment.—Allen v. Patton, 8 S. C, 418 ;
Clausen v. Kasterling, 19 S. C, 519.
An order of Circuit Court allowing appeal, which had been denied by Pro
bate Court, as it merely affects form of procedure.—Henderson v. Hyatt. S S.
C, 112.
An order refusing nonsuit.—Agnew v. Adams, 24 S. C, 86.
Orders as to recommitting case toTeferee being discretionary.— Westfield v.
Westfield, 13 S. C.,482; Ifaffcuui v. Lang, 17 S. C, 13; Symmesv. Symmes,
18 S. C, 601 ; Lowndes v. AfiKer, 25 S. C, 119 ; Smith v. Thomason, 26 S. C,
607 ; Hubbard v. tV/oifM-raoum, 26 S. C, 581.
An interlocutory order of injunction, " without prejudice."— Garlington v.
Copeland, 25 S. C, 41.
Orders on motions for continuance. —State v. Dodson, 16 S. C. ,459 ; Craw
ford v. Schmidt, 16 S. C, 6S4 ; Symmes v. Symmes, 18 S. C, 601 ; Garvin v.
Garvin, 21 S. C, 92 ; Oouthit v. Westfield, 22 S. C, 588 ; Sawyer v. Senn, 27 S.
C, 251 ; State v. Atkinson. 33 S. C, 100 ; State v. ITiw, 33 S. C, 582.
An order referring it to Master to take testimony as to claims in case. — Pal
metto Co. v. Risley, 25 S. C, 309 ; Jones v. Trumbo, 29 S. C, 26.
An order refusing motion to submit issues of fact to a jury in equity case. —
Dupont v. DuBos, 33 S. C, 389.
What orders reviewable on appeal from final judgment :—
An order sustaining a demurrer to complaint, with leave to amend on pay
ment of costs. — Cureton v. Hutchison, 3 S. C, 606.
Order overruling demurrers.— Moltley v. Cureton, 6 S. C, 55.
All material rulings and charges of Circuit Judge excepted to.—Brice v.
Hamilton, 12 S. C, 35.
An order denying the right to open and reply. — Bennett v. Sandifer, 15 S.
C, 418.
An order requiring referee's report to lie printed for Circuit Court.—Scott v.
Alexander, 27 S. C, 15.
The Supreme Court is not restricted to such review of only such orders as
have been appealed from within ten days and the cases for appeal thereon
made up within thirty days : but it may review any orders affecting the final
judgment, whether appealed from or not.— Hyatt v. McBurney, 17 S. C, 150 ;
Lee v. Fowler, 19 S. C, 607 ; Thatcher v. Massey, 20 S. C, 547 ; Bomar v. R.
R. Co., 30 S. C, 50 ; Sullivan v. Latimer, 32 S. C, 234 ; McCrady v. Jones, 36
S. C, 136 ; Wallace v. R. R. Co., 86 S. C, 597. And such review includes all
rulings and charges material to the judgment, though no motion for new trial
was made to Circuit Court.— Brice v. Hamilton, 12 S. C, 32.
And upon appeal from a final judgment, rendered after appeal from an in
termediate order by one party, the other party may review such order. —
Hyatt v. McBurney, 17 S. C, 143.
Is a decree which allows judgment for foreclosure "as soon as the amount
is ascertained " such reviewable intermediate order i— Wallace v. Carter, 32 S.
C, 314.
The better practice is to await appeal from final order and then review in
termediate orders.— Capetl v. Moses, 36 S. C, 559.
What orders not so reviewable : —
An order of inferior Court not final nor involving the merits. —McWilliam
v. McCall, 2 S. C, 393 ; Donaldson v. Bank, 4 S. C, 114.
Final judgments :—
The decision disposing of all the issues and directing judgment for amount,
with interest, to be calculated by the Clerk, is a final judgment. —Adickes v.
Allison, 21 S. C, 245. In action at law, decision of Judge is not the final judg
ment.—lb.
The decision of two Trial Justices upon habeas corpus proceedings before
them is not appealable to Supreme Court but to Circuit Court.—State v. Dun
can, 22 S. C 88.
This subdivision may not allow Supreme Court to hear appeal from City
Court of Charleston. — City Council v. Weller, 34 S. C, 357.
A. D. 1894.
V" i-~—'
2. An order affecting a substantial right made in an action,
1870. XIV fill ;
1878,' xv.," 4os,' when such order in effect determines the action, and prevents a
judgment from which an appeal might be taken, or discontinues
the action, and when such order grants or refuses a new trial ;
or when such order strikes out an answer, or any part thereof,
or any pleading in an action. Upon every appeal from an order
granting a new trial, on a case made or on exceptions taken, if
the Supreme Court shall determine that no error was committed
in granting the new trial, it shall render judgment absolute upon
the right of the appellant ; and after the proceedings are remit
ted to the Court from which the appeal was taken, an assessment
of damages or other proceedings, to render the judgment effect
ual, may be then and there had in cases where such subsequent
proceedings are requisite.
What orders are appealable under this subdivision :—
An order refusing leave to defendant to file his answer and giving judgment
by default against him.—Ayer v. Chassereau, 18 S. C, 597.
Orders refusing nonsuit and, after verdict, a new trial.—Moore v. Smith, 24
S. C, 319.
Doubted whether an order concerning security for costs is, unless it termi
nate action by nonsuit.—Johnson v. Cobb, 29 S. C, 372.
An order granting or refusing new trial, where some question of law influ
enced the decision.—Byrd v. Small, 2 S. C, 388 ; Durant v. Philpot, 16 S. C,
116 ; Boyd v. Munro, 32 S. C, 249.
Orders as to amendments made upon clearly erroneous legal grounds.—Bowden v. Winsmith, 11 S. C, 411 ; Mason v. Johnson, 13 S. C, 23 ; Moore v. John
son, 14S. C, 4*) ; Sibley v. Young, 26 S. C, 415 ; Lilly v. R. R., 32 S. C, 142 ;
Waring v. Miller, 36 S. C, 310.
" An order granting a new trial on a case made on exceptions taken " con
strued to embrace an order granting a new trial on the minutes.— Caston v.
Brock, 14 S. C, 104.
What orders are not :—
An order, though it affect substantial right, unless it prevent judgment.—
Allen v. Partlow, 3 S. C, 417 ; Garlington v. Copeland, 25 S. C, 41.
An order sustaining demurrer to complaint, with leave to amend on pay
ment of costs.— Cureton v. Hutchinson, 3 S. C., 006.
Orders on motion to open default judgment. — Buttz v. Campbell, 15 S. C,
614 ; Truettv. Bains, 17 S. O, 453.
An order granting or refusing new trial for error of fact.
Appeals allowed under subdivisions 1 and 2 are those arising in the course of
actions, and are intended to affect the final judgment. Subdivision 3 pro
vides appeals in matters of an independent nature or collateral to an action
arising upon a special proceeding, or in matters arising upon a summary pro
ceeding in an action after judgment, and such proceedings are not intended to
disturb or to affect the judgment, but to give it efficiency. The summary
applications under subdivision 3 are proceedings based upon the judgment and
assuming its correctness, and if the object is to affect a judgment by setting it
aside, reversing or modifying it, the appeal must be authorized by subdivision
1 or 2.
3. A final order affecting a substantial right made in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after
judgment, and upon such appeal to review any intermediate
order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the order
appealed from.
An order setting aside assignment of homestead, made upon a summary
application after judgment, affects a substantial right, and is appealable.—
Weatherby v. Jackson, 3 S. C. , 228.
Such final order on rule against Sheriff is appealable. —Emory v. Davis, 4 S.
C, 23. So is judgment in special proceeding under Agricultural Lien Act.—
Johnstone v. Manigault, 13 S. C, 403. And order refusing appeal costs in
special proceeding.—Seasc v. Dobson, 3(5 S. C, 554. But an order dissolving
attachment is not.—Allen v. Partlow, 3 S. C, 417.
An order refusing a writ of mandanuts ia.—Ex Parte Mackey, 15 S. C, 328.
Order refusing to vacate order of arrest, under final process, is such final
order and appealable ; not reviewable under, as an intermediate order, on appeal from decree refusing to allow prisoner benefit of Insolvent Debtors Act.—
Hurst v. Samuels, 29 S. C, 476.
Order in quo warranto continuing a preliminary injunction does not involve
the merits and is not api>ealable. — The State v. Westmoreland, 29 S. C, 1.
Order in certiorari lieroianently staying proceedings below is such final
order.— Coleman v. Keels, 30 S. C, 614.
Power at court. 
Sec. 12. The Supreme Court may reverse, affirm or modify
1870, xiv., 8 18. the judgment, decree or order appealed from, in whole or in part,
and as to any or all of the parties; and its judgment shall he
remitted to the Court helow, to he enforced according to law.
Therefore, it has no power to grant leave to defendant to answer over.—
Johnson v. Dawkins, 20 S. C, 583. It cannot originally determine the right to
counsel fees.— Otis v. Hroutn, 20 S. C, 580. It can make no original decision
upon a point not ruled below. —Railroad Com. v. Railroad Co., 22 S. C, 231 ;
Dulaney v. Elford, 22 S. C, 313.
In a case at law it cannot modify the judgment l>elow ; can only reverse or
affirm. —Hosford v. Wynn, 22 S. C, 313.
Filing of iKttitiou for rehearing does not stay remittitur ; there must be an
order of one of the Justices.—Ex Parte Ihtnovant, 16 S. C, 300. Stay of remit
titur refused. — State v. Jacobs, 2S S. C, 609. Stay of remittitur rescinded.—
Ex Parte Smith, 35 S. C, 606. Motion to recall remittitur refused.—State v.
Merriman, 35 S. C, 607.
A remittitur which states that judgment below is affirmed is sufficient
transcript of the judgment above.—fir Parte Diai, 14 S. C, 5S6.
Supreme Court loses jurisdiction when remittitur is issued, and not when
filed below.—fir Parte Dunovant, 16 S. C, 300 ; Hrooks v. Brooks, 16 S. U.,621.
And cannot entertain a motion for rehearing after it is issued.—Sullivan v.
Speights, 14 S. C, 360 ; fir Parte Dull, 14 S. C, 585.
The judgment when remitted cannot be altered or modified by the Circuit
Court, but must be enforced.— Prinale v. Sizer, 3 S. C, 337 ; Ex Parte Dutw
vant, 16 S. C, 300 ; fir Parte Knox, 17 S. C, 217.
If judgment be affirmed, it needs no further action by the Circuit Court.—
Adaer v. Prinale, 13 8. C, 36. And action of Circuit Court is not affected by
pending motion to recall remittitur.—76.
A remittitur which orders a new trial in effect sets aside the verdict and
judgment appealed from.—State v. Stephens, 13 S. C, 287.
Terms: pre- 
Sec. 13. The .Supreme Court shall hold, annually, at the seat
causes.
of government, two sessions, the one commencing on the fourth
^ib., 813; xv., Tuesday of November aud the other the third Tuesday of April ;
and each of said terms shall he continued for so long a period as
the public interest may require. Additional terms may be ap
pointed and held at such times and places as the Court may
direct, when the public interests require it. The Court may,
by general rules, provide what causes shall have a preference on
the calendar. On a second and each subsequent appeal to the
Supreme Court, or when an appeal has once been dismissed for
defect or irregularity, the cause shall he placed upon the calen
dar, as of the time of tiling the first appeal, and may be noticed
and put on the calendar for any succeeding term ; and when- vt^—'
ever, in any action or proceeding in which the State, or any
State officer. or any Board of State officers, is or are sole plaintiff
or defendant, an appeal has been, or shall be, brought up from
any judgment or order for or against him or them, in any Court,
such appeal shall have preference in the Supreme Court, and
may be moved by either party out of the order on the calendar.
Case advanced where State officer is a party. —Ex Parte Eason, 35 S. C, 602.

Sec. 14. The concurrence of two Judges is necessary to pro- Judgment;
nounce a judgment. If two do not concur, the case must be ions. ng.opn"
reheard. But no more than two rehearings shall be had ; and 1870, XIV" 8 u
if on the second rehearing two Judges do not concur, the judg
ment shall be affirmed. When two of the Judges do not concur,
and a rehearing of the case is ordered, the two Judges shall file
the opinions read by them with the Reporter of the Court ; but
such opinions shall not be published. No person other than the
Judges of the Court, the Reporter of the Court, or the counsel
or attorney of either of the parties to the action, shall have
access to or a copy of the said opinions ; but such counsel or
attorney may have access to and a copy thereof.
Any two of three Justices of the Supreme Court constitute a valid Court.—
Cons., Art. IV., 
Sec. 2 ; Sullivan v. Speightn, 14 S. C, 358 ; Williams v. Benet,
35 S. C, 150 ; Aultmun v. Utsey, 35 S. C, 596 ; Stale v. Levelle, 36 S. C, 600.

Sec. 15. If at a term of the Supreme Court proper and con- sheriffs to proveuient room, both for the consultation of the Judges and the *kfi)ro^. *'".
holding of the Court, with furniture, attendants, fuel, lights
and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its
business, be not provided for in the place where by law the Court
may be held, the Court may order the Sheriff of the County to
make such provision, and the expenses incurred by him in carry
ing the order into effect shall be paid from the State Treasury.

Sec. 16. The Supreme Court may be held in other buildings courts ; where
than those designated by law as places for holding Courts, and ment. adJourn"
at a different place, in the same city or town, from that at which "" 8lf>it is appointed to be held. Any one or more of the Judges may
adjourn the Court with the like effect as if all were present.
Section 17. The State is divided into eight Circuits, as
jMte into Cir- foUoWs .
is68°invV.5872- *• ^ne ^onnties 0I Charleston, Berkeley, and Orangeburg,
jsjii xiv\, 198; shau constitute the First Circuit.
xvi.., 378;. /6.,. 2. The Counties of Aiken, Barnwell, Beaufort, Colleton, and
296 * 1871 XIV.
ten,. 82;. iss£ Hampton, shall constitute the Second Circuit.
XVII 682" ISH'J
xx.,"5is;.is7i; 3. The Counties of Sumter, Clarendon, Williamsburg, GeorgeXIV 696 8 6
town, and Florence, shall constitute the Third Circuit.
4. The Counties of Chesterfield, Marlboro, Darlington, Marion,
and Horry, shall constitute the Fourth Circuit.
5. The Counties of Kershaw, Richland, Edgefield, and Lex
ington, shall constitute the Fifth Circuit.
6. The Counties of Chester, Lancaster, York, and Fairfield,
shall constitute the Sixth Circuit.
7. The Counties of Newberry, Laurens, Spartanburg, and
Union, shall constitute the Seventh Circuit.
8. The Counties of Abbeville, Anderson, Oconee, Pickens,
and Greenville, shall constitute the Eighth Circuit.
Time of hold- 
Sec. 18. The Circuit Courts in the First Circuit shall be held
I n g Courts In
» ,,
First circuit,
as follows :

1887, xix., o87.

l_ rpiie Court of General Sessions at Charleston, for the County

of Charleston, on the fourth Monday in February, the third
Monday in June and the second Monday in November ; and the
Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the first Monday
in March, the fourth Monday in June and the third Monday in
November.
^Dii-^T^—^1880, XIX., 4i3. II- The Court of General Sessions for the Countv.* of Berkeley
•'
shall be held at Mount Pleasant on the first Moudays in February
and June and the second Monday in October ; and the Court of *""—v
'
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays succeeding
the first Mondays in February and June and the Wednesday suc
ceeding the second Monday in October.
III. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Orange- 18fi6 XIX ^
burg shall be held at Orangeburg on the second Monday in
January and the first Monday in May and the third Monday in
September ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place
on the Wednesdays succeeding the second Monday in January,
the first Monday in May and the third Monday in September.
Sec.• 19.• The Circuit Courts of the Second Circuit shall be,ing
Timeof
nowCourts
In
held as follows :
Second Circuit.
1. The Fall Terms :
The Court of General Sessions at Beaufort, for the County of Fail Term.
Beaufort, on the second Monday in September ; and the Court g^884, XVUI.,
of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Aiken, for the County of
Aiken, on the fourth Monday in September ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
the said fourth Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Hampton, for the County of
Hampton, on the second Monday in October ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
the said second Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Walterboro, for the County
of Colleton, on the fourth Monday in October ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said fourth Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Barnwell, for the County of
Barnwell, on the second Monday in November ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said second Monday.
2. The Winter Terms :
winter Term.
The Court of General Sessions at Beaufort, for the County of
Beaufort, on the first Monday in February ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said first Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Walterboro, for the County
of Colleton, on the third Monday of February ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said third Monday.
special proviand Barnwell
see sec7s4di
of vol. l.

slonsastoAlken

The Court of General Sessions at Hampton, for the County of
Hampton, on the first Monday in March ; aud the Court of Com
mon Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following said
first Monday.
The Court of General Sessions at Barnwell, for the County of
Barnwell, on the third Monday in March ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
said third Monday,
The Court of General Sessions at Aiken, for the County of
Aiken, on the second Monday in April ; and the Court of Com
mon Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following said
second Monday.
3. The Summer Terms :
The Court of General Sessions at Beaufort, for the County of
Beaufort, on the fourth Monday in May.
The Court of General Sessions at Walterboro, for the County
of Colleton, on the first Monday in June.
The Court of General Sessions at Hampton, for the County of
Hampton, on the second Monday in June,
The Court of General Sessions at Aiken, for the County of
.
Aiken, on the third Monday in June.
The Court of General Sessions at Barnwell, for the County of
Barnwell, on the second Monday in July.

4. Should the business of the Courts of Aiken County at the
April Term, aud that of the Courts of Barnwell County at the
November Term, be not completed at the expiration of two weeks,
the presiding Judge shall continue the same in session a sufficient
time to dispose of said business, and the jurors there in attendance
shall be retained as long as their services may be necessary : Pro
vided, The continuance of said Courts shall not conflict with the
duties of Judges in holding Courts in other Circuits, or with the
Time of how- provisions of Section 26 of this Chapter.
The third week of said
1 n g Courts In r
r
Third circuit. Winter Term for Barnwell County shall be devoted exclusivelv
18-wi, . xx.V 700- to the trial and hearing of equitv causes and the disposition of
uwi, XX., 1118. other
,,
. .
,, presence of. a jury.
.
matters not requiring
the

Sec. 20. The Circuit Courts of the Third Circuit shall be
held as follows :
1. The Court of General Sessions at Florence, for the County
of Florence, on the last Monday in January, the fourth Monday
in May and the third Monday in September ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the last Monday in January, the fourth Monday in May and the
third Monday in September,
1 MAO
2. The Court of General Sessions at Georgetown, for the v—"~y—-'
County of Georgetown, on the second Monday in February, the
second Monday in May and the seventh Monday after the third
Monday in September ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the
same place on the Wednesdays first succeeding the Mondays
herein fixed for the holding of the Court of General Sessions at
said place, except the May Term thereof.
3. The Court of General Sessions at Kingstree, for the County
of Williamsburg, on the third Monday in February, the third
Monday in May and the fifth Monday after the third Monday in
September ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place
on the Wednesdays first succeeding the Mondays herein fixed for
holding the Court of General Sessions at said place, except the
May Term thereof.
4. The Court of General Sessions at Manning, for the County
of Clarendon, on the fourth Monday in February, the first Mon
day after the fourth Monday in May and the fourth Monday
after the third Monday in September ; and the Court of Com
mon Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays first succeeding
the Mondays herein fixed for holding the Court of General Ses
sions at said place, except the May Term thereof.
5. The Court of General Sessions at Sumter, for the County of
Sumter, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in Febru
ary, the second Monday after the fourth Monday in May and the
second Monday after the third Monday in September ; and the
Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Thursdays first
succeeding the Mondays herein fixed for holding the Court of
General Sessions at said place, except the May Term thereof :
Provided, That no peremptory call of Calendar No. 1 shall be
made in said County of Sumter before the second Monday after
the fourth Monday in February and the third Monday after the
third Monday in September.
Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to pre
vent the presiding Judge from hearing and determining in any
of the Counties of the Third Circuit, at the Summer Term of
the Court, all cases which do not require the intervention of a
jury.


Sec. 21. The Circuit Courts of the Fourth Circuit shall be Timeofhoid,._.,..
held as follOWS :

ing Courts In
FourthClrcuit.

1. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Chester- sawssrfxi";;
field, at Chesterfield Court House, on the Tuesdays next follow- 999ing the first Monday of February, the fourth Monday of May
' aiid the first Monday of September ; and the Court of Common
Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays next following the
first Monday of February and the first Monday of September.
2. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Marlboro,
at Beunettsville, on the third Monday of February, the Monday
after the fourth Monday of May and the third Monday of Sep
tember ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on
the Wednesdays following the third Mondays of February and
September.
3. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Darling
ton, at Darlington Court House, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of February, the second Monday after the fourth
Monday of May and the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday
of September ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place
on the Wednesdays following the first Monday after the fourth
Monday of February and the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday of September.
1SH9, xx., 858; 4. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Marion,
at Marion Court House, on the Monday following the fourth
Monday after the fourth Monday of February, the third Monday
after the fourth Monday of May and the first Monday after the
fourth Monday of September ; and the Court of Common Pleas
at the same place on the Wednesdays following the Monday
succeeding the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday of Feb
ruary and the first Monday after the fourth Monday of September.
Tii.
5. The Court of General Sessions for the County of Horry, at
Conwayboro, on the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday of
February, the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday of May,
to continue for three hours, if so long be necessary, and the third
Monday after the fourth Monday of September ; and the Court
of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the fourth Monday after the fourth Monday of February and the
third Monday after the fourth Monday of September.
r882~"xvii 844
1ne business of the Court of General Sessions shall have pre
cedence in the respective Counties of this Circuit, and this Sec
tion shall not be so construed as to terminate the Court of General
Sessions before the business thereof is disposed of : uor shall it
be so construed as to prevent the opening of the Court of Com
mon Pleas for the purpose of hearing causes by consent of parties
before the times herein fixed for the opening of the Court of
Common Pleas. And the presiding Judge of any of said Courts
is hereby authorized to open the Court of Common Pleas, and to
try, by consent of parties, at any time between the days on which . v
'
said Circuit Courts open and close, any civil action, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, as if said action should he
tried at a regular term of the Court of Common Pleas : Pro
vided, That nothing in this Section contained shall be construed
to extend the June Term of the Court of General Sessions for
the County of Horry.

Sec. 22. The Circuit Courts of the Fifth Circuit shall be held Time of hold..
OS follows :

log Courts in
Fifth Circuit.

1. The Court of General Sessions at Camden, for the County 187T-XV1.,2™of Kershaw, on the first Mondays in February, June and Septem
ber ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the
Thursdays following the first Mondays in February and Septem
ber.
2. The Court of General Sessions at Lexington, for the XVI 571,72-2.
County of Lexington, on the third Monday in February, the
second Monday in June and the third Monday in September;
and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wed
nesdays following the third Monday in February and the third
Monday in September.
3.- The Court of General Sessions at Edgefield, for the County ""issl^xviii.,
of Edgefield, on the first Monday in March, the first Monday in
August and the second Monday in November; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the second Monday in March
and the third Monday in November.
4. The Court of General Sessions at Columbia, for the County
of Richland, on the fourth Monday in March, the fourth Monday
in June and the first Monday in October ; and the Court of Com
mon Pleas at the same place on the Monday after the fourth
Honday in March, the Monday after the fourth Monday in June
and the second Monday in October.

Sec. 23. The Circuit Courts of the Sixth Circuit shall be Timeofhoiding Courts In
held as follows :
sixth circuit.
1. The Court of General Sessions at Winnsboro, for the County 1SS, xix., *w.
of Fairfield, on the third Monday in February, the second Mon
day in June and the third Monday in September ; and the Court
of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the third Mondays in February and September.
2. The Court of General Sessions at Lancaster, for the County
of Lancaster, on the first Monday in March, the third Monday
in June and the first Monday after the fourth Monday in Sep
tember ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on
y"~-"' the Wednesday following the first Monday in March and the
Wednesday following the first Monday after the fourth Monday
in September.
3. The Court of General Sessions at Chester, for the County
of Chester, on the third Monday in March, the fourth Monday
in June and the third Monday in October ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the third Monday in March and the third Monday in October.
4. The Court of General Sessions at Yorkville, for the County
of York, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in March,
the first Monday after the fourth Monday in June and the first
Monday after the fourth Monday in October ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the first Monday after the fourth Monday in March and the first
Monday after the fourth Monday in October.
Time of how- 
Sec. 24. The Circuit Courts of the Seventh Circuit shall be
'seVLKult; held as follows :
law, xx., 359.
1. The Court of General Sessions at Newberry, for the County
of Newberry, on the third Monday in March, the second Monday
in July and the second Monday in November ; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the fourth Monday in March
and the third Monday in November : Provided, however, That
the provisions of Section 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall
not apply to the Courts held in Newberry County.
2. The Court of General Sessions at Laurens, for the County
of Laurens, on the third Mondays in February, July and Sep
tember ; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on
the Wednesday following the third Mondays in February and
September.
3. The Court of General Sessions at Union, for the County of
Union, on the first Mondays in March, July and October ; and
the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday
following the first Mondays in March and October.
4. The Court of General Sessions at Spartanburg, for the County
of Spartanburg, on the fourth Monday in January, the fourth
Monday in July and the third Monday in October ; and the
Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays
following the fourth Monday in January, the fourth Monday in
July and the third Monday in October.
inTco°mi°1m 
Sec. 25. The Circuit Courts of the Eighth Circuit shall be
HC ™o: held as follows :
is9i, xx., 'ins.' 1. The Court of General Sessions at Abbeville, for the County
of Abbeville, on the third Monday in January, the first Monday ^"^y—'
in June and the second Monday in October. The Court of Com
mon Pleas for said County at the same place on the Wednesdays
next following the third Monday in January, the first Monday in
June and the second Monday in October.
2. The Court of General Sessions at Anderson, for the County
of Anderson, on the second Monday in February, the fourth
Monday in June. and the fourth Monday in October ; and the
Court of Common Pleas for the said County at the same place
on the Wednesdays next following the second Monday in
February, the fourth Monday in June and the fourth Monday
in October.
3. The Court of General Sessions at Walhalla, for the County
of Oconee, on the fourth Monday in February, the first Monday
in July and the first Monday in October ; and the Court of Com
mon Pleas for said County at the same place on the Wednesdays
next following the fourth Monday in February, the first Monday
in July and the first Monday in October.
4. The Court of General Sessions at Pickens, for the County
of Pickens, on the first Monday in March, the second Monday
in July and the third Monday in September ; and the Court of
Common Pleas for said County at the same place on the Wednes
davs next following the first Monday in March, the second Mon
day in July and the third Monday in September.
5. The Court of General Sessions at Greenville, for the County
of Greenville, on the second Monday in March, the third Mon
day in July and the second Monday in November. The Court
of Common Pleas for said County at the same place on the
Wednesdays next following the second Monday in March, the
third Monday in July and the second Monday in November.
6. No civil business requiring a jury shall be heard at the
Summer Term of the Court of Common Pleas for any County
in said Circuit, except in the County of Greenville.

Sec. 26. Wherever in this Title provision is made for Courts After General
of General Sessions only, the Judge presiding shall, at the con- juUgelnay open
elusion of any such Court of General Sessions, open the Court of monPicas.0°1""
Common Pleas without juries, and give judgments by default on I'^.^Ji* ^
Calendar 3, hear and determine equity causes, and transact all
other business of a regular term of a Court of Common Pleas,
except trials by jury.

Sec. 27. Should the business before the Court of General toadjSum'coiirt
Sessions at any term not be completed on the arrival of the day Pleas,"
fixed by law for the holding of the Court of Common Pleas for v^.xx,.^..
v~—' said County, the Judge presiding may, in his discretion, adjourn
said Court of Common Pleas until the business of the Court of
General Sessions shall have been concluded. But the provisions
of this Section shall not apply to the Courts held in the County
of Newberry.
It is necessary to such adjournment that the Court of Common Pleas should
be first opened on the day fixed for its holding.—McKellar v. Parker, 29 S. C,
237. But where the officers and machinery are present in court house on the
fixed day, that Court is then opened by operation of law, without any form
ality.—Hardin v. Trimmier, 30 S. C, 391 ; Miller v. George, 30 S. C, 526.
Power to open 
Sec. 27a. Should the business before the Court of Sessions
li.fore compie- at any Term in any Circuit in this State be completed or susbusiuess.
pended before or after the day fixed by law for the opening of
^sa, xvni., tne Court of Common Pleas for any County in the State, the
presiding Judge may, in his discretion, before the completion of
the criminal business, open the Court of Common Pleas for the
trial of all causes or the dispatch of all business that may be
pending in said Court in which the parties interested are ready
to be heard.
special ses- 
Sec. 28. Special sessions of the Courts of Common Pleas or
courts° rcu General Sessions may be held whenever so ordered, either by the
isre3.xvi."li; Chief Justice or by the Circuit Judge at the time holding the
js; Ian, xvni., Circuit Court of the County for which the extra term may be
ordered, of which extra term such notice shall be given as the
Chief Justice or the Circuit Judge so ordering the same may
direct. If such extra term of either or both the Courts aforesaid
be ordered by the Chief Justice, he may order any one of the
Circuit Judges to hold the same ; but if such extra term be
ordered by a Circuit Judge, as hereinbefore provided, then such
extra term shall be held only by the Circuit Judge so ordering
the same. No cause shall be tried at any extra term of the Court
of Common Pleas for any Circuit unless the said cause shall have
been previously docketed upon some one of the calendars of the
last preceding regular term of said Court.
The Clerk of such Court shall, at least fifteen days before the
commencement of such special session, cause the time and place
for holding the same to be notified, for at least two weeks suc
cessively, in one or more of the newspapers published nearest the
place where the session is to be holden. All processes, writs, and
recognizances of every kind, whether respecting juries, witnesses,
bail, or otherwise, which relate to the cases to be tried at the
said special session, shall be considered as belonging to such ses
sion, in the same manner as if they had been issued or taken in
reference thereto. All business depending for trial at any special '
v '
session shall at the close thereof be considered as of course
removed to the next stated term of Court. Said special session
shall be held in pursuance of an order which shall be transmitted
to the Clerk of the Court, and by him entered on the records of
the Court.

Sec. 29. Petit jurors summoned to attend the Court of Cieu- petit jurors in
eral Sessions in any County, except the County of Charleston, an™™°nn era"i
shall also attend and serve as jurors for the Court of Common Sessions.
1870, XIV., 889.
Pleas next ensuing in and for said County, except as otherwise
provided in Section 2401 of the Revised Statutes.

Sec. 30. The Judge of the Circuit Court shall have power to Adjournment
direct any Circuit Court in his Circuit to be adjourned over to a "'/jj,™'^-*
future day designated in a written order to the Clerk of said
Court, whenever there is a dangerous and general disease at the
place where said Court is usually holden.
Such adjournment having been ordered, no inquiry can be made as to
whether conditions existed.—Adickes v. Allison, 21 S. C, 256. But when the
term of Court fixed by law has expired, the Judge has no power to continue
its existence and convene it at another time.—Ex Parte Lilly, 7 S. C, 373.
But Judge may order adjournment of Court from day to day till a fixed day
before the next succeeding Court, and try a cause on that day. —DeLeon v.
Barrett, 22 S. C, 412.


Sec. 31. The Judges elected and qualified by taking the oath Qualification
prescribed in the thirtieth Section of the second Article of the °itu6^f. „„
1
1 />., sol; XVII,
Constitution, and the oath with respect to dueling, which oaths s02shall be administered by one of the Justices of the Supreme
Court, shall forthwith enter upon their duties.

Sec. 32. The Circuit Courts herein established shall be Courts circuit courts
of record, and the books of record thereof shall, at all times, be record;
subject to the inspection of any person interested therein.
isro, xiv., ja*.

Sec. 33. The Clerk elected in each County pursuant to 
Sec. clerk and
tion 27 of Article IV. of the Constitution shall be Clerk of the Sitcouri.°'
Courts of General Sessions and Common Pleas, and may appoint 'u.,i?».
a deputy, who may perform the duties of Clerk, for whose acts
such Clerk shall be responsible, and a record of whose appoint
ment shall be made in the Clerk's office, and such appointment
may be revoked at the pleasure of the Clerk ; and in case no
Clerk exists, the Judge shall have authority to appoint a person
who shall perform the duties of Clerk, and said Deputy Clerk,
or the one appointed by the Judge, shall be required to give the
usual bond before entering on the duties of the office.
Generally as to this Title :—
Proceedings of a Circuit Court, held by the Judge of another Circuit, at a
time unauthorized by law, are void.—Ex Parte Dellay, 3 S. C, 564,
Where, after the regular session of a Circuit Court has commenced, an Act
transfers the County to another Circuit and fixes another day for holding the
Court, it has jurisdiction to continue its session and to try cases.— Shelton v.
Motrin, 4S. C.,541.
Circuit Judges are confined, in the performance of their judicial duties, to
the Circuits to which they are respectively elected, except when authorized
by statute to go beyond that limit.—Cons., Art. IV., Sees. 13-14 ; Ex Parte
Parker, 6 S. C , 472 ; State v. Parker, 7 S. C, 235.

^sessions.
Section 34. A Court of Probate is hereby established in
iseiTxivT.aii3; eacn of tne several Counties in this State, which shall hold a ses1870, xiv., 8 35. sion on 4.he nrs(. Monday in each month, at or near the court
house, and continue thereafter so long as the business may
require.

Sec. 35. The Court of Probate shall he a Court of record ^"" v '
. .
,
• i
syi i
j
i •
i Court of record;
and have a seal ; may appoint a Clerk and may remove him at cierk.
pleasure ; and on failure of the Court to appoint such Clerk, the xVi...,m 1S77.
Judge of the Court shall perform all the duties of Clerk : Pro
vided, That no person holding the office of Clerk of the Pro
bate Court under and by virtue of the appointment of the Pro
bate Judge of any County of this State shall practice in such
Court as an attorney or counsellor at law.
Being a Court of record, it is not an inferior Court within the limits of its
jurisdiction, which is large.— Thomas v. Poole, 19 S. C, 323 ; Turner v. Malone,
24 S. C, 398 ; State v. Burnside, 33 S. C, 276. Facts appearing on its record
cannot be attacked collaterally. —Tederall v. Bouknighl, 25 S. C, 275.


Sec. 36. The Clerk of the Court of Probate shall keep a true Duties ot cierk.
and fair record of each order, sentence and decree of the Court, 1870. XIV.,887and of all other things proper to be recorded ; and on the legal
fees being paid, shall give true and attested copies of the files and
proceedings of the Court. All copies so attested shall be legal
evidence in the Courts of this State.

Sec. 37. Every Judge of Probate in his County shall have Jurisdiction of
jurisdiction in all matters testamentary and of administration, in ^jh.^JW.
business appertaining to minors and the allotment of dower, in
cases of idiocy and lunacy, and of persons non compotes mentis.
As to matters testamentary :—
What is the extent of such jurisdiction, conferred by the Constitution, has
not been determined.— Thomas v. Poole, 19 S. C, 828.
It does not include action by cestui que trtist against his trustee for account
ing, unless it involves matters testamentary. —Poole v. Brown, 12 S. C, 556.
Nor action of one legatee against another to recover money paid to her in
excess of her share as found by decree of Probate Court.—Miller v. Stark, 29
S. C, 325.
In probate of wills the jurisdiction extends only to its execution, and not to
its construction.—Prater v. Whittle, 16 S. C, 40.
Letters testamentary cannot be granted to one as executor not nominated
by the will.— Blakely v. Frazier, 20 S. C, 144.
Probate Court may settle an estate upon petition of the executors as being
a matter testamentary.—In Re Covin Est., 20 S. C, 476.
What are not cases of " matters testamentary or of administration."— Cald
well v. Little, 15 S. C, 236.
As to matters of administration :—
Such jurisdiction does not embrace a case against administrator in his per
sonal character for wrong done in course of administration.—Rolierts v. Johns,
10S. C, 109.
As to business of minors :—
What the extent of this jurisdiction has not been determined.— Thomas v.
Poole, 19 S. C, 323.
It is questionable whether it embraces proceedings by a ward having at
tained majority to compel his guardian to account.— Waller v. Cresswell, 4 S.
C, 355.
Probate Court may appoint guardians ad litem for minors in causes in the
Court of Common Pleas.— Trapier v. Waldo, 16 S. C, 289.
As to dower :—
The jurisdiction is concurrent with the jurisdiction of the Court of Common
Pleas.— Witte v. Clark, 17 S. C, 323.
Such jurisdiction is not ousted because questions of fact are involved.—
Stewart v. Blease, 4 S. C, 37. Nor limited to cases where there is no dispute
as to the right of dower or the title to the land. — Tibbetl v. Lanuley Man. Co.,
12 S. C, 465.
As to idiocy, lunacy and non compotes mentis:—
The jurisdiction is not exclusive, but is concurrent with that of Court of
Common Pleas.— Walker v. Russel, 10 S. C, 82. But the Probate Court can
not grant leave to traverse an inquisition in lunacy ; that can only be done in
the Court of Common Pleas. —lb.

in relation to 
Sec. 38. The Judge of Probate shall have jurisdiction in rela^/fr"?""!- con tion to *ne appointment and removal of guardians of minors,
Art. iv., 820. insane and idiotic persons, and persons non compotes mentis, and
in relation to the duties imposed by law on such guardians, and
the management and disposition of the estates of their wards.
He shall exercise original jurisdiction in relation to trustees ap
pointed by will.
Question whether such jurisdiction as to duties of guardians reaches the
case where the ward is of age. — Waller v. Cresswell, 4 S. C, 355.
He has no jurisdiction to appoint another trustee in place of deceased testa
mentary trustee.— Thomas v. Poole, 19 S. C, 323.

Administration 
Sec. 39. The probate of the will and the granting of adminwius?)robate °f istration of the estate of any person deceased shall belong to the
1870, xiv.,1 «. Judge of Probate for the County in which such person was last
an inhabitant ; but if such person was not an inhabitant of this
State, the same shall belong to the Judge of Probate in any
County in which the greater part of his or her estate may be.
settiement or 
Sec. 40. All proceedings in relation to the settlement of the
county' "where estate of any person deceased shall be had in the Probate Court
oVi'rea™estaieale of tne County in which his will was proved or administration
~is70, xiv^, W; of estate was granted. And whenever it shall appear to the
1878 XV 4!W
satisfaction of any Judge of Probate that the personal estate of
any person deceased is insufficient for the payment of his debts,
and all persons interested in such estate being first summoned
before him, and showing no cause to the contrary, such Judge
of Probate shall have power to order the sale of the real estate
of such person deceased, or of so much thereof as may be neces
sary for the payment of the debts of such deceased person, upon
such terms and in such manner as he may think best ; may
grant orders of injunction to stay actions or proceedings against
the executors or administrators of such deceased person, and
such other orders as may be necessary to secure the marshaling .
and administering the assets of such deceased person ; such pro
ceedings to be by summons and complaint, the practice wherein
shall conform as nearly as may be to the form and practice in the
Courts of Common Pleas of this State.
The Constitution confers the jurisdiction to make such sale of real estate.—
McNamee v. Waterbury, 4 S. C, 156. It is concurrent with the jurisdiction of
the Court of Common Pleas in such cases.—Jordon v. Moses, 10 S. C, 431.
Either in an action by a creditor for that purpose.—Finley v. Robertson, 17 S.
C. 435 ; Scruggs v. Foot, 19 S. C, 274. But not until the will has been pro
bated or letters of administration granted. — Whitesides v. Barber, 24 S. C,
37:1. Or in such action by the personal representative.— MeNamee v. Waterbury, 4S.C, 156 ; Shaw v. Harksdale, "25 S. C. 204. The Probate Judge must
determine the necessity of such sale. —Hodge v. Fabian, 31 S. C, 212. His
decree directing the sale of more land than necessary for the purpose cannot
be questioned in the Court of Common Pleas.—/ b. Nor can he be controlled by
mandamus from that Court in making such sales or executing titles.—State v.
Bvrnside, 33 S. C, 276. He can determine the validity of an alleged deed under
which one of defendants claims title from intestate. — Gregory v. Rhoden, 24
S. C, 90. He can only sell the interest of the deceased in the land, not the
rights of the parties to the action therein as heirs of another party.— McLaurin
v. Rion. 24 S. C, 411. Cannot sell as land of deceased land surrendered to dis
tributees of deceased by his mortgagor.— Harrison v. Lightsey, 32 S. C, 293.


Sec. 41. It shall not be lawful for any Judge of Probate in when to grant
this State to grant a final discharge to any executor, administra- ministrnt«rs.&c.
tor, trustee, guardian or committee, unless such executor, admin- j1i8"9, XIV" m*
istrator, trustee, guardian or committee shall have finally
accounted for the estate in his hands, and have given notice in a
newspaper of the County, Cif there be no newspaper published
in the County, then in some newspaper having the greatest circu
lation therein.) for the space of at least one month, that on a day
certain application will be made to the said Judge of Probate for
a final discharge : Provided, That in Charleston and Richland
Counties such publication shall be tri-weekly. No such dis
charge shall affect any distributee, legatee, cestui que trust,
ward or lunatic who has not been made a party to such applica
tion, either by personal service of the notice or by publication in
the mode provided for absent defendants.
The provisions of this Section and of Sections 4S, 49 and 73 were only in
tended to prescribe the limits of the jurisdiction of the Probate Courts as
between themselves, and not to limit that of the Court of Common Pleas.—
Jordon v. Moses, 10 S. C, 431.
'
All proceed-


Sec. 42. All proceedings in relation to the property or estate States'1u'nli e r
of any person under guardianship shall be had in the Court of had'inuie court
Probate of the County in which the guardian was appointed.
?i8toTxiv 842


Sec. 43. No Judge of Probate shall act as such in the settleact when inter- ment of any estate wherein he is interested as heir or legatee.
ested ; w n e n
judges oi>d- executor or administrator, or as guardian or trustee of any perto °rt.g °un y son ; in every such case the Judge of Probate of any adjoining
//.., 843.

County shall have jurisdiction, and it shall be his duty, upon
application, to attend at some terra of the Court of Probate in
which such case may be pending, which shall not interfere with
the duties in his own County, and hear and determine such case.
power to ad- 
Sec. 44. The Judge or Clerk of the Probate Court shall
minister oaths. .
isr0, xiv., i 14. nave power to administer all oaths necessary in the transaction
of business before the Probate Court, and all oaths required by
law to be administered to persons executing trusts under the
appointment of said Court,
probate court 
Sec. 45. Probate Courts may issue all warrants and processes,
rants and pro- in conformity to the rules of law, which may be necessary to
IK, 848.
compel the attendance of witnesses, or to carry into effect any
order, sentence or decree of such Courts, or the powers granted
them by law.
in cases oi con- 
Sec. 46. If any person shall refuse or neglect to perform any
commit. to|aH.y lawful order, sentence or decree of a Probate Court, such Court
lb., 846.

mav i8Sue a warrant, directed to any Sheriff or Constable in the

State, requiring him to apprehend and imprison such person in
the common jail of the County, and if there be no jail of the
County, then in the jail of the adjoining County, until he shall
perform such order, sentence or decree, or be delivered by due
course of law.
when deposi- 
Sec. 47. When a witness whose testimony is necessary to be
taken an3 used! used before any Probate Court shall reside out of this State, or
ib., m.
out of the County where said Courtis holden, or more than
thirty miles from the County seat, or, by reason of age or bodily
infirmity, shall be unable to attend in person, the Court may
issue a commission to one or more competent persons to take the
testimony of such witness ; and depositions taken according to
the provisions of the law for taking depositions to be used on the
trial of civil causes may be used on the trial of any question
before the Probate Court where such testimony may be proper.
Exclusive 
Sec. 48. When any Probate Court shall have first taken
after8 once ac- cognizance of the settlement of the estate of a deceased person,
' lb. 8487" sucn Court shall have jurisdiction of the deposition and settle
ment of all the personal estate of such deceased person to the
exclusion of all other Probate Courts.
Jordan v. Mose.v, 10 S. C, 431.

Sec. 49. The jurisdiction assumed by any Probate Court in '

A. D. 1894.

any case, so far as it depends on the place of residence or the of record"to*be
location of the estate, shall not be contested in any suit or pro- court,
ceeding whatever, except in an appeal from the Probate Court in 187°.xiv., 8 go.
the original case, or when the want of jurisdiction appears on
the record.
Jordan v. Moses, 10 S. C, 431.


Sec. 50. When, by law, a guardian is required to be appointed when minor
of a minor, who is interested as heir or legatee, or representative JjuYrdian;°guarof such heir or legatee, in any estate which is in a course of set- wner?'app$nti
tlement, such guardian shall be appointed by the Probate Court —^ —
before which such estate is in course of settlement ; but after
wards, if the minor shall reside in another County, and is of the
age of fourteen years, he may choose and have a guardian
appointed in the County where he shall reside ; and in that case
the powers of the former guardian shall cease, aud to such pro
ceedings he shall be made a party. In all other cases, guardians
shall be appointed by the Probate Court of the County where
the persons for whom the guardian shall be appointed shall
reside.

Sec. 51. The Probate Court by which a guardian shall be Authorized to
appointed shall have jurisdiction of the estate of the ward, and SS" ^counts
shall be alone authorized to permit the sale of such estate and "fs£u"x1JvDj85i
settle such guardian's accounts.
Jordan v. Moses, 10 S. C, 431.


Sec. 52. Except as provided in the thirty-fourth Section, the Judges may
Probate Court in each County shall appoint such times and and°piace8mfor
places for holding Courts, or for hearing any special matter, as -^b Ym . "g^"
shall be judged most convenient for all persons interested, and xv.,496shall give notice of such times and places to the parties inter
ested.

Sec. 53. The Probate Court shall be deemed open at all times open at an
Mines forcertain
for the transaction of ordinary business which may be necessary, business,
when previous notice is not required to be given to the persons lsro.xlv.,858interested.

Sec. 54. A Probate Court may be adjourned as occasion may Adjournment
require ; and when the Judge is absent at the time for holding a by cierk..
Court the Clerk may adjourn it.
//>" 854.

Sec. 55. The Circuit Court shall have appellate jurisdiction
jurisdiction "of of all matters originally within the jurisdiction of the Probate
Circuit Court.
~ /f.., 8s5.
^ourt.
The hearing by the Circuit Court is strictly on appeal, limiting the presiding
Judge to a review of, and judgment on, the evidence taken below, except as
to questions of fact to be decided by jury under Section 6O. —Stewart v. Bleas).,
4 S. C, 44 ; Stark v. Hopson, 22 S. C, 42 ; Ex Parte White, 33 S. C, 442. Find
ings of fact by Probate Court ought not to be disturbed unless clearly errone
ous.— Gunning v. Ervrin, 13 S. C.,87. But Circuit Judge may remand the
cause or any particular issue therein to the Probate Court, with instructions
to take further testimony and report the same. — Twitty v. Houser, 7 S. C, 153.

jurisdiction of 
Sec. 56. The .Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction of all
in probate mat- questions of law arising in the course of the proceedings of the
ii> 8s6
Circuit Court in probate matters, in the same manner as pro
vided by law in other cases.
Supreme Court, on appeals in such matters, may refer an issue of fact to a
jury.—Shaw v. Cunningham, 9 S. C, 271. It will not disturb concurrent find
ings of fact by Probate Judge and Circuit Judge. —Black v. While, 13 S. C,
37. An order of Circuit Court, without hearing appeal, remanding the case to
Probate Judge for further hearing, with leave to take further testimony, is
appealable.—Ex Parte White, :« S. C, 442 (
Sec. 11).

Appeal to the 
Sec. 57. Any person interested in any final order, sentence
i>er™ken°viuiin or decree of any Probate Court, and considering himself injured
flfteendays.
therebv. mav appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court in the same
xi., no, 8 18.
County, at the stated session next after such appeal. The grounds
of appeal shall be filed in the office of the Probate Court, and a
copy thereof served on the adverse party, within fifteen days
after notice of the decision appealed from.
The only parties who can appeal are parties to the cause. — Witte v. Clarke,
17 S. C, 313. A decree refusing appeal because it was not taken in time is
appealable.— Henderson v. Wyatt, 8 S. C, 112.

certified copies 
Sec. 58. The person appealing shall procure and file in the
ui.de'in"circidt Circuit Court to which such appeal is taken a certified copy of
court.
(-}le recor>l of the proceedings appealed from, and of the grounds
. of the appeal filed in the Probate Court, together with the proper
evidence that notice has been given to the adverse party accord
ing to law.
Proceedings 
Sec. 59. When an appeal, according to law, is taken from any
stayed uy appeal sentence or decree of the Pro ha to Court, all proceedings in pur/b., 961.
suance of the order, sentence or decree appealed from shall cease
until the judgment of the Circuit or Supreme Court is had ; but
if the appellant, in writing, waives his appeal before the entry of
such judgment, proceedings may be had in the Probate Court as
if no appeal had been taken.

Sec. 60. When such certified copy shall have been filed in *
v '
the Circuit Court, such Court shall proceed to the trial and com? may "prodetermination of the question, according to the rules of law ; ^|^y~?62:
and if there shall be any question of fact or title to land to be
decided, issue may be joined thereon under the direction of the
Court, and a trial thereof had by jury.
"According to the rules of law" construed to mean "according to the rules
regulating the hearing of appeals."—Ex Parte White, 33 S. C, 442.
All issues of fact Involved in such appeal must be determined de novo by the
Circuit Judge, except such issues as are triable by jury under Section 274, and
except such issues as may be referred to jury under Rule 28 of Circuit Court ;
and it is fatal error to so refer such issues without notice to appellant.— Stew
art v. Blease, 4 S. C, 37 ; Luchen v. Wichman, 5 S. C, 411 ; Prater v. Whip
ple. 16 S. C, 40 ; Rollins v. Whipper, 17 S. C, 32 ; Ex Parte White, 33 S. C,
442 ; Ex Parte Apeler, 35 S. C, 417.


Sec. 61. If the person appealing from the proceedings of the Appellant negProbate Court, as provided in this Title, shall neglect to enter appeal,1] ud'ghis appeal, the Circuit Court to which such appeal shall be witsncostf!rmed
taken, on motion and producing attested copies of such appeal ii>.,io*.
by the adverse party, shall affirm the proceedings appealed from
and may allow costs against the appellant.

Sec. 62. The final decision and judgment in cases appealed, Final decision
as hereinbefore provided, shall be certified to the Probate Court probate courts
by the Circuit Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, and /o.885the same proceedings shall be had in the Probate Court as
though such decision had been made in such Probate Court.

Sec. 63. No Judge of any Probate Court shall be admitted probate Judge
to have any voice in judging or determining any appeal from his voice in deter1 ••

mining appeal;
decision, or be permitted to act as attorney or counsel thereon, when may pracor receive fees as counsel in any matter pending in the Probate -/j,- 8uo.
Court of which he is Judge : Provided, It shall be lawful for
Judges of Probate to practice law in other Courts in such cases
as are not cognizable in the Courts of Probate.

Sec. 64. Proceedings in the Court of Probate may be com- proceedings
menced by petition to the Judge of Probate for the County to mencedeby petiwhich the jurisdiction of the subject matter belongs, or by com- "".b-j^
plaint, briefly setting forth the facts or grounds of the applica
tion. A summons shall be issued to the defendants in such pro
ceedings, wherein the manner of service, time for answering, and
other proceedings relating to the trial, (except trial by jury,)
shall conform as nearly as may be to the practice in the Courts
of Common Pleas as provided in this Code of Procedure.
3
to make rules;
inissio ners to
ture, 4c., lor
ib..IK

Sec. 65. The Supreme Court may, from time to time, make
rules regulating the practice and conducting the business in the
Courts of Probate, in all cases not expressly provided for by law ;
and the County Commissioners of each County shall provide all
books necessary for keeping the records of such Court ; also a
seal and necessary office furniture : Provided, Said furniture
shall not exceed in cost the sum of one hundred dollars.
Mny
punish
tor
Sec.
contempt.
»»«*«• 66.
*»w. The Judge
o may
j keep
r order in Court, and punish
r
lb., 8od.
any contempt of his authority in like manner as such contempt
might be punished in the Circuit or Supreme Court.
Enrollment
of
Sec.
partyj in whose favor an order or decree for the
decrees.
»#»»»*• 67.
»# » • Anv
j r
1S78, xvi., rio: payment of money may be made by a Court of Probate may
cause such order or decree to be enrolled at any time within one
year after making the same, and for that purpose shall prepare
and deliver to the Judge of Probate a brief or abstract, setting
forth the title of the proceedings wherein such order or decree
was made, the parties thereto, and the date when the same was
made ; also the date of the said order and the names of the par
ties bound thereby, together with such other particulars as may
be necessary to identify the said order with the proceedings, and
to exhibit the grounds for making the same and the operation
and effect thereof ; and the Judge of Probate shall annex thereto
the said order or decree, or an exact copy thereof, certified by
him, together with the time when the same was made and entered ;
and shall endorse on the record the day of the month and year
when the brief or abstract was lodged in his office, and shall
deposit the same in a case in his office with the records pertain
ing to the cause. And no order or decree of any Court of Pro
bate for the payment of money shall, as to third persons, with
out express notice, have any effect as a lien on the real estate of
the person intended to be bound thereby but from the day when
the said brief or abstract shall have been delivered to or lodged
with the said Judge of Probate as aforesaid, and a transcript of
the docket thereof in the index of money decrees hereinafter
prescribed has been filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court
of Common Pleas for the same County and duly entered by said
Clerk on the calendar of judgments kept in his office. Nor shall
such order or decree rank as a judgment against the estate of any
person deceased unless such abstract was duly filed and indexed,
and a transcript of the entry in the index filed with the Clerk of
the Circuit Court for the same County and duly docketed by the
said Clerk on the calendar of judgments of the Court of Com
mon Pleas before the death of such deceased person ; except that
the lien of decrees and orders for the payment of money made *"—*
prior to December twentieth, 1878, shall not be affected ; and
after the transcript of the docket in the index of money decrees
has been duly entered upon the calendar of judgments kept in
office of the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas, such order or
decree shall have like force and effect as judgments of the Courts
of Common Pleas : Provided, That such enrollment of any order
or decree for the payment of money shall not deprive any party
thereto of the right to appeal therefrom ; but when notice of
such appeal shall be duly given, execution upon the said order or
decree, issued as herein provided, shall be lodged to bind only,
and shall not be enforced until such appeal shall have been dis
missed ; and if such order or decree shall be reversed, set aside,
or modified on appeal, the enrollment thereof shall be amended
or wholly vacated accordingly.

'

Probate Judge cannot arrest and imprison an administrator for failure to
comply with terms of a money decree. —Gilliam v. McJunkin, 2 S. C, 442.


Sec. 68. Every Judge of Probate shall provide and keep in to keep index
his office an index of money decrees, in which every enrolled roiled?"** e D"
order or decree for the payment of money shall be entered, with 187S* xvl.rii.
the names of every party or estate bound thereby, alphabetically
arranged, together with the names of the parties plaintiff, and
(besides the title of the package in which the order or decree is
contained and the number in the package) shall exhibit the
amount ordered to be paid, the costs (if any), date of enroll
ment, date of execution, and date of satisfaction, where satis
faction has been entered. Said book shall be of convenient size,
of durable paper and well bound, and the expense of providing
the same shall be defrayed by the County Commissioners of the
respective Counties.

Sec. 69. Judges of the Probate Court are authorized and Empowered to
empowered to issue executions against property, when such pro- lsrn( xiv., J7i;
cess is necessary to carry into effect any order, sentence or decree iste," xviT,"4M? :
of such Court, or for costs accruing therein. And they may
issue executions against property in their respective Counties, to
enforce decrees from the Probate Courts of other Counties, upon
a transcript of such decree and certificate of enrollment of the
same being filed in the office of the Probate Court from which
such execution is to issue, and also in the office of the Clerk of
the Court of Common Pleas of the County in which it is to issue.
But no execution shall be issued by any Judge of Probate to "Tb^fiiT
enforce the collection of money under any order or decree of a

Court of Probate until an abstract or brief bas been prepared
and filed according to the directions of Section 67, and the proper
minute thereof has been entered in the index of money decrees,
and the proper transcript of such minute has been filed in the
office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court for the same County, and
entered upon the calendar of judgments of the Court of Com
mon Pleas kept in his office. And when any such execution has
been duly returned satisfied to the office of the Judge of Probate
from whence it issued, it shall be the duty of the Judge of such
Court of Probate to have such satisfaction recorded upon the
proper transcript in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court,
and entered upon the docket thereof on the calendar of judg
ments of the Court of Common Pleas kept in said Clerk's office.
When no form for a warrant or process is prescribed by statute
or rules of Court, the Probate Judge shall frame one in con
formity to the rules of law and the usual course of proceedings
in this State. Any Sheriff or Constable in the State shall exe
cute the orders or process of said Court, in the same manner as
the orders or process of the Circuit or Supreme Courts.
Such power recognized.—Miller v. Stack, 29 S. C, 325. It seems that such
authority to issue executions does not extend to judgments obtained before
Act 1878.— Copeland v. Todd, 30 S. C, 410.

jud«re may 
Sec. 70. The Judge of the Probate Court may commit to the
tTc™ 'etc" "to Lunatic Asylum any idiot, lunatic or person non compos mentis,
lsro'xiv8^?^ wno, alter due examination, may be found to be so furiously mad
as to render it manifestly dangerous to the peace and safety of
the community that such person should be at large ; and also in
all such other cases provided by law. In all cases the Judge shall
certify in what place such person resided at the time of the com
mitment, and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of such
residence.
Section 71. Trial Justices shall have civil jurisdiction in the
following actions :
1. In actions arising on contracts for the recovery of
money only, if the sum claimed does not exceed one hundred
dollars.
2. An action for damages for injury to rights pertaining to
the person, or the personal or real property, if the damages
claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars, and in cases of
hastardy.
This does not conflict with 
Sec. 24, Art. TV., Constitution, conferring like
jurisdiction on Justices of the Peace ; and gives concurrent jurisdiction with
the Court of Common Pleas in such action for damages.—State v. Fillebrotim,
2 S. C, 404 ; Rhodes v. Railroad, 6 S. C, 385. Such jurisdiction does not em
brace actions for damages claimed above one hundred dollars.—Stegall v. Bolt,
11 S. C, 523. Nor for damages indefinite in amount, given by statute.—State
v. Weeks, 14 S. C. , 400. Action by landlord against Constable for proceeds of
crop in his hands applicable to rent, is such an action for damages for injury
to rights pertaining to personal property.—Sullivan v. Ellison, 20 S. C, 481.

3. An action for a penalty, fine, or forfeiture, where the
amount claimed or forfeited does not exceed one hundred dollars.
A forfeiture of twenty dollars, under a statute, which provides for its re
covery in a Court of record, cannot be recovered hereunder.—State v. Weeks,
14 S. C.,400.

4. An action commenced by attachment of property, as now
provided by statute, if the debt or damages claimed do not exceed
one hundred dollars.
5. An action upon bond conditioned for the payment of
money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty
exceed that sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually
due. Where the payments are to be made by installments, an
action may be brought for each installment as it becomes due.
Trial Justice has jurisdiction of action on bond to recover the amount thereby
secured and dne, which is less than one hundred dollars, though the penalty
exceed that amount.— Cavender v. Ward, 28 S. C, 470.
A. B. 1894.

6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them, where the
penalty or amount claimed does not exceed one hundred dol
lars.
7. An action upon a judgment rendered in a Court of a Trial
Justice or an inferior Court, where such action is not prohibited
by Section 91.
8. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a de
fendant, where the amount confessed shall not exceed one hun
dred dollars, in the manner prescribed by law.
9. An action for damages, fraud in the sale, purchase or
exchange of personal property, if the damages claimed do not
exceed one hundred dollars.
10. In all matters between landlord and tenant and the posses
sion of land, as provided in Chapter LXIV. of the Revised
Statutes.
11. An action to recover the possession of personal property
claimed, the value of which, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, shall not exceed the sum of one
hundred dollars.
The plaintiff in such action, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, but not afterwards, may claim the immediate delivery of
such property as hereinafter provided.
Before any process shall be issued in an action to recover the
possession of personal property, the plaintiff, his agent or attor
ney, shall make proof by affidavit, showing :
(1.) That the plaintiff is the owner, or entitled to immediate
possession, of the property claimed, particularly describing the
same.
(2.) That such property is wrongfully withheld or detained by
the defendant.
(3.) The cause of such detention or withholding thereof,
according to the best knowledge, information and belief of the
person making the affidavit.
(4. ) That said personal property has not been taken for any
tax, fine, or assessment, pursuant to statute, or seized by virtue
of an execution or attachment against the property of said plain
tiff ; or if so seized, that it is exempt from such seizure by statute.
(5.) The actual value of said personal property.
This provision allowing such action for recovery of property less in value
than one hundred dollars is not in conflict with 
Sec. 22, Art. IV., Con., which
limits jurisdiction in actions ex delicto, where damages do not exceed one hun
dred dollars.—Dillard v. Samuels, 25 S. C., 318.
Affidavit must state that value of the property does not exceed one hundred
dollars.— Williams v. Irby, 16 S. C, 371.
But whether such statement is necessary in Circuit Court, on appeal, not
decided.—lb.
It is not necessary to allege in summons that plaintiff is entitled to the pos
session of the property ; it is sufficient to allege that the defendant is in un
lawful possession of property belonging to the plaintiff.—Dillard v. Samuels,
25 a C, 818.

12. On receipt of such affidavit, and an undertaking, in writing,
executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Trial Justice before whom such action is commenced, to the
effect that they are bound in double the value of such property
as stated in said affidavit, for the prosecution of the said action,
and for the return of said property to the defendant, if return
thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, be recovered against said plaintiff, the
Trial Justice shall endorse upon said affidavit a direction to any
Constable of the County in which said Trial Justice shall reside,
requiring said Constable to take the property described therein
from the defendant, and keep the same, to be disposed of accord
ing to law ; and the said Trial Justice shall, at the same time,
issue a summons, with a copy of the undertaking directed to the
defendant, and requiring him to appear before said Trial Justice
at a time and place to be therein specified, and not more than
twenty days from the date thereof, to answer the complaint of
said plaintiff ; and the said summons shall contain a notice to
the defendant that in case he shall fail to appear at the time
and place therein mentioned the plaintiff will have judgment
for the possession of the property described in said affidavit, with
the costs and disbursements of said action.
Such undertaking not necessary unless the plaintiff claims the immediate
delivery of the property.—Dillard v. Samuels, 25 S. C, 318.
The summons is fatally defective if it name a day for trial more than
twenty days after its date.—Simmons v. Cochran, 29 S. C, 31.

13. The Constable to whom said affidavit, endorsement and
summons shall be delivered shall forthwith take the property
described in said affidavit, if he can find the same, and shall
keep the same in his custody. He shall, thereupon, without
delay, serve upon said defendant a copy of such affidavit, notice
and summons, by delivering the same to him personally, if he
can be found in said County; if not found, to the agent of the
defendant in whose possession said property shall be found ; if
neither can be found, by leaving such copies at the last or usual
place of abode of the defendant, with some person of suitable age
and discretion. And he shall forthwith make a return of his
proceedings thereon, and the manner of serving the same, to the
Trial Justice who issued the said summons.
14. The defendant may at any time after such service, and at
least two days before the return day of said summons, serve upon
plaintiff, or upon the Constable who made such service, a notice
in writing that he excepts to the sureties in said bond or under
taking ; and if he fail to do so, all objection thereto shall be
waived. If such notice be served, the sureties shall justify, or
the plaintiff give new sureties, on the return day of said sum
mons, who shall then appear and justify, or said Trial Justice
shall order said property delivered to defendant, and shall also
render judgment for defendant's costs and disbursements.
15. At any time before the return day of said summons, the
said defendant may, if he has not excepted to plaintiff's sureties,
require the return of said property to him upon giving to the
plaintiff, and filing same with the Trial Justice, a written under
taking, with one or more sureties, who shall justify before said
Trial Justice on the return day of said summons, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of said property, as
stated in plaintiff's affidavit, for the delivery thereof to said
plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against said
defendant ; and if such return be not required before the return
day of said summons, the property shall be delivered to said
plaintiff.
Quaiincation 
Sec. 72. The qualification of sureties must be as follows :
"/sfo^iv 875
!• ^acn of them must be a resident and housekeeper or free
holder within the State.
2. Each must be worth double the amount of the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit, exclusive of property exempt
from execution ; but the Trial Justice, on justification, may
allow two or more sureties to justify severally in less amounts, if
the whole justification be equivalent to double the value of the
said property as specified in said affidavit,
justification oi 
Sec. 73. For the purpose of justification the surety or
sureties.
; xiv j76. sureties shall attend the Trial Justice at or within the times
mentioned in subdivisions 14 and 15 of Section 71, and may be
examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff or defendant, as
the case may be, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
Trial Justice, in his discretion, may think proper. The exami
nation shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the surety,
if required by the parties or either of them.

Sec. 74. If the Trial Justice find the surety or sureties suffi- Allowance of
cient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking and ?C/g \^f
endorse his allowance thereon, and the Constable shall there
upon be exonerated from liability.

Sec. 75. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in Property, how
t ii k c d when
a building or enclosure, the Constable shall publicly demand its concealed in
delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or closure.
'
enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his pos- ib" 87Ssession ; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of
his County.

Sec. 76. When a Constable shall have taken property, as in property, how
this Title provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver —/^ jra
it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees
for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

Sec. 77. If the property taken be claimed by any other per- claim of propson than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make person^
affidavit of his title thereto, and right to the possession thereof, /b.,8s0stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same
upon the Constable, the Constable shall not be bound to keep
the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff,
on demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the Constable
against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two suffi
cient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each
worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the plaintiff, and are freeholders and householders of the
County. And no claim to such property by any other person
than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the Con
stable, unless made as aforesaid ; and notwithstanding such claim,
when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to
demand such indemnity.
The actions so commenced shall be tried in all respects as
other actions are tried in Trial Justices' Courts.
The judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or
for the recovery of the possession, or the value thereof in case a
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defend
ant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be
for a return of the property, or the value thereof in case a return
cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the
. same. An execution shall be issued thereon, and if the judg
ment be for the delivery of the possession of personal property,
it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same,
particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may,
at the same time, require the officer to satisfy any costs. or dam
ages recovered by the same judgment out of the personal prop
erty of the party against whom it was rendered, to be specified
therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had. The execution shall
be returnable within sixty days after its receipt by the officer to
the Trial Justice who issued the same.
In all actions for the recovery of the possession of personal
property, as herein provided, if the property shall not have been
delivered to plaintiff, or the defendant by answer shall claim a
return thereof, the Trial Justice or jury shall assess the value
thereof, and the injury sustained by the prevailing party by rea
son of the taking or detention thereof, and the Trial Justice
shall render judgment accordingly, with costs and disburse
ments.
If it shall appear by the return of a Constable that he has
taken the property described in the plaintiff's affidavit, and that
defendant cannot be found, and has no last place of abode in
said County, or that no agent of defendant could be found on
whom service could be made, the Trial Justice may proceed with
the cause in the same manner as though there had been a per
sonal service.
For the endorsement on said affidavit the Trial Justice shall
receive an additional fee of twenty-five cents, which shall be
included in the costs of the suit.
Such judgment may be given for value of the property, though the demand
is only for its recovery and damages for its detention.—Joplin v. Carrier, 11
S. C, 327. It cannot be given in case where party is entitled to general dam
ages.—lb. But where there are proper allegations, plaintiff may, on appeal,
in Circuit Court, elect to treat the action as one for damages.— Williams v.
Irby, 16 S. C, 371. Where verdict is not in proper form, the Trial Justice
cannot change it ; new trial is the remedy. —DuBose v. Armstrong, 29 S. C,
290.

No jurisdiction


Sec. 78. But no Trial Justice shall have cognizance of a civil

in certain cases. _-*.:„_
lS70,XIV.,8 81;aCt1o11

isr3, xv., 496.

1 . in which the State is a party, excepting for penalties not
exceeding one hundred dollars.
2. Nor where the title to real property shall come in question.
Does not include proceedings to eject tenant.—State v. Fielding, 10 S. C,
30 ; State v. Marshall, 24 S. C, 507.
3. Hot of a civil action for an assault, battery, false imprison- '
*~—'
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversa
tion, or seduction, where the damages claimed exceed one hun
dred dollars.

Sec. 79. In every action brought in a Court of Trial Justice, Answerof titie.
where the title to real property shall come in question, the defend- 1870. XIV-' ! S2ant may, either with or without other matter of defense, set forth
in his answer any matter showing that such title will come in
question. Such answer shall be in writing, signed by the defend
ant or his attorney, and delivered to the Trial Justice. The Trial
Justice shall thereupon countersign the same and deliver it to the
plaintiff.
Petition by landlord for ejection of tenant is not such an action.—State v.
Fickling, 10 S. C, 30 ; State v. Marshall, 24 S. C, 507.


Sec. 80. At the time of answering the defendant shall deliver undertaking,
to the Trial Justice a written undertaking, executed by at least 18ro-XIV., 88Sone sufficient surety and approved by the Trial Justice, to the
effect that if the plaintiff shall, within twenty days thereafter,
deposit with the Trial Justice a summons and complaint in an
action in the Circuit Court for the same cause, the defendant
will, within twenty days after such deposit, give an admission in
writing of the service thereof.
Where the defendant was arrested in the action before the
Trial Justice, the undertaking shall further provide that he will
at all times render himself amenable to the process of the Court
during the pending of the action, and to such as may be issued
to enforce the judgment therein. In case of failure to comply
with the undertaking, the surety shall be liable not exceeding one
hundred dollars.

Sec. 81. Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the Trial 8u)t disconJustice, the action before him shall be discontinued, and each aD^a:iSi
party shall pay his own costs. The costs so paid by either party
shall be allowed to him if he recover costs in the action to be
brought for the same cause in the Circuit Court. If no such
action be brought within thirty days after the delivery of the
undertaking, the defendant's costs before the Trial Justice may
be recovered of the plaintiff.

Sec. 82. If the undertaking be not delivered to the Trial u undertakinK
Justice, he shall have jurisdiction of the cause and shall proceed —/^ ^s
therein ; and the defendant shall be precluded in his defense
from drawing the title in question.

Sec. 83. If, however, it appear on the trial from the plain
tiff's own showing that the title to real property is in question,
and such title shall be disputed by the defendant, the Trial Jus
tice shall dismiss the action and render judgment against the
plaintiff for the costs.
Newaction.~ 
Sec. 84. When a suit before a Trial Justice shall be disconib., j 87.
tinued by the delivery of an answer and undertaking, as provided
in Sections 79, 80 and 81, the plaintiff may prosecute an action
for the same cause in the Circuit Court, and shall complain for
the same cause of action only on which he relied before the Trial
Justice ; and the answer of the defendant shall set up the same
defense only which he made before the Trial Justice.
~ costs.

Sec. 85. If the judgment in the Circuit Court be for the
plaintiff, he shall recover costs ; if it be for the defendant, he
shall recover costs, except that upon a verdict he shall pay costs
to the plaintiff, unless the Judge certify that the title to real
property came in question on the trial.
Answer of titie 
Sec. 86. If in an action before a Trial Justice the plaintiff
of action.
have several causes of action, to one of which the defense of title
ib., 889.
^ real property shall be interposed, and as to such cause the
defendant shall deliver an answer and undertaking, as provided
in Sections 79 aud 80, the Trial Justice shall discontinue the pro
ceedings as to that cause, and the plaintiff may commence another
action therefor in the Circuit Court. As to the other causes of
action, the Trial Justice may continue his proceedings.
Docketing 
Sec. 87. A Trial Justice, on the demand of a party in whose
~iR7o~xiv. 8oix favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the office of the
Clerk of the Circuit Court of the County where the judgment
was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
Clerk shall be noted thereon and entered in the abstracts of
judgments, and from that time the judgment shall be a judg
ment of the Circuit Court ; but no sale shall be made under any
18S7, xix., m. execution issued upon such judgment in the Circuit Court until
the time for appealing from the judgment in the Trial Justice
Court has expired, nor pending such appeal. If the judgment
is set aside in the Trial Justice Court, it shall have the effect of
setting aside the judgment filed and docketed in the Circuit
Court. The filing and docketing such transcript in the Circuit
Court shall not affect the right of the Trial Justice to grant a
new trial. A certified transcript of such judgment may be filed
and docketed in the Clerk's office of any other County, and with
like effect, in every respect, as in the County where the judg
ment was rendered.
Such transcript of a valid judgment only of the Trial Justice can be so filed;
if judgment is null, the transcript is null.—Barron v. Dent, 17 S. C, 75. And
the transcript must show everything necessary to give jurisdiction to the
Trial Justice, to make the judgment valid.—Benson v. Carrier, 28 S. C, 119.
Such transcript is properly signed by an authorized clerk of the Trial Jus
tice. —Brown v. Buttz, 15 S. C, 490. Trial Justice has no power to vacate the
judgment after the transcript has been filed in the Circuit Court.—76. ; Law
rence v. Isear, 27 S. C, 244. When transcript filed the judgment becomes the
judgment of the Court of Common Pleas.—Rhoad v. Patrick, 37 S. C, 517.

Sec. 88. The following rules shall be observed in the Courts 3ules,
of Trial Justices :
1. The pleadings in the Courts are : (1.) The complaint by
the plaintiff. (2.) The answer by the defendant.
2. The pleadings may be oral or in writing. If oral, the sub
stance of them shall be entered by the Trial Justice in his
docket ; if in writing, they shall be filed by him, and a reference
to them shall be made in the docket.
Written acceptance by the defendant will cure the failure of Trial Justice
to sign the original summons.— Benson v. Carrier, 28 S. C, 119.
Defendant may orally answer a written complaint.— William* v. Irby, 15
a C, 460.

3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner,
facts constituting the cause of action.
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or any
part thereof, and also a notice, in a plain and direct manner, of
any facts constituting a defense or counter-claim.
Such notice of counter-claim must be given ; without it proof of the counter
claim cannot be introduced, under general denial.— Williams v. Irby, 15 S. C,
45S. Demand originating in contract cannot be pleaded as counter-claim in
action for recovery of a specific chattel.—lb.

5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended.
Dillard v. Samuels, 25 S. C, 318.
An answer that alleges misrepresentation, fraud and duress need not setout
the facts and circumstances thereof.—Riggs v. Wilson, 30 S. C, 172.

6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any part thereof, when it is not sufficiently explicit to enable
him to understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defense,
although it be taken as true.
7. If the Court deem the objection well founded, it shall
order the pleading to be amended ; and if the party refuse to
amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.
8. In any action on contract where a defendant does not appear ~y^-xx $%
and answer, the plaintiff may file proof of the service of the
^~~~y~~~' summons and complaint, or of the summons, on one or more of
the defendants, and that no answer or demurrer has been served
upon him. When the action is for the recovery of money only,
judgment may be given for the plaintiff by default if the demand
be liquidated ; and if unliquidated, and the plaintiff itemize his
account and append thereto an affidavit that it is true and cor
rect and no part of the sum sued for has been paid by discount
or otherwise, and a copy be served with the summons on the
defendant, and the defendant shall neither answer or demur, the
plaintiff shall have judgment for the sum sued for, as in the
case of liquidated demands. In all other cases where the defend
ant fails to appear and answer, the plaintiff cannot recover with
out proving his case.
The last clause applies to cases by default.—Barron v. Dent, 17 S. C, 75.
And the fact of indorsements upon the summons that there was a hearing
and examination of witnesses is not sufficient to show that defendant appeared
and defended.—lb.
Not can such showing be made by parol testimony.—lb.

9. In an action or defense founded upon an account, or an
instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient
for a party to deliver the account or instrument to the Court,
and to state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set off.
Does not nullify last clause of preceding subdivisions ; does not apply to case
of default.—Barron v. Dent, 17 S. C, 75.

10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allega
tions in a pleading shall be disregarded, as immaterial, unless
the Court shall be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled
to his prejudice thereby.
11. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by such amend
ment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment
be made after the joining of the issue, and it be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment is
necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amend
ment, an adjournment shall be granted. The Court may also,
in its discretion, require, as a condition of an amendment, the
payment of costs to the adverse party.
1837, xix., s3.\ 12. Execution may be issued on a judgment heretofore or
hereafter rendered in Trial Justices' Courts at any time after
the rendering of such judgment, and within three years after the
rendition thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days from date
of the same, but no sale thereunder shall be made until after the
time for appealing has expired, nor pending such appeal : Pro
vided, That in cases for the claim and delivery of personal prop
erty where bond for the property claimed has been properly given
by either party, the status of such property shall not be changed
until after the expiration of time for appealing has expired, or
until such appeal has terminated.
In issuing execution Trial Justice acts judicially and is not liable in damages
therefor unless it was done willfully and corruptly.—McCall v. Cohen, 16 S.
C, 445 ; Abrams v. Carlisle, 18 S. C, 242.
Can Trial Justice issue execution within the five days allowed for motion
for new trial ?- Abram$ v. Carlisle, 18 S. C, 242.

13. If the judgment be docketed with the Clerk of the Circuit
Court, the execution shall be issued by him to the Sheriff of the
County, and have the same effect, and be executed in the same
manner, as other executions and judgments of the Circuit Court.
Referred to.—Lawrence v. Isear, 27 S. C, 244.
Such execution may be tested by the Clerk of said Court.—Bragg v. Thomp
son, 19 S. C, 572.

14. The Court may, at the joining of the issue, require either
party, at the request of the other, at that or some other specified
time, to exhibit his account, or state the nature thereof as far as
may be in his power, and, in case of his default, preclude him
from giving evidence of such parts thereof as shall not have been
so exhibited or stated.
15. The provisions of this Code of Procedure, respecting forms
of actions, parties to actions, the rules of evidence, the times of
commencing actions, and the service of process upon corpora
tions, shall apply to these Courts.
The defendant may, on the return of process, and before
answering, make an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken
against him for an amount, to be stated in such offer, with costs.
The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before any other proceedings
shall be had in the action, determine whether he will accept or
reject such offer. If he accept the offer, and give notice thereof,
in writing, the Trial Justice shall file the offer and the accept
ance thereof, and render judgment accordingly. If notice of
acceptance be not given, and if the plaintiff fail to obtain judg
ment for a greater amount, exclusive of costs, than has been
specified in the offer, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay to
the defendant his costs accruing subsequent to the offer.
It is error in Trial Justice to refuse to allow defendant's counsel to crossexamine generally plaintiff's witness.—Dillard v. Samuels, 25 S. C, 318.
Plaintiff is liable for all costs of the case, subsequent to defendant's offer, if
he refuse to accept it, and recover less.— Williford v. Gadsden, 27 S. C, 87.
16. Where twentv-five or more dollars is demanded, the com1873 XV 869*
*
1S91, xx.," ins! plaint shall be served on the defendant twenty days, and where
less than that sum is demanded, five days, before the day therein
fixed for trial : Provided, That if the plaintiff shall make out
that he is apprehensive of losing his debt by such delay, and the

Trial Justice considers that there is good reason therefor (the
ground of such apprehension being set forth in an affidavit, and
served with a copy of the complaint), he may make such process
returnable in such time as the justice of the case may require.
Defendant may waive the twenty days' notice ; and if he goes to trial on less
notice, without objection, he is bound by the judgment.—Benson v. Carrier.
28 S. C, 119. As to the proviso, applied.— Cavender v. Ward, 28 S. C, 470.

ib7u xvi co

!*• Any Trial Justice Court of this State shall have power to
grant a new trial in any case tried in the said Court for reasons
for which new trials have usually been granted in the Courts of
law of this State ; but the case tried shall only be heard and
tried anew by the Trial Justice before whom the case was first
tried.
A motion for a new trial is not required as a condition precedent to an ap
peal.— Minnick v. Fort, 1S S. C, 215.
He cannot so relieve against his own judgments on grounds of mistake, in
advertence, surprise or neglect ; that can only be done by appeal. —lb. So as
to judgments by default, that may be satisfactorily excused. —Lawrence v.
hear, 27 S. C, 244. New trial will not be granted where irrelevant testimony
is received against objection, which could not have affected the verdict. —
Riggs v. Wilson, SO S. C, 172. Appeal lies to the Circuit Court from an order
granting a new trial. —liedfearn v. Douglass, 35 S. C, 569.

iu.

18. No motion for a new trial shall be heard unless made
within five days from the rendering of the judgment ; but the
right of appeal from the judgment shall exist for five days after
the refusal of a motion for a new trial.
Trial Justice cannot hear such motion unless made within the five days.—
Doty v. Duvall, 19 S. C, 143.

1887, XIX., 787.

19. Whenever either party to a civil action which is to be tried
before a Trial Justice shall file with the Trial Justice issuing the
papers an affidavit to the effect that he does not believe he can
obtain a fair trial before the Trial Justice, the papers shall be
turned over to the nearest Trial Justice of the County, who shall
proceed to try the case as if he had issued the papers : Provided,
Such affidavit shall set forth the grounds of such belief, that
two days' notice of the application for such transfer shall be
given to the adverse party, and that but one such transfer shall
be allowed each party in any case. This provision shall not apply
to trials before the Judicial Trial Justice of the city of Charleston.
Section 89. There shall be in this State but one form of Timeforcomaction for the enforcement or protection of private rights and m,°n8!.*c.g a°"
the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil
action.
No action lies unless a cause of action exists which would formerly have
maintained an action at law or a bill in equity.—Southern Man. Co. v. Tew,
5 S. C, 5.
Whether legal or equitable, such rights must alike be enforced or protected
by the same form of action.—Parker v. Jacobs, 14 S. C, 112 ; Chapman y.
Parties; how 
Sec. 90. In such action the party complaining shall be known
"/fF8ra^— M tne pkintiflE, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Actions on 
Sec. 91. No action shall be brought upon a judgment ren""flr •"iJr— dered in any Court in this State, except a Court of Trial Justice,
between the same parties, without leave of the Court, for good
cause shown, on notice to the adverse party ; and no action on a
judgment rendered by a Trial Justice shall be brought in the
same County within five years after its rendition, except in case
of his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the
County, or that the process was not personally served on the
defendant, or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of
some of the parties, or where the docket or record of such judg
ment is or shall have been lost or destroyed.
Feigned issues 
Sec. 92, Feigned issues shall not be allowed, and, instead
isro7xivTif9£ thereof, or when a question of fact, not put in issue by the plead
ings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made,
stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried ;
and such order shall be the only authority necessary for a trial.
A. D. 1891.

cable to such cases, according to the subject of the action and *
without regard to the form.



Sec. 94. Civil actions can only be commenced within the Time for comperiods prescribed in this Title, after the cause of action shall turns, *c. _.
have accrued, except where, in special cases, a different limita- /b.,897tion is prescribed by statute and in the cases mentioned in Sec
tion 93. But the objection that the action was not commenced
within the time limited can only be taken by answer.
The statute cannot avail unless so pleaded.— Coney v. Timmons, Ifi S. C.,
378 ; Cureton v. West/bid, 22 S. C, 583 ; Moore v. Smith, 29 S. C, 254 ; Foggette v. Gaffney, 38 8. C, 303.
Defendant failing to so object by answer is barred from making that defense
on trial.—Jones v. Massey, 9 S. C, 376.
But such defense does not preclude other defenses, even though inconsist
ent.—Cohrs v. Fraser, 5 S. C, 855.
Statement of reasons which actuated defendant to plead such limitation
properly stricken out of answer as irrelevant.—Nichols v. Briggs 18 S. C,
Section 95. The State will not sue any person for or in when the
respect to any real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by j^8 wUI not
reason of the right or title of the State to the same, unless—
isro, xiv., 898.
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within twenty years -^3 xv ^
before any action or other proceeding for the same shall be com
menced ; or unless
2. The State, or those from whom it claims, shall have received
the rents and profits of such real property, or of some part
thereof, within the space of twenty years.
Does not operate retrospectively. —State v. Pinckney, 22 S. C, 484. Until
this Section was passed in 1370, the doctrine of nullum tempus prevailed in
this State.—State v. P. G. Co., 22 S. C, 50.—As to its effect, it remains to be
construed.—State v. Pinckney, 22 S. C, 484.

When action 
Sec. 96. No action shall he brought for or in respect to real
brougnt by property by any person claiming by virtue of letters patent or
Sestate.,rom grants from the State, unless the same might have been com1870, xiv., 8 99. rnenced by the State as herein specified in case such patent or
when action
their grantees
w°i thin°t en
YTb™, MooTlsra
xv., 496.

grant had not been issued or made.

Sec. 97. When letters patent or grants of real property shall
have been issued or made by the State, and the same shall be
declared void by the determination of a competent Court, rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact,

seizin within
neceTsary"
EAwo actions,
!ioi8-7iS3Xxv*
4BG-

or wrongful detaining, or defective title, in such case an action
for the recovery of the premises so conveyed may be brought
either by the State, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of
the premises, his heirs or assigns, within ten years after such
determination was made, but not after that period.

Sec. 98. 1. No action for the recovery of real property, or
for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained,
unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or
grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in question
within ten years before the commencement of such action.

1879 YVII 79

. 2. The plaintiff in all actions for recoverv of real property, or
. the recovery of the possession thereof, is hereby limited to two
actions for the same, and no more : Provided, That the costs of
the first action be first paid, and the second action be brought
within two years from the rendition of the verdict or judgment
in the first action, or from the granting of a nonsuit or discon
tinuance therein.
Action against railroad company for damages for grading and trespass on
lands, and to enjoin furthor appropriation thereof, is not such an action. —
Tompkins v. R. R. Co., 30 S. C, 479.

seizin within
necessary iZ a>>
founded on
i^ 70 xiv
fm. 18r3,xv"


Sec. 99. No cause of action or defense to an action founded
upon a title to real property or to rents or services out of the
same shall be effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action or making the defense, or under whose title
the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the ancestor,
predecessor or grantor of such person, was seized or possessed of
the premises in question within ten years before the committing
of the act in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense
made.

Sec. 100. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient Action after
or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon of entry.
within one year after the making of such entry, and within ten 8io88-7isV3Xxv"
years from the time when the right to make such entry descended 496or accrued.

Sec. 101. In every action for the recovery of real property or Possession,
the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the ed; occupation,
premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within under legal titie
the time required by law; and the occupation of such premises 81a48;'is78,Jxv"
by any other person shall be deemed to have been under and in 498.
subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such prem
ises have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title for
ten years before the commencement of such action.
Snch adverse possession gives no right until the expiration of the ten years.
—Ellen v. Ellen, 16 S. C, 132.
There can be no adverse possession by purchaser under contract to purchase
the land against vendor until he has paid the purchase money. —Blackwell v.
Ryon, 21 S. C, 112. Nor by purchaser from mortgagor, with notice of the
mortgage, against the mortgagee.—Norton v. Lewis, 3 S. C, 25 ; Clark v.
Start*, 13 S. C, 585 ; Lynch v. Hancock, 14 S. C, G6. But there can be by pur
chaser against a judgment.— Goldsmith v. Jacobs, 14 S. C, 624. There can be
no adverse possession against any of the co-tenants, unless it is against all.—
Scaife v. Thompson, 15 S. C, 337.
But successive purchasers cannot tack possessions so as to give such title. —
Pegves v. Warley, 14 S. C, 180 ; Ellen v. Ellen, 16 S. C, 132.
There can be no adverse possession where no trespass is committed against
owner.— Massey v. Duren, 3 S. C, 34 ; Mosely v. Hankinson, 25 S. C, 519.
Adverse possession under Act 1871 to ripen into title must run twenty years,
and is not limited to ten years' duration, as fixed in this Section by amend
ment of 1873.—Rehkopf v. Kuhland, 30 S. C, 234 ; Lyles v. Roach, 30 S. C,
291. But adverse possession, begun in 1883, is controlled by this Section, then
in force.—Johnson v. Cobb, 29 S. C, 372.


Sec. 102. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those occupation ununder whom he claims, entered into the possession of premises stnimen^&c."1"
under claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such 81u58.71^3xXv"
claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the 49apremises in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a com
petent Court, and that there has been a continued occupation
and possession of the premises included in such instrument,
decree or judgment, or of some part of such premises, under such
claim for ten years, the premises so included shall be deemed to
have been held adversely ; except that where the premises so
included consist of a tract divided into lots, the possession of one
lot shall not be deemed a possession of any other lot of the same
tract.
Occupancy of one of two adjoining parcels of land included within lines of
plat held as color of title does not confer title by adverse possession of the
other parcel.—Massey v. Duren, 3 S. C, 34.

Adverse poe- 
Sec. 103. For the purpose of constituting an adverse posseswritten "nstru- sion, by any person claiming a title founded upon a written
ls-n'Viv iioa instrument or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following cases :
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
3. Where, although not enclosed, it has been used for the sup
ply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry,
or the ordinary use of the occupant.
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved ,
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared
or not enclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the
adjoining country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the
same length of time as the part improved and cultivated.
Premises ac- 
Sec. 104. Where it shall appear that there has been an actual
befdadvereSy*1 continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclu1370, xiv., 8lur, give of any other right, but not founded upon a written instru
ment or a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied,
and no other, shall be deemed to have been held adversely.
Advereo pos
Sec. 105. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possesSiTo" tilie 8ion by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instru°°|tWrl|iflK. — mcnt or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been
possessed in the following cases only :
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Relation of 
Sec. 106. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall
t™!ln°"asaffi°u nave existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
s(«iiunera8 "°8" 8lla^ be deemed the possession of the landlord until the expira7o.,8ioo; 1873, tion of ten vears from the termination of the tenancy ; or, where
there has been no written lease, until the expiration of ten years
from the time of refusal to pay rent, notwithstanding that such
tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to
hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall not
be made after the periods herein limited.
Descent cast— 
Sec. 107. The right of a person to the possession of any real
wo'xiv duo property shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being
cast in consequence of the deatli of a person in possession of such
property.
ancestor to heir, which presumed that the possession was rightful.—Geiger v.
Kaigler, 15 S. C, 262 ; Duren v. Kee, 26 S. C, 219. When the heir is in of his
ancestor's possession and there is no new entry, the possession of the heir is
that of the ancestor. —Duren v. Kee, 26 S. C, 219. But where the possession
of the ancestor has been interrupted or put an end to, the entry of the heir is
a new trespass, and the possessions do not unite to make title in heir.— Congdon v. Morgan, 14 S. C, 587 ; Johnson v. Cobb, 29 S. C, 872.


Sec. 108. If a person entitled to commence any action for Penons un,ier
the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense ^.""Hii
founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out
of the same, be, at the time such title shall first descend or
accrue, either—
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal or civil charge, or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offense for a term less than for
life—
The time during which such disability shall continue shall not -^ xv ^
be deemed any portion of the time in this Chapter limited for
the commencement of such action or the making of such entry
or defense ; but such action may be commenced, or entry or
defense made, after the period of ten years, and within ten years
after the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person
entitled who shall die under such disability ; but such action
shall not be commenced, or entry or defense made, after that
period.
Referred to.—Duren v. Kee, 26 S. C, 219.


Sec. 109. No action shall be commenced in any case for the After forty
recovery of real property, or for any interest therein, against a wi^veraiiowperson in possession under claim of title by virtue of a written ed.
instrument, unless the person claiming, his ancestor or grantor,
was actually in the possession of the same or a part thereof
within forty years from the commencement of such action. And
the possession of a defendant, sole or connected, pursuant to
the provisions of this Section, shall be deemed valid against the
world after the lapse of said period.
One year.
Limitation Section 110. The periods prescribed in Section 94 for the
PJ?J5f
commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real
luiUi A ! * . > oil**
property shall be as follows :

Sec. 111. Within twenty years :
Twenty years.
lit., 8ua.
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United
States.
2. An action upon a bond, or other contract in writing,
1880. XVII.
415.
secured by a mortgage of real property ; an action upon a sealed
instrument other than a sealed note and personal bond for the
payment of money only, whereof the period of limitation shall
be the same as prescribed in the following Section.
Subdivision 2 does not apply to action for breach of warranty in deeds made
before 1870.—Bratton v. Guy, 12 S. C, 42. Nor to seal note which matured
before that time.—Nichols v. Brigys, 18 S. C, 473. But mortgage given to
secure it might be foreclosed at any time within twenty years.— lb. Nor to
bond executed before that time.—Meely v. Yorkville, 10 S. C, 141 ; State v.
Lake, 30 S. C. , 43. But it does apply to official bond executed since that time.—
Strain v. Babb, 30 S. C, 342.

_«iy«"?^~
isr0, xiv„ 8114.


Sec. 112. Within six years :
i au action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express
or implied, excepting those provided for in Section 111.
Applies to actions on warranty in deed.—Bratton v. Guy, 12 S. C, 42.
In actions against heirs or devisees to subject real estate in their possession
to payment of debts of ancestor or devisor, nine months must be added to the
six years.— Cleveland v. Mills, 9 S. C, 430.

2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture.
3. An action for trespass upon or damage to real property.
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property.
Applies to action to recover houses on land sold to plaintiff by party in pos
session. —Do-.ninick v. Farr, 22 S. C, 585. To action to recover amount of
mistake in compromise settlement of note.—McMakin v. Gowan, 18 S. C, 
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury v"""v—'
to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and
not hereinafter enumerated.
6. Any action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which,
heretofore, were solely cognizable by the Court of Chancery, the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued
until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constitut
ing the fraud.
7. Action may be brought in any of the Courts of this State i8oi,"xx., 1042.
properly having jurisdiction thereof on any policies of insurance,
either fire or life, whereby any person or property resident or
situate in this State may be or may have been insured, or for or
on account of any loss arising thereunder, from the date of such
loss, or from the accrual of the cause of action under said policy, , ^mhct '2 ° 1
any clause or condition in the said policies or limitations therein controlling.
contained to the contrary notwithstanding.
Where goods held for safekeeping are destroyed, this limitation begins to
run from date of loss or of owner's notice thereof, and not from time of de
mand. —Cohrs v. Fraser, 5 S. C, 356.
Subdivision 6 applied.—Means v. Feaster, 4 S. C, 257 ; Beattie v. Pool, IS S.
C, 379 ; Kibler v. Mcllwain, 16 S. C, 550 ; Suber v. Chandler, 18 S. C, 526 ;
Richardson v. Mounce, 19 S. C, 477 ; McSween v. MeCown, 23 S. C, 342 ; City
Council v. Bank, 23 S. C, 410 ; Amicker v. New, 33 S. C, 28.


Sec. 113. Within three years :
Three yeare^
1. An action against a Sheriff, Coroner or Constable, upon a 1870, *IV., ,m
liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity,
and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty,
including the non-payment of money collected upon an execu
tion. But this Section shall not apply to an action for an escape.
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and
the State, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a dif
ferent limitation.

Sec. 114. Within two years :
Twoyeara.
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false impri- /o.,8msonment.
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the
State.
An agreed forfeit of a certain amount to State for breach of contract is
stipulated damages and not a technical penalty ; and action therefor is not
hereby barred in two years.—Lipscomb v. Seegers, 19 S. C, 425.


Sec. 115. Within one year :
one year.
1. An action against a Sheriff or other officer for the escape of ib- ,ma prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
\. iio>.s uiHiii 
Sec. 116. In an action brought to recover a balance due
current account upon a mutual open and current account, where there have
been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action
shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item
proved in the account on either side.
A seal note on one side and an open account on the other do not constitute
such a mutual open and current account. — Chapman v. Chapman, 31 S. C,
Actions for 
Sec. 117. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeit^Th., 8ii9!— ure given' in whole or in part, to any person who will prosecute
for the same must be commenced within one year after the
commission of the offense ; and if the action be not commenced
within the year by a private party, it may be commenced within
two years thereafter, in behalf of the State, by the AttorneyGeneral, or the Solicitor of the Circuit where the offeuse was
committed, unless a different limitation be prescribed in the
statute under which the action is brought.
Actions for 
Sec. 118. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for
?Tb."lM— must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action
shall have accrued.
Action founded upon purely legal demand not governed by this Section. —
McMakin v. Gowan, 18 S. C, 502.

Actions by the 
Sec. 119. The limitations prescribed in this Chapter shall
lb., im.— appty to actions brought in the name of the State, or for its
benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.
When action Section 120. An action is commenced as to each defendant
men""!. ' " "'" when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who
1880, xiv., 8i22. ig a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him.
An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the
commencement thereof, within the meaning of this Title, when
the summons is delivered with the intent that it shall be actually
served, to the Sheriff or other officer of the County in which the ""—^y——
defendants or one of them usually or last resided ; or, if a cor
poration be defendant, to the Sheriff or other officer of the
County in which such corporation was established by law, or
where its general business was transacted, or where it kept an
officer for the transaction of business.
Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C, 122 ; State v. Cohen, 13 S. C, 198.


Sec. 121. If when the cause of action shall accrue against Exceptionany person he shall be out of the State, such action may be com- of state.
menced within the terms herein respectively limited after the ib.,ll2areturn of such person into this State ; and if after such cause of
action shall have accrued such person shall depart from and
reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent therefrom
for the space of one year or more, the time of his absence shall
not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the
commencement of such action.
The saving clause of this Section as to persons who " return" to the State
embraces such persons as come into the State without a previous residence
here.—Burrows v. French, 14 S. C, 165.


Sec. 122. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned Exception as
in the last Chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against aer^isabnities.
a Sheriff or other officer for an escape, be, at the time the cause /''.,81**of action accrued, either—
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal or civil charge, or in execution
under the sentence of a criminal Court for a term less than his
natural life—
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action ; except that the period
within which the action must be brought cannot be extended
more than five years by any such disability, except infancy ; nor
can it be so extended, in any case, longer than one year after the
disability ceases.
An infant has as much time within which to bring his action as persons not
under disability, and under this Section he has one additional year after his
majority, but no longer, to do so, if the time limited expire before or within
that additional year. —Fricks v. Lewis, ..#> S. C, 237; Anderson v. Simms, 29
S. C, 247.


Sec. 123. If a person entitled to bring an action die before Death of perthe expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, fo™c""mitatiuii
and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by ^"^"
his representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within
*—~y~—^ one year from his death. If a person against whom an action
may be brought die before the expiration of the time limited for
the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an
action may be commenced against his executors or administra
tors after the expiration of that time, and within one year after
the issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.
Only applies to cases where the Statute commenced to run in lifetime of de
cedent, and statutory period expired before administration. —Strain v. Babb,
30 S. C, 342. It must be shown that the action was commenced within one
year after letters testamentary or of administration were granted, or the plea
of Statute of Limitations will not avail.—Foggette v. Gaffney, 33 S. C., 303.
Where statutory period has not expired before administration, the executor
or administrator, under the law protecting administrator or executor from
suit for nine months, that time must be added to the statutory period.—Cleve
land v. Mills, 9 S. C, 435 ; Hayes v. Clinkscales, 9 S. C, 450 ; Moore v. Smith,
29 S. C, 254.
Where action is in form ex delicto, and defendant die, it cannot be revived
against his personal representatives. —Huff v. Watkins, 20 S. C, 477.

Salts by aliens. 
Sec. 124. When a person shall be an alien subject, or citizen
lb., 8126.
oj a country at war ^yith the United States, the time of the con
tinuance of the war shall not be part of the period limited for
the commencement of the action,
where judg- 
Sec. 125. If an action shall be commenced within the time
Tb^iiz?T~ prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein be reversed on
appeal, the plaintiff, or, if he die and the cause of action survive,
his heirs or representatives, may commence a new action within
one year after the reversal,
stay of action 
Sec. 126. When the commencement of an action shall be
4/ ^un*J^ stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the
lb., 8m
continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action.
Disability must 
Sec. 127. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless
acmied.enright it existed when his right of action accrued.
7 6., (129.

Where disability intervenes after right of action accrues, it does not stop
this Statute.—Shubrick v. Adams, 20 S. C, 49.

two or more 
Sec. 128. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the
"T^'t^j— time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach
until they all be removed.
This Title, 
Sec. 129. This Title shall not affect actions to enforce the
piy?nnottoap payment of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by
ib., *i3i.
moneyed corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.
Tbe like.

Sec. 1 30. This Title shall not affect actions against directors
lb., i 132.
or stockholders of a moneyed corporation, or banking associa
tions, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a
liability created by law ; but such actions must be brought within
six years after the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts
upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability
was created, unless otherwise provided in the law under which
such corporation is organized.

Sec. 131. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient New promise
must be in writevidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the mg.
case out of the operation of this Title, unless the same be con- ib.,8183tained in some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby;
but payment of any part of principal or interest is equivalent to
a promise in writing.
This Section has reference only to the evidence necessary to establish an
acknowledgment or new promise, but does not change the pre-existing law as
to what acknowledgments will continue a debt not barred or what new prom
ises will create a new contract. — Ester v. Wood, 21 S. C, 600.
Parol promise not to plead the statute cannot operate as a waiver or as an
agreement, or by way of estoppel to subvert this Section. —Hill v. Perrin, 21
S. C. 350.
A verbal promise to pay a debt after discharge in bankruptcy is not affected
by this Section, but is valid.—Lanier v. Tolleson, 20 S. C, 57.
Administrator putting due bill made by him upon his inventory is not such
new promise.— Black v. White, 13 S. C, 37.
Payments by one of joint contractors do not bind the others and deprive
them of the protection herein provided.— Smith v. Townsend, 9 Rich., 44 ;
Smith v. Caldwell, 15 Rich., 374 ; Shubrick v. Adams, 20 S. C, 49 ; Walter v.
Kraft, 23 S. C, 578. And if payments have been made by debtor, the action,
after expiration of six years, must be on new promise implied from payment,
and not on note.—Fleming v. Fleming, 33 S. C, 505.
Does not apply to judgment obtained before adoption of Code, under Sec.
Section 132. Every action must be prosecuted in the name party in tnterof the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in "on 'by'grantee
•Section 134 ; but this Section shall not be deemed to authorize VerseiybLld *d.
the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of contract. iwo, xiv., 8isi.
But an action may be maintained by a grantee of land in the
name of the grantor, or his or her heirs or legal representatives,
when the grant or grants are void by reason of the actual posses
sion of a person claiming under a title adverse to that of the
grantor at the time of the delivery of the grant, and the plaintiff
shull be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case within this
provision.
This Section does no more than express a long established principle, that all
parties at interest should be made parties.— Cathcart v. Sugenheimer, 18 S. C,
123.
Only the real party in interest can sue.—Sullivan v. Hellamn, 0 S. C, 184.
A County, as real party in interest, may sue on official bond of County Trea
surer. — Greenville Co. v. Ilunion, 9 S. C, 1.
Distributees may sue in their own names upon the bond of administrator of
their intestate. — Kaminer v. Hope, 9 S. C, 253.
Action may be brought in name of State alone on official bond of Clerk. —
State v. Moses, 18 S. C, 366.
A mortgage given to City Council of Charleston to secure certain bonds
Issued by them to mortgagor is properly sued in name of City Council.—City
Council v. Caulfield, 19 S. C, 201.
Probate Judge, as successor of the Ordinary, cannot, as real party in inter
est, sue on administration bond given to his predecessor.—Johnson v. Dawkins,
20 S. C, 528.
Action at law to recover property of lunatic or damages for its detention
must be brought in name of lunatic by his committee.— Cathcart v. Sugen
heimer, 18 S. C, 128.

Assignment of 
Sec. 133. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
^n^i^— the action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set
off or other defense existing at the time of or before notice of
the assignment ; but this Section shall not apply to a negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith,
and upon good consideration, before due.
In action by assignee of sealed note against maker, defendant may set up
debt due him by assignor before notice of assignment as equitable defense,
though pleaded by counter-claim, without demand for judgment thereon.—
Sullivanv. Blythe, 14 S. C, 621.
So assignee of share of distributee, who is surety on administration bond,
takes subject to his liability on such bond.—Bobo v. Vaiden, 20 S. C, 271. And
assignee of bond and mortgage takes subject to credits that should go on
them.—Moffett v. Hardin, 22 S. C, 9.
This Section does not apply where party moves to set off judgment against
him by a judgment he holds against the other party, when the judgment
against him has been assigned by the other party for value. —Simmons v. Reid,
31 S. C, 389.

Actions by ex- 
Sec. 134. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
*c.
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may
lb., 8ims.
sue, without joining with him the person for whose benefit the
action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the
meaning of this Section, shall be construed to include a person
with whom, or in whose name,, a contract is made for the benefit
of another.
Commissioner in Equity could sue in his own name on bond given to him for
benefit of others, although it had been turned over to the Clerk, his suc
cessor. —Billings v. Williamson, 6 S. C, 119.
Administrator may sue in his own name on note payable to him as such,
though it had been transferred, and suit is for benefit of assignee.—Carroll v.
Still, 13 S. C, 430.
Clerk of Court is proper party to sue on bond given to former Commissioner
in Equity in his County.—Daniels v. Moses, 12 S. C, 130 ; Clark v. Smith, 13
S. C, 585.
Succeeding committee may bring action against executors of deceased com
mittee for an account, without joining the lunatic as a party.—Ashley v. Holman, 15 S. C, 97.
Where equitable relief as to estate of lunatics is sought, it seems that the
committee may sue alone.—Cathcart v. Sugenheimer, 18 S. C, 123. But he
cannot sue alone in action at law. —Griffln v. Griffin, 20 S. C, 486.
Superintendent of Penitentiary may sue in his own name for amounts due
State by hirer of convicts for their escape.—Lipscomb v. Seegers, 19 S. C, 425.
Probate Judge, as successor of Ordinary, may sue in his own name upon
administration bond given to his predecessor.—Johnson v. Dawkins, 20 S. C,
528.

Sec. 135. When a married woman is a party her husband Actions by and
must be joined with her, except that—
women.
1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may ib.,imsue or be sued alone : Provided, That neither her husband nor
his property shall be liable for any recovery against her in any
such suit ; but judgment may be enforced by execution against
her sole and separate estate in the same manner as if she were
sole.
2. When the action is between herself and her husband she
may sue or be sued alone ; and in no case need she prosecute or
defend by a guardian or next friend.
Where wife is sued upon contract other than for necessary support, the hus
band is a formal and not a substantial party.—Ross v. Linder, 12 S. C, 592.
Where an action against a married woman does not concern her separate
property, her husband is a necessary party ; where it does, he is only a proper
party.—Lourry v. Jackson, 27 S. C. , 318.
But where the action does concern her separate property and the husband
has a vested right in it, then he is necessary party.—Bannister v. Bull, 16 S.
C, 220.


Sec. 136. When an infant is a party he must appear by guar- infante, actions
dian, who may be appointed by the Court in which the action is -J^MaTisre".
prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof, or a Probate Judge, or by a XVIL. ssMaster in those Counties where the office of Master now or may
hereafter exist ; but if the action be for the partition of real
estate the guardian may also be appointed by the Clerk of the
Court of Common Pleas.
Probate Judge may appoint guardian ad litem for infants parties to actions
in the Court of Common Plea?.—Trapier v, Waldo, 16 S. C, 276 ; Lyles v.
Haskell, 35 S. C, 391.

Sec. 137. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

appointed..
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the
1870, xiv., 8m infan^ if he fie of the age of fourteen years ; or if under that age,
upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if
he has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant. If made by a
relative or friend of an infant, notice thereof must first be given
to such guardian, if he has one ; if he has none, then to the per
son with whom such infant resides.
/S;
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after service of the summons. If he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application
of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
infant, after notice of such application being first given to the
general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one
within this State ; if he has none, then to the infant himself, if
over fourteen years of age, and within the State ; or if under
that age, and within the State, to the person with whom such
infant resides. And in an action for the partition of real prolv
erty, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument,
when an infant defendant resides out of the State, or is tempo
rarily absent therefrom, the plaintiff may apply to the Court in
which the action is pending, or to a Judge, Clerk or Master
thereof, and will be entitled to an order designating some situable person to be the guardian for the infant defendant, for the
purpose of the action, unless the infant defendant, or some one
in his behalf, within a number of days after the service of a copy
of the order, which number of days shall be in the said order
specified, shall procure to be appointed a guardian for the said
infant ; and the Court or officer appointing shall give special
directions in the order for the manner of the service thereof,
which may be upon the infant.
And in case an infant defendant, having an interest in the
event of the action, shall reside in any State with which there
shall not be a regular communication by mail, on such fact satis
factorily appearing to the Court, the Court may appoint a guar
dian ad litem for such absent infant party, for the purpose of
protecting the rights of such infant in said action, and on such
guardian ad litem process, pleadings and notice in the action
may be served in the like manner as upon a party residing in
this State.
No jurisdiction of the persona of infants can be obtained except by exact
compliance with the requirements of this Section. —Finley v. Robertson, 11 S.
C, 435 ; Riker v. Vaughn, 23 S. C, 187 ; Tederall v. Bouknight, 25 S. C, 275,
Notice to father and infants, to appear and answer complaint, there being
no general or testamentary guardian, and they residing with him, was sub
stantial notice of application for appointment of guardian ad litem.—Lyles v.
Haskell, 35 S. C, 391.

Sec. 138. All persons having an interest in the subject of the who may be
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as J^xrv., iho".
plaintiff, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
Roberts v. Johns, 10 S. C, 101 ; Hellams v. Switzer, 24 S. C, 39 ; Stallings v.
Barrett, 26 S. C, 474.


Sec. 139. Any person may be made a defendant who has or wh° may be
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or ?™nY?vto>i
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settle
ment of the questions involved therein ; and in an action to re
cover the possession of real estate, the landlord and the tenant
thereof may be joined as defendants ; and any person claiming
title or a right of possession to real estate may be made parties
plaintiff or defendant, as the case may require, to any such action.
A joint action upon a joint and several bond, by two obligors, may be
brought against the survivor of them and the executor of the deceased one.—
Trimmier v. Thompson, 10 S. C, 164.
In action for tort, one cause of action against two defendants cannot be
joined with a cause of action against one of them.—Hines v. Garrett, 26 S. C,
4S0.
In actions for foreclosure, a party in possession, claiming title to land, was
properly made a party defendant.—Sale v. Meggett, 25 S. C, 72.


Sec. 140. Of the parties to the action, those who are united one or more
in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if the fend tor an.
consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff can- /''.,8142not be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof
being stated in the complaint ; and when the question is one of
a common or general interest of many persons, or when the
parties are very numerous and it may be impracticable to bring
them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for
the benefit of the whole.
This provision applies to legal as well as equitable actions : but does not
abolish entirely the common law requirements in legal actions for torts.—
Heliums v. Switzer, 24 S. C, 39 ; Hines v. Jarrett, 26 S. C, 430.
Two tenants in common can join in action to recover possession of their
shares in land from a stranger without making other co-tenants parties.—Ban
nister v. Bull, 16 S. C, 220.
An action by single creditor against receiver and stockholders of an insol
vent bank for his debt is defective for want of parties ; it should be brought
by plaintiff on behalf of himself and other creditors.— Terry v. Calnan, 4 S. C,
514. And it should be against all the stockholders, and not one alone.— Ti-rry
v. Martin, 10 S. C, 263.
One who asserts distinct claim, peculiar to himself, cannot join other cred
itors or claimants with him.— Warren v. Raymond, 17 S. C, 163.
Where plaintiffs sue for benefit of whole class the judgment is binding and
conclusive upon all parties of the class who stand out.— State v. C. (£ L. R. R.
Co., 13 S. C, 290.
. It is only where one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole
class that counsel fee can be allowed out of the common fund.— WiUon v.
Kelly, 30 S. C, 483.

one action 
Sec. 141. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
fiwii'tpartiesto or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
bills and notes,
promissory notes, may all, or any of them, be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
Action may be maintained on joint and several obligation by two obligors
against the survivor and the personal representative of deceased one.— TrimMi ter v. Thompson, 10 S. C, 164.

Action, when 
Sec. 142. Ko action shall abate by the death, marriage, or
not toabate^— other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of
death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the Court, on
motion, at .any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards,
on a supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be con
tinued by or against his representative or successor in interest.
In case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be con
tinued in the name of the original party, or the Court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted
in the action.
After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but the
case shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases
where the cause of action now survives by law.
At any time after the death, marriage, or other disability of
the party plaintiff, the Court in which an action is pending, upon
notice to such persons as it may direct, and upon application
of any person aggrieved, may, in its discretion, order that the
action be deemed abated, unless the same be continued by the
proper parties, within a time to be fixed by the Court, not less
than six months nor exceeding one year from the granting of
the order.
An agreement to arbitrate, which does not name nor provide number and
appointment of the arbitrators, does not discontinue action after death of
plaintiff, revived by administratrix.—Lynch v. Goodwin, 6 S. C, 144.
This Section does not determine what actions so survive, but the common
law rule still governs ; and an action ex delicto does not survive.—Huff v.
Watkins, 20 S. C.,477.
No leave is necessary to file such supplemental complaint.—Parnell v.
Maner, 16 S. C, 348 : Arthur v. Allen, 22 S. C, 432. And this right to so
revive is not limited in point of time. —Best v. Sanders, 22 S. C, 
"Where action is so continued by order, with notice to appear and answer, it
is not requisite that there be a summons also.—Lyles v. Haskell, 85 S. C, 391.
But where continued by supplemental complaint, summons is necessary.—
Arthur v. Allen, 22 S. C, 432.

61
A. D. 1694.


Sec. 143. The Court may determine any controversy between court to decide
the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to mterpieaSngC.:
the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when a com- **•" ? "3plete determination of the controversy cannot be had without
the presence of other parties, the Court must cause them to be
brought in. And when in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property a person not a party to the action, but having
an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the Court
to be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by the
proper amendment.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract,
or for specific real or personal property, may, at any time before
answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action,
and without collusion by him, makes against him a demand for
the same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and
the adverse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute
such person in his place and discharge him from liability to
either party on bis depositing in Court the amount of the debt
or delivering the property or its value to such person as the
Court may direct ; and the Court may, in its discretion, make
the order.
Where plaintiff thinks a third person is a necessary party to the complete
determination of the action, he should take proper steps to have him made
defendant.—En kin v. Knox, 6 S. C, 14.
In action by single creditor against receiver of insolvent corporation and
number of individual stockholders, all creditors are necessary parties and
should be brought in. —Terry v. Calnan, 4 S. C, 508.
As to substituting defendant.—Patterson v. Pagan, 18 S. C, 584.
Where land is sold under execution after actions commenced to foreclose
mortgages on it and notices of lispendens filed, the purchaser at such sale may
intervene by petition as a proper party, charging the mortgages to be fraudu
lent.—Ex Parte Mobley, 19 S. C, 337.
144. Actions to be tried where subject- !
matter situated.
I4.r>. Action to be tried where cause ol ac- i
tion arose.

HO. Actions to be tried where the defendants reside.
147. Changing place of trial.

The regulations of this Title axe intended solely for the benefit of the parties
to the action, and parties outside have no rights in the matter.— Trapier v.
Waldo, 16 S. C, 276.

Actions to be Section 144. Actions for the following causes must be tried
ject matter situ- in the County in which the subject of the action, or some part
isro..xivT.iiit thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change
the place of trial, in the cases as hereinafter provided :
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real property.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any
is>r, xix., 634". cause : Provided, That nothing in this Section contained shall
be so construed as to prevent the hearing of any of the said
actions by consent of the parties or their attorneys, and of the
guardian ad litem of any infant party to said action, in a County
other than that in which said action may have been brought and
may be pending.
The words "must be tried" are imperative and cannot be disregarded.
Judgment in any other County is a nullity.— Trapier v. Waldo, 16 S. C, 276 ;
Steele v. Exum, 22 S. C, 276 ; Bacot v. Lowndes, 24 S. C, 892 ; Ware v. Henson, 25 S. C, 385.
This Section does not embrace an action by creditors of estate for account
and marshaling of assets in County where executor resides. —Jordon v. Moses,
10 S. C, 431.
In such action in one County, a part of the lands lying in that County and a
tract in another County, the title to that tract may be tried in County where
action is brought.—Barret v. Watts, 13 S. C, 441. But where the land devised
has been transferred by devisees, and such action seeks first to set aside the
deeds, it comes within this Section and must be tried in County where land is
situate.— Bacot v. Lowndes, 24 S. C, 392. Where action is against one defend
ant residing in County of F and another defendant residing in another County,
and to foreclose their mortgage on their respective lands situate in both
Counties, the Court in County F has jurisdiction.— Wagener v. Swygcrt, 30 S.
C, 296.
Action against trustee for an accounting for value of real estate bought with
trust funds in her own name, is not embraced in actions under subdivision 1. Bell v. Flood, 28 S. C, 313.
Circuit Judge has power at chambers to hear an action for partition, while
in the County in which land is situate.— Woodward v. Elliott, 27 S. C, 868.
But not while in another County.—lb.

Sec. 145. Actions for the following causes must be tried in Actions to be
the County where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject cause of action
to the like power of the Court to change the place of trial :
^ih TT47—
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by stat
ute, except that when it is imposed for an offense committed on
a lake, river, or other stream of water situated in two or more
Counties, the action may be brought in any County bordering on
such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the place where the
offense was committed.
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office,
or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do
anything touching the duties of such officer.
The words "must be tried " are imperative. Judgment in any other County
is a nullity.— Trapier v. Waldo, 16 S. C, 276 ; Steele v. Exum, 22 S. C, 276 ;
Bacot v. Lowndes, 24 S. C, 392 ; Ware v. Henderson, 25 S. C, 385.


Sec. 146. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the Actions t» be
County in which the defendant resides at the time of the com- defendant*6'^
mencement of the action ; and if there be more than one defend- —*sr0—x p^~
ant, then the action may be tried in any County in which one or J^s 1873. xv.,
more of the defendants to such action reside at the time of the
commencement of the action ; or if none of the parties shall
reside in the State, the same may be tried in any County which
the plaintiff shall designate in his complaint, subject, however,
to the power of the Court to change the place of trial in the
cases as hereinafter provided.
The language as to trial of action in County where defendant resides is im
perative, and places the exclusive jurisdiction there. —Blakely v. Frazier, 11
S. C, 122 ; Trapier v. Waldo, 16 S. C, 276 ; Steele v. Exum, 22 S. C, 276 ; Ba
cot v. Lowndes, 24 S. C, 392 ; Ware v. Henderson, 25 S. C, 385 ; Bell v. Fludd,
28 S. C, 313. If judgment be rendered in another County, the objection to
jurisdiction may be first raised in Supreme Court.— Ware v. Henderson, 25 S.
C, 385 ; Bell v. Fludd, 28 S. C, 313.
The action against more than one defendant may be tried in County where
one resides.— Wagener v. Swygert, 30 S. C, 296.
Where none of parties to action reside in State, the County designated in
complaint is proper County for trial.— Steele v. Exum, 22 S. C, 276.


Sec. 147. The Court may change the place of trial in the1 Changt ng place
of trial.
following cases :
1870 XIV
1. When the County designated for that purpose in the com- 9 1 4 o ;. i s-si,"
plaint is not the proper County.
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial can
not be had therein.
3. When the convenience of •witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings shall
be had in the County to which the place of trial is changed,
unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writ
ing, duly filed, or order of the Court ; and the papers shall be
filed or transferred accordingly.
This Section controls the preceding Sections of this Title, so far as applica
ble.—Steele v. Exum, 22 S. C. , 276. And under it the Court has jurisdiction to
order place of trial to be changed to proper County.—lb.; Bell v. Fludd, 28 S.
C, 313 ; Geiser Co. v. Sanders, 26 S. C, 70. And it is its imperative duty to
do so.—Blakely v. Frazier, 11 S. C, 122. But Court in wrong County has no
jurisdiction to try case on merits, even when no demand is made for change
to proper County.— Warex. Henderson, 25 S. C, 385.
The order of Circuit Judge refusing to change place of trial on grounds
stated in subdivision 3 is final and conclusive.—Gower v. Thomson, 6 S. C, 313.

Sec. 149. The summons shall be subscribed by./a
the plaintiff
Summons,
requisites of. or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require
" J . him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on
the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place
within the State, to be therein specified, in which there is a
postoffice, within twenty days after the service of the summons,
exclusive of the day of service.
The date is not one of the requisites of a summons.—Smith v. Walker, 6 S.
C, 169.
In action against a corporation, judgment by default will not be set aside
because the summons, properly entitled, was served upon the President and
General Agent, and notified " judgment will be taken against you" upon. fail
ure to answer.— Clark v. Porcelain Co., 8 S. C, 45.

Sec. 150. The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons a """—><"""'
notice, in substance, that if the defendant shall fail to answer inserted in sumthe complaint within twenty days after the service of the sum- /b. 8ias—
mons, the plaintiff will apply to the Court for the relief demanded
in the complaint.

Sec. 151. A copy of the complaint need not be served with complaint
the summons. In such case, the summons must state where the served with
complaint is or will be filed ; and if the defendant, within twenty ~Yb7, 8i^—
days thereafter, causes notice of appearance to be given, and, in
person or by attorney, demands, in writing, a copy of the com
plaint, specifying the place within the State where it may be
served, a copy thereof must, within twenty days thereafter, be
served accordingly ; and after such service the defendant has
twenty days to answer ; but only one copy need be served on the
same attorney.

Sec. 152. Iu the case of a defendant against whom no per- Defendant nnsonal claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant, JencSng. y ~^
with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his ib.,nsi.
attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief
description of the property affected by it, if it affects specific
real or personal property, and that no personal claim is made
against such defendant, in which case no copy of the complaint
need be served on such defendant, unless, within the time for
answering, he shall, in writing, demand the same. If a defend
ant on whom such notice is served unreasonably defend the action,
he shall pay costs to the plaintiff.
The answer in such case must be regarded as merely formal and setting np
no new or specific equities.— Wylie v. Lyle, 7 S. C, 202.


Sec. 153. Ill an action affecting the title to real property, the Notice of iu
plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time after- ?e™'€ ™. "
wards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under Chapter 4 of
Title 7, Part 2, of this Code of Procedure, shall be issued, or at
any time afterwards, the plaintiff, or a defendant, when he sets
up an affirmative cause of action in his answer, and demands
substantive relief, at the time of filing his answer, or at any
time afterwards, if the same be intended to affect real estate,
may file with the Clerk of each County in which the property is
situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties, the object of the action, and the descrip
tion of the property in that County affected thereby ; and if the
action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be
filed twenty days before judgment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time and place of
recording the same. From the time of filing only shall the pen
dency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or
encumbrancer of the property affected thereby ; and every per
son whose conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently executed
or subsequently recorded shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser
or encumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken
after the filing of such notice to the same extent as if he were
made a party to the action. For the purposes of this Section, an
action shall be deemed to be pending from the time of filing such
notice ; but such notice shall be of no avail unless it shall be fol
lowed by the first publication of the summons, or an order there
for, or by the personal service thereof on a defendant within sixty
days after such filing. And the Court in which the said action
was commenced may, in its discretion, at any time after the action
shall be settled, discontinued or abated, as is provided in Section
142, on application of any person aggrieved, and on good cause
shown, and on such notice as shall be directed or approved by
the Court, order the uotice authorized by this Section to be can
celled of record by the Clerk of any County in whose office the
same may have been filed or recorded ; and such cancellation
shall be made by an endorsement to that effect on the margin of
the record, which shall refer to the order, and for which the
Clerk shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.
Sale of laud under execution levied, before lis pendens was filed in action to
foreclose mortgage on it, gave good title to purchaser ; and he had right as a
proper party, by petition in the action, to contest the mortgage.—Ex Parte
Mobley, 19 S. C, 337.

summons, by 
Sec. 154. The summons may be served by the Sheriff of the
feesfor service! County where the defendant may be found, or by any other per„.,'!?ro:~xiy," son not a partv to the action. The service shall be made, and
B iob ; IOT4, XV.,
.
wo.
the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the person
whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence.
The person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an
endorsement on the summons, fix a time for the service thereof,
and the service shall then be made accordingly : Provided, That
no costs shall be taxed to any person for the service of any sum
mons, complaint, answer, demurrer, subpoena, or other legal
process issuing out of the Courts of Common Pleas and Courts
of Probate not made by the Sheriff of the County where such
process is served, or his legally constituted deputies.
Smith v. Walker, b. S. C, 169 ; Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C, 122.

Sec. 155. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy *

thereof as IOllOWS :
Summons,
how served. ~~
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the President or 1870. XIV. i137other head of the corporation, Secretary, Cashier, Treasurer, a £?:•., 2 8*s?:
Director, or agent thereof. Service upon any person occupying **8r. xi£, ss..
an office or room in any railway station, and attending to and
transacting therein any business of any railroad, shall be deemed
service upon the corporation under the charter of which such
railroad is authorized by law ; and such person shall be deemed
the agent of said corporation notwithstanding he may claim
to be the agent of any other person or corporation claiming to
operate said railroad by virtue of any lease, contract or agree
ment.
Such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation
only when it has property within the State, or the cause of
action arose therein, or where such service shall be made in this
State personally upon the President, Cashier, Treasurer, attorney
or Secretary, or any resident agent thereof.
Foreign corporation may appear solely to teat service upon a party "as resi
dent agent thereof" and have service set aside.—Hester v. Rasin Fert. Co., 33
S. C, 609. It may waive service and submit itself to jurisdiction of Court by
appearing generally and answering on the merits.— Chafee v. Postal Tel. Co.,
35 S. C., 372.

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian ; or,
if there be none within the State, then to any person having the
care and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or
in whose service he shall be employed.
These requirements are positive, and the jurisdiction of an infant can only be
obtained by pursuing this mode of service prescribed.—Finley v. Robertson,
17 S. C, 435 ; Genobles v. West, 23 S. C, 154 ; Riker v. Vaughan, 23 S. C, 187 ;
Whitesides v. Barber, 24 S. C, 873 ; Tederall v. Bouknight, 25 S. C, 275 ;
Faust v. Faust, 31 S. C, 576.

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence
of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee or guardian
has been appointed, to such committee or guardian, and to the
defendant personally.
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or to any ~]873 xv 49--.
person of discretion residing at the residence or employed at the ^.i^.xxi"
place of business of said defendant.
lwSec • »*"»•
156. Where the person
on
whom
the
service
of
the
sumPublication of
r
.
summons.
mons is to be made cannot, after due diligence, be found within i » r o, xiv.i
the State, and that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of mo..
the Court, or a Judge thereof, the Clerk of the Court of Com
mon Pleas, Master, or the Probate Judge of the County where
the trial is to be had, and it in like manner appears that a cause
of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the
service is to be made, or that he is a proper party to an action
relating to real property in this State, such Court, Judge, Clerk,
Master, or Judge of Probate, may grant an order that the service
be made by publication of the summons in either of the follow
ing cases : 1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has
property within the State, or the cause of action arose therein.
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to
avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein with the like intent. 3. Where he is not resident of
this State, but has property therein, and the Court has jurisdic
tion of the subject of the action. 4. Where the subject of the
action is real or personal property in this State, and the defend
ant has or claims a lien or interest actual or contingent therein,
or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding the
defendant from any interest or lien therein. The order shall
direct the publication to be made in one newspaper, to be desig
nated by the officer before whom the application is made as most
likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for such
length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once
a week for six weeks. In case of publication the Court, Judge,
Clerk, Master or Judge of Probate shall also direct a copy of
the summons to be forthwith deposited in the postoffice, directed
to the person to be served at his place of residence, unless it
appear that such residence is neither known to the party making
the application nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained
by him. Where publication is ordered, personal service of the
summons out of the State is equivalent to publication and deposit
in the postoffice. In case of minors in like cases a similar order
shall be made and like proceedings be had as in case of adults.
In case of persons imprisoned in the Penitentiary or in the
jail of any County in this State, and in case of lunatics confined
in the Asylum, or in any other place of confinement, personal
service of the summons and complaint or other process affecting
the rights of such persons shall be made by the Sheriff of the
County in which such persons shall be imprisoned or confined,
with the like proof of service as required in case of minors ; and
thereupon the Judge of the Court of Trial Justice before whom
the action is to be tried shall appoint some attorney or other com- v—~v—-^
petent person to act as guardian ad litem for any person so im
prisoned or confined, who shall receive out of the property of
such persons a reasonable compensation for services rendered in
their behalf ; and the case shall proceed as in other cases of per
sons not under disabilities : Provided, That in cases of persons
imprisoned or confined as herein stated outside of this State,
service by publication shall be deemed sufficient.
The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his
representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown at any
time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action ;
and the defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his
representatives, may, in like manner, upon good cause shown, be
allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within one
year after notice thereof, and within seven years after its rendi
tion, on such terms as may be just ; and if the defense be suc
cessful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, has been col
lected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be
compelled as the Court directs ; but the title to property sold
under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be
thereby affected. And in all cases where publication is made the
complaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published,
must state the time and place of such filing.
In actions for the partition of real estate or for the foreclosure
of mortgages on real estate, if any party or parties having any
interest in or lien upon such mortgaged premises are unknown to
the plaintiff, and the residence of such party or parties cannot
with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him, and such fact
shall be made to appear by affidavit to the Court, a Judge, Clerk
of the Court, Master or Judge of Probate, where the trial is to be
had, such Court, Judge, Clerk, Master or Judge of Probate shall
grant an order that the summons be served on such unknown
party or parties by publishing the same, for six weeks, once a
week, in a newspaper printed in the County where the premises
are situated, which publication shall be equivalent to a personal
service on such unknown party or parties.
This Section relates only to Courts of record. Trial Justice has no authority
to grant order of publication.—Ferguson v. Gilbert, 17 S. C, 96 ; Note, p. 29.
In the absence of fraud or collusion, if the affidavit satisfies the officer grant
ing order of publication, his order is final.— Yates v. Gridley, 16 S. C, 496;
Bank v. Stelling, 31 S. C, 360.
The question of good faith cannot be made on mere motion to vacate judg
ment ; can only be made under formal proceeding.— Yatesv. Gridley, 16 3. C.
A. D. 1804.
Where an agreement between member and foreign life insurance associa
tion provided that death claims should be made and paid at home office, the
claims of beneficiaries thereunder was not a cause of action that arose in this
State, and the foreign corporation having no property here it could not be
made a party to action here on such claim.—Rodgers v. Mutual Association,
17 S. C. , 406. But when the subject matter was within the jurisdiction of the
Court, and the contract made as to it while the defendants were residents of
this State, they can be made parties, as non-residents, by publication.—Shu
mate v. Harbin, 35 S. C. , 521. So, where all parties in interest are non-resi
dents, they can be so made parties in action to set aside assignment as to real
property situate here.— Dank v. Stelling, 31 S. C, 360.
An order for service by publication is absolutely required, even where there
is personal service or its equivalent out of the State. —Riker v. Vaughan, 23 S.
C, 187. But when publication has been ordered, personal service out of the
State is equivalent to publication and deposit in postoffice.—Darby v. Shan
non, 19 S. C, 526. Only defendant can take advantage of alleged insufficiency
in service of summons.—lb.
Proceedings 
Sec. 157. Where the action is against two or more defend
er defen?a nt 8 ants, and the summons is served on one or more of them, but not
npre.ved—part" on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows :
lsro, xiv., 8159. 1- jf the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless
the Court otherwise direct ; and if he recover judgment, it may
be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so
far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property of
all and the separate property of the defendants served, and, if
they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants
served. Or,
Subdivision 1 does not apply where all the parties are served.—Dulany v.
Elford, 22 S. C, 304. Applied.— Whitfield v. Honey, 30 S. C, 117.
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if
they were the only defendants.
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, where the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defend
ants if the action had been against them, or any of them, alone.
4. If the name of one or more partners shall, for any cause,
have been omitted in any action in which judgment shall have
passed against the defendants named in the summons, and such
omission shall not have been pleaded in such action, the plaintiff,
in case the judgment therein shall remain unsatisfied, may, by
action, recover of such partner separately, upon proving his joint
liability, notwithstanding he may not have been named in the
original action ; but the plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only
one judgment rendered for the same cause of action.

Sec. 158. In the cases mentioned in Section 156, the service **"—»'"~""'
of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of b y publication
the time prescribed by the order for publication.
nfoT^ioo—

Sec. 159. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the proof of service,
complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, must be as i°., mbi; 1s8i.
follows :
1. If served by the Sheriff, his certificate thereof ; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit
of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the postoffice, as re
quired by law, if the same shall have been deposited. When the vth 8 E 10i-o;
service is made out of the State, after order of publication, the
proof of such service may be made, if within the United States,
by affidavit before any person in this State authorized to take an
affidavit, or before a Commissioner of Deeds for this State, or a
Notary Public, who shall use his official seal and append thereto
the certificate of a Clerk of a Court of record of the County in
which he resides that he is such Notary, or before a Clerk of a
Court of record, who shall certify the same by his official seal ; or
if without the limits of the United States, before a Consul or
Vice-Consul or Consular Agent of the United States, who shall
use in his certificate his official seal.
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certifi
cate, affidavit or admission must state the time and place of the
service.
Sheriff's return of service may be rebutted by entry in his book and testi
mony of his deputy and party to be served.— Genables v. West, 23 S. C, 154.
But under his return of service on defendant "at her residence," it will be
presumed that such service was in the County of the venue.— Lyles v. Haskell,
35 a C, 391.
Service upon proper party by misnomer is binding.— Waldrop v. Leonard,
22 S. C, 118 ; Genobles v. West, 23 S. C, 154.
Proof of service by one other than Sheriff must be by affidavit.—State v.
Cohen, 13 S. C, 198. It is not required that such certificate of Clerk of Court
as to authority of Notary Public should be appended to the affidavit at the
time it is taken, but it may be furnished to the Court afterwards.—Sank v.
Stelling, 31 S. C, 8bU
Written admission of the defendant is service.—Benson v. Carrier, 2S S. C,
119.
Acceptance of service by an attorney having no authority so to do does not
constitute a legal service.—Reed v. Reed, 19 S. C, 548.
Nor can infant bind himself by acceptance of service.—Finley v. Robertson,
1" S. C, 4:35 ; Riker v. Vaughan, 23 S. C, 187 ; Genobles v. West, 23 S. C, 154 ;
Whitesides v. Sarber, 24 S. C, 373. Yet such acceptance, even of an irregular
summons, by an adult without objection to proceedings thereunder estop him
from denying jurisdiction.—Finley v. Robertson, 17 S. C, 435.

Sec. 160. From the time of the service of the summons in a
diction of action civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the Court
lsro, xiv.,lic2. ig deemed to have acquired jurisdiction and to have control of all
the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defend
ant is equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
Even where no summons has been served, but attachment has been issued,
the Court has jurisdiction for certain purposes.—Darby v. Shannon, 19 S. C,
526. Voluntary appearance is equivalent to personal service.—State v. Cohen,
13 S. C, 198 ; State v. Mitchell, 21 S. C, 598 ; State v. Marshall, 24 S. C, 507 ;
Benson v. Carrier, 28 S. C, 119 ; Shumate v. Harbin, 35 S. C, 521.
The voluntary appearance of an infant is binding upon judgment where the
face of the proceedings fails to show his infancy. —State v. Lewis, 21 S. C, 598.
But if defendant appear only to object to jurisdiction because he has not been
served, the Court is without jurisdiction.—State v. Marshall, 24 S. C, 507.
To be equivalent to personal service it must be made before judgment.—
State v. Cohen, 13 S. C, 198. It may be shown by the pleadings or entry in
Trial Justice's book ; it must be shown by the proceedings, and cannot in
absence of such showing be proved by parol testimony.—Barron v. Dent, 17 S.
C, 75.
168. Complaint, what to contain.

Formsof plead- 
Sec. 161. There shall be no other forms of pleading in civil
-"fj—jsog;— actions in Courts of record in this State, and no other rules by
which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, than
those prescribed by this Code of Procedure.
It was intended by this Section to change materially the nature and effect
of pleading ; but not to abolish the substantial characteristics of the several
pleadings that are retained either in name or by their equivalents under other
names. —Mobleyy. Cureton,G8. C, 49.
Cited in Warren v. Lagrone, 12 S. C, 45.

Sec. 162. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is
the complaint.

Sec. 163. The complaint shall contain—
complaint;
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the Court in w^to,^—
which the action is brought, the name of the County in which
the plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the
parties to the action—plaintiff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes him
self entitled.
The names of the individuals constituting the copartnership suing must
appear in the title.—Smith v. Walker, 6 S. C, 169.
Subdivision 2 : A cause of action exists where the legal rights of one party
have been invaded by another.— Chalmers v. Glenn, 18 S. C, 469 ; Nance v.
R. R., 35 S. C, 309. If the facts alleged do not show the existence and inva
sion of such rights, the complaint is defective, and will be held bad on de
murrer. —Southern Porcelain Co. v. Thew, 5S.C..5; Chalmers v. Glenn, 18 S.
C, 469 ; Nance v. R. R. Co., 35 S. C, 309.
But it is enough if the allegations show distinctly the cause of action. —
Hammond v. R. R. Co., 6S. C, 130. The Court refers the facts to their appro
priate form of action.—Mason v. Carter, 8 S. C, 103 ; Warren v. Lagrone, 12
S. C., 45.
The complaint is so defective if it merely allege conclusions of law and not
facts.— Tutl v. R. R. Co., 33 S. C.,216; Wallace v. R. R. Co., 34 S. C.,62;
ATance v. R. R. Co., 35 S. C, 307.
In action for specific performance of contract for sale of land, it is not neces
sary to allege that contract was in writing.—Hubbell v. Courtney, 5 S. C, 87.
In action against a commission merchant for account, it is unnecessary to
allege a demand for account, after stating a refusal to do so.—Mason v. Car
ter, 8 S. C, 103. Where paper sued on as a promissory note is not such, but
the allegations show a cause of action, the complaint is sufficient. —Dowie v.
Joyner, 25 S. C, 123.
Want of probable cause should be alleged in a complaint in action for mali
cious arrest or it will be demurrable.— Hogg v. Pinekney, 16 S. C, 387.
Subdivision 3 : Complaint is not demurrable as defective in not stating facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because it contains no prayer for re
lief. -Baffe v. Mosely, 13 S. C, 439.
Section 164. The only pleading on the part of the defend- Defendant to
ant is either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within swer.
twenty days after the service of the copy of the complaint.
1870. XIV-' !1W)"

Sec. 165. The defendant may demur to the complaint when
fendantmayde- it shall appear upon the face thereof, either—
—"iiJTiiW.— 1- That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,
This ground of objection is waived unless taken by demurrer.—Daniels v.
Moses, 12 S. C, 130.
Where complaint alleges corporate existence in plaintiff and nothing appears
on its face to show his want of corporate authority, it is not demurrable on
this ground.— Cheraw R. R. v. White, 14 S. C, 51. Where sealed note payable
to an administrator has been transferred to another, it may be sued on in
name of administrator for use of the other.— Carroll v. Still, 13 S. C, 430.
This question of capacity to sue cannot be put in issue by general denial : it
must be made by demurrer.—Commercial Co. v. Turner, 8 S. C.,110; Pal
metto v. Risley, 25 S. C, 309 ; Steamship Co. v. Rodgers, 21 S. C, 27.

3. That there is another action pending between the same par
ties, for the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant ; or,
This ground cannot apply in case misjoinder of parties.—Lourry v. Jackson,
27 S. C.,318.
This objection must be made by demurrer, and is waived upon failure to
demur. — Featherston v. Norris, 7 S. C, 472 ; Evans v. McLucas, 12 S. C, 56 ;
Danielsv. Moses, 12 S. C, 13 ; Ross v. Under, 12 S. C, 592.

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united ;
or,
Joint demurrer bad as to all, must fail though good as to one who joins.—
Lowry v. Jackson, 27 S. C, 318.
Complaint not demurrable for multifariousness where it alleges breach of
trust, because it makes a party in possession of the assets under the breach,
with notice, a defendant.—Ragsdale v. Holmes, 1 S. C, 91 ; Melton v. Withers,
2 S. C., 581.
Objection to complaint on this ground can only be taken by demurrer. —
Field v. Hurst, 9 S. C, 277. It may be taken by any defendant.— Suber v.
Allen, 13 S. C, 317.
Where there is improper joinder of causes of action, and a demurrer to the
complaint therefor, the plaintiff may cure the defect by voluntary amend
ment of the complaint. —Sullivan v. Sullivan, 24 S. C, 474.
Demurrer on this ground will not lie where several plaintiffs, severally own
ing adjoining tracts of land, join in action for damages in solido for injuries
thereto by defendant.s dam.— Hellams v. Suritzer, 24 S. C, 39. But demurrer
will lie in such case, where the injuries are separate and distinct. —lb.
There is not misjoinder of causes of actions where adult ward and three
minor wards sue their guardian for accounting.—Stallings v. Barrett, 26 S. C,
474. This objection does not apply where creditor sues heir in possession of
intestate.s land and alleges sufficient to show cause of action against adminis
trator, and does not seek judgment against him.—Lowry v. Jackson, 27 S. C,
31S.

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action.
A. D. 1894.
Until it does appear that some fact is omitted which is necessary to consti- v - y~~~-^
trite the cause of action, no demurrer can be sustained.—Balle v. Mosely, 13 S.
C, 439.
The defect must be substantial, and such as cannot be cured except by alle
gations of answer.— Childers v. Verner, 12 S. C, 1.
Where administrator of a distributee of an intestate brings action against
the administrator of the intestate and joins with him as plaintiff a distribu
tee of such distributee, the complaint is demurrable as to such plaintiff dis
tributee on this ground.—Robert v. Johns, 10 S. C, 101.
Complaint alleged subscription by defendant to stock of plaintiff of fifty
acres of land, and a refusal to convey, and demanded payment in money for
the land, without alleging promise to pay money or previous demand, and
was held not demurrable on this ground. — Cheraw and Chester R. R. Co. v.
Garland, 14 S. C, 63. In action to recover money won at game of faro, if the
complaint does not allege that the money was won at one time and sitting, it
is demurrable on this ground.— Trumbo v. Finley, 18 S. C, 305.


Sec. 166. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds Demurrer,
of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disre- ]D.,$m.—.
garded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of
the alleged causes of action stated therein.
A demurrer that does not distinctly specify the grounds of objection, but
states them hypothetically, may be disregarded.— Carroll v. Still, 13 S. C, 430.


Sec. 167. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must how to pro
be served on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty plain be
days ; or the plaintiff, upon filing with the Clerk due proof of the ib 81.6i)
service and of the defendant's omission, may proceed to obtain
judgment, as provided by Section 267.

Sec. 168. When any of the matters enumerated in Section objection not
195 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection complaint.
may be taken by answer.
/&., 8i>o.
If such matters do not clearly appear upon the face of the complaint, the
objection should be made by answer.— Patterson v. Pagan, 18 S. C, 584.


Sec. 169. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer objection,
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the r'',, 8 in.
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
Court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The clear intention of this and foregoing Sections of this Chapter is that de
fendant shall give, by his demurrer or answer, specific notice that he intends
to rely on one or more of these specific defenses, if he wishes to make them
available. A general denial of all the facts alleged in the complaint is not a
compliance with these requirements. The object of them is to relieve the
plaintiff from the necessity of preparing to meet such objections, on trial, un
less so notified of them.—Steamship Co. v. Rodgers, 21 S. C, 27 ; Palmetto Co.
v. Risley, 25 S. C, 309.
Objection for defect of parties comes too late after failure to make it by de
murrer or answer. —Featherston v. Norris, 7 S. C, 472 ; Evans v. McLucus,
12 S. C, 56 ; Daniels v. Moses, 12 S. C, 137 ; Ross v. Under, 12 S. C, 592.
AM other defects, except want of jurisdiction and of sufficient statements of
facts, are cured by failure to object by demurrer and answer.—Botoden v.
Winsmith, 11 S. C, 409 ; Daniels v. Moses, 12 S. C, 130.
Objection that complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action may be made orally at any stage of the proceedings.—Southern
Porcelain Co. v. Thew, 5 S. C, 10 ; Bowden v. Winsmith, 11 S. C, 408 ; Childers v. Verner, 12 S. C, 1 ; Balle v. Mosely, 13 S. C, 439 ; Kennerty v. Etixoan
Co., 17 S. C, 411 ; Dams v. McDuffle, 18 S. C, 495 ; Hellams v. Switzer, 24 S.
C, 39 ; Hull v. Fotrngi, 29 S. C, 64.
So oral demurrer to answer setting up counter-claims may be made on the
ground of want of cause of action, though not objected by formal demurrer or
answer. —State v. Corbin, 16 S. C, 533.
Section 1 70. The answer of the defendant must contain :
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of
the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowl
edge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense by
counter-claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repeti
tion.
Allegations of the complaint not denied are admitted. —Addison v. Duncan,
35 S. C, 165. Answer admitting the simple delivery of note, as alleged in
complaint, and then asserting that the delivery was conditional, the delivery
is not admitted.—Lipscomb v. Lipscomb, 32 S. C, 243.
Where complaint alleges and answer admits note sued on to be a promis
sory note, it was error to grant nonsuit upon proof that note was under seal.
—Moore v. Christian, 31 S. C, 1337.
The Code has enlarged the defendant.s opportunity for making various de
fenses to the action by his answer.— Cohrs v. Fraser, 5 S. C, 351.
The answer is not to be taken as true, as under former equity practice, until
the plaintiff has had an opportunity to controvert it.—Hubbell v. Courtney,
5 S. C, 87.
The defendant must plead in answer all his defenses, legal or equitable ; he
cannot bring a separate action on any matter that could have been so pleaded.
—McAlily v. Barker, 4 S. C, 48 ; Rice v. Maluiffy, 9 S. C, 582.
And his answer must contain a general or specific denial, or new matter,
constituting a defense or counter-claim.— Clement v. Riley, 29 S. C, 286. But
under general denial he may insist on absence of demand.—Burckhalter v.
Mitchell, 27 S. C, 24. Yet general denial raises no issue of failure of con
sideration, which is an affirmative defense.—Derry v. Holman, 27 S. C, 621.
A general denial will not put at issue the legal capacity of corporation to sue.
—Commercial Co. v. Turner, 8 S. C, 111; Steamshix~> Co. v. Rodgers, 21 S. C.,33;
Palmetto Co. v. Risley,.& S. C, 309 ; American Co. v. Hill, 27S. C, 164 ; Land
Co. v. Williams, 35 S. C, 367. But where the complaint against a corpora
tion alleges it to be incorporated, and its answer makes only general denial,
and it regularly appears by attorney and defends on the merits, that is ad
mission of its corporate oharter.—Rembert v. R. R., 81 S. C, 309. And where
there is a specific denial of the allegation of partnership, the answer raises an
iasne triable by jury.—Kerr v. Cochran, 29 S. C, 61. But it will put at issue
every fact necessary to prove plaintiffs claim and allow defendant to contro
vert his proof thereon.—Lyles v. Bolles, 8 S. C, 253. And upon plaintiffs fail
ure to prove his case, the defendant may have a nonsuit.—lb. The simple
answer of "no knowledge" is a denial.— Tharin v. Seabrook, 6 S. C, 118.
Payment must be specially pleaded.—McElwee v. Hutchinson, 10 S. C, 438.
But where certain credits are allowed by complaint, and judgment claimed
for special balance, the defendant, under general denial, can prove other pay
ments to show true balance.— 76.
Where answer in action for assault and battery admitted the complaint, but
pleaded that the defendant committed the assault in self-defense, it was suffi
cient. —Hughes v. Kellar, 34 S. C, 268. Plea of confession and avoidance does
not establish issues raised by general denial.—Stanley v. Shoolbred, 25 S. C,
181.
Where matter of counter-claim is not so pleaded, and judgment thereon de
manded, it can only serve as a defense, and not as a counter-claim.— Trimmier
v. Thompson, 10 S. C, 185 ; Humbert v. Brisbane, 25 S. C, 506. And as a
couter-claim, cannot be proved at trial. —Sullivan v. Byrne, 10 S. C, 130 ;
Williams v. Irby, 15 S. C, 458.
No objection to answer that it is not responsive to complaint ; its only effect
is that any allegation not denied stands admitted. —Zimmerman v. Amaker,
10 S. C, 100.


Sec. 171. The counter-claim mentioned in the last Section counter-claim;
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a tenses.
plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in ib.,im.
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action :
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's
claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of
the action.
The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and
counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such as have
been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. They
must each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of action
which they are intended to answer, in such manner that they
may be intelligibly distinguished.
In action by executor to recover from defendant several notes due testator,
he cannot set up as counter-claims legacies given him, but unassented to by
executor.—Latimer v. Sullivan, 30 S. C, 111.
A defendant cannot set up as counter-claim a debt purchased by him after
commencement of the action.—Enter v. Queese, 30 S. C, 126.
a counter-claim for damages from tort cannot be set up against an action
for damages from tort.—Simkins v. R. R., 20 S. C, 258.
A tort arising out of contract may be waived, and the same cause of action
treated as a contract and set up as such, by way of counter-claim to action on
another contract.—Boyce v. Parker, 11 S. C, 337.—Unascertained damages
arising ex contractu are admissible as a counter-claim.—lb.
In action for damages by trespass, the defendant cannot set up a debt due
by plaintiff, as counter-claim.—Sharp v. Kinsman, 18 S. C, 108.
A claim that does not fall under either of the above subdivisions cannot be
set up as a counter-claim.—Ex Parte Bank, 18 S. C, 289 ; Copeland v. Young,
21 S. C, 276 ; Humbert v. Brisbane, 25 S. C, 506.
A counter-claim cannot be interposed in an action for recovery of personal
property— Williams v. Irby, 15 S. C, 561 ; Talbot v. Padgett, 30 S. C, 167.
Partnership account in favor of defendant may be set up as counter-claim
to his individual debt, if partnership be unsettled and upon settlement a bal
ance would be due him.—Mills v. Carnier, 80 S. C, 617.
A separate judgment in favor of one of several defendants may be given on
a counter-claim, showing a separate cause of action in his favor.—Plyer v.
Parker, 10 S. C, 465.
Defendant cannot set up against plaintiff, as counter-claim, a debt due the
defendant by Arm of which plaintiff is a member. —Byrd v. Charles, 3 S. C,
352.
The answer may set forth many and inconsistent defenses, either legal or
equitable.— Cohrs v. Fraser, 5 S. C, &54 ; Mobley v. Cureton, 6 S. C, 68 ;
Cooper v. Smith, 16 S. C, 331. If he fail upon one, he may fall back on the
.others.—Ransom v. Anderson, 9 S. C, 440.
A plea of Statute of Limitations to the " money items" set up in a complaint,
stating two causes of action, one of which was for a sum of money made up
of several items and the other for a penalty, was not sufficient as a defense to
the second cause of action.— County v. Miller, 16 S. C, 244.

Demurrerand 
Sec. 172. The defendant may demur to one or more of seve,
allowed.
ral causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer the resiarswer, when
/6.,.174.

"due_

sham and lr- 
Sec. 173. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be
tenses to be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the Court mav,
stricken out.
. .. , .
,.
~IS^«.i7a.— in l™ discretion, impose.
An answer making general denial cannot be stricken out as sham, whether
verified or not.—Ransom v. Anderson, 9 S. C, 439.
Motion to so strike out such pleadings should not in terms demand judg
ment ; but if nothing remains of the answer for trial, after motion is granted,
judgment may be pronounced at once.— Tharin v. Seabrook, 6 S. C, 113.
Such motions ordinarily present questions of fact to be determined upon
affidavits or as the Court may direct.—lb.
If the defense is manifestly false and intended to delay, it may be struck
out ; but this should be done only in cases free from doubt.—76.
An answer is not untrue which has been sustained on Circuit. —Hall v.
Woodward, 30 S. C, 564.
Section 1 74. When the answer contains new matter consti- r e p l y j detuting a counter-claim, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, swer.
reply to such new matter, denying generally or specifically each ib-,imallegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief ; and he may allege, in ordinary
and concise language, without repetition, any new matter, not
inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such
new matter in the answer ; and the plaintiff may, in all cases,
demur to an answer containing new matter, where, upon its
face, it does not constitute a counter-claim or defense ; and the
plaintiff may demur to one or more of such defenses or counter
claims, and reply to the residue of the counter-claims.
And in other cases, where an answer contains new matter con
stituting a defense by way of avoidance, the Court may, in its
discretion, on the defendant's motion, require a reply to such
new matter ; and in that case the reply shall be subject to the
same rules as a reply to a counter-claim.
The plaintiff's reply must deny the counter-claim or allege some new matter
as defense thereto, or judgment will go against him for the counter-claim.—
Hubbell v. Courtney, 5 S. C, 89 ; Latimer v. Sullivan, 30 S. C, 111.
A general denial of a counter-claim puts in issue all the allegations upon
which it rested.—Atlantic Co. v. Sullivan, 34 S. C, 301.
When answer upon its face does not show matter constituting a counter
claim or defense it is demurrable.— Clement v. Riley, 29 S. C, 286 ; Lipscomb
v. Lipscomb, 32 S. C, 243. But it may be replied to and determined at same
time.—Latimer v. Sullivan, 30 S. C, 111 ; Talbert v. Padgett, 30 S. C, 167.
A reply without an order of Court and alleging no counter-claim is improper ;
but should not be formally stricken out. —Davis v. Schmidt, 22 S. C, 128.
Counter-claim set up in answer, served with motion for leave to file, is ad
mitted, if not replied to within the time.—Sanders v. Sanders, 31 S. C, 604.
Where answer sets up payment and laches as defenses, it is demurrable
when the facts set forth as proof thereof are insufficient to determine the de
fenses. —Mobley v. Cureton, 6 S. C, 49. An objection that the answer is not
responsive to the complaint cannot be taken under the Code.—Zimmerman v.
Amaker, 10 S. C, 98.


Sec. 175. If- the answer contain a statement of new matter Motion tor
constituting a counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply, or answer." "po"
demur thereto within the time prescribed by law, the defendant 1870. XIV., 8mmay move, on a notice of not less than ten days, for such judg
ment as he is entitled to upon such statement ; and if the case
require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be issued.

Sec. 176. If a reply of the plaintiff to any defense set up by
reply.
~ the answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may
ib., 8irs.
demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.
Pleadings to Section 177. Every pleading in a Court of record must be
and'verined!'6'1 subscribed by the party or his attorney ; and when any pleading
/b.,!i7».
is verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must
be verified also.
Pleadings— 
Sec. 178. The verification must be to the effect that the same
^.9" veriued.— ig trae to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to
those matters stated on information and belief, and as to those
matters he believes it to be true ; and must be by the affidavit
of the party, or, if there be several parties united in interest, and
pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted with
the facts, if such party be within the County where the attorney
resides, and capable of making the affidavit. The affidavit may
also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or defense
be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of money
only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or
attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be
within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When
the pleading is verified by any other person than the party, he
shall set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of
his belief, on the subject, and the reasons why it is not made by
the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may
be made by any officer thereof ; and when the State, or any
officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be
made by any person acquainted with the facts. The verification
may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegation '
might subject the party to prosecution for felony. And no
pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party
as a proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading : Pro
vided, That the verification of any pleading in any Court of
record in this State may be omitted in all cases where the party
called upon to verify would be privileged from testifying as a
witness to the truth of any matter denied by such pleading.
When matters are pleaded upon knowledge, it is unnecessary to add the
words "on information and belief."—Smalls v. Wilder, 6 S. C, 402. So, where
it is upon information and belief, it is unnecessary to state that it is upon
knowledge.—76.
Where the answer is negative merely of the complaint, the same form of
verification is necessary. —76.
Where the complaint does not state which of its allegations are made on
knowledge and which on information and belief, the verification is insufficient
in form if it say that " the complaint is true of his own knowledge, except as
to matters therein stated on information and belief, and as to those matters
he believes it to be true."—Hecht v. Friesleben, 28 S. C, 181 ; Burnester v.
Mosely, 33 S. C, 251.
Where the verification is made by another than the party, it must set forth
his knowledge or the grounds of his belief with sufficient clearness.— 76.
An attorney may verify a complaint only in two cases : 1. Where the action
is founded upon a written instrument and for payment of money only, and
that instrument is in his possession ; and, 2. Where all the material allegations
are within his personal knowledge.—Hecht v. Friesleben, 28 S. C, 181.


Sec. 179. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in how to state
a pleading the items of an account therein alleged ; but he shall pleading"°1
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand 1870- XIV., J181therefor in writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading
is verified, must be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent
or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or
attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true, or be pre
cluded from giving evidence thereof. The Court, or a Judge
thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is
defective, and the Court may in all cases order a bill of particu
lars of the claim of either party to be furnished.
Defendant having failed to demand an itemized account, he cannot complain
of the judgment upon the ground that the account was not itemized.—Stoan
V. Westfleld, 17 S. C.,589.


Sec. 180. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally con- be uberaiiy con
strued, with a view of substantial justice between the parties.
ib.,i\m.
Pleading must not be construed strongly against pleader.— Childers v. Verner, 12 S. C, 1 ; Wallace v. Lark, 12 S. C, 576 ; Dowie v. Joyner, 25 S. C, 123.
But the liberality so allowed does not permit allegations of fact in the alter
native.—Iseman v. McMillan, 36 S. C, 28.

irrelevant or 
Sec. 181. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a
it
ter to be strick- pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
dennTte ^atSr aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are
definite, ™°"so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or
lb., 8183.
defense is not apparent, the Court may require the pleading to
be made definite and certain by amendment.
redundant mat-

Irrelevant matter in pleading is that which has no substantial relation to the
issue, and properly stricken out on motion.—Nichols v. Briggs, 18 S. C, 473.
If complaint is defective in mode of statement, the remedy is by motion to
make allegations certain and not by demurrer.—Flenniken v. Buchanan, 21
S. C, 434. And such motion should be made before trial.—Zimmerman v.
McMakin, 22 S. C, 375.
If averments of answer are somewhat indefinite and uncertain, the remedy
is under this Section by motion, and not by demurrer.—Mobley v. Cureton,
6 S. C, 49 ; Dowie v. Joyner, 25 S. C, 123.
If description of premises is not sufficiently particular, the objection must
be made by motion to have it made so.— Childers v. Verner, 12 S. C, 1.
Motions to have pleadings made definite and certain should be made before
answer.—Bowden v. Winsmith, 11 S. C, 409. If not made in due time it is
waived.—7 6.
When the complaint fails to state each of several causes of action, separately,
it is a vice in pleading ; but must be remedied, by motion to make more defi
nite and certain.—Hellams v. Switzer, 24 S. C, 39 ; Westlake v. Farrow, 34 S.
C, 270.
If defense and counter-claim are improperly united, motion to make more
distinct, and not demurrer, is the remedy.—McCown v. McSween, 29 S. C, 130.
If several notes are sued on as one cause of action, and if the allegation is im
perfect or informal, such motion, and not demurrer, is the remedy.—Holland v.
Kemp, 27 S. C, 623.
If plaintiffs are not sufficiently referred to in complaint, motion to make
more definite is the remedy.— Chapman v. City, 28 S. C, 873.
judgment,now 
Sec. 182. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of
"iIVftH ." a Court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary
to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or
determination may be stated to have been duly given or made.
If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction,
conditions 
Sec. 183. In pleading the performance of conditions precew bepieaded?* dent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
1870, xiv., 8iss. showing such performance ; but it may be stated generally that
the party duly performed all the conditions on his part ; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such perform
ance. In an action or defense founded upon an instrument for
the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for a party to
give a copy of the instrument, and to state that there is due to
him thereon from the adverse party a specified sum, which he ^"~y——'
claims.

Sec. 184. Iii pleading a private statute, or a right derived Private stattherefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its pleaded,
title and the day of its passage, and the Court shall thereupon Il>.,*mtake judicial notice thereof.
Referred to—R. R. Co. v. White, 14 S. C, 51.


Sec. 185. In action for libel or slander, it shall not be neces- der
umhnw
andstilted
siansary to state, in the complaint, any extrinsic facts for the pur- in complaint.
pose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defama- /b"8187tory matter out of which the cause of action arose ; but it shall
be sufficient to state generally that the same was published or
spoken concerning the plaintiff ; and if such allegation be con
troverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to establish, on trial, that
it was so published or spoken.
An allegation that defendant, at a certain time and place, slandered plain
tiff, by saying that he had sworn lies at a certain time and place, and in a
named cause, states facts sufficient.—Zimmerman v. McMakin, 22 S. C, 376.
And where the words of slander proved at trial are not the same as but simi
lar to those alleged, it is for the jury tosay whether they meant thesame.—/&.


Sec. 186. In the actions mentioned in the last Section, the Answer in
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the mat- //>., 8i~s&
ter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances, to
reduce the amount of damages ; and whether he prove the jus
tification or not, he may give, in evidence, the mitigating cir
cumstances.
It may be that defendant can introduce evidence to show his belief in the
truth of the charge made, in mitigation of damages.—Finch v. Finch, 21 S. C,
342.
Whether defendant sustain his plea of justification, the jury may consider
the evidence of mitigating circumstances.—Burckhalter v. Coward, 16 S. C,
4=39.


Sec. 187. In an action to recover the possession of property Answerinacdistrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or per- proper t^°disson by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the ^ned'ordamreal property upon which the distress was made, and that the ibTT8itsu.
property distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, shall
be good, without setting forth the title to such real property.

Sec. 188. The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint wnat causes
several causes of action, whether they be such as have been here- joined.
tofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all lb.,8rMarise out of—
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the
same subject of action ; or,
2. Contract, express or implied ; or,
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or
either ; or,
4. Injuries to character ; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the
same ; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without dam
ages for the withholding thereof ; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.
But these causes of action so united must all belong to one of
these classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mort
gages, must affect all the parties to the action, and not require
different places of trial, and must be separately stated.
In actions to foreclose mortgages, the Court shall have power
to adjudge and direct the payment by the mortgagor of any resi
due of the mortgage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a
sale of the mortgaged premises, in cases in which the mortgagor
shall be personally liable for the debt secured by such mortgage ;
and if the mortgage debt be secured by the covenant or obliga
tion of any person other than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may
make such person a party to the action, and the Court may ad
judge payment of the residue of such debt remaining unsatisfied
after a sale of the mortgaged premises against such other person,
and may enforce such judgment as in other cases.
There is a limit to this union of causes of action.—Helicons v. Suritzer, 24 S.
C, 39. To be a cause of action the matter must be stated in a separate and
distinct division of the complaint, in such manner that each division alone
might be the subject of an independent action.—lb. ; Hammond v. R. ti., 15
S. C, 10. Such failure to so state each cause of action separately is a vice in
pleading, but only to be remedied by motion to make more definite and cer
tain.—Hellams v. Switzer, 24 S. C, 89.
Action against administrators, their sureties and personal representatives,
for account and settlement of the estate of intestate, which made a party de
fendant, who was alleged to claim the land of the intestate, was held to be
multifarious as to that party.—Suber v. Allen, 13 S. C, 817.
A bill seeking settlement of all matters growing out of an estate is not mul
tifarious.— Thicker v. Tucker, 13 S. C, 318. There is no misjoinder where,
under a bill to marshal assets, two of the defendants claim different tracts of
land.—Barret v. Watts, 13 S. C, 441. Nor where a single action is brought
upon a note and account against a corporation and its directors, who are
jointly and severally liable therefor. —Sullivan v. Sullivan, 14 S. C, 494.
Survivor and representative of surviving partner can be joined as defend
ants.— Wiesenfleld v. Byrd, 17 S. C, 106. Causes of action on single bill, promis-
sory note and money account may be joined.— Cureton v. Stokes, 20 S. C, 582.
Two or more demands for relief is not a misjoinder. —Emory v. Hazard Co.,
22 S. C, 4T6.
Action for partition among remaindermen and for account of estate of life
tenant is a misjoinder.—Shanks v. Mills, 25 S. C, 358.
A joint trespass by two and continued by one cannot be sued together.—
Hints v. Jarrett, 26 S. C, 480.
Joint action by four wards against their guardian is not multifarious.—Stellings v. Barrett, 26 S. C, 474.
Claim of heirs to land descended, and as distributees, to an accounting, can
not be joined.—Rush v. Warren, 26 S. C. , 72. But complaint being dismissed
as to land, it was properly retained as to accounting. —lb.
Demurrer for misjoinder is bad if one cause is imperfectly pleaded.—Ma
chine Co. v. Wray, 28 S. C, 86.
Plaintiff may join suit on note, with claim to set aside fraudulent transac
tions of his debtor, and failing in last may have judgment for his debt.—McGurder v. Clayton, 29 S. C, 407.
As to judgment for balance due after sale of mortgaged premises. — Wagener v. Swygert, 30 S. C, 296.
Doubted whether two causes of action, one for partition and the other for
recovery of real estate, can be joined.— Westlake v. Farrow, 84 S. C, 270.
Action for specific performance of contract to devise or for value of services
rendered under such contract is not an improper joinder of actions.—Scoggins v. Smith, 31 S. C, 605.
Action of partner against devisee of copartner in possession of the land
alleging that it was partnership property and demanding reconveyance or
sale and division of proceeds did not improperly join several causes of action.
-clones v. Smith, 81 S. C, 527.

Sec. 189. Every material allegation of the complaint, not Allegation not
controverted by the answer, as prescribed in Section 170, and be deemed true,
every material allegation of new matter in the answer constitut- 1870>XIV-.9191ing a counter-claim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed
in Section 174, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relat
ing to a counter-claim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be
deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct denial
or avoidance, as the case may require.
Material allegations in a special proceeding not controverted by answer are
taken to be true.— Columbia Co. v. Columbia, 4 S. C, 388.
Allegations of complaint not controverted are to be taken as true.—Lupo v.
True, 16 S. C, 579. The only effect of an answer that is not responsive to the
complaint is that the complaint so far stands admitted.—Zimmerman v.
Amaker, 10 S. C, 98.
New matters stated in reply are deemed to be controverted. But that of counter
claim is not deemed controverted without reply.—Hubbell v. Courtney, 5 S.
C., 87.
An answer setting up defenses, other than counter-claim, not set aside on
demurrer is left still as controverting the complaint by direct denial or avoid
ance —Mobley v. Cureton, 6 S. C, 49. Answer admitting complaint but stat
ing sufficient new matter in avoidance is deemed to be controverted, and is
good—Huffhey v. Kellar, 34 S. C, 268.
A. D. 1894.
An allegation of his corporate existence is no part of plaintiff's cause of
action, and is not put in iSsue by general denial.—Insurance Co. v. Turner, 8
S. C, 111 ; Steamship Co. v. Rodgers, 21 S. C, 33 ; Palmetto Co. v. Risley,.£i
S. C, 309 ; American Co. v. Hill, 27 S. C, 164 ; Rembert v. R. R., 31 S. C, 309 ;
Land Co. v. Williams, 35 S. C, 367.
Failure to deny is such admission of plaintiff's case as to allow defendant to
open and reply.—Addison v. Duncan, 35 S. C, 165.
Material van- Section 190. No variance between the allegation in a pleadvwed.forT pr°" ing and the proof shall be deemed material unless it have actually
ib., 8192.
misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his
action or defense, upon the merits. Whenever it shall be
alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved
to the satisfaction of the Court, and in what respect he has been
misled ; and thereupon the Court may order the pleading to be
amended, upon such terms as shall be just.
This Section applies to trials in actions pending when the Code was adopted.
—Ahrensv. Bank, 3 S. C.,401. Nonsuit cannot be granted for variance between
the allegations and the proof ; the only remedy is by amendment upon such
terms as shall be just, and for this the party must satisfy the Court, by affi
davit, that he has been misled, and in what respect.—76.; State v. Scheper, S3
S. ( '., 562. Unless the party prejudiced has actually been misled, he has no
rights under this Section.—Hammond v. R. R. Co., 6 S. C, 130. Judgment
may be rendered on account stated, although no allegation of account stated
was made.—Stoan v. Westfield, 17 S. C, 589.

immaterial 
Sec. 191. Where the variance is not material, as provided in
pro'"ded,for°w the last Section, the Court may direct the fact to be found
isro, nv., 8i98. according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amend
ment without costs.
In all immaterial variances the Court may disregard them and direct a ver-

diet according to the evidence or order immediate amendment.— Ahrens v.
Ban*, 3 S. C, 401.
Such amendment is to conform the pleadings to the facts proven, and may
be made informally, sometimes orally, or by the Court of its own motion. Chichester v. Bastie, 9 S. C, 330.

87
A. D. 18M.
. ~ y"—^


Sec. 192. Where, however, the allegation of the causes of what not to
bedeemeda
action or defense to which the proof is directed is not proved, variance.
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope /b" 1Mand meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within
the last two Sections, but a failure of proof.
This failure of proof warrants a nonsuit.—Ahrens v. Bank, 3 S. C, 401.


Sec. 193. Any pleading may be once amended by the party, Amendments
of course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceed- $ter°demurrerd
ings already had, at any time within twenty days after it is in., one.
served, or at any time before the period for answering it expires ;
or it can be so amended at any time within twenty days after the
service of the answer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be
made to appear to the Court that it was done for the purpose of
delay, and the plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit
of a circuit or term for which the cause is or may be docketed ;
and if it appear to the Court that such amendment was made for
such purpose, the same may be stricken out and such terms im
posed as to the Court may seem just. In such case a copy of the
amended pleading must be served on the adverse party. After
the decision of a demurrer the Court shall, unless it appear that
the demurrer was interposed in bad faith, or for purposes of
delay, allow the party to plead over upon such terms as may be
just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in
the fifth subdivision of Section 165, the Court may, in its discre
tion, and upon such terms as may be just, order the action to be
divided into as many actions as may be necessary to the proper
determination of the causes of action therein mentioned.
The allowance of voluntary amendment, it seems, does not allow a wholly
different cause of action to be substituted in place of original one. —Sullivan
v. Sullivan, 24 S. C, 474.
Facts occurring since commencement of action cannot be alleged as amend
ments in the original complaint ; they can only be brought before the Court
by supplemental complaint.— McCaslan v. Latimer, 17 S. C, 123.
Permission to answer over cannot be claimed as a right ; it rests in the dis
cretion of the Judge, and he may grant such relief upon payment of costs.—
R. R. Co. v. White, 14 S. C, 51 ; Lowry v. Jackson, 27 S. C, 318. Or without
payment of costs.—Stallings v. Barrett, 26 S. C, 474.
When Judge properly overruled demurrer made for several causes, and re
quired defendant to answer over by a given time, he acted within authority
herein conferred.— Cureton v. Stokes, 20 S. C, 532. When demurrer is taken in good faith, the Court in overruling it should allow defendant to answer.—
The New Co. v. Wray, 28 S. C, 86.

Amendments 
Sec. 194. The Court may, before or after judgment, in
ye oui
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading, process, or proceeding, by adding or strik
ing out the name of any party ; or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect ; or by
inserting other allegations material to the case ; or, when the
amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense,
by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.
The power of amendment herein is limited to the amendments of the char
acter specified ; it is intended only to perfect a proceeding in which the party
has been successful, and not when he has lost his cause ; and not to be used as
a means to obtain a new trial on a new cause after the case has been lost on
the original cause of action.—Kennerty v. Etiwan Co., 21 S. C, 226; Whaley
v. Stevens, 21 S. C, 221 ; Hall v. Woodward, 30 S. C, 564 ; Clayton v.
Mitchell, 31 S. C, 199. This limitation, however, applies only during or after
trial.—Mason v. Johnson, 13 S. C, 21 ; Cleveland v. Cohrs, 13 S. C, 397 ;
Trumbo v. Finley, 18 S. C, 316 ; Dunsford v. Brown, 19 S. C, 567 ; Nesbett v.
Cavender, 27 S. C, 1 ; Hall v. Woodward, 30 S. C, 564 ; Edwards v. R. R. Co.,
32 S. a, 117 ; Lilly v. R. R. Co., 32 S. C, 142.
But judgment will not be arrested because of defects in complaint which
might have been cured by amendments before or after judgment.—Brickman
v. R.R. Co., 8 S. C, 173.
A petition to enforce mechanic's lien is subject to the liberal rules of amend
ment under the Code.—McGee v. Piedmont Co., 7 S. C, 268.—A proceeding in
mandamus in name of party, to which no objection is made, may be amended
by substituting name of State.— Runion v. Latimer, 6 S. C, 126.
Such a motion to amend is within the discretion of the Court.— Chichester
v. Hastie, 9S. C, 334. And such discretion is not to be disturbed unless it
deprives a party of substantial right.— Trumbo v. Finley, 18 S. C, 305 ; Stallingsv. Barrett, 26 S. C, 474 ; Green v. Iredell, 31 S. C, 588; Garlington v.
Copeland, 32 S. C. , 57. And Circuit Judge has power at chambers to grant an
order permitting an amendment of the complaint. —Ellen v. Ellen, 26 S. C, 99.
In actions against two, as copartners, the proof showing neither copartner
ship nor joint liability, and motion for nonsuit being made, the plaintiff was
properly allowed to amend, striking out name of one defendant and proceed
ing against the other.—Bull v. Lambson, 5 S. C, £88.
Application to amend before trial, made in good faith, should be allowed,
where the amendment is such as the Code permits.—Zimmerman v. Amaker,
10 S. C, 98.
It is proper, upon the admitted fact of the lunacy of the defendant, to allow
amendment making guardian ad litem party.—Boyce v. Lake, 17 S. C, 481.
It is error, at the trial, to permit the name of sole plaintiff to be stricken
out and another substituted without giving defendant time to answer.—
Cleveland v. Cohrs, 13 S. C, 397 ; Coleman v. Heller, 13 S. C, 491. But if
time to answer is not asked, the Court may, in its discretion, proceed to trial
upon the amended complaint.— Tarrant v. Gittelson, 16 S. C, 231.
Refusal to allow substitution of a new party, for a plaintiff, who shows no
cause of action, is not error.—Strickland v. Bridges, 21 S. C, 21.
The Court may correct by amendment manifest errors and mere clerical
mistakes— Carroll v. Tompkins, 14 S. C, 223.
.Where complaint alleged quantum meruit for work done, it was permissible
to allow amendment, showing special contract, in order to allow proof of it. —
Tarrant v. Gittelson, 16 S. C, 281.
Or where the complaint is for assault, it may be amended so as to be for
assault and battery.—Sullivan v. Sullivan, 24 S. C, 474.
Plaintiff may be permitted to amend the complaint so as to conform it to
the facts proved—R. R. Co. v. Barrett, 12 S. C, 173.
But he cannot be permitted to amend by stating a wholly different and new
cause of action, when his complaint is held to state no cause of action.—
Trumbo v. Finley, 18 S. C, 305 ; Sullivan v. Sullivan, 24 S. C, 474.
Nor to change substantially the claim.— Whaley v. Stevens, 21 S. C. , 221. As,
to substitute a claim of right of way appurtenant for a right of way in gross. —
lb. Or a claim of cancellation of an instrument instead of reformation
thereof.—Kennerty v. Etiwan Co., 21 S. C, 226. Or to change an action for
accounting into a direct attack upon the settlement and receipt, set up in
defense thereto .—Dunsford v. Brown, 19 S. C. , 560. Or to make a case at law
to recover mortgaged land a case in equity to redeem it.—Skinner v. Hodge,
24 S. C, 165. Or to change action to enjoin judgment as paid into one for
specific performance of contract.—Miller v. Klugh, 29 S. C, 124. But in action
on sealed notes against a firm, calling them promissory notes, an amendment
alleging indebtedness on the account for which the notes were given does not
substantially change the claim and should be allowed.—Sibley v. Young, 26
S. C., 415.
So amendment is allowed to allege sealed note instead of promissory note.—
Moore v. Christian, 31 S. C., 338.
Wide as is the latitude allowed by this Section, an order to amend cannot
be granted where its effect would be to incorporate into one action two dis
tinct actions against different parties—Howard v. Wofford, 16 S. C, 148.

Sec. 195. The Courtmay likewise, in its discretion and upon court maygive
, relief In case of
such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, mistake,
or other act to be done, after the time limited by this Code of /b"8197Procedure, or, by an order, enlarge such time ; and may also, in
its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judg
ment, order or other proceeding taken against him through his
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and may
supply an omission in any proceeding ; and whenever any pro
ceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any respect to the
provisions of this Code of Procedure, the Court may, in like
manner, and upon like terms, permit an amendment of such
proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.
After time to answer has expired, the Judge may impose a8 a condition of
leave to answer the payment of all costs accrued.—Hecht v. Friesleben, 28 S.
C, 181.
A decree will not be reversed for defects purely technical, which might have,
upon objection, been cured by amendment.—Lanier v. Griffin, 11 S. C, 565.
Such relief is only to be given in cases where the judgment has been taken
through party.s own mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and
does not apply to cases where relief may be had upon application to same tri
bunal which rendered judgment under General Statutes.— Garvin v. Garvin
13 S. C, 160.
It is intended for parties who may, through such cause, have lost the oppor
tunity to be present at the trial or to be represented there : and not for parties
who, represented at the trial, are only entitled to relief by application for new
trial under the provisions of the law therefor.— Williams v. Charleston, 7 S.
C, 71 ; Gibbes v. Elliott, 8 S. C, 60 ; Steele v. R. R., 14 S. C, 324 ; Hand v. R.
R. Co., 17 S. C, 219; Clark v. Wimberly, 24 S. C, 138 ; Kamintsky v. R. R.
Co., 25 S. C, 53 ; Hubbard v. Camperdown Mills, 26 S. C, 581 ; Woodward v.
Elliott, 27 S. C, 368.
And extends to cases of such mistake or excusable neglect on the part of the
party's attorney.— Vaughn v. Hewitt, 17 S. C, 442.
One Circuit Judge may allow absent party to file security for costs after the
time to do so, fixed by another, has expired.—McMillan v. McCall, 2 S. C, 393 ;
Williams v. Connor, 14 S. C, 621.
Upon application for such relief by defendant, upon grounds of failure to
answer because of illness, refused by the Judge, it must be assumed that the
Judge.s order was the result of his conclusion as to the weight of evidence and
not to be disturbed by the Supreme Court.—Buttz v. Campbell, 15 S. C, 614.
This Section authorizes Judge to vacate judgment by default.—Buttz v.
Campbell, 15 S. C, 614 ; Truett v. Rains, 17 S. C, 453 ; Leconte v. Irwin, 19 S.
C, 554.
This limitation of one year is the only limitation in the State to time for
motion to set aside judgment. — Thew v. Porcelain Co., 5 S. C, 415 ; Ex Parte
Carroll, 17 S. C, 446.
Such relief against a judgment must be sought within the one year after
notice thereof. — Vaughn v. Hewitt, 17 S. C, 442.
Where plaintiff 's attorney failed to attend the trial because he was detained
in Court in his own County, and judgment was obtained against him, he was
not entitled to relief against this judgment under this Section.—Claussen v.
Johnson, 32 S. C, 86.
Nor can party find such relief from a judgment by default when he en
trusted a friend to hand the copy summons to an attorney, with directions to
plead payment, but the friend failed to do so. —Sullivan v. Shell, 26 S. C, 578.
The Court can correct any mistake or clerical error in its own process to
make it conform to the record.— Carroll v. Tompkins, 14 S. C, 223. But it has
no authority to make such alteration as would contradict the record and
change the whole scope of the judgment. —Trimmier v. Thomson, 19 S. C, 247.
Nor to amend decree rendered in term time after adjourunment of Court.—
Garlington v. Copeland, 32 S. C, 57.
This Section does not relate to Courts of Trial Justices.—Doty v. Duvall. 19
S. C, 143.
Does it apply to Supreme Court 1—Clark v. Wimberly, 24 S. C, 138.
It does not apply to extension of time for filing security for costs.—Bomar
v. R. R. Co., 30 S. C, 450 ; Cummings v. Wingo, 31 S. C, 427.

Suing a party 
Sec. 196. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name
name* flctitious of the defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
1370, xiv., hub. pleading or proceeding by any name ; and when his true name
shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding maybe amended
accordingly.
No error or 
Sec. 197. The Court shall, in every stage of action, disregard
i)anh.dtunteis>it any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall
tiai?ights?etan" Qot affect the substantial rights of the adverse party ; and no
ib., :io9.
judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or
defect.
If party wishes to take advantage of any irregularity in the pleadings he
must move in due time befere trial for such order as he deserves.—Blakely v.
Fraser, 11 S. C, 122.
Judgment may be rendered on account stated, although no allegation of ac
count stated was made.—Stoan v. Westfield, 17 S. C, 589.
This Section precludes the allowance of a nonsuit on the ground of infor
mality alone. — Bowden v. Winsmith, 11 S. C, 409.
A failure of plaintiff to allege his readiness to perform his part of the con
tract did not affect the substantial rights of the defendant and was properly
disregarded by the Circuit Judge. —R. R. Co. v. Garland, 14 S. C, 63.
Failure to insert in endorsement on complaint for judgment the words
"have judgment" was mere clerical error not affecting the substance, and
should be disregarded in the supplementary proceedings thereon, which is but
a stage of the original action.—Henlem v. Graham, 32 S. C, 303.
A party cannot under this Section be relieved of consequences of failure to
comply with order for security for costs within the time.—Bomar v. R. R. Co. ,
30 S. C, 450 ; Cumminas v. Winuo, 31 S. C, 427.

Sec. 198. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be supplemental
complaint, a nallowed. on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer swer and reply,
or reply, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the ib.,i2mformer complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party was
ignorant when his former pleading was made ; and either party
may, by leave of the Court, in any pending or future action, set
up by a supplemental pleading the judgment or decree of any
Court of competent jurisdiction rendered since the commence
ment of such action, determining the matters in controversy in
said action, or any part thereof ; and if said judgment be set up
by the plaintiff, the same shall be without prejudice to any pro
visional remedy theretofore issued, or other proceedings had in
said action on his behalf.
Facts occurring after commencement of action can only be brought before
the Court by supplemental pleadings and not by amendment of original plead
ings. - MeCaslan v. Latimer, 17 S. C, 123.
Bnt plaintiff cannot in action to recover real estate set up a legal title ac
quired after action brought.— Moore v. Johnson, 14 S. (!., 434.
Such motion to make supplemental pleadings may be made at chambers.—
Edwards v. Edwards, 14 S. C, 11.
But the opposite party should have notice of such motion.—lb. ; Parnell v.
Maner, 16 S. C, 348.
Where submission was agreed to and plaintiff opposed the award, the de
fendant had the right to plead it by supplemental answer.—MeCrady v. Jones,
36 S.C., 136.
A bill in equity prior to 1870 must be revived and amended by such supple
mental complaint and summons.—Arthur v. Allen, 22 S. C, 482.
Section 199. No person shull bo arrested in
No person to
'""
; arrested
,,'"n
in a
a except as prescribed by this Code of Procedure;
civil action, ex
cept as prescrib- ghgjl Qot appiy to proceedings for contempt.

a civil action
but the same

1870, xiv., 8201. 
Sec. 200. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter pre*ion(Mnnwhat scribecL in the following cases :
actions, In what
cases.
1. In an action for money received, or property embezzled or
lii., 8202: Con
fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or by an attorney,
Art. I., 820.
solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation
or banking association, in the course of his employment as such,
or by any factor, agent, broker or other person in a fiduciary
capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office or in a pro
fessional employment.
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
fraudulently detained, or where the property, or any part thereof,
has been fraudulently concealed, removed, or disposed of so that
it cannot be found or taken by the Sheriff or Constable, and
with the intent that it should not be so found or taken, or with
the intent to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit thereof.
3. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contract
ing the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is
brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the
taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought,
or when the action is brought to recover damages for fraud or
deceit.
4. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his prop
erty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action.
5. Whenever a person domiciled in this State, indebted by
bond, note, or otherwise, is about to remove or abscond from the
limits of this State, and the said debt is not yet due, but payable
at some future day, it shall and may be lawful for the obligee,
payee, or holder of said demand, or his assignee, or endorsee, as
the case may be, upon swearing that such person is indebted to
him, and that the demand is just and owing but not yet due, and
that the debtor is about to abscond or remove without the limits
of this State, and that such creditor was not aware that the
debtor had auy intention to remove from the State at the time
when the original contract was made, or at the time of such
assignment, or endorsement, as the case may be, to commence an
action by issuing a summons and complaint, and shall have power
to arrest and hold to bail in such manner as is now prescribed in
this Chapter in cases of debts actually due.
6. In an action for the recovery of damages in a cause of action
not arising out of contract, when the defendant is a non-resident
of the State or is about to remove therefrom, or when the action
is for an injury to person or character, or for injuring or for
wrongfully taking, detaining or converting property.
Arrest by execution under Section 80S is authorized by this Section and
Section 202.— Hurxt, Purnell & Co. v. Samuels, -*.! S. C, 470.

Sec. 201. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be to be made,
obtained from a Judge, Trial Justice, or Clerk of the Court, in 1870. XIV" m
Affidavit to
which or before whom the action is brought,
obtain order for
arrest; to what

Sec. 202. ihe order may be made where it shall appear to actions this
the proper officer by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other ~JhT8aot-
person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case,
from the facts stated, is one of those mentioned in Section 200.
security by 
Sec. 203. Before making the order the Judge or other officer
obtaining order shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff,
ii> §205. — with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars. If the
undertaking be executed by the plaintiff, without sureties, he
shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and house
holder or freeholder within the State, and worth double the sum
specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities,
order for ar- 
Sec. 204, The order may be made to accompany the summay be made, mons, or at any time afterwards before judgment. It shall
l'wVxiv^aw reclmre the Sheriff or Constable of the County where the defend
ant may be found forthwith to arrest him, and hold him to bail
in a specified sum, and to return the order, at a place and time
therein mentioned, to the plaintiff or attorney by whom it shall
be subscribed or endorsed.
But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside, on motion, unless the same is served upon
the defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any
judgment in the action ; and the defendant shall have twenty
days after the service of the order of arrest in which to answer
the complaint.
original am- 
Sec. 205, The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivtote delivered ered to the Sheriff or Constable, who upon arresting the defendcopyhto1be de- ant sh&U deliver to him a copy thereof.
fendant.'° de. 
Sec. 206. The Sheriff or Constable shall execute the order
/6., 8s»rr by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until
made681, h°W discharged by law, and may call the power of the County to his
—ib^Ynos.
aid in the execution of the arrest, as in case of process.
Defendant to 
Sec. 207. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall
on dgw!nV8Daii De discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon
positak'ng a de" depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as pro/6., 8m
vided in this Chapter, or he may be discharged under the provi
sions of Sections 2524. to 2542, inclusive, of Part III. of the
Revised Statutes.
This Section does not affect Chapter C. of the General Statutes, and under
that Chapter the defendant may l>e discharged under final process.— Hurst.
Piimell (f Co. v. Samuels, 29 S. C, 476.
See. 208. The defendant may give bail by causing a written v"—~v
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating /b. 8«ol~
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the
defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the
process of the Court during the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein ; or if he
be arrested for the cause mentioned in the second subdivision of
Section 200, by an undertaking to the same effect as that pro
vided by Section 232.

Sec. 209. At any time before a failure to comply with the surrender of
undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exon- —j^"^.i—
eration, or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff of the County
where he was arrested, in the following manner :
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be
delivered to the Sheriff or Constable, who shall detain the de
fendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and
shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
Sheriff's or Constable's certificate, a Judge or Clerk of the Court
may. upon a notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of
the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated ; and on filing
the order and the papers used on said application, they shall lie
exonerated accordingly. But this Section shall not apply to an
arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision two of Section 200, so
as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect
provided by Section 232.

Sec. 210. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the Authority of
bail, at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may rendant.
themselves arrest him, or, by a written authority, endorsed on a 18m> X1V-' ni2certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of
suitable age and discretion to do so.
Sec 211. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, Bail, how proii Z i
6' ceeded against.
the bail may be proceeded against by action only.
~lb., iaia.

Sec. 212. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death Ban, how exof the defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by —//i.r8iuT—
his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amena
ble to the process, or by his surrender to the Sheriff or Constable
of the County where he was arrested, in execution thereof, within
twenty days after the commencement of the action against the
bail, or within such further time as may be granted by the Court. Deiiveryof un
Sec. 213. Within the time limited for that purpose, the ban to plaintiff,
find its ncccDt"Sheriff or Constable shall deliver the order of arrest to the plain- anoe or rejectiff, or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return en-~/b.,82i5.
' dorsed, and a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail. The
plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sheriff
or Constable a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall
be deemed to have accepted it, and the Sheriff or Constable shall
be exonerated from liability.
Notice of just- 
Sec. 214. On the receipt of such notice, the Sheriff or Conbaii. .
stable, or defendant, may, within ten days thereafter, give to the
/6., 8816.
plaintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed
notice of the justification of the same or other bail (specifying
the places of residence and occupation of the latter) before a
Judge or Clerk of the Court, at a specified time and place ; the
time to be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter.
In case other bail is given, there shall be a new undertaking, in
the form prescribed in Section 208.
Qualification 
Sec. 215. The qualification of bail must be as follows :
ii>., im.—
1- Each of them must be a resident and householder, or free
holder, within the State.
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but the
Judge or Clerk of the Court, on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that ex
pressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to
that of two sufficient bail.
Justification 
Sec. 216. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
of luiil
1870, xiv., 8aw. shall attend before the Judge or Clerk of the Court at the time
and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined, on
oath, on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in
such manner as the Judge, or Clerk of the Court, in his discre
tion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to
writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintiff.
Allowance of 
Sec. 217. If the Judge or Clerk of the Court find the bail
/;,>., 8219. — sufficient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking,
endorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed in the
office of the Clerk ; and the Sheriff shall thereupon be exon
erated from liability.
Deposit in lieu 
Sec. 218. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest,
i i>.,Hso.— instead of giving bail, deposit with the Sheriff or Constable the
amount mentioned in the order. The Sheriff shall thereupon
give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant
shall be discharged out of custody.
Payment
of

Sec. 219. The
Sheriff or Constable shall, within four davs
deposit into
,
J
court.
after the deposit, pay the same into Court, and shall take from
lb., 8221.
f.lie 0ft5ct;r receiving the same two certificates of such payment,
the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintiff, and the other
to the defendant. For any default in making such payment,
the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the
Sheriff or Constable, to collect the sum deposited, as in other
cases of delinquency.

Sec. 220. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two substituting
Sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as pre- —j^fisa*1^
scribed in Section 214, any time before judgment ; and there
upon the Judge before whom the justification is had shall direct,
in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded
by the Sheriff or Constable to the defeudant, and it shall be
refunded accordingly.

Sec. 221. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it Deposit, now
remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the jn^jenuntbe
payment of money to the plaintiff, the Clerk shall, under the actyn—
direction of the Court, apply the same to the satisfaction thereof,
and, after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if
any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defend
ant, the Clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and
remaining unapplied.

Sec. 222. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be sheriir, when
rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not ib.8vu.
made instead thereof, the Sheriff or Constable shall himself be
liable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability
by the giving and justification of bail, as provided in Sections 214,
215, 216 and 217, at any time before process against the person
of the defendant to enforce an order or judgment in the action.

Sec. 223.
judgment be recovered against
the Sheriff or onProceedings
»*»"'•
■»"»«»• If a we
o
judgment
Constable, upon his liabilitv as bail, and an execution thereon be against sheriff.
•
1870 XIV iti25
returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings
may be had on the official bond of the Sheriff or Constable, to
collect deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

Sec. 224. The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they Bail uawe to
justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the Sheriff - ''/^'j
or Constable by action for damages which he may sustain by
reason of such omission.

Sec. 225. A defendant arrested mav, at any time before inds- vacating order
ment, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce ducing bail,
the amount of bail.
ii>.,8w.

Sec. 226. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part Affidavits o n
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the orter^iTm'st
same by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which ~jy^t!?11.
the order of arrest was made.
Section 227. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the pos
session of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate
delivery of such property, as provided in this Chapter.
Affidavit and

Sec. 228. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be
its requisites.
made
by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :
7 b., 8230.
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed,
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the posses
sion thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facte in
respect to which shall be set forth.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to
his best knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute ; or seized under an execution or
attachment against the property of the plaintiff ; or, if so seized,
that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure. And,
5. The actual value of the property.
Requisition
to
gee
229 The ,rplaintiff
may,
Sheriff to take
BTO* """.
,
. •" thereupon,
*
' by
•'. an endorsement,
,
~,
and deliver the in writing, upon the affidavit, require the Sheriff of the County
1870, xiv., 8231. where the property claimed maybe to take the same from the
defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff.
Claim and de
livery of p e rsonal property.
lb., 8229.

Sec. 230. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
a written undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sure
ties, approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that they are bound
in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for
the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to
the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the pay
ment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the plaintiff, the Sheriff shall forthwith take the prop-
erty described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the
defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall
also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affi
davit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his agent from whose pos
session the property is taken ; or, if neither can be found, by
leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with some
person of suitable age and discretion. In case the plaintiff does
not execute the required undertaking, the party having posses
sion of the property shall retain the same until the determina
tion of the suit.

Sec. 231. The defendant may, within three days after the Exception to
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to isr0, xiv.,8883.
the Sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If
he fail to do so he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to
them. When the defendant excepts the sureties shall justify,
on notice, in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the
Sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived, as above provided,
or until they shall justify or new sureties shall be substituted and
justify. If the defendant except to the sureties he cannot reclaim
the property, as provided in the next Section.
Defendant,
, Sec.
, . 232.
. „ At any
, , time before the delivery
.
J of the property
v ,
J to whenenUtiedto
the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sure- redeiiYery.
ties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to
'"
the Sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more suffi
cient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the
value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for
any cause be recovered against the defendant. If a return of
the property be not so required within three days after the taking
and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to
the plaintiff, except as provided in Section 237.
Judgment having been rendered in the action in favor of plaintiff for dam
ages, and not for delivery of the property, it was sufficient proof of breach of
the bond given by the defendant under this Section in suit thereon.— Thomp
son v. Joplin, 12 S. C, 580.
The words " if such delivery be adjudged " mean adjudged by any competent
authority.—Elder v. Green, 34 S. C, 154.

Sec.. 233.• The defendant's sureties,' upon
a notice to the Justification
T „A ,,
r
plaintiff of not less than two nor more than six clays, shall justify of defendant's
before a Judge, Clerk of the Court or Trial Justice, in the same isvo, xiv., 8m.
"~ v —' manner as upon bail on arrest. Upon such justification the
Sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The Sheriff
shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify,
or until justification is completed or expressly waived, and may
retain the property until that time ; but if they, or others in
their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he
shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.
Qualification 
Sec. 234. The qualifications of sureties and their justificaand justification ,.
of sureties.
tion shall be as are prescribed by Sections 215 and 21(i in respect
lb., 8836.
^o bail upon an order of arrest.
property, how 
Sec. 235. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in
t n L- i| i| wlien
concealed in a building or enclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly demand its
closure? °r en" delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or
;/>., 8 2S7.
enclosure to be broken open and take the property into his pos
session ; and if necessary he may call to his aid the power of his
County.
property, how 
Sec. 236. When the Sheriff shall have taken property, as in
To., 82ss.
this Chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place and
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful
fees for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
ciaimofprop- 
Sec. 237. If the property taken be claimed by any other perpereon.
son than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make
//(., 8239.
affidavit to his title thereto and right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same
upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall not be bound to keep the prop
erty or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of
him or his agent, shall indemnify the Sheriff against such claim by
an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied
by their affidavit that they are each worth double the value of
the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff, and are
freeholders and householders within this State. And no claim
to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the Sheriff unless made as aforesaid ;
and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain
the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
Notice and 
Sec. 238. The Sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with
affidavit, when
.
and whereto be his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which
filed.
/&., 82W. ~ the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the prop
erty mentioned therein.
Section 239. An order of injunction may be made by the writof lnjuncCourt of Common Pleas in which the action is brought, or by a and order rab^
stituted
Judge thereof ; and in the absence from the Circuit, or inability, 1870i XIV„ %-m.
from any cause, of a Judge thereof, by a Judge of any other
Circuit, or a Justice of the Supreme Court. And by Probate
Judges in the cases provided in Section 41 of this Code of Pro
cedure.

Sec. 240. 1. Where it shall appear by the complaint that the Temporary mplaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or what cases
auy part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or con- gr^ 8-^—
tinuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which,
during the litigation, would produce injury to the plaintiff ; or,
2. When, during the litigation, it shall appear that the defend
ant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suf
fering some act to be done, in violation of the plaintiff .s rights
respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the
judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act. 3. And where, during the pendency of an
action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens
or is about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to
defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such removal or disposition.
The sole object of this Section is to preserve the subject of controversy in
the condition in which it is when the order is made until an opportunity is
afforded for a full and deliberate investigation. It cannot be used to take
property out of the possession of one and put it into that of another.—Peher
v. Hughes, 27 S. C, 408. Unless the party acquired the possession in breach of
the order of injunction.— Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia, 4 S. C, 3S8.
Order for temporary injunction may be granted without notice to the defend
ant.— Watson v Bank, 5 S. C, 159. And is not void because an undertaking
was not required of the plaintiff. —lb.


Sec. 241. The injunction may be granted at the time of com- At what time
mencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, ed; copy >im>ianpon its appearing satisfactorily to the Court or Judge, by the T0,9243.
v~""' affidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient
grounds exist therefor. A copy of the affidavit must be served
with the injunction.
Upon such application for injunction the Judge may consider the merits of
the case in order to determine whether it should be granted, and his refusal is
not a decision upon the merits.—Sease v. Dobson, 84 S. C, 345.

injunction 
Sec. 242. An injunction shall not be allowed after the de"J&^S^— fendant shall have answered, unless upon notice or upon an
order to show cause ; but in such case the defendant may be
restrained until the decision of the Court or Judge granting or
refusing the injunction.
security upon 
Sec. 243. When no provision is made by statute as to secuuamuges, how rity upon an injunction, the Court or Judge shall require a writib 8245 ~ ten undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without
sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party
enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified,
as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall
finally decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The
damages may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise, as the
Court shall direct.
The Judge may, in his discretion, dispense with sureties on the undertaking.
—Memhord v. Strickland, 29 S. C, 491.
Such damages may be ascertained by a reference. —Hill v. Thomas, 19 S. C,
.£10. Counsel fee for single act of dissolving injunction is allowable as part of
damages ; but a fee for general services in defending case is not.—Livingston
v. Exum, 19 S. C., 223 ; Hill v. Thomas, 19 S. C, 230. Not determined whether
costs are a part of the damages.—Hill v. Thomas, 19 S. C, 230. But creditor
is allowed interest on debt enjoined, as part of his damages.—lb.

order to show 
Sec. 244. If the Court or Judge deem it proper that the dejunction shouid fendant, or any of several defendants, should be heard before
two. xiv^24«! granting the injunction, an order may be made, requiring cause
to be shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted ; and the defendant may in the meantime
be restrained.
security upon 
Sec. 245. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
suspend h u si- business of a corporation shall not be granted except by the
tion. corpo™| Court or a Judge thereof. Nor shall it be granted without due
ib., 8s47.
notice of the application therefor, to the proper officers of the
corporation, except where the State is a party to the proceeding,
and except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders
in corporations and associations for banking purposes, as snch
proceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless the plaintiff
shall give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Court or Judge, to the effect
that the plaintiff will pay all damages, not exceeding the sum to v-—v—^
be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall finally
decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages
may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise, as the Court
shall direct.

Sec. 246, If the injunction be granted by the Court, or a Motion to vaJudge thereof, without notice, the defendant, at any time before injunction,
the trial, may apply, upon notice, to the Court, or a Judge /b-.8248thereof, in which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the
same. The application may be made upon the complaints and
the affidavits on which the injunction was granted, or upon affi
davits on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

Sec. 247. If the application be made upon affidavits on the Affidavit8 o n
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may ib 1%®.—.
oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs in addition to those
on which the injunction was granted.
Circuit Judge in open Court can dissolve temporary injunction granted by
his predecessor until further order of the Court.—hovknight v. Davis, .S3 S.
C, 410.
Property of
foreign corporalinns, a n d o f
Section 248. In any action arising for the recovery of money non-resident, or
or for the recovery of property, whether real or personal, and concea led. dedamages for the wrongful conversion and detention of personal be attached,
property, or an action for the recovery of damages for injury 'is^ivivali
' done to either person or property, or against a corporation created
by or under the laws of any other State, government or country,
or against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or
against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself, or
whenever any person or corporation is about to remove any of
his or its property from this State, or has assigned, disposed of,
or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his
or its property, with intent to defraud creditors, as hereinafter
mentioned, the plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons, or
any time afterwards, may have the property of such defendant
or corporation attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as
a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintiff
may recover ; and, for the purposes of this Section, an action
shall be deemed commenced when the summons is issued : Pro
vided, however, That personal service of such summons shall be
made or publication thereof commenced within thirty days.
An action by creditors of A against A and B to set aside a fraudulent con
veyance from A to B and for the payment of the debt, is, as to A, an action
for the recovery of money. —Bank v. Stelling, 31 S. C, 3B0.
Where action fails for want of jurisdiction, attachment therein falls with it,
being a provisional remedy in aid of an action.— Central R. ft. Co. v. Georgia
Co., 32 S. C, 319.
The attachment is not void because it bears date before the date of the sum
mons ; the existence of the summons at date of attachment may be shown
aliunde.—Smith v. Walker, 6 S. C, 169. Nor void when the summons bears
same date as attachment but Sheriff's endorsement shows service next day.—
Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C, 122. The summons is considered issued as soon
as it is made out and an application for attachment founded on it.—lb.

Attachment, by 
Sec. 249, A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a
-^™w"— Judl?e or Clerk of tho Court or Trial Justice in which or before
whom the action is brought, or from a Circuit Judge,
in what cases 
Sec. 250. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall
ma>^bemissued!; appear by affidavit that a cause of action exists against such
j™avlts to •* defendant, specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds
ib., 8258.
thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation or
not a resident of this State, or has departed therefrom with
intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a sum
mons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent, or
that such corporation or person has removed, or is about to
remove, any of his or its property from this State, with intent to
defraud his or its creditors, or has assigned, disposed of or
secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of or secrete, any of his or
its property with the like intent, whether such defendant be a
resident of this State or not.
It shall be the duty of the plaintiff procuring such warrant, .
within ten days after the issuing thereof, to cause the affidavits
on which the same was granted to be filed in the office of the
Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas or with the Trial Justice
in which or before whom the action is to be tried.

Attachment of non-resident against a foreign corporation is valid to the ex
tent that the cause of action arose in this State. — Central R. R. Co. v. Georgia
Co., 32 S. C, 319. But attachment will not lie in action of resident adminis
trator against non-resident guardian of infants residing in another State be
cause such action cannot be maintained.—Stevenson v. Dunlap, 33 S. C, 350.
The affidavit is sufficient as to cause of action, if it state a cause of action,
or if it state facts from which, as a legal conclusion, it must be inferred that
it does exist.— Monday v. Elmore, 27 S. C, 126 ; Central R. R. Co. v. Georgia
Co., 32 S. C, 319; Roddey v. Erwin, 31 S. C, 36 ; Bank v. Stelling, 31 S. C,
360 ; Ketehen v. Landecker, 32 S. C, 155.
Where ground of attachment is such non-residence of the defendant, the
affidavit is sufficient if it state that fact without other facts and circumstances.
—Smith v. Walker, 6 S. C, 156 ; Roddey v. Erwin, 31 S. C, 36.
Bat as to all the other grounds, the affidavit must positively state the facts;
and if upon information, it must also state the sources of information and
circumstances relied on to show them.—Smith v. Walker, 6 S. C, 169 ; Brown
v. Morris, 10 S. C, 467 ; Clausen v. Fultz, 13 S. C, 478 ; Burch v. Brantley, 20
S. C, 5C6 ; Ivy v. Caston, 21 S. C, 583 ; Myers v. Whiteheart, 24 S. C, 196 ;
Mwron v. Holley, 26 S. C, 256 ; Monday v. Elmore, 27 S. C, 126 ; Wando v.
Rosenberg, 31 S. C, 301 ; Roddey v. Erwin, 31 S. C, 36 ; Sharp v. Palmer,
31 S. C, 444.
Whether copies of the affidavits filed will suffice.— Wagener v. Booker, 31
S.C.. 375.
Where the affidavits are not filed in ten days the attachment will be dis
charged on motion.— Ketehen v. Landecker, 32 S. C, 155. Service of copies
on the defendant within that time .will not suffice.—lb.


Sec. 251. Before issuing the warrant, the Judge, Clerk or security on
Trial Justice shall require a written undertaking on the part of tacnment. *
the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, to the effect that if the i8r0- XIV., K58defendant recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside by
order of the Court, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sus
tain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred and fifty
dollars, except in case of a warrant issued by a Trial Justice,
when it shall be at least twenty-five dollars.
This written undertaking required must be signed by the plaintiff before
the warrant is issued, or the attachment based on it will be set aside.—Bank
v. Stelling, 31 S. C, 360 ; Wagener v. Booker, 31 S. C, 375.
Sec
Attachment,
to
"'"'• 252.
«*«"»»• The warrant shall be directed to any
J Sheriff or whom
directed,

Constable of any County in which property of such defendant and what to remay be, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the /&.., ism,
property of such defendant within his County, or so much thereof
as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand., together
with costs and expenses, the amount of which must be stated in
conformity with the complaint, together with costs and expenses.
Several warrants may be issued at the same time to the Sheriffs
or Constables of different Counties.
Debt due defendant by another is subject of attachments.—MvElvey v. S. C.
R. R. Co., 6 S. C, 446.
The interest of a non-resident partner in partnership property cannot be
attached for partnership debt where one of the partners resides here and is
duly served.— Whitfield v. Hovey, 30 S. C, 117.
Property in hands of receiver cannot be attached.—Reginstein v. Pearlslein,
30 S. C, 19a.
Propertytobe 
Sec. 253. The Sheriff or Constable to whom such warrant is
—ioT,'ika.
directed and delivered shall immediately attach all the real estate
of such debtor, and all his personal estate, including money and
bank notes, except such real and personal estate as is exempt
from attachment, levy or sale by the Constitution, and shall
take into his custody all books of account, vouchers and papers
relating to the property, debts, credits and effects of such debtor,
together with all evidences of his title to real estate, which he
shall safely keep, to be disposed of as hereinafter directed.
When real estate is attached, a true and attested copy of such
attachment, together with a description of the real estate attached,
shall be, by the officer serving the same, delivered to the party
whose real estate is attached, or left at his last and usual place of
abode ; and the officer making such service shall also leave a true
and attested copy of such attachment, together with a descrip
tion of the real estate so attached, in the office where, by law, a
deed of such estate is required to be recorded ; and if the party
whose estate is attached does not reside in this State, then such
copy shall be delivered to his tenant, agent or attorney, if any be
known ; and if no such agent, tenant or attorney be known, then
a copy of such warrant of attachment, with the officer's return
thereon, lodged in the office where by law a deed of such real
estate ought to be recorded, shall be deemed sufficient service.
It shall be the duty of the Clerk or Register of the office wherein
said warrant of attachment is required to be lodged to receive
the same, and enter in a book kept for that purpose the names of
the parties, the date of the warrant of attachment, the sum de
manded, and the officer's return thereon. Said attachment shall
be a lien, subject to all prior liens, and bind the real estate
attached from the date of lodgment : Provided, That all attach
ments lodged upon the same day shall take rank together.

Sec. 254. He shall, immediately
on making such seizure, insheriff's
duties
("list.s of s(xizwith the assistance of two disinterested freeholders, make a just ure.
and true inventory of all the property so seized, and of the books, 1870. XIV" 82ali.
vouchers and papers taken into custody, stating therein the
estimated value of the several articles of personal property, and
enumerating such of them as are perishable, which inventory,
after being signed by the Sheriff and appraisers, shall, within
ten days after such seizure, be returned to the officer who issued
the warrant ; and the Sheriff or Constable shall, under the direc
tion of such officer, collect, receive, and take into his possession,
all debts, credits and effects of such debtor, and commence such
suits, and take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or
in the name of such debtor, as may be necessary for that pur
pose, prosecute and discontinue the same, at such times, and on
such terms, as the Court may direct. The property so seized, or
the proceeds of such as shall have been sold, and debts collected,
shall be kept to answer any judgment which may be obtained in
such action.

Sec. 255. If any of the property so seized be perishable, the proceedings in
Sheriff shall sell the same at public auction, under order of the awe propert/or
Court or of a Judge thereof, and shall retain in his hands the v^ siar- iss8
proceeds of such sale, after deducting his expenses, to be allowed xvm., 4B1by such Court or Judge, which proceeds shall be disposed of in
the same manner as the property so sold would have been if it
had remained unsold.

Sec. 255a. If the person in whose possession such property claim of third
shall be attached shall appear at the return of the writ and file reedings on.
his answer thereto, and deny the possession or control of any lh.,-J>^.property belonging to the defendant, or claim the money, lands,
goods and chattels, debts and books of account as creditor in
possession, or in his own right, or in the right of some third per
son, or if any part of the said property be claimed by any other
person than such defendant, then, if the plaintiff be satisfied
therewith, the party in possession shall be dismissed and the
plaintiff pay the cost of his action. But if the plaintiff shall con
test the said return or the claim of said third person, an issue
shall be made up under the direction of the Judge to try the
question, and the party that shall prevail in said issue shall
recover the costs of such proceeding of the opposite party, and
judgment shall be given accordingly. If the party in possession,
' or the third person claiming the property, as the case may be,
resides in a different County from that in which the action is
brought, and an issue be made up between him and the plaintiff,
the action shall be tried in the County where the party in posses
sion resides. In case the property is claimed by a third person,
the plaintiff shall execute to such person the same undertaking
that he is now required to give under Section 251 ; the said
undertaking to be executed within ten (10) days after notice of
such claim.
Under this Section, assignee of defendant's property, under deed of assign
ment, must establish his right to the property before he can move to discharge
the attachment under Section 263.—Bryce v. Foot, 25 S. C, 467.

Atwchm e n t 
Sec. 255b. Whenever a debt is not yet due, and it appears to
when debt not tho satisfaction of a Circuit Judge, the Clerk of the Court of
lb.
Common Pleas, or Trial Justice, by affidavit, that the debtor has
departed from the State with intent to defraud his creditors, or
to avoid the service of a summons, or keep himself concealed
therein with a like intent, or that such person has removed or is
about to remove any of his property from this State with intent
to defraud his creditors, or has assigned, disposed of or secreted,
or is about to assign, dispose of or secrete, any of his property
with like intent, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff forthwith to
institute suit upon such debt or cause of action, and for said
Circuit Judge, Clerk or Trial Justice to issue his warrant of
attachment as if said debt were then due and payable. But no
judgment shall be had thereon till after the maturity of the debt ;
and the plaintiff must pay the costs in case the debtor pays the
debt on or before its maturity,
interest in cor- 
Sec. 256. The rights or shares which such defendant may
poratiuus or as.
Hcxiations liable have in any vessel or in the stock of any association or corpora1870, xiv., 8-J58; tion, together with the interest and profits thereon, and all other
iss3, xv m., 49i property in this State of such defendant, except that exempt
from attachment by the Constitution, shall be liable to be at
tached, and levied upon, and sold, to satisfy the judgment and
execution. .
Attachment, 
Sec. 257. The execution of the attachment upon any such
OTproiOTty1^ rights, shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual
uTd^er^" delivery to the Sheriff or Constable, shall be made by leaving a
/o., 8239.
certified copy of the warrant of attachment with the President
or other head of the association or corporation, or the secretarv,
cashier or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor or indi
vidual holding such property, with a notice showing the property
levied on.

Sec. 258. Whenever the Sheriff or Constable shall, with a * v
'
warrant of attachment or execution against the defendant, apply defendant's in
to such officer, debtor, or individual, for the purpose of attach- iSed. ~J^
ing or levying upon such property, such officer, debtor or indi- ib.,*~mvidual shall furnish him a certificate, under his hand, designat
ing the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the
stock of such, association or corporation, with any dividend or
encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description of the
property held by such association, corporation, or individual for
the benefit of or debt owing to the defendant. If such officer,
debtor or individual refuse to do so, he may be required by the
Court or Judge to attend before him, and be examined on oath
concerning the same, and obedience to such order may be en
forced by attachment.

Sec. 259. In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in Judgment, now
such action, the Sheriff or Constable shall satisfy the same out of ~it,., is«i.—
the property attached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that
purpose :
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in any
vessel, sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him,
or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have
been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, under
such execution, so much of the attached property, real or per
sonal, except as provided in subdivision 4 of this Section, as may
be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose
shall remain in his hands ; and in case of the sale of any rights
or shares in the stock of a corporation or association, the Sheriff
or Constable shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of sale
thereof, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights
and privileges in respect thereto which were had by such defend
ant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant
shall have passed out of the hands of the Sheriff or Constable
without having been sold or converted into money, such Sheriff
or Constable shall repossess himself of the same, and for that
purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the
same under the attachment ; and any person who shall willfully
conceal or withhold such property from the Sheriff or Constable
shall be liable to double damages, at the suit of the party in
jured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the
Sheriff or Constable may proceed to collect the notes and other
evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized or
attached under the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any
bond he may have taken in the course of such proceedings, and
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment.
At the expiration of six months from the docketing of the
judgment, the Court shall have power, upon the petition of the
plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit, setting forth fully all the
proceedings which have been had by the Sheriff or Constable
since the service of the attachment, the property attached, and
the disposition thereof, and also the affidavit of the Sheriff or
Constable that he has used diligence and endeavored to collect
the evidences of debt in his hands so attached, and that there
remains uncollected of the same any part or portion thereof, to
order the Sheriff or Constable to sell the same, upon such terms
and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice of such
application shall be given to the defendant, or his attorney, if
the defendant shall have appeared in the action. In case the
summons has not been personally served on the defendant, the
Court shall make such rule or order, as to the service of notice
and the time of service, as shall be deemed just.
When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall
have been paid, the Sheriff or Constable, upon reasonable de
mand, shall deliver over to the defendant the residue of the
attached property, or the proceeds thereof.
If the attachment is a foreign attachment, it is only a proceeding in rem..
unless the defendant appear ; and if he fail to appear, the Court cannot ren
der a judgment that would have any effect beyond the property attached and
so subjected to a lien.—Stanley v. Stanley, 35 S. C, 94.

When actiou 
Sec. 260. The actions herein authorized to be brought by
tc^of1 defend- the Sheriff or Constable may be prosecuted by the plaintiff, or
""S^y'tTe under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the Sheriff or
urtion in which Constable of an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
&ued.tacbinent to the effect that the plaintiff will indemnify the Sheriff or Conisro, xiv., mt. gtable from all damages, costs and expenses on account thereof,
not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action.
Such sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the Sheriff or
Constable, justify by making an affidavit that each is a house
holder, and worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond
over and above all demands and liabilities.

Sec. 261. If the foreign corporation, or absent or absconding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against the
plaintiff in such action, any bond taken by the Sheriff or Constable, except such as are mentioned in the last Section, all the
proceeds of sales and moneys collected by him, and all the prop
erty attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by him
to the defendant, or his agent, on request, and the warrant shall
be discharged and the property released therefrom.

Sec. 262. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in Discharge of
such action, he may apply to the officer who issued the attach- returnnofnpropment, or to the Court, for an order to discharge the same ; and ceedsto defend
if the same be granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys col- £earance1Iin t£i
lected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his "*"J"1.^
hands, shall be delivered or paid by him to the defendant or his
agent, and released from the attachment. And where there is
more than one defendant, and the several property of either of
the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attach
ment, the defendant whose several property has been seized may
apply to the officer who issued the attachment for relief under
this Section.
Defendant having given bond under next Section does not thereby waive
his right to have attachment discharged under this.—Bates v. KUlian, 17 S.
C, 553.
Circuit Judge, on motion upon notice, may discharge an attachment at
chambers.—Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C, 122.
Refusal to so discharge the attachment is res adjudicata as to moving party,
and he cannot raise the question again in formal suit.—Darby v. Shannon, 19
S. C, 526.
Such discharge may be had either for invalidity or irregularity of the attach
ment.—Smith v. Walker, 6 S. C, 169 ; Brown v. Morris, 10 S. C, 467 ; Claussen v. Fultz, 13 S. C, 476 ; Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C, 122 ; Darby v. SAan
non, 19 S. C., 526 ; Bates v. Killian, 17 S. C, 553 ; Kerchner v. McCormac, 25
S. C., 46L
Such motion to discharge the attachment on partnership property against
non-resident partner granted upon the disclosure of the fact by the papers
and affidavits that the non-resident had no other property here.— Whitfield v.
Hovey, 30S. C, 117.


Sec. 263. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver undertaking
to the Court or officer an undertaking, executed by at least two the defendant.°'
sureties, who are resident and freeholders or householders in this ~ib., ins,.
State, approved by such Court or officer, to the effect that such
sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of
judgment that may be recovered against the defendant in the
action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his
complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit that the property
attached be less than the amount claimed by the plaintiff, the
Court, or officer issuing the attachment, may order the same to
be appraised, and the amount of the undertaking shall then be
double the amount so appraised. And in all cases the defendant,
or any person who establishes a right to the property attached,
may move to discharge the attachment, as in the case of other
provisional remedies.
And where there is more than one defendant, and the several
property of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of
the order of attachment, the defendant whose several property
has been seized may deliver to the Court or officer an undertak
ing, in accordance with the provisions of this Section, to the
effect that he will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of
judgment that may be recovered against such defendant. And
all the provisions of this Section applicable to such undertaking
shall be applied thereto.
Assignee under deed of assignment of defendant cannot move to discharge
attachment until he has established his right to the property under issue on
his return to the attachment.— Copeland v. In. Co., 17 S. C, 116 ; Metts v. In.
Co., 17 S. C, 120 ; Bryce v. Foot, 25 S. C, 467 ; Ex Parte Dickinson, 29 S. C,
453.
When third party intervenes and claims right to the property, such claim
ant should be actor on trial of issue of ownership.— Central R. R. Co. v. Geor
gia Co., 82 S. C, 819.

wiien sheriff 
Sec. 264. When the warrant shall be fully executed or diswohment,riwfth charged, the Sheriff or Constable shall return the same, with his
ihereon?ee>^*8 proceedings thereon, to the Court in which the action was
judgment upon failure to answer may be had without application
to the Court.
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or
when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judg
ment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the
judgment.
4. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or
in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights ; and, in like cases, of the property within this State of
foreign corporations. Receivers of the property within this State
of foreign or other corporations shall be allowed such commis
sions as may be fixed by the Court appointing them, not exceed
ing five per cent, on the amount received and disbursed by them.
5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may be
in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise pro
vided in this Code of Procedure.
In application for Receiver under subdivision 1 he may be appointed under
subdivision 2.—Green, v. Bookhart, 19 S. C, 417.
Receiver may be appointed in supplementary proceedings without notice.—
Dilling v. Foster, 21 S. C, 838.
Although another Judge upon application of other creditors had previously
refused to do so.—Dauntless Co. v. Davis, 22 S. C, 584. And notwithstanding
creditors' action in another Court and a previous assignment by debtor.—lb.
But there can be only one Receiver so appointed. —Sparks v. Davis, 25 S.
C, 381.
Receiver may be appointed at chambers.—Kilgore v. Hair, 19 S. C, 486 ;
Regenstein v. Pearlstein, 30 S. C, 192 ; Harmon v. Wagener, 33 S. C, 487.
But the power is a delicate one and must be exercised with great care. —
Pelzer v. Hughes, 27 S. C , 408.
The Master of the Court cannot be appointed Receiver.—Kilgore v. Hair,
19 S. C, 48B.
Admissions in answer are sufficient evidence on motion for appointment of
Receiver.—Meinhard v. Strickland, 29 S. C, 491.
Where President and Directors of an insolvent railroad are directed by the
Court to continue in possession of the property under order of and subject to
the Court, they are thus made Receivers.—In Re Mortgage Bonds, 15 S. C,
314 ; Ex Parte Brown, 15 S. C, 531.
Where complaint claims title to land and seeks to recover it and alleges in
solvency of defendant and danger of loss of rents, and all these are denied in
answer, there is no case for appointment of Receiver.—DeWalt v. Kinard, 19
a C, 293.
Even under Assignment Act creditors cannot have Receiver appointed to
take charge of the assigned estate, where they have not exhausted their legal
remedies, nor show danger of loss of property or injury thereto. —Pelzer v.
Hughes, 27 S. C, 408.
But upon showing of insolvency, negligence and incompetency on the part
of the assignee, satisfactory to the Judge, he was justified in appointing a
Receiver. —Regenstein v. Pearlstein, 30 S. C, 192.
So in action by executor to marshal assets, where he is shown to be guilty of
misconduct, and that he and estate were insolvent, creditors could, without ex
hausting their legal remedies, have Receiver appointed.—Harmon v. Wagener,
33 S. C, 4S7.
Unless mortgagee establishes an apparent right or claim to the assets and
profits, he is not entitled to have a Receiver thereof appointed in his action for
foreclosure.—Hardin v. Hardin, 34 S. C, 77.
Even though the mortgagor be insolvent and the property insufficient to
pay the mortgage.—Seignious v. Pate, 32 S. C, 134.
Receivers may be appointed by the Court to make sales under its orders. —
Clybum-v. Reynolds, 31 S. C, 91. But a Receiver was properly appointed in
an action for partition where the party in possession was insolvent.—McCrady
v. Jones, 36 S. C, 136.
Receiver need not give bond to collect rents in pending action.—DeWalt v.
Kinard, 19 S. C, 293. Nor is bond essential for Receiver appointed in supple
mentary proceedings.—Dilling v. Foster, 21 S. C, 338.

Deposit of When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a party,
c°urtf. 4c" ln that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of liti
gation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the Court may order the same
to be deposited in Court, or delivered to such party, with or
without security, subject to the further direction of the Court,
other provi- "Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Court shall have
" ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other
property, and the order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punish
ing the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requir
ing the Sheriff or Constable to take the money or property, and
deposit, deliver or convey it, in conformity with the direction
of the Court,
judgment tor When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not denysum i" >. ii in^ admits part of the plaintiff's claim to be just, the Court, on
motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the
claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a judgment or
provisional remedy.
Where plaintiff admits part of defendant's counter-claim to be just, plaintiff
is entitled to judgment for excess of his claim as in case of default, as under
Section 267.—Burges v. Pollitxer, 19 S. C, 451.
Section 266. A judgment is the final determination of the judgment derighta of the parties in the action.
i°70 .^~ 82c8
A judgment must ascertain and fix these rights to an extent amounting to a
substantial termination of all the issues.—Donaldson v. Bank, 4 S. C, 106 ;
Agnew v. Adams, 24 S. C, 86. It is erroneous if based on grounds not raised
by the pleadings. —Magovern v. Richard, 27 S. C, 272.
When granted upon contract, it determines what the contract is and closes
it, giving the means of enforcing it or redress for its breach.— Moore v. Hol
land, 16 S. C, 15.
Judgment is not invalid because Circuit Judge made a mistake in the head
ing of it.— Woodward v. Woodward, 36 S. C, 118.
A decree cannot be regarded as final that leaves in doubt the question
whether in the end the plaintiff will be entitled to recover.—Donaldson v.
Bank, 4 S. C, 106.
To entitle a decree to rank as a final judgment for money it must ascertain
a definite sum to be paid and order its payment, and authorize execution
therefor.—Ex Parte Farrars, 13 S. C, 254. But where the decision disposes
of all the issues and directs judgment for balance due on a former judgment
particularly stated in the record and orders execution for the amount to be
ascertained by the calculation of Clerk, it is a final judgment.—Adickes v.
AllUon, 21 S. C, 245.


Sec. 267. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to {J^n>ottaenanswer the complaint,
as follows :
fondant to anr,
swer, or for ex1. In any action on contract the plaintiff may file proof of cess over counlawful service of summons and complaint on one or more of the —isro. x i v~
defendants, or of the summons, according to provision of 
Sec. sm-, im...xvm,
tion 151, and that no appearance, answer or demurrer has been \w\ . XVu1,
served on him. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to place all
such cases on the default calendar, and said calendar shall be
called the first day of the term. When the action is on a com
plaint for the recovery of money only, judgment may be given
for the plaintiff by default, if the demand be liquidated ; and if
unliquidated, and the plaintiff itemize his account and append
thereto an affidavit that it is true and correct and no part of the
sum sued for has been paid, by discount or otherwise, and a copy
be served with the summons and complaint on the defendant,
and the defendant shall neither answer, demur nor serve notice
of appearance, the plaintiff shall have judgment for the sum
sued for as in the case of liquidated demands. But in case notice
of appearance in an action has been given by or on behalf of a
defendant, but no answer or demurrer has been or thereafter
shall be served within the time required by law, the plaintiff,
upon filing proof of such facts, shall have his judgment by
default against such defendant in the same manner and with
like effect as in cases where no notice of appearance has been
given. In all other cases the relief to be afforded the plaintiff
shall be ascertained either by the verdict of a jury, or in cases
i n chancery by the Judge, with or without a reference, as he
may deem proper. The order for judgment in such cases shall
be endorsed upon or attached to the complaint.
Where the defendant, by his answer in any soch action, shall
not deny the plaintiff's claim, but shall set up a counter-claim
amounting to less than the plaintiff's claim, judgment may be
had by the plaintiff for the excess of said claim over the said
counter-claim, in like manner in any such action, upon the
plaintiff's filing with the Clerk of the Court a statement ad
mitting such counter-claim, which statement shall be annexed to,
and be a part of, the judgment roll.
Where time to answer expires after day fixed for opening of Court, but be
fore Court is actually opened, and no appearance, answer or demurrer has
been served, the case may be docketed and judgment by default taken.—McCoomb v. Woodxide, 13 S. C, 479.
The omission of the words, "have judgment," in the Judge.s order for judg
ment endorsed on the complaint is merely clerical, and does not vitiate the
judgment.—Henlen v. Graham, 32 S. C, 303.
When defendant does not deny plaintiff's claim, but sets up a counter-claim,
the plaintiff upon filing with the Clerk an admission of such counter-claim is
entitled, on call of default docket, to judgment for excess claimed above the
counter-claim.—Burges v. Pollitzer, 19 S. C, 451.

when service 2. In actions where the service of the summons was by publi"iubiicaUo°n.s by cation, the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for judgment.
and the Court must thereupon require proof to be made of the
demand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be . v-"^
not a resident of the State must require the plaintiff or his agent
to be examined, on oath, respecting any payments that have been
made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of
such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment, the Court
may, in its discretion, require the plaintiff to cause to be filed
satisfactory security to abide the order of the Court touching
the restitution of any estate or effects which may be directed by
such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution
of any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such
judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply
and be admitted to defend the action and shall succeed in such
defense.

Sec. 268. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the Judgment on
friv o l o u a departy prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, mun-er, answer
may apply to a Judge of the Court, either in or out of the Court, i^o, xiv., yto.
for judgment thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.
An answer, to be adjudged frivolous, must be clearly so in its whole scope
and bearing, and not merely through a formal defect that might be cured by
amendment. If argument is necessary to show its character as frivolous, the
Court will not dispose of it as such.—Boylston v. Creics, 2 S. C, 422.
An answer is frivolous when it fails to deny any allegation of the complaint
or to state any new matter by way of defense.—American Co. v. Hill, 27 S.
C. 164.
But to make the answer frivolous the objection must extend to and embrace
the whole answer, so that nothing is left of it that can entitle the party to
trial.— Tharin v. Seabrook, 0 S. C, 113. So that answer that presents two
issues material to plaintiff.s case is not frivolous.—Hail v. Woodward, S6 S. C,

Section 269. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or The dUIerent
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and contro- Unda °' lssues verted by the other, lhey are of two kinds—
1. Of law ; and,
2. Of fact,
issue of law.

Sec. 270. An issue of law arises—
ib., 82«.
l. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to
some part thereof.
R. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 23 S. C, 370.

Sec. 271. An issue of fact arises—
1- Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted
by the answer ; or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the re
ply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is
joined thereon.

Sec. 272. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon
both law and different parts of the pleadings in the same action.
to be tried to- In such case the cause shall be placed on the Calendar of issues
gether.
' ib., 8274;isr8; of fact, and the issues shall be tried together, unless the Court
xiv.,,4mL
otherwise direct.
Issue of fact.

~~ib., 8ara.

Trial d fined

Sec. 273. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues
isro, xiv., jars, between the parties, whether they be issues of law or fact.
Meetze v. R. R. Co., 23 S. C, 1.
Issues, bow

tried^
ib., 8270.

Sec.
►**"'• 274.
"* ■ ~ An issue of law must be tried bv
- the Court,
,
' as
,
also cases in chancery, unless they be referred as provided in
Chapter 5 of this Title. An issue of fact in an action for the
recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property,
must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as pro
vided in Section 288, or a reference be ordered.
This Section not affected by the Master's Act—16 Stat., 608.— Chapman v.
Lipscomb, 15 S. C, 470.
This Section specifies the cases in which a trial by jury may be demanded as
a legal right.—Rollin v. Whipper, 17 S. C, 32.
An action to set aside a deed of Sheriff on the ground that the judgment
debtor held the land as trustee for plaintiff, is not an action to recover real
property.—Price v. Bowen, 4 S. C, 151.
Title to land must be so tried ; it cannot be tried on motion by assignee of
land to discharge attachment thereon.— Copeland v. Piedmont In. Co., 17 S.
C, 116. And defendant does not waive the right by failure to demand it.—
DeWalt v. Kinard, 19 S. C, 286.
An action for the recovery of money only does not require a jury trial,
unless the pleadings raise an issue of fact.—R. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 23 S. C, 370.
If the only issue raised is one of law, it must be tried by the Court. —Ib.
An action for partition, where the question of title arises, it is not an issue
out of chancery, but for trial by a jury at law.—Adickes v. Lowry, 12 S. C,
97 ; Brock v. Nelson, 29 S. C, 49 ; Reams v. Spcinn, 2S S. C, 530 ; Carrigan v.
Evans, 31 S. C, 262 ; Capel v. Moses, Sti S. C, 559. Or where in equity cause
defendant sets up title to land in controversy which, if sustained, would defeat the action, he is entitled to a jury trial of that issue.—Adickes v.
Lowry, 12 S. C, 108 ; Cooper v. Smith, 16 S. C, 333 ; Smith v. Bryce, 17 S. C,
544 ; Chapman v. Lipscomb, 18 S. C, 232 ; Dewalt v. Kinard, 19 S. C., 289 ;
McGee v. Hall, 23 S. C, 388 ; Sale v. Megget, 25 S. C, 72 ; Reagin v. Bishop,
25 S. C, 585 ; Pefeer v. Hughes, 27 S. C, 418 ; Dupont v. DuBos, 33 S. C, 389.
But where the action is in equity for cancellation of deed for fraud, a trial by
jury is not demandable of right.—Dupont v. DuBos, 33 S. C, 389.
Where a defendant is entitled to specific personal property in hands of ex
ecutor, answers the complaint and agrees to a reference to the Master of all
the issues, he thereby waives right to a trial by jury of his title to such prop
erty.—Trenholm v. Morgan, 28 S. C, 268.
On appeal from Probate Court there is only a right of jury trial of those
issues required to be so tried by this Section.—Stewart v. Blease, 4 S. C, 37 ;
Lucken v. Wichman, 5 S. C, 411 ; Prater v. Whipple, 16 S. C, 40; Rollin v.
Whipper, 17 S. C, 32; Ex Parte White, 33 S. C. , 442 ; Ex Parte Apeler, 35 S.
C, 417.
119
A. D. ISM.


Sec. 274a. In all equity causes the presiding Judge may, in How issues of
,, fact 1 n equity
his discretion, cause to be framed an issue or issues of fact, to be causes may be
tried by a jury, which shall be tried at the same term of Court tried.
at which they are ordered, and if necessary a day shall be set for l!i00. xx., G9li
the trial of the same, but a continuance may be ordered by the
Court in proper cases.
Upon the first day of the term immediately after the call of
Calendar Three, the presiding Judge shall call for cases in which
such issues are desired, and if any are presented in which such
issues are, in his judgment, proper, he shall at once cause the
same to be framed and placed upon the proper Calendar for trial,
and the findings of fact upon such issues by the jury shall be
conclusive of the same ; but the presiding Judge may grant new
trials therein, according to the practice of other jury trials, and
exceptions to the rulings of the presiding Judge may be taken by
either party, and such rulings may be reviewed by the Supreme
Court upon appeal from the final judgment.
At some time during the term the presiding Judge shall hear
the cause out of which such issues are ordered, and shall, some
time during said term or thereafter, file his decision therein as
in other equity causes, from which decision there shall be the
right of appeal.

Sec. 275. Every other issue is triable by the Court, which, issues triable
however, may order the whole issue, or any specific question of y/b.c ^ :—
fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it, as
provided in Sections 292 and 293.
This Section not affected by Master's Act -16 Stat., 608.—Lipscomb v. Chap
man, 15 S. C., 470.
Construing this and preceding Section together, it is conclusive that there
are two general modes of trial, i. e., trials by Court and trials by jury. To the
Court belongs all issues of law and all cases in chancery, and to the jury all
summons and
aie>i tn clerk.s
cases..
xV!;.49K-:is8a.
xixIJbwV 188T.
questions of fact in cases at law for the recovery of money or of any specific
real or personal property.- Meetzc v. R. R. Co., 23 S. C, 1.
Under this Section a party has no right to demand a jury, unless he pro
ceeds according to 28th Eule of Circuit Court.— Lucken v. Wichman, 5 S. C,
411 ; Ex Parte Apeler, 35 S. C, 417.
The mode of trial, whether by the Judge, a referee or a jury, is discretion
ary with the Court.—Lucken v. Wichman, 5 S. C, 411.
The Constitutional declaration that "the right of jury trial shall remain
inviolate" does not apply to cases within the equitable jurisdiction of the
Court.—lb. And in such cases neither party has the right to demand a sub
mission of the issues to a jury.— Pelzer v. Hughes, 27 S. C, 408. An action to
set aside a Sheriff's conveyance of land, sold under execution, on the ground
that judgment debtor held the land as trustee of plaintiffs, is an equitable
action and triable by the Court. —Price v. Broum, 4 S. C, 157.
Summons to renew execution is not case for issues out of chancery.—Adams
v. Richardson, 30 S. C, 217.
Where Judge orders such issues of fact to be tried by a jury, he does so only
that he may be aided by their verdict ; he is not to be controlled thereby. —
Flinn v. Brown, 6 S. C, 209 ; Gadsden v. Whaicy, 9 S. C, 147 ; Ivy v. Clausen,
14 S. C, 273 ; Small v. Small, 16 S. C, 76 ; Grierson v. Harmon, 16 S. C, 619 ;
Peake v. Peake, 17 S. C.,425 ; Pelzer v. Hughes, 27 S. C, 403. And such find
ings of the jury are properly to be considered on new trial by the Judge as
ordered by the Supreme Court.—Rynerson v. Allison, 30 S. C, 534.
But all equitable issues must be tried by the Judge either alone or with such
aid of a jury.— Gadsden v. Whaley, 9 S. C, 147 ; Sloan v. Weslfield, 11 S. C,
447 ; AdicJces v. Lowry, 12 S. C, 108 ; Cooper v. Smith, 16 S. C, 331.
A case involving cancellation of deed for fraud may be referred to the Mas
ter.—Dupont v. DuBos, 33 S. C, 389.
On appeal from decree of Probate Court, declaring a paper offered for pro
bate no will, it was error in Circuit Judge to form issues and submit them to
jury without notice to appellant, and a judgment based on verdict on such
issues must be set aside. —Ex Parte Apeler, 35 S. C, 417.


Sec. 276. In all issues to be tried by the Court or a jury the
plaintiff shall, at least fourteen days before Court, file in the
Clerk.s office the summons and complaint in the cause, endorsing thereon the nature of the issue and the number of the calen^ar upon which the same shall be placed ; and if the plaintiff
fail so to do, the defendant, seven days before the Court, may
file copies of said papers with a like endorsement, and the Clerk
shall thereupon place said cause upon its appropriate calendar,
and it shall stand for trial without any further notice, of trial or
notice of issue.
There shall be three Calendars for the Court of Common Pleas,
and the Clerk shall arrange the causes thereon as follows :
Upon Calendar 1 shall be placed all cases and issues to be passed
upon by a jury. Upon Calendar 2 shall be placed all cases to be
passed upon by the Court, including all motions and rules to
show cause. Upon Calendar 3 shall be placed all cases where
judgments by default are to be taken, and on the opening of the
Court of Common Pleas this Calendar shall be called first in order.
. The Clerk shall, within twenty days after every adjournment *"* v
of the Court of Common Pleas, carry forward on Calendars
numbers one and two for trial or hearing at the next term all
causes not finally disposed of at the preceding term, and shall
enter in regular order all subsequent causes, duly filed and
endorsed as above provided, and upon entering the same shall
endorse upon the summons the date of filing, the number of the
Calendar in which the cause is entered, and its number on the
Calendar. In case of his failure to comply with any of the
requirements of this Section, the Clerk shall forfeit all docketing
fees for the term of the Court next succeeding.
There is nothing in this Section which declares that failure to have the case
bo docketed within a prescribed time after action begun puts a party out of
Court.—Hagood v. Riley, 21 S. C, 143.
When the time for answering expires, after the day for the Court to open,
but before it is actually opened, the case may be put on Calendar 3 and judg
ment by default taken.—McComb v. Woodbury, 13 S. C, 479.


Sec. 277. A Stenographer for each of the Judicial Circuits of stenographers
the State shall be appointed by the resident Judge thereof, who by cTreuit
shall be a sworn officer of the Court, and shall hold the office for snd^utiet.
the term of four years, subject to the power of the Judge to tm.x^.m.remove him, at any time, upon sufficient cause being shown there- J^3. ^3Y \]'f
for. Each Stenographer so appointed shall receive an annual f^ 1 y., ™;
salary as follows : The Stenographer of the First Circuit, eighteen **•=. Code Pro.,
hundred dollars, and the several Stenographers of the other Cir
cuits twelve hundred dollars ; such salaries to be paid by the State
Treasurer in the same manner provided by law for the payment
of the salaries of the Circuit Judges and Solicitors of the State.
It shall be the duty of every Stenographer so appointed, under
the direction of the presiding Judge of his Circuit, to take full
stenographic notes of all proceedings, including the rulings and
charge of the Court in every trial thereat ; and in case the presid
ing Judge, or the Solicitor for use in criminal cases, shall require
a transcript of said stenographic notes, the Stenographer shall
furnish the same written out in full.

Sec. 278. It shall be the duty of the Stenographer to furnish stenographers
to any party to such trials, upon request, a copy of the evidence copies; fees.
and proceedings taken by him in such trials, or of such part xv°i n?' 4M .
thereof as may be required, on payment in advance, on behalf of J^s. j/^. ™j
such party, to the Stenographers of the First and Second Cir-|^: im. xx.,
cuite, respectively, of ten cents, and to the Stenographers of the
other Circuits, respectively, of three cents, for every hundred
words of the copy so furnished : Provided, Said copy is furnished
within ten days after the rising of the Court and written demand
,—~y——' therefor and tender of said fees. Any sum so paid by any party
shall be considered a necessary disbursement in the taxation of
costs.
order of dis- 
Sec. 279. The issues on the Calendar shall be disposed of in
orTttiecaieridar! the following order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the
lb., 1 231.
dispatch of business, the Court shall otherwise direct :
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the Court.
3. Issues of law.
Section 280. Either party complying with the requirements
of Section 276 may bring the issue to trial, and, in absence of
the adverse party, unless the Court for good cause otherwise
direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the
complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require. A
separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the several defend
ants may be allowed by the Court whenever, in its opinion, justice
will thereby be promoted.
Court to be 
Sec. 281. When the issue shall be brought to trial by the
u cony of the plaintiff he shall furnish the Court with a copy of the summons
'. '''"
and pleadings, with the offer of defendant, if any shall have
lb.,'""
4283.
been made. When the issue shall be brought to trial by the
defendant, and the plaintiff shall neglect or refuse to furnish the
Court with a copy of the summons and pleadings and the offer of
the defendant, the same may be furnished by the defendant.
General and

Sec. 282. A general verdict is that by which the jury pro
special verdicts
dettned.
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
/o., 9284;"
the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court.

Sec. 283. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff,
or if it have, and the defendant by his answer claim a return

Trial ; separate
trials.
1870, XIV., 8282.
thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property if their *"*"">""".'
verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if they find in favor of the may render
defendant and that he is entitled to a return thereof ; and may or speciaT'verat the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the tne'court may
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained aiidTng? speta
by reason of the detention or taking and withholding such prop- /6., 8285erty.
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in writing upon any or all of the issues ;
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general ver
dict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding shall be filed with the Clerk and entered upon
the minutes.
Where plaintiff takes possession of the property, a verdict in the words
" We find for the defendant the return of the property or $507.95," is in com
pliance with this Section.— Bardin v. Drafts, 10 S. C, 493. But where the
action is to recover "patterns" in foundry proved to be worth $5,000, and the
Judge charged that defendants were entitled to a part thereof, the verdict
in these words, " We find the plaintiff patterns the value of $100," does not
identify the property, and is void.— Eason v. Kelly, 18 S. C, 881.
In such action a verdict which calls for a delivery or return of the property
is insufficient and illegal, unless it assess the value of the property, even
though there be no testimony as to value. The Section is mandatory.— Eason
v. Kelly, 18 S. C, 381 ; Thompson v. Lee, 19 S. C, 489 ; Lockhart v. Little, 30
S. C, 826 ; Bo&bins v. Stattery, 80 S. C, 328.


Sec. 284. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsist- on special
ent with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, (fenerai verdict!
and the Court shall give judgment accordingly.
contio°™er ' °

Sec. 285. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an 1srI). XIV., vmaction for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set- a e"?nd arn/s
off for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount win rases!'1"'.1"
of the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury must also assess ib.,8-xt.
the amount of the recovery ; they may also, under the direction
of the Court, assess the amount of the recovery when the Court
gives judgment for the plaintiff on the answer. If a set-off,
established at the trial, exceed plaintiff's demand so established,
judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess : or if
it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative
relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

Sec. 286. 1. Upon receiving a verdict, the Clerk shall make Entry of the
an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the f»Aiew.tri'ai!°u
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and ^b.8288-
either the judgment rendered thereon or an order that the cause
be reserved for argument or further consideration. If a differ
ent direction be not given by the Court, the Clerk must enter
judgment in conformity with the verdict. 2. If an exception
be taken, it may be reduced to writing at the time, or entered in
the Judge's minutes, and afterwards settled as provided by the
rules of Court, and then stated in writing in a case, or sepa
rately, with so much of the evidence as may be material to the
questions to be raised, but need not be sealed or signed, nor need
a bill of exceptions be made. 3. If the exceptions be, in the
first instance, stated in a case, and it be afterwards necessary to
separate them, the separation may be made under the direction
of the Court, or a Judge thereof. 4. The Judge who tries the
cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to be made on
his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant a new trial upon
exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages ;
but such motions, if heard upon the minutes, can only be heard
at the same term at which the trial is had. When such motion
is heard and decided upon the minutes of the Judge, and an
appeal is taken from the decision, a case or exceptions must be
settled or agreed upon in the usual form, upon which the argu
ment of the appeal must be had.
Unless otherwise directed by the Court, the Clerk must enter judgment in
conformity with the verdict or it will be void.—Eaton v. Kelly, 15 S. C, 200.
lb., 18 S. C, 381 ; Kaminitsky v. ft. ft., 25 S. C, 53. But where the judgment
is based upon a verdict on an equitable issue, that should have been tried by
the Court, it is void.— Gadsden v. Whaley, 9 S. C, 147 ; Stoan v. Westfield, 11
B. C, 447 ; Cooper v. Smith, 16 S. C, 331.
When, upon rendition of verdict, the Court ordered the case to be trans
ferred to Calendar No. 2 and that plaintiffs have leave to apply for judgment
thereon, the Clerk could not enter judgment on the verdict.— Whitesides v.
Barber, 22 S. C, 47.
This Section, as to the power of the Judges in granting new trials, is not to
be restricted by any construction of Cons., Art. IV., 
Sec. 26.— Wood v. ft. ft.
Co., 19 S. C., 579.
This Section dispenses with the use of ''bills of exceptions," and substitutes
n statement of the exceptions taken at the trial, containing so much of the
evidence as may be necessary to show the bearing of the exceptions. —Cation
v. Brock, 14 S. C, 104.
Exceptions to the orders and rulings of the Judge may be taken at the trial,
and, if so taken, they need not be served within ten days after the rising of
the Court.—Coleman v. Heller, 13 S. C, 491.
The better practice is to notify the Court at the time that the party " ex
cepts," and have it so noted on the record ; but it has been held that when it
appears from the record that the Judge was apprised that the party intended
to rely on his propositions advanced by way of exceptions, that is sufficient to
constitute an exception, though there is no formal request to note it.—fo.r v.
ft. ft., 4 S. C, 543 ; S. C. ft. ft. v. Wilmington ft. ft., 7 S. C, 416 ; Clark v.
Harper, 8 S. C, 257 ; Coleman v. Heller, 13 S. C, 491 ; Godbold v. Vance, 14
S. C 458.
Under motion for new trial on the minutes, upon the ground of excessive
damages, the Circuit Judge has power to order a new trial, unless the plain
tiff enter a remittitur for a specified amount.— Warren v. Lagrone, 12 S. C, 45.
Where the Judge thought the evidence insufficient, but refused to grant new
trial because he underrated his power to do so, under the Constitution, he
committed error in law.— Wood v. R. R. Co., 19 S. C., 579.
A Judge cannot grant such a new trial at chambers.— Charles v. Jacobs, 5
S. C, 343 ; Clawson v. Hutchison, 14 S. C, 520.
Where a case for appeal has not been settled or agreed on, it must be re
turned to Circuit for settlement. — Chalk v. Patterson, 4 S. C, 98.

125
A. D. 1894.
v——v~~"'


Sec. 287. A motion for a new trial on a case or exceptions, Motionfornew
or otherwise, and an application for judgment on a special ver- judgment on
diet or case reserved for argument or further consideration, must, wTe r e%> be
in the first instance, be heard and decided at the same term, ex- —/* .gg)—
cept that when exceptions are taken the Judge trying the cause
may, at the trial, direct them to be heard at some subsequent
term, and the judgment in the meantime suspended ; and in
that case they must be there heard in the first instance, and
judgment there given. And when, upon a trial, the case pre
sents only questions of law, the Judge may direct a verdict.
" Same term " means the term at which the trial was had.—Hinson v. Catoe,
10 S. C., 311.
The Circuit Judge cannot hear a motion on the minutes for a new trial after
the term has ended.— Caston v. Brock, 14 S. C, 104 ; Molair v. R. R., 31 S. C,
510. This and Section 28f> relate only to motions for new trials upon a ground
arising out of something that occurred at the trial.—State v. David, 14 S. C,
42S ; Clawson v. Hutchison, 14 S. C, 517 ; Sams v. Hoover, 33 S. C, 401.
Referred to in Charles v. Jacobs, 5 S. C, 349 ; Caston v. Brock, 14 S. C, 111.
Section 238. Trial by jury in the Court of Common Pleas Trial by3uryi
may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact in actions bow wal™1- _
on contract, and with the assent of the Court in other actions,
in the manner following :
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with
the Clerk.
3. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.
This Section in the terms " actions on contract " includes such actions as be
fore its adoption were recognized as actions at common law.—State v. R. R.,
8 S. C, 129.
Party may waive right to jury trial, by consenting to reference of such
issues in the cause.— City Council v. Ryan, 22 S. C, 3S9; Meetze v. R. R., 23
S. C, 1 ; Martin v. Martin, 24 S. C, 446 ; Calvert v. Nichols, 26 S. C, 304 ;
^lrcAer v. Ellison, 28 S. C, 238 : Rhodes v. Russel, 32 S. C, 585 ; or by consent
ing to trial by the Court. — Whaley v. Charleston, 5 S. C, 206 ; Magruder v.
Clayton, 29 S. C, 407.
But party cannot so waive such right by his conduct.—Sale v. Meggett, 25
S. C, 72.
(£SivaIj uVg- 
Sec. 289. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the Court,
me n't, bow its decision shall be given in writing, and shall contain a stateelven ; motion
°
°'
for new trial, ment of the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately ;
ib., 82oi.
an(l upon a trial of an isgue 0f iaw, the decision shall be made in
the same manner, stating the conclusions of law. Such decision
shall be filed with the Clerk within sixty days after the Court at
which the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall
be entered accordingly.
The demand as to the form of the decision should be complied with.— Vtsanska v. Bradley, 4 S. C, 288.
But where there is no contest as to the facts, there need be no finding of
fact.—Briggs v. Winsmith, 10 S. C, 133.
The rule is directory and not mandatory, and an omission on the part of the
Court to contain in its decision a statement of the facts found and the conclu
sions of law separately is not ground for reversal unless it appear that appel
lant has suffered prejudice thereby, as to the merits of the case. —Joplin v.
Carrier, 11 S. C, 329 ; State v. Columbia, 12 S. C, 393 ; Bouknight v. Broum,
16 S. C, 166 ; Briggs v. Briggs, 24 S. C, 377 ; May v. Cavender, 29 S. C, 598.
Where decision of the Court found a balance due on former judgment and
directed execution thereof, the Clerk properly entered up judgment on the
decision for the balance.— Garvin v. Garrin, 21 S. C, 83.
The Judge has power npon hearing referee.s report in law case to reverse,
affirm or modify his finding of fact— Meetze v. R. R., 23 S. C, 1 ; Griffith v. R.
R., 23 S. C, 25.
Decision valid though filed more than sixty days after Court.—Koon v.
Munro, 11 S. C, 139.
Exceptions, 
Sec. 290. 1- For the purpose of an appeal, either party may
taken; judg- except to a decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial,
te™.a Renera within ten days after written notice of the filing of the decision,
ib., 8ae.
order, or decree, as provided in Sections 344 (tnd 345 : Provided,
however, That where the decision filed under Section 289 does
not authorize a final judgment, but directs further proceedings
before a referee or otherwise, either party may move for a new
trial at the next term, and for that purpose may, within ten days
after notice of the decision being filed, except thereto, and make
a case or exceptions as above provided in cases of an appeal.
2. And either party desiring a review upon the evidence ap
pearing on the trial, either of the questions of fact or of law,
may, at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment,
or within such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the
Court, make a case or exceptions, in like manner as upon a trial

how and when
by jurv, except that the Judge, in settling the case, must briefly ^"""v—'
specify the facts found by him and his conclusions of law.
If exception has been taken to a decision on a matter of law arising on the
trial, no further exception need be made thereto as required by this Section.—
Coleman v. Heller, 13 S. C, 491.
In appealing from a decree in chancery rendered in vacation, it is not neces
sary to serve the Judge with a copy of the exceptions.— Godbold v. Vance, 14
& C, 458.
Matters stated only in the exceptions are not facts in the case.—Lites v. Ad
dison, 27 a C, 226.
This Section controls on hearing of referee's report in a law case on excep
tions taken, and allows a review of his findings of fact as well as of law.—
Meetze v. R. R., 23 B. C, 1 ; Griffith v. R. R., 23 S. C, 25.


Sec. 291. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of proceeaioKs
law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by 
Sec. "rHsme on'aw!
tion 267, upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the Sr0, xrsr., 8a9Ssummons was personally served. If judgment be for the defend
ant upon an issue of law, and if the taking of an account or the
proof of any fact be necessary to enable the Court to complete
the judgment, a reference or assessment by jury may be ordered,
as in that Section provided.
This Chapter as to referees inoperative in Counties where there is a Mas
ter.—Chapman v. Lipscomb, 15 S. C, 474.
Section 292. All or any of the issues in the action, whether ah ^ues reof fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the written con- 'tnt!"16 by con"
sent of the parties ; and in such case the order, if taken in vaca- ^j-jfj. 1S72,
tion, may be made by the Clerk.
All issues in law may be so referred.—Meetze v. R. R., 23 S. C, 1 ; Griffith v.
R. R., 23 S. C, 25. But not except upon written consent.—Sale v. Meggett,
25 S. C, 72. An order for reference, by consent, is sufficient.— City Council v.
Ryan, 22 S. C. , 339 ; Martin v. Martin, 24 S. C, 446 ; Calvert v. Nichols, 26 a
C, 304 ; Trenholm v. Morgan, 28 B. C, 268.


Sec. 293. Where the parties do not consent, the Court may, wnenareferupon the application of either, or of its own motion, except compiusVri'i!
where the investigation will require the decision of difficult ques- orderedtions of law, direct a reference in the following cases :
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the exami
nation of a long account on either side ; in which case the re
feree may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to
report upon any specific question of fact involved therein ; or,
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the Court, before judgment, or for carrying a
judgment or order into effect ; or,
3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
4. The reference shall be made, in all Counties in which the
office of Master has been established, to a Master ; in all other
Counties the reference shall be made to such person or persons
as shall be appointed as provided in Section 295.
This Section does not impair the common law power of the Court to submit
a case, with consent of parties, to arbitration and make the award the judg
ment of the Court.—Bollman v. Bollman, 6 S. C, 29.
The provision of this Section is permissive merely, and not mandatory, and
the matter of reference is addressed to the discretion of the Judge.—Bouland
v. Carpin, 27 S. C, 235. While he can only refer in the specified cases, it
must be assumed that the Judge had before him sufficient to show that the
case did fall under one of the subdivisions.—Ferguson v. Harrison, 34 S. C,
169. And in proper case reference may be ordered at same time it is required
that other persons be made parties.—Sullivan v. Latimer, 32 S. C, 281.
This Section, as to subdivision 1, must be construed to apply to such cases
only as were not triable by jury prior to 1868, and where an action on open ac
count or account stated presents no special feature of equitable cognizance
the parties are entitled to a jury trial, even though the examination of a long
account may be involved.— SmitK v. Bryce, 17 S. C, 538.
Where a creditor, defendant, claims priority of payment out of a fund in
Court, through a lien on the property it represented, the case was referable
under this Section.—State v. R. R., 8 S. C, 129.
So when the defendant to an equitable action sets np a claim for damages,
the Court may still refer the case.—Lamar v. R. R., 10 S. C, 476 ; Bath Co. v.
Langley, 23 S. C, 145 ; Bouland v. Carpin, 27 S. C, 235.
Mode of trial ; 
Sec. 294. The trial by a Master, or by referees, shall be conri.vii-wl rep° . ducted in the same manner and on similar notice as a trial by the
\m. Xx viTl. Court. Every referee appointed pursuant to this Code of Proriw; ib8o, xx., cedure shall have power to administer oaths in any proceedings
before him, and shall have, generally, the powers vested in a
referee by law. Masters and referees shall have the same power
to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments to any plead
ings and to the summons, as the Court, upon such trial, upon
the same terms and with the like effect. They shall have the
same power to preserve order and punish all violations thereof
upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of witnesses be
fore them by attachment, and to punish them as for contempt
for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is pos-
sessed by the Court. They must state the facts found, and the
conclusions of law, separately ; and their decision must be given,
and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner, and with
like effect, in all respects, as in cases of appeal under Section
290 ; and they may in like manner settle a case or exceptions.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report shall have
the effect of a special verdict.
Masters and referees to whom causes may be referred, whether
to hear and decide the whole issues or to report upon any spe
cific question of fact, or upon the facts generally, shall hear and
decide any objection which may be made to the competency,
relevancy or admissibility of any testimony which may be offered ;
and if, upon hearing such testimony, he shall decide the same
inadmissible, he shall take it subject to such objection, but shall
not incorporate it with the rest of the testimony in the body of
his report, but shall append it separately at the end thereof ;
and at the request of any party to a cause who may tender the
necessary expenses incident thereto, the Master or referee may
employ a competent stenographer to take testimony in such
cause ; but such expenses shall not be taxed in the costs or
included in the disbursements thereof.
Whenever any cause shall be referred to a Master or referee
and testimony be taken therein, it shall be his duty to reduce the
testimony of the witnesses to writing, and require the same to be
read over and signed by the witness ; but this shall not be con
strued to prevent the use of stenographers for the purpose of
taking testimony at such references, or to require that the testi
mony so taken by such stenographers shall be read over to or
signed by such witnesses.
When the case shall have been heard and decided upon the
report of the Master or referee and exceptions, the decision may
be reviewed on appeal to the Supreme Court.
Referee has power to allow amendments.—Mason v. Johnson, 13 S. C, 20.
This Section does not authorize a Master to require a party to produce a
deed.— Cartee v. Spence, 24 S. C, 550.
It is not mandatory, but directory merely, as to the statement "of facts
found and conclusions of law," separately. —Bollman v. Bollman, 6 S. C, 29.
The "facts found" are the conclusions of facts drawn from the testimony.
There should first be a clear statement of all material facts, and then should
follow the conclusions of the referee.—Moore v. Johnson, 7 S. C, 803.
An exception to the report cannot by its own statement supply such defect
of facts.— Thompson v. Thompson, 6 S. C, 279. Nor can the Judge hearing
the case upon the report call for a paper to be produced which was not before
the referee.— Griffin v. Griffin, 20 S. C, 486.
It is the duty of the Judge to determine by his own judgment all the issues
in an equity cause ; and the report of the referee merely aids the Judge in
reaching his judgment.— Thorpe v. Thorpe, 12 S. C, 154.
While the report of the referee upon an issue of fact " shall have the effect
of a special verdict," as such a verdict it may be set aside, for any cause for
which verdicts may be set aside.— Fields v. Hurst, 20 S. C, 282. But in equity
his findings of fact are only to assist the Court and for its information, and
may be disregarded by the Court.—lb.
When there is a consent order of reference, of all issues, in a law case, the
Judge has power to review the findings of fact as well as of law, made by the
referee, when the report, the testimony and exceptions are all before him.—
Meetze v. R. R., 23 S. C, 1 ; Griffith v. R. R., 23 S. C, 25 ; Calvert v. Nickles,
26 S. C, 305.
A party can be heard in opposition to the confirmation of the report of the
referee, without having excepted thereto, when he has not been served with a
copy or notice thereof ten days before Court.—Ex Parte Fort, 36 S. C, 20.

Referees, how 
Sec. 295. In all cases of reference to referees, the parties to
1870, xi.v., vxyf. the issues in the action, except when the defendant is an infant
or an absentee, may agree in writing upon a person or persons,
not exceeding three, and a reference shall be ordered to him or
them, and to no other person or persons. And if such parties
do not agree, the Court shall appoint one or more referees, not
more than three, who shall be free from exception. And no per
son shall be appointed referee to whom all parties in the action
shall object. And no Judge or Justice of any Court shall sit as
referee in any action pending in the Court of which he is Judge
or Justice, and not already referred, unless the parties otherwise
stipulate. The referee or referees shall make and deliver a report
within sixty days from the time the action shall be finally sub
mitted ; and in default thereof, and before the report is deliv
ered, either party may serve notice upon the opposite party that
he elects to end the reference ; and thereupon the action shall
proceed as though no reference had been ordered, and the
referees shall not, in such case, be entitled any fees.
Section 296. 1. Judgment may be given for or against one judgment may
or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of anyoii°theparseveral defendants ; and it may determine the ultimate rights of t'on ^ay grant
the parties on each side, as between themselves.
urmauvereiief •
Harrison v. Manufacturing Co., 10 S. C, 278.
be dismissed for
In action against survivor of joint obligors and the executor of deceased one, negiint to prosethe judgment should be separate.— Trimmier v. Thompson, 10 S. C, 164.
]"u*dthg m ""n \
A separate judgment may be rendered in favor of one defendant against the against married
plaintiff, upon a counter-claim.—Flyer v. Parker, 10 S. C, 464.
l^o""^^^^

2. And it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled.
3. In an action against several defendants, the Court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them,
leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a
several judgment may be proper.
4. The Court may also dismiss the complaint with costs in
favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect
on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on other
defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or
defendants served.
Mere failure by plaintiff to proceed with his case after service of summons
and docketing does not have the effect, under this Section, of putting the
plaintiff out of Court.—Hagood v. Riley, 21 S. C, 143.

In an action brought by or against a married woman, judgment
may be given against her as well for costs as for damages, or both
for such costs and for such damages, in the same manner as
against other persons, to be levied and collected of her separate
estate, and not otherwise.
The provision for the levy and collection out of her separate estate is merely
directory.— Clinkscales v. Hall, 15 S. C, 602. Only intended to indicate what
property of the woman could be made liable.— Habenicht v. Rawls, 24 S. C,

Sec. 297. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no
be awarded to answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
ib.Vsust;— complaint ; but in any other case the Court may grant him any
relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and
embraced within the issue.
Relief not limited by prayer of complaint, if answer is filed and the relief is
consistent with the case made.— Christopher v. Christopher, 18 S. C, 600.
Where complaint states notes and credits and demands judgment for a cer
tain sum, and answer admitted the allegation, it was error in the Judge to
reduce the credits and give judgment for a larger sum ; this was not consis
tent with the case made.— Straub v. Screven, 19 S. C, 445.

Rates of dam- 
Sec. 298. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
damages are n> may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
^itOiioo— rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered for
the same cause of action.
This Section only remands such cases to the former practice, and in actions
for damages not punitive the recovery is limited to the direct pecuniary loss.—
Sullivan v. Sullivan, 20 S. C, 509.

judgment in 
Sec. 299. In any action to recover the possession of personal
covery oVpny property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession,
8°/S "shu1^".".~ or for thhe recovei7 of possession, or the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defend
ant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may
be for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a
return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding
the same.
This Section does not apply to action for general damages.—Joplin v. Car
rier, 11 S. C, 327 ; Richey v. DuPre, 20 S. C, 6.
Judgment may be given for value of the property, though only its recovery
and damages be demanded.—Joplin v. Carrier, 11 S. C, 327.
In action for bale of cotton, which defendant had sold, or for the value
thereof, a verdict for stated amount is not invalid, the plaintiff so electing.—
Richey v. DuPre, 20 S. C, 6.
In such action, where plaintiff takes possession of the property and the ver
dict gives him a portion of it with damages, and the remainder to the defend
ant with damages, each party is entitled to enter judgment.—Stoney v. Bailey.
28 S. C., 156.
Such judgment must be in the alternative for the recovery of the property
or its value.— Thompson v. Lee, 19 S. C, 489 ; Robbins v. Stattery, 30 S. C,
328, Note.
Judgment on complaint and verdict that fail to identify the articles is
invalid.—Eason v. Miller, 18 S. C, 381 ; Lockkart v. Little, 30 S. C, 326.

cierk to keep 
Sec. 300. The Clerk shall keep, among the records of the
judgment." ° Court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
ia». xi., 108,88 "Abstract of Judgments."

Sec. 301. In this book shall be entered each case wherein """~"y—"
judgment maybe signed, including each case in dower, partition, be entered in
and escheat, after judgment or final order, with separate columns,
/^showing number of enrollment, names of parties, cause of action,
attorney, date of judgment, amount of judgment, time of bear
ing interest, how judgment obtained, costs, (separating attorney,
Clerk, Sheriff, witnesses, and total,) kind of execution, date of
issuing, Sheriff's return, when renewed, and satisfaction, to
gether with an index, by the names of defendants, and a cross
index by the names of plaintiffs, each alphabetically arranged
and kept in separate volumes, with the number of enrollment of
judgment.

Sec. 302. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment roil :
judgment roll, the Clerk, immediately after entering judgment, judgment died
shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall county; effect of
constitute the judgment roll :
187°- X1V., im1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof,
and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer
of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in
any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judg
ment.
A transcript of a final judgment, directing, in whole or in
part, the payment of money, may be docketed with the Clerk of
the Court of Common Pleas in any other County, and when so
docketed shall have the same force and effect as a judgment of
that Court. Such transcript shall set out the names of the par
ties plaintiff or defendant, the attorneys of record, the date and
amount of the judgment, the time from which interest is to be
computed, and the amount of costs.
"Case"' required as part of judgment roll, is the case prepared on applica
tion for new trial, and not case for appeal.— Tribble v. Poore, 28 S. C, 565.
Final judgment applies to the Circuit Court.— Garrison v. Dougherty, 18 S.
C, 486.
A transcript of a final judgment is a copy of the entry in the judgment
book.—Harrison v. Manufacturing Co., 10 S. C, 278. But is good although
certified to be from the docket of judgments instead of the judgment book,
and without the Clerk's name, but with his seal.—lb.
Section 303. Writs of execution for the enforcement of
judgments shall conform to this Title ; and the party in whose
favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be given,
xix f"»i 1885. anc*> in case of *"s death, his personal representatives duly ap
pointed, may, at any time within ten years after the entry of
judgment, proceed to enforce the same, as prescribed by this
Title.
Execution
within ten years
of course.
This Section is expressly retrospective and applies to executions on previous
as well as subsequent judgments.— Garxin v. Garvin, 34 S. C, 388.
Execution may issue at any time within the ten years without leave ; and
at any time after ten years with leave ; and if then issued without leave,
the execution is not void, but only voidable for irregularity.—Lawrence v.
Grambling, 13 S. C. , 120. Consent will cure want of leave, and it may be pre
sumed from payment on the execution or failure to move to set it side. —lb.

judgments, 
Sec. 304. Where a judgment requires the payment of money,
lb. i»— or tne delivery of real or personal property, the same may be
enforced, in those respects, by execution, as provided in this
Title. Where it requires the performance of any other act, a
certified copy of the judgment may be served npon the party
against whom it is given, or the person or officer who is required
thereby or by law to obey the same, and his obedience thereto
enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the Court as for
a contempt.

how enforced.

Judgment of foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises is not a judgment
for delivery of real property to be enforced by execution alone, but may be enforced by attachment.

Sec. 305. There shall he three kinds of execution : one The different
against the property of the judgment debtor ; another against uon.
his person ; and the third for the delivery of the possession of 1870' XIV., 8m
real or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process of the
Court.

Sec. 306. When the execution is against the property of the to what connjudgment debtor, it may be issued to the Sheriff of any County ma/be^u'wi1where judgment is docketed. When it requires the delivery 2;bJ*™.
of real or personal property, it must be issued to the Sheriff m^ricT^'mian
of the County where the property, or some part thereof, is situ- ~ib.,mo\ iws,
ated.
Executions mayJ be issued at the same time to different xvi..,
sae, sssl
~
.
1S85, XIX., 7.
Counties.
Property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the County where
it lies, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, and in the fol
lowing manner :
All sales of real estate under the orders of the Probate Court
shall be made by the Judge of Probate ; all sales under the order
of the Court where the title is to be made by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall be made by the Clerk. In those Counties
where the office of Master exists, the Master shall make all sales
ordered by the Court in granting equitable relief, conformably to
the practice of the Circuit Court, or to the practice of the Courts
of Equity of this State before said Courts were abolished. And
whenever real estate is adjudged to be sold by a Master, such sale
may take place by consent of the parties to the cause or their
attorneys, or when infants are parties by the consent of their
guardians ad litem, or their attorneys, in any County which the
Court may direct. All other judicial sales shall be made by the
Sheriffs, as now provided by law.
Upon such sale being made, and the terms complied with, the
officer making the same must execute a conveyance to the pur
chaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass the rights and
interests of the parties adjudged to be sold.
An execution may issue against a married woman, and it shall
direct the levy and collection of the amount of the judgment
against her from her separate property, and not otherwise.
A sale by referee is invalid, but binds defendant until notice of appeal from
the decree, and a purchaser at the sale will not be affected by appeal after
wards taken.— Armstrong v. Humphreys, 5 S. C, 1:23.
Execution may issue upon a transcript of the judgment filed in a new County,
against lands embraced in the new County.— Garvin v. Garvin, 34 S. C, 38S.
Where Sheriff sells land under execution on a judgment not rendered when
the land was sold by defendant, the purchaser will take good title, against the
vendee, when there is in Sheriff's office an execution on an older judgment.—
lb.
In Counties where there is no Master, the Court may order a sale of fore
closure to be made by the Sheriff.— Childs v. Alexander, 22 S. C, 169.
The sale of Sheriff made in another County than where the land lies gives
indisputable title to purchaser, as to defendant and his vendee, where the
defendant failed, when served with summons, to show cause against renewal
of the execution.—freer v. Tvpper, 21 S. C, 75. So, sale by Sheriff under
renewal of execution more than twenty years old where defendant failed to
object, when summoned to show cause against the renewal.—Jackson r.
Patrick, 10 S. C, 197 ; McNair v. Ingraham, 21 S. C, 70.
This provision as to execution again9t a married woman is merely directory,
and not necessary to its validity.— Clinkscales v. Hall, 15 S. C, 602.
Cited to show that the limitation upon the right of a married woman to con
tract was not intended to indicate what property would be liable for the
breach thereof. —Habenicht v. Raids, 24 S. C, 461.
Execution 
Sec. 307. If the action be one in which the defendant might
sonfin'wnTl have been arrested, as provided in Section 200 and Section 202,
cases.
— an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be
issued to any County within the jurisdiction of the Court, after
the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in
whole or in part. But no execution shall issue against the per
son of a judgment debtor, unless an order of arrest has been
served, as in this Code of Procedure provided, or unless the
complaint contains a statement of facts showing one or more of
the causes of arrest required by Section 200.
Party so arrested is entitled to benefit of the Insolvent Debtors Act.—29 S.
C, 476.
Forms of exe- 
Sec. 308. The execution must be directed to the Sheriff, or
isr6° xiv j3i2" Coroner when the Sheriff is a party or interested, attested by
the Clerk, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney,
and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court,
the County where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the
names of the parties, the amount of the judgment if it be for
money, the amount actually due thereon, and the time of docket
ing in the County to which the execution is issued, and shall
require the officer, substantially, as follows :
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the per
sonal property of such debtor ; and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy the
judgment out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor and commit him to the
jail of the County until he shall pay the judgment or be dis
charged according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of
the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto,
and may, at the same time, require the officer to satisfy any costs,
damages, or rents or profits recovered by the same judgment, out
of the personal property of the party against whom it was ren
dered, and the value of the property for which the judgment
was recovered to be specified therein ; if a delivery thereof can
not be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of the real property belonging to him, and shall, in that
respect, be deemed an execution against property.

Sec. 309. 1. A final judgment recovered in any Court of Final judgrecord in this State subsequent to the 25th day of November, real estate for
A. D. 1873, shall constitute a lien upon the real estate of the -jb—6a1-.j\- 187ai
judgment debtor in the County where the same is entered for a § v.mj 'Haperiod of ten years from the date of entry thereof. And a tran- 188s- XIX., **>.
script of such judgment may be filed in the office of the Clerk
of the Court of Common Pleas of any other County, and when
so filed shall constitute a lien on the real property of the judg
ment debtor in that County from the date of the filing thereof,
with the same force and effect as the original judgment, for the
period of ten years from the entry of said original judgment.
2. A final judgment may be revived at any time within the
period of ten years from the date of the original entry thereof
by the service of a summons upon the judgment debtor, as pro
vided by law, or if the judgment debtor be dead, upon his heirs,
executors or administrators, or if he be removed out of the State,
by publication of such summons in the manner provided in Sec
tion 156 for publication of summons on complaint to be filed, to
show cause, if any he or they may have, why such judgment
should not be revived ; and if no good cause be shown to the
contrary it shall be decreed that such judgment is revived. And
such judgment shall thereupon constitute a lien upon the real
estate of the judgment debtor, then owned or thereafter to be
acquired by him, in the County where the judgment is entered,
for a period ten years from the entry of such decree ; but such
lien shall not revert back to the date of the original entry of such
judgment. And a transcript of said summons and decree may
be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court of any other
County, and when so filed the judgment shall have like liens in
that County from the date of filing of such transcript and for a
like period as in the County in which the judgment is revived
as aforesaid : Provided, That a judgment shall not in any case
constitute a lien on any property of the judgment debtor in any
County after the lapse of twenty years from the date of the origi
nal entry of the judgment.
3. This Section shall not be construed so as to make final
judgments in any case a lien on the real property of the judg
ment debtor exempt from attachment, levy and sale by the Con
stitution.
4. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect the
lien of judgments or executions entered prior to the 1st day of
March, A. D. 1870.
The lien allowed to decrees and judgments is no part of the remedy of en
forcement, and an Act which prevented such lien in absence of levy did not
impair the obligation of the contract and was valid.—Moore v. Holland, 16 S.
C, 15. So is an Act that limits the duration of such retrospectively.— Henry
v. Henry, 31 S. C, 1.
The Section providing no time within which the summons to revive a judg
ment and give it a lien, the Courts cannot fix any.—Alsbrook v. Watts, 19 S.
C, 539. Any legal objection in response to the summons may be considered
by the Court as to whether it is sufficient.—76.
Executions having an unexpired lien before the Act of 25th November, 1873,
then and thereunder acquired an extended lien for ten years from date the
lien attached. —Arnold v. McKellar, 9 S. C, 335 ; Adickes v. Loiery, 12 S. C, ST.
A judgment so revived continues to have a lien from its original entry and
ranks as of that date.—Re Parte Witte Bros., 32 S. C, 226. Subdivision 2
does not apply to judgments previously obtained.—King v. Belcher, 30 S. C,
881. The judgment may be revived, although signed by one who styled him
self "deputy clerk," but was never regularly appointed.— lb.
The proceeding to revive is not by action, but by summons to show cause ;
and when defendant fails to do so at time notified, the Court may, in its dis
cretion, give judgment by default or allow him to answer.— Carroll v. Simkins, 14 S. C, 223.
Where such summons to revive judgment before the Code is served within
twenty years and defendant consents to revival and acknowledges debt to be
due, the presumption of payment ceases to run, and upon revival the lien is
continued for twenty years longer. —Adams v. Richardson, 32 S. C, i.JO ;
Wood v. Milling, 32 S. C, 378 ; Leitner v. Metz, 32 S. C, 383.
There is no lien under a decree in equity as a judgment until it is properly
entered in the abstract of judgments.—Reid v. McGoican, 28 S. C, 74.
A judgment is not a lien on the homestead of debtor, either in his posses
sion or that of vendee.— Cantrell v. Fowler, 24 S. C, 424; Ketchinv. McCarley, 26 S. C, 1. Or even in lands unpartitioned.—Xance v. Hill, 26 S. C, 227.

Sec. 310. 1. Executions may issue upon final judgments or ' r '
decrees at any time within ten years from the date of the original erty^mdPon'Ey
entry thereof, or within ten years from the date of any revival ~imllv~*mof the same, and shall have active energy during said periods 1885- XIX., 2?9respectively without any renewal or renewals thereof, and thus
whether any return or returns may or may not have been made
during such periods respectively in said executions : Provided,
The execution shall not issue or be renewed in any case after the
lapse of twenty years from the date of original entry of the judg
ment. Executions shall not bind the personal property of the
debtor, but personal property shall only be bound by actual
attachment or levy thereon for the period of four months from
the date of such levy. When judgment shall have been rendered
in a Court of a Trial Justice, or other inferior Court, and dock
eted in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the applica
tion for leave to issue execution must be to the Circuit Court of
the County where the judgment was rendered.
2. The Sheriff, Coroner, or other officer with whom final pro
cess as aforesaid shall be lodged, shall, at each regular term of
the Court from which the said execution or process was sued out,
during the continuance of its active energy, until full execution
thereof be returned, make a return to the office of the Clerk of
the Court of Common Pleas of his actings and doing thereunder.
If he shall have fully executed, he shall return the process, with
the manner of its execution ; if he shall have partially executed,
he shall return, on oath, to the Clerk, a statement in writing,
under his hand, of such partial execution, with the reason of his
failure as to the remainder; if he shall have wholly failed to
make execution, he shall return, on oath, a statement in writing,
under his hand, of his failure, with the reasons ; and in any
event, on the first day of the term at which the active energy of
the process shall cease as herein provided, he shall return the
process, if the same has not been before returned as fully exe
cuted ; and the return of the officer made as aforesaid shall, for all
purposes, have the same legal effect as if the said process had
been made returnable to the term succeeding its first lodgment
and renewed after each subsequent regular term. For failure or
neglect to make any of the returns above mentioned, or for any
false return, the Sheriff, or other officer as aforesaid, shall be
subject to rule, attachment, action, penalty, and all other conse
quences provided by law for neglect of duty by executive or judi
cial officers.
Cited in Kohn v. Meyer, 19 S. C, 190.
This Section has no retroactive effect ; applies only to executions issued after
adoption of Code, and does not divest lien of execution of judgment obtained
before that time. — Warren v. Jones, 9 S. C, 288. Such lien continues after
active energy of execution has expired and attaches to personal property
acquired after adoption of the Code.—Carrier v. Thompson, 11 S. C, 79.
Such execution may be renewed by consent.—lb. Although the Sheriff fails
to make such return, it is no reason why he should not be competent to prove
that endorsements on executions were made by him and that he had not sold
the property levied on. —Bank v. Kinard, 28 S. C., 101.
Actions on 
Sec. 311. Nothing in the two preceding Sections contained
iftpseotntwenty shall be construed to prevent an action upon a judgment after
lssTxvm 229 tne lapse of twenty years from the date of the original entry
thereof, and a recovery thereon, in case it shall be established by
competent and sufficient evidence that said judgment, or some
part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due ; nor shall be construed
as prejudicing any action pending on 24th of December, 1885.
Section 312. 1- When an execution against property of the
ert7Pexam1in£ judgment debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgmmtd'ebtoAc" ment, issued to the Sheriff of the County where he resides or
1870, xiv., 8318. has a place of business, or, if he do not reside in the State, to the
Sheriff of the County where a judgment roll, or a transcript of a
Justice's judgment for twenty-five dollars or upwards, exclusive
of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is enti
tled to an order from a Judge of the Circuit Court, requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his prop
erty before such Judge, at a time and place specified in the order,
within the County to which the execution was issued.
2. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfac
tion of the Court, or a Judge thereof, that any judgment debtor
has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the sat
isfaction of the judgment, such Court or Judge may, by an
order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time
and place to answer concerning the same ; and such proceedings
may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are
provided upon the return of an execution.
3. On an examination under this Section, either party may
examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may
be examined in the same manner as a witness.
4. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judg
ment debtor, the Judge may, upon proof, by affidavit or other
wise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor's
leaving the State or concealing himself, and that there is reason
to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to
such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the Sheriff of any
County where such debtor may be to arrest him and bring him
before such Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he
may be examined on oath, and, if it then appears that there is
danger of the debtor's leaving the State, and that he has prop
erty which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment,
ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend before the Judge, as he
shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the
proceedings, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt
from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking,
he may be committed to prison by warrant of the Judge, as for
a contempt.
5. No person shall, on examination, pursuant to this Chapter,
be excused from answering any question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
fraud ; but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him
in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall he be
excused from answering any question on the ground that he has,
before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or
transfer of his property for any purpose ; but his answer shall
not be used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding
or prosecution.
Every judgment creditor who can make the requisite showing is entitled
to institute supplementary proceedings.—Sparks v. Davis, 25 S. C, 381. And
to have examination of debtor even after appointment of receiver. —lb.
The remedy given by this Section cannot be taken by way of defense to an
action ; it is a summary remedy, based directly on the judgment and supple
mentary to the prior proceedings.— Wylie v. Lyle, 7 S. C, 202.
The judgment debtor has the right to have examination conducted in his
own County.—Bank v. Northrop, 19 S. C, 478. But he may waive this right
by submitting his own written statement. —76.
It is no ground for dismissing the proceeding that the copy-order to appear
before referee, served on the defendant, was without seal of Court to Clerk.s
certificate.—Billing v. Foster, 21 S. C, 334.
Upon proper proceeding hereunder the Court may order money of defend
ant, in its hands, to be applied to execution against him returned unsatisfied.—
McDaniel v. Stokes, 19 S. C, 60.
Although application for appointment of a receiver was made under sub
division 1, the appointment might be made under subdivision 2, if the facts
justified it, although no execution had issued.— Green v. Bookhart, 19 S. C,

m.
When defendant debtor, residing in another County, appears in the Court
of another County, where the judgment was rendered, and, without objec
tion, was examined, and a receiver was appointed, he waives his right to ex
amination in his own County and to object to appointment of receiver. —lb.

Any debtor to 
Sec. 313. After the issuing of execution against property.
or^i"ay°payehi3 any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
debt to sheriff. Sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall he
1870, XIV., 8819.
.
. '
.
necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the Sheriff s receipt shall
be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
Such payment, with instructions to apply to a junior execution against
creditor which had lost its active energy, was a valid payment and discharged
the debtor therefor.—Isbell v. Dunlap, 17 S. C, 581.

Examination of 
Sec. 314. After the issuing or return of an execution against
nicnt"det)tor, or property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
pro per t y"b(5 in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or
""hjiaao'"1". corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the Judge may, by
an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or
member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place and
answer concerning the same. The Judge may also, in his discre
tion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party
to the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this Section, and in Section 312,
may be taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued
upon a judgment recovered in an action against joint debtors, in
which some of the defendants have not been served with the
summons by which said action was commenced, so far as relates to
the joint property of such debtors ; and all actions by creditors
to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the property of joint
debtors are maintainable in the like manner and to the like effect.
These provisions shall apply to all proceedings and actions nowpending, and not actually terminated by any final judgment or
decree.


Sec. 315. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on *
Witnesses reany proceedings under tins Chapter, in the same manner as upon quired to testify
the trial of an issue.
lo., Iffli.

Sec. 316. The party or witness may be required to attend compelling
before the Judge, or before a referee appointed by the Court or nesscsto attend
Judge. If before a referee, the examination shall be taken by / &•»8**.
the referee and certified to the Judge. All examinations and
answers before a Judge or referee, under this Chapter, shall be
on oath, except that when a corporation answers the answer shall
be on the oath of an officer thereof.
Where the same referee is appointed in separate cases of supplementary pro
ceedings by two creditors against the same defendant, the two cases may be
heard together.—Kennesaw Mills Co. v. Walker, 19 S. C, 104.
A referee, no matter how limited his power, must sometimes necessarily
decide questions in making the examination.— lb.
A Circuit Judge may pass the final order in such proceedings at his cham
bers in a County other than that in which the defendant resides, the examiination having been held in his County. —lb.

Sec. 317. The Judge may order any property of the judg- what property
ment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of tobe IppVdYo
himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to ^"/,**™!^°11.
be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment ; except that
the earnings of the debtor for his personal services at any time
within sixty days next preceding the order cannot be so applied
when it is made to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise,
that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported
wholly or partly by his labor.
After return of execution unsatisfied, the Court may, upon hearing, order
defendants property in its hands to be so applied.—McDaniel v. Stokes, 19
S. C, 60 ; Bank v. Northrop, 19 S. C, 473. Or money due the defendant to be
so applied. —Rhodes v. Casey, 20 S. C, 491.
But cannot require debtor's sureties to give up property pledged to them as
indemnity. — Cheatham v. Seawright, 30 S. C, 101. Nor require innocent
assignee of a judgment, who bought after order to show cause and enjoining
assignment had been passed but not served.—Robertson v. Segler, 24 S. C, 387.
The Judge may enforce his order for such application of property by attach
ment for contempt.—Kennesaw Co. v. Walker, 19 S. C, 104.
But such attachments shonld not issue until party has had an opportunity
to answer.—lb.
A fee earned in litigation ended more than sixty days before such order was
made against the defendant, was not an earning of the debtor's so exempt.—
Bank v. Northrop, 19 S. C, 473.
Where there are several judgment plaintiffs the property should go to those
alone who move hereunder.—Rhodes v. Casey, 20 S. C, 491.
Judge may appolnt receiver

Sec. 318. The Judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver S^LFerofpropof the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, "!*.
8324
and with the like authority, as if the appointment was made by
the Court, according to Section 265. Rut before the appoint
ment of such receiver, the Judge shall ascertain, if practicable,
by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether any other supple
mentary proceedings are pending against the judgment debtor ;
and if such proceedings are so pending, the plaintiff therein shall
have notice to appear before him, and shall likewise have notice
of all subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership.
No more than one receiver of the property of a judgment debtor
shall be appointed. The Judge may also, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution, and any interference there
with.
Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appointment
of a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor the same
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court of Common
Pleas of the County where the judgment roll in the action, or
transcript from Trial Justice's judgment, upon which the pro
ceedings are taken, is filed ; and the said Clerk shall record the
order in a book, to be kept for that purpose in his office, to be
called " Rook of Orders Appointing Receivers of Judgment
Debtors," and shall note the time of the filing of said order
therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the
receiver named therein, and he shall be vested with the property
and effects of the judgment debtor from the time of the filing
and recording of the order, as aforesaid. The receiver of the
judgment debtor shall be subject to the direction and control of
the Court in which the judgment was obtained or docketed
upon which the proceedings are founded.
A certified copy of said order shall also be filed and recorded
in the office of the Register of Mesne Conveyances of the County
in which any real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be
affected by such order is situated, and also in the office of the
Register of Mesne Conveyances of the County in which such
judgment debtor resides.
Where judgment debtor, residing in another County, appeared without
objection, and was examined in the County where the judgment was entered,
and a receiver was then appointed, he cannot afterwards object to such ap
pointment. — Green v. Booklutrt, 19 S. C, 466.
On hearing referee's report, Judge may appoint a receiver, without notice
having been given therefor.—Diiling v. Foster, 21 S. C, 334. And it will be
assumed, in absence of testimony to the contrary, that the Judge did his duty
and ascertained that no other supplementary proceedings were then pending
against defendant.—lb. And a receiver maybe appointed although it appears
that there is sufficient property in debtor.s hands to satisfy the judgment.—
lb. It is better practice to require bond of receiver so appointed.—lb. A re-
ceiver should not be authorized to sell choses in action, unless they represent
desperate debts.—/ 6. He should, after paying the debts, return to the debtor
all property remaining in his hands.—lb.
A creditor who obtains his judgment after the appointment of a receiver in
a former proceeding is entitled to have an examination of the debtor ; but not
to have appointment of another receiver. —Sparks v. Davis, 25 S. C, 381.


Sec. 319. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to Proceedings upon claim of
have property or the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, another party to property, or on
claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the denial of mdebt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action judgment debtagainst such person or corporation by the receiv er; but the-y^j^s~
Judge may by order forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
property or interest till a sufficient opportunity be given to the
receiver to commence the action and prosecute the same to judg
ment and execution ; but such order may be modified or dis
solved by the Judge granting the same at any time on such
security as he shall direct.

Sec. 320, The Judge may, in his discretion, order a reference Reference by
to a referee agreed upon by the parties or appointed by him, to ~Yi>7,Hm.
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion,
appoint such referee in the first order at any time.

Sec. 321. The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or costs of proto any party so examined, whether a party to the action or not, is70; xiv.78827.
witness fees and disbursements and a fixed sum in addition, not
exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.
Fee to plaintiffs attorney not allowed.—Dilting v. Foster, 21 S. C, 334. And
a fixed sum as costs must be fixed by the Judge and not by Clerk of the Court.
-lb.
A party is allowed not only the sum provided by this Section, but also other
costs due the officers of Court, and the attorneys, for their services. —Daunt
less Co. v. Davis, 24 S. C, 536. Costs of $10 for motion for appointment of
receiver cannot be taxed, without order of Court allowing same.— /&.
No error to allow sureties of debtor their fees and disbursements as wit
nesses and also a fixed sum of ten dollars.— Cheatham v. Seawright, 30 S. C,
101.
.
But their payment cannot be enforced by judgment and execution ; but
must be enforced under next Section. —lb.


Sec. 322. If any person, party or witness disobey an order of Disobedience
the Judge or referee duly served, such person, party or witness punished.,
may be punished by the Judge as for a contempt. And in all ib.,i»is.
cases of commitment under this Chapter the person committed
may, in case of inability to perform the act required, or to
endure the imprisonment, be discharged from imprisonment by
the Court or Judge committing him, or the Court in which the
judgment was rendered, on such terms as may be just.
This power of the Court to enforce its own orders by attachment for con-
A. D. 1894.
tempt is not in violation of Section 14 of declaration of rights in Constitution
of State.—Kennesaw Co. v. Walker, 19 S. C, 104.
But such attachment should not issue until the party has had an oppor
tunity to answer.—Earle v. Stokes, 5 S. C, 886 ; Kennesaw Co. v. Walker, 19
S. C, 104. The debtor.s only relief, therefore, is appeal, not habeas corptts.—
In Re Knox, 5 S. C, 71.
The payment of all amounts ordered to be paid under the preceding Section
must be enforced as here prescribed, and not by judgment and execution.—
Cheatham v. Seawright, 30 S. C, 101.
Costs, except Section 323. In every civil action commenced or prosecuted
In v ti i\ n (. ia y v
cases, to follow in the Courts of record of this State, (except cases in chancery.)
proviso^
. the attorneys of plaintiff or defendant shall be entitled to recover
1892. xxV.so9. costs and disbursements of the adverse party as prescribed in
Sections 2547 to 2570, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes, such
costs to be allowed as of course to the attorneys of plaintiff or
defendant, and all officers of the Court thereto entitled, accord
ingly as the action may terminate, and to be inserted in the
judgment against the losing party to such action : Provided.
That wherever, in any action for assault, battery, false imprison
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversa
tion, or seduction, or in any other action for damages for torts,
the amount recovered shall be less than one hundred dollars, the
total amount of costs and disbursements shall not exceed the
amount so recovered in the action, provided no costs be allowed
plaintiffs' or defendants' attorneys, except on actions pending or
existing liquidated contracts on the 12th day of January, 1893.
chancery costs. I*1 cases in chancery the same rule as to costs shall prevail,
unless otherwise ordered by the Court.

Costs cannot be allowed without statutory warrant.—State v. Treasurer, 10
S. C, 41 ; Seott v. Alexander, 27 S. C, 15 ; Sease v. Dobson, 36 S. C, 5.54. And
can only be taxed against the parties to the record.—State v. Marshall, 28 S.
C, 559.
Costs are not allowed in special proceedings ; only in actions.— Columbia Co.
v. Columbia, 4 S. C, 402.
Where all issues in a pending cause have been submitted to arbitrators, they
may award who shall pay the costs. —Bollman v. Bollman, 6 S. C, 48.
The Court declined to consider whether, since the Code, costs under former
laws could be taxed.— Thompson v. Thompson, 6 S. C, 287.
Costs are in the nature of damages.—Kapp v. Lyons, 18 S. C, 288.
Where complaint is dismissed, plaintiff is liable for all costs of the refer
ences in the action.—Huffman v. Stork, 25 S. C, 2t!7.
Where in action of claim and delivery the verdict gives to each party a por
tion of the property and damages, each is entitled to costs.—Stoney v. Bailey,
28 S. C, 156.
Costa follow the judgment in action at law.—Shuford v. Shingler, 30 S. C,
612.
The Court that gives final judgment in a chancery case is the Court to order
as to the costs.— Cooke v. Poole, 26 S. C, 321. A succeeding Judge cannot dis
turb such order by the trial Judge.—lb.
Costa in equity cases, being within discretion of the Circuit Judge, would
not ordinarily be disturbed by the Supreme Court.—Mars v. Connor, 9 S. C,
79 ; Bratton v. Massey, 18 S. C, 555 ; Covar v. Sallat, 22 S. C, 265 ; Gravelyv.
Gravely, 25 &. C, 2 ; Finch v. Finch, 28 S. C, 165 ; McAfee v. McAfee, 28S. C,
218 ; Bean v. Bean, 28 S. C., 607 ; Scott v. Scott, 29 S. C, 414 ; Hunter v. Mills,
29 S. C, 72 ; Booker v. Wingo, 29 S. C, 116 ; Miller v. Stork, 29 S. C, 825 ;
Alexander v. Maroney, 30 S. C, 386 ; Anderson v. Butler, 31 S. C, 184 ; Bredenburg v. Landrum, 32 S. C, 216 ; Young v. Edwards, 33 S. C, 437 ; Dendy
v. Waite, 36 S. C. , 569. The Judge may in such cases, preparatory to their in
sertion in his decree, order the Clerk to estimate the costs.— Dial v. Tappan,
20 S. C, 167.
But an appeal alleging error in awarding costs against parties not liable in
law therefor will be determined by the Supreme Court.—Scott v. Alexander,
20 S. C. , 120. When a board of aldermen have the one issue involved in a case,
charging them with excess of authority, decided against them, they are liable
for costs.—lb.
But plaintiff should not be required to pay costs incurred in contest between
co-defendants.—McCrady v. Jones, 36 S. C, 138. And a pretended purchaser
who resists action for foreclosure should pay costs.—Dendy v. Waite, 36 S. C,
569.
The special provision in the General Statutes as to dower, requiring the de
fendant to pay the expenses, must be regarded as an exception to this general
rule as to costs, and the demandant is not liable for costs on exceptions to re
turn of commissioners.—Fooshe v. Merriweather, 20 S. C, 887.

Sec. 324. Whenever a case may be settled or determined at officers may
the mutual cost of parties, or discontinued or settled by plaintiff, uonfor'costa.""
or the judgment shall be for defendant, or the execution against is73, xvi.,6M.
the defendant shall be returned nulla bona, any of the officers
aforesaid shall have power to issue an execution for his costs, or
the Clerk may issue for the whole, directed to the Sheriff, who
is authorized and required to execute such process as in other
cases of execution delivered to him.

Sec. 325. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
verdict or re- interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment
lowed* en a J be finally entered, shall be computed by the Clerk, and added to
1870, xiv., 5S36. fhe costs of the party entitled thereto.
Stegall v. Bolt, 11 S. C, 522.

Costs, how to 
Sec. 326. The Clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment,
lu'iiKiiiente? ad" on the application of the prevailing party, upon live days' notice
terkS'ry'costo to the other, except when the attorneys reside in the same city,
lb., 8837.
village or town, and then upon two days' notice, the sum of the
allowances for costs and disbursements, as provided by law, the
necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers allowed by
law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of com
missioners in taking depositions, the fees of referees, and the
expense of printing the papers for any hearing, when required
by a rule of the Court. The disbursements shall be stated in
detail and verified by affidavit. A copy of the items of the costs
and disbursements shall be served, with a notice of adjustment.
Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlocu
tory proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the
same shall be adjusted by the Judge before whom the same may
be heard, or the Court before which the same may be decided or
pending, or in such other manner as the Judge or Court may
direct.
Thin Section does not require that the costs and disbursements shall be taxed
by the Clerk exclusively ; but the Court in equity cases has control of the
question of costs.—Dial v. Tappan, 20 S. C, 167.
And it does not prevent taxation by the Master.—lb. But erroneous taxa
tion directed by the Court will be reviewed by the Supreme Court. —lulling
v. Foster, 21 S. C, 334.
Unless the costs have been taxed by the Clerk and a motion to correct the
taxation has been decided in the Court l>elow, the Supreme Court will not con
sider any question as to same. — Bradley v. Rodlesperger, 6 S. C, 291 ; Dilling
v. Foster, 21 S. C, 334 ; Cooke v. Poole, 26 S. C, 321 ; Heeht v. Friesleben, 28
S. C, 1S1 ; Armstrong v. Friesleben, 28 S. C, 605.
But when the taxation has been heard and confirmed by Circuit Court, ap
peal lies to Supreme Court.— Stegall v. Holt, 11 S. C, 522. But such order of
confirmation is not a final judgment that allows previous orders to be re
viewed. —Huffman v. Stork, 23 S. C. , 267.
Notice of taxation may be given by Clerk as well as by the attorneys.— Cureton v. Westfleld, 24 S. C, 457.
The fees of the officers and witnesses are in theory the disbursements paid
by prevailing party ; but it is not error to tax them as due to them.— Lewis v.
Brown, 16 S. C, 5S. And the costs of the officers need not be sworn to or cer
tified by them.— Cureton v. Westfleld, 24 S. C, 451.
Production of subpoena writ is not necessary to entitle witness to tax his
fees.—/ b.
Disbursements must be taxed under the fee bill in force at time incurred.—
lb.
But they most be verified or not allowed.- Cureton v. Westfleld, 24 S. C,
457.
"A rule of Court" means a pre-existing rule of general operation, and not a
mere order pro hoc vice.—Scott v. Alexander, 27 S. C, 15.
The rules of Court require printing of papers only in the Supreme Court ; so
that printing of papers in the Circuit Court cannot be taxed.—/6.
Fees of stenographer cannot be taxed. —lb.

Sec. 327. When an application shall be made to a Court or costs on postreferee to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a trial,
sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may Th.,ilmbe imposed as the condition of granting the postponement.

Sec. 328. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discre- cost on a
tion of the Court or Judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may n,., 8s4i.
be absolute or directed to abide the event of the action.
Such costs are discretionary with the Court and cannot be taxed without
order allowing them.—Dauntless Co. v. Davis, 24 S. C, 536.
Appeal from refusal of Clerk to tax costs is not such motion.—State v. Mar
shall, 28 S. C, 559.


Sec. 329. When costs and disbursements are adjudged against cost against
an infant plaintiff, the guardian by whom he appeared in the tin*,
action shall be responsible therefor, and payment thereof may be /''-8842enforced by attachment.

Sec. 330. In an action prosecuted or defended by an execu- costs in action
tor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person ex- cxecuSo? or ad°
pressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an trustee of an°xaction by and against a person prosecuting or defending in his Serso^wtpms*
own right ; but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or col- iLatutirto1iue.by
lected of the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the Court 187n* xrV.,8sis.
shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant
personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or
defense.
The Court has no right to require an administrator to pay costs of an action,
personally, unless he has been guilty of mismanagement or bad faith in that
action.— Clark v. Wright, 36 S. C, 196. And the Court should charge the
assigned estate with costs where the assignee had not made himself so liable
"for mismanagement or bad faith in the conduct of the business."—Akers v.
Rowan, 36 S. C, 87.

Sec. 331. When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding, including appeals from Probate
Courts, shall be brought before the Circuit Court for review,
such proceeding shall, for all purposes of costs, be deemed an
action at issue, on a question of law, from the time the same
shall be brought into Court, and costs thereon shall be awarded
and collected as provided by law.

costs onreview
Jjf, " nTerTo°?
£peci\u proceed_ng--

Sec. 332. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the
tion by the state State, by an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the State
lb., 8845.
ghall be liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same
extent, as private parties. If a private person be joined with the
State as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the
defendant's costs, which shall not be recovered of the State till
after execution issued therefor against such private party and
returned unsatisfied.
The like.

Sec. 333. In an action prosecuted in the name of the State
lb., 8346.
for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or
claim for the benefit of any County, city, town, village, corpora
tion, or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall be a
charge against the party for whose benefit the action was prose
cuted, and not against the State.
costs against
Sec.
bv•
assignee
after
fw 334.
In actions in which the cause of action shall,
action brought, assignment after the commencement of the action, or in any
of cause of ac°
tion.
other manner, become the property of a person not a party to
lb., 884,.
^ actioIl. guph persoIi shall be liable for the costs and disburse
ments in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment
thereof may be enforced by attachment.
Costs against a person not party to the action cannot be taxed by the Clerk ;
they can only be enforced by attachment on rule to show cause.—State v.
Marshall, 28 S. C, 559.
Section 335. The only mode of reviewing a judgment or *
v '
order in a civil or criminal action shall be that prescribed by viewing % d g,i •

rivxi

ment or order.

11,18 lltle1870, XIV., ?»19.
No appeal lies from a verdict of a jury. — Winsmith v. Walker, 5 S. C, 473 :
Bank v. Gary, 14 S. C, 572. Nor from order made out of Court, without
notice to the adverse party.— Hill v. Watson, 10 S. C, 208.


Sec. 336. An order made out of Court, without notice to orders made
the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, how vacated1™
by the Judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified, on'°i/) j^,
notice, in the manner in which otber motions are made.

Sec. 337. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases pre- wino m^ aPscribed in this Title.
lb., 8asi.
The word "cases"' comprehends special proceedings.—Sense v. Dobson, 3*5
S. C, 554.


Sec. 338. The party appealing shall be known as the appel- Parties, how
lant, and the adverse party as the respondent. But the title of appeal,
the action shall not be changed in consequence of the appeal.
Tb.,its».

Sec. 339. (1.) An appeal must be made by the service of a Appeal, how
notice, in writing, on the adverse party or his attorney, and, in ~ib 8w.isfs
the cases provided by law, on the Judge or Trial Justice, or |vn "^ 188°.
other officer who heard the cause, with whom the judgment or
order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the same,
or some specified part thereof. (2.) When a party shall give, in
good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or order, and shall
omit, through mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect
the appeal or to stay proceedings, the Court may permit an
amendment on such terms as may be just.
A notice of appeal from an order for judgment, instead of from the judg
ment itself, will be treated as proper notice. —Boylslon v. Crews, 2 S. C, 422.
The notice must be in writing.—Abney v. Cole, 30 S. C, 607.
See cases under 
Sec. 349.


Sec. 340. If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after cierktotmnshis appeal is perfected, cause a certified copy of the notice of appellate court,
appeal and of the judgment roll, or, if the appeal be from an 1870. XIV.,8-jMorder or any part thereof, a certified copy of such order, and the
papers upon which the order was granted, to be transmitted to
the appellate Court by the Clerk with whom the notice of appeal
is filed, the respondent may cause such certified copy to be trans
mitted by such Clerk to the appellate Court, and recover the
expenses thereof, as a disbursement on such appeal, in case the
judgment or order appealed from shall be in whole or in part
affirmed ; and this provision shall apply to all appeals heretofore taken, where the appeal has not been
provided by the rules of the appellate
intermediate 
Sec. 341. Upon an appeal from a
orders affectum
the judgment review any immediate order involving
dismissed in the manner
Court,
judgment, the Court may
the merits and necessarilv

may he review-
edontheappeai attectnig the judgment.
from the Judg
ment.
See cases under Section 11.
1870, XIV., 83s5.
appeal-

Sec. 342. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the
appellate Court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or
order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary
or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or
modified, the appellate Court may make complete restitution of
all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.
The Supreme Court cannot modify a judgment of the Court below, in a case
at law ; it can only reverse or affirm. —Hosford v. Wynn, 22 S. C, 313.

How and when 
Sec. 343. No rule or order of any Court or Judge shall require
dispensed. with! the printing of any brief, report, or other paper connected with
1878,-xv., 5oi. appeals, l3y any purty to an action or proceeding who makes an
affidavit, to be filed with the Clerk of the Supreme Court, that
ho or she is unable to pay for such printing.
Section 344. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court
what cases.
in the cases mentioned in Section 11. When the Circuit Court
loio, XIV., s-Joo. --i
i*i
Tshall render judgment upon a verdict taken, subject to the opin
ion of the Court, the questions or conclusions of law, together
with a concise statement of the facts upon which they arose,
shall be prepared by and under the direction of the Court, and 1"" v
'
shall be filed with the judgment roll and be deemed a part
thereof for tbe purposes of a review in the Supreme Court.
The provisions of this Section shall apply to any judgment
therein mentioned that has been heretofore rendered, and upon
which an appeal has been brought and is now pending, or upon
which an appeal shall hereafter be brought. When the return
has already been filed with the Clerk of the Supreme Court, such
statement shall be filed with him and be deemed a part of such
return.

Sec. 345. 1. . In every* appeal
to the Supreme
Court from an may
when
appeal
L*
r
be taken ;
order, decree or judgment granted or rendered at chambers from notice; serving
CMe and excepwhich an appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court, the appel- tions; proposing
hint or his attorney shall, within ten days after written notice settling case!
that such order has been granted or decree or judgment ren- peai.'waiver of,
dered, give notice to the opposite party or his attorney of his mint,
intention to appeal ; and in all other appeals to the Supreme iM7k7.\vV"u^?:
Court the appellant or his attorney shall. within ten days after J^- Ix'1.^91
the rising of the Circuit Court, give like notice of his intention
to appeal to the opposite party or his attorney, and within thirty
days after such notice the appellant or his attorney shall prepare
a case with exceptions and serve them on the opposite party or
his attorney. The respondent, within ten days after service of
such case, may propose any objection thereto or alteration thereof,
and the case shall be settled in such mode as may be provided in
the rules of the Supreme Court.
2. The case shall be placed on the docket of the Supreme
Court at such time as may be fixed by the rules of the Supreme
Court.
3. Whenever the appellant shall fail to perfect his appeal, his
failure to do so shall amount to a waiver thereof, unless the
Court permit the appeal to be perfected as provided in Sections
339 and 349.
4. Upon appeals to the Supreme Court, in case the attorneys
for the appellant and respondent shall agree upon a statement of
the case as prepared by them for the hearing of the Supreme
Court, such statement of the case shall be a sufficient brief of
the same, and no return or other paper from the Circuit Court
•shall be required.
Upon the transmission of a certified copy of such agreement
to the Clerk of the appellate Court, within the time now
required by law, he shall place said cause on the docket for a
hearing by said Court.
A. D. 1894.
The time for appeal runs from written notice of the judgment at chambers.
notwithstanding actual notice previously had.— Lake v. Moore, 12 S. C, 564.
Notice of appeal within ten days after entry of judgment on a verdict, but
more than ten days after rising of the Court, is sufficient.— Bank v. Gary, 14
S. C, 571 ; Molair v. R. R. Co., 31 S. C, 510.
Where party fails to serve notice of appeal within the time, the appeal will
be dismissed on motion.— Rogers v. Nash, 12 S. C, 559. So if he fail to serve
his case within time.— lb.; McElwee, v. McElwee, 14 S. C, 623.
The Supreme Court has no power to remedy the omission to give notice of
appeal within the ten days, which is imperative.— Renneker v. Warren, 20 S.
C, 581.
Nor to extend the time within which to serve the case. —Scurry v. Coleman.
14 S. C, 166.
Notice of appeal within ten days from notice of filing a decree at chambers,
and service of case within thirty days thereafter, is a compliance with the
law.— Godbold v. Vance, 14 S. C, 458.
Appeal dismissed because notice was not served in time. Service being de
nied, appellant was bound to prove it.— Allen v. Stokes, 19 S. C, 602.
The appellant is confined to matters in Judge's view of the case and em
braced in his exceptions ; but resixmdent may rely upon other and any grounds
to sustain the judgment.—Southern Co. v. Thew, 5 S. C, 5 ; Sheriff v. H>1born, 14 S. C, 487.
Where an exception is founded on facts, they must appear in the case, and
not in the exception alone, or the Supreme Court will not consider it. — Thomp
son v. Thompson, 6 S. C, 279 ; State v. Satterwhite, 20 S. C, 538 ; McPherson v.
McPherson, 21 S. C, 267 : State v. Jenkins, 21 S. C, 596.
Exceptions must point out the specific errors complained of. — Shelton v.
Maybin, 4 S. C, 541 ; Fox v. R. R. Co., 4 S. C, 544 ; Winsmilh v. Walker, 5 S.
C, 473 ; R. R. Co. v. R. R. Co., 7 S. C, 410 ; Clarke v. Harper, 8 S. C, 256 ;
State v. Coleman, 11 S. C, 392 ; Lawrence v. Grambling, 13 S. C, 120 : John
son v. Clarke, 15 S. C, 72 ; Cureton v. Daraan, 16 S. C, 619 ; McClure v. Lan
caster, 24 S. C, 280.
General exceptions will not be considered.—State v. Gilreath, 16 S. C, 105 :
Parts v. DuPre, 17 S. C, 288 ; Walker v. Walker, 17 S. C, 838 ; Fields v.
Hurst, 20 S. a, 293 : Cureton v. Stokes, 20 S. C, 583 ; Johnson v. Frazee, 20 S.
C., 503 ; Lanier v. Tolleson, 20 S. C, 62 ; Bauskett v. Keitt, 22 S. C, 200 ; Covar v. Sallat, 22 S. C, 271 ; Pudigon v. Gablet, 24 S. C, 478 ; Coin v. Coin, 24
S. C., 597.
An exception in the nature of argument is not in proper form.— Alsbrook v.
Watts, 19 S. C, 548.
Exceptions by mere reference back to exceptions considered on Circuit are
not in proper form.— Harbin v. Parker, 19 S. C, 598.
The exceptions must be served within the required time. — Bell v. Wheeler.
3 S. C, 104 ; Weatherly v. Jackson, 3 S. C, 228 ; Spratt v. Picrson, 4 S. C, 308 ;
Kibler v. Mcllwaine, 12 S. C, 555 ; Rogers v. Nash, 12 S. C. 559 ; Sullican v.
Speights, 12 S. C, 561 ; Ex Parte Clyde, 14 S. C, 385 ; Blakely v. Frazier, 15
S. C, 600.
A "case" is a clear and intelligible statement of all the proceedings on the
trial important to a review of a cause, upon the points raised by the appeal.—
Sullivan v. Thomas, 3 S. C, 531.
The proposed case may be served in parts, so they are within time.— ^IrcAri"
v. Long, 35 S. C, 5S5. A copy of the case may be filed.—lb.
The power of a Judge to settle a case is not personal, but may be exercised
by his successor in office.— Chalk v. Patterson, 4 S. C, 98.
He settles the case at the time and place for settlement, and must not regard
the respondent's amendments proposed as abandoned because his attorney does
not appear. —76.
The case may be settled upon affidavits and other proofs, as well as upon the
minutes and personal recollections of the Judge.—lb.
If case proposed does not satisfy respondent, he must proceed to remedy it
under the rules, as no ex parte statements will be considered by the Supreme
Court.—Hornesby v. Burdell, 9S. C, 303 ; Ransom v. Anderson, 9 S. C, 488.
If brief presented is not the case as settled, the appeal will be dismissed.—
Collins v. Roumillat, 22 S. C, 389.
If case for appeal is incorrect or improper, it can only be taken advantage
of on proper motion before the submission or hearing ; it is too late after hear
ing begins. —Sullivan v. Thomas, 8 S. C, 548 ; Redding v. R. R. Co., 5 S. C, 67;
Green v. R. R. Co., 6 S. C, 842.
The case is defective if it does not contain a proper statement of the nature
of the issue to which the judgment appealed relates.— Trotter v. Robinson, 6
8. C, 410.
And when it does not contain an intelligible statement of the case and
grounds of appeal it will be stricken from the docket.—Shumate v. Powell, 5
S. C. , 286. Or if it does not contain exceptions specifying the errors complained
of.— Cureton v. Dargan, 16 S. C, 619.
When party fails to file return within forty days as required by the Rule 1
of Supreme Court, his appeal will be dismissed on motion.—Agnew v. Adams,
24 S. C, 90 ; Nabors v. Latimer, 30 S. C, 607 ; Abney v. Cole, 30 S. C, 607 ;
Calvo v. R. R. Co., 30 S. C, 608. Where both parties appeal, one docketing is
sufficient.—Coleman v. Keels, 31 S. C, 601.
Where appellant fails to appear on regular call of case on the docket, the
appeal will be dismissed, on motion, for want of prosecution.— Varn v. Wil
liams, 30 S. C, 608.
Where waiver and order of dismissal by Clerk have not been brought to at
tention of the Court, and the papers presented show an appeal, the Court will
consider it.— Coleman v. Keels, 31 S. C, 601.
An " agreed case," with notice of appeal and exceptions, constitutes the re
turn, and no other papers are required to be filed.—McNair v. Craig, 34 S. C,
9 ; Davis v. Pollock, 35 S. C, 584.
It must be filed with Clerk of the Circuit Court, within ten days, under
Rule 49 of that Court.— Chisolm v. Providence Co., 35 S. C, 599.

155
A. D. 1694.
"——.y—-'


Sec. 346. A notice of appeal from a judgment directing the when notice
payment of money shall not stay the execution of the judgment swy^xwution5;
unless the presiding Judge before whom the judgment was ob- appeai.akl118 °n
tained shall grant a stay of execution ; but after notice of appeal .A^JPiJ^lv.,
the plaintiff shall not enforce a sale of property without giving Mi
an undertaking or bond to the defendant, with two good sure
ties, in double the appraised value of the property, or double the
amount of the judgment, conditioned to pay all damages which
the defendant may sustain by reason of such sale in case the
judgment is reversed. Nor shall the plaintiff in such case be
allowed to proceed with a sale of defendant's property if the
defendant do enter into an undertaking, with good sureties, in
double the appraised valued of the said property, or the amount
of the judgment, to pay the judgment, with legal interest, and
11
all costs and damages which the plaintiff may sustain by reason
of the appeal, or produce the property levied on, and submit to
the sale in case the judgment be confirmed.
The stay of execution is discretionary with the Judge ; it is not mandatory.
—Broum v. Buttz, 15 S. C, 488.
Sheriff after appeal is not guilty of any breach of duty in failing to enforce
a sale of property, without the plaintiff giving the bond so required. —State v.
Gilreath, 16 S. C, 100.

New under- 
Sec. 347. Whenever it shall be made satisfactorily to appear
sureties "a sol- to the Court that since the execution of the undertaking the
isro xiv—?360 sureties have become insolvent, the Court may, by rule or order,
require the appellant to execute, file and serve a new undertak
ing as above ; and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking
within twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or
order requiring such new undertaking, the appeal may, on mo
tion to the Court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it shall
be necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a
bond or an undertaking with surety or sureties, he may, in lieu
thereof, deposit with the officer, or into Court, as the case may
require, money to the amount for which such bond or undertak
ing is to be given. The Court in which such action or proceed
ing is pending may direct what disposition shall be made of such
money pending the action or proceeding. In any case where,
by this Section, the money is to be deposited with an officer, a
Judge of the Court, in term or at chambers, upon the applica
tion of either party, may, before such deposit is made, order it
to be deposited in Court instead of with such officer ; and a
deposit made pursuant to such order shall be of the same effect
as if made with such officer.
Extending time. 
Sec. 348, The time for taking any step or proceeding in the
iiMippeais.8 '"* preparation and perfection of appeals from the Circuit Courts to
808*°. XV1i.. the Supreme Court, as now prescribed by law, may be extended
by the Judge who heard the cause, or by any one of the Justices
of the Supreme Court, upon four days' notice of such motion
being first given to the opposite party, except the time of giving
notice of appeal to the opposite part}..
The Supreme Court has no power to remedy the omission to give the notice
of appeal within the required time of ten days.—lienneker v. Warren, 20 S.
C 581.
Such motion for extension of time must be made before the expiration of
the time limited.— Stribling v. Johns, 16 S. C, 112 ; Tribble v. Poore, 28 S. C,
565.

m.rfreted'. h°w 
Sec. 349, When any party shall omit, through mistake or
^1880, i vii., inadvertence, to do any act or acts necessary to perfect an appeal,
or to stay proceeding, the Supreme Court may, in their discre- .
tion, permit such act or acts to be done at any time to perfect
the appeal on such terms as may be just, provided that the Court
shall be satisfied that the appeal was taken bona fide, and pro
vided that notice of the same was given as now required by law.

v~—^

This Section is only intended to supply defects in order to perfect appeals ;
and as after appeal has been dismissed there is no appeal, it cannot apply.—
Clark v. Wimberly, 24 S. C, 138.
But notice of appeal having been given, the Court has power to relieve
against the consequences of other omissions.— Wardlaw v. Erskine, 20 S. C,
582.
Court may grant leave to perfect appeal for excusable neglect in failing to
file exceptions within ton days after rising of Court in case of jury trial.—
Harle v. Morgan, 80 S. C, 611.
Where notice of appeal has not been given in writing, as required by law,
no relief under this Section can be had.—Abney v. Cole, 30 S. C, 607.
Where appellant was honestly mistaken in supposing that the "case "for
appeal should constitute a part of the judgment roll and failed to file the
return within the time, he was allowed to reinstate his appeal, dismissed by
the Clerk for such failure.— Tribbley. Poors, 28S.C, 565 ; Cummingsv. Wingo,
28 S. C, 610.
But such relief must be obtained on motion based upon affidavits, and the
notice of motion and copies of the affidavits must be served on the opposite
party at least eight days before hearing.— Cummings v, Wingo, 28 S. C, 610.
Notice of appeal given within ten days after entry of judgment on a verdict
rendered in term time, but more than ten days after rising of the Court, is
sufficient.—Molair v. R. R. Co., 31 S. C, 510.


Sec. 350. If the judgment appealed from direct the assign- if judgment
be to deliver
ment or delivery of documents or personal property, the execu- document or
tion of the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the ertyfitamust°be
things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into Court, security g?vcn°r
or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the Court 1WU XIV., !3C1shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount
as the Court, or a Judge thereof, shall direct, to the effect that
the appellant will obey the order of the Supreme Court upon the
appeal.
An order directing executor to turn over assets to a receiver is not stayed by
appeal to Supreme Court unless a supersedeas bond be given as required by
order of that Court.—Harmon v. Wagener, 33 S. C, 487.


Sec. 351. If the judgment appealed from direct the executiou of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the
judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument
shall have been executed and deposited with the Clerk with whom
the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the Supreme
Court.

if judpnent be
veyance, it must
deposited*
ib., 83ea-
judgment ts to
property, or for
Rafted premiiU.
i &., J 868.


Sec. 352. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same
shall not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that.
during the possession of such property by the appellant, he will
not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and
that if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the
use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal
until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judg
ment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by a Judge of the Court
by which judgment was rendered, and which shall be specified
in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mort
gaged premises and the payment of a deficiency arising upon
the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of
such deficiency.
Stay of sale, pending appeal from decree of foreclosure, is not permitted
unless the appellant has executed the written undertaking required.— City
Council v. Caulfield, 19 S. C, 201 ; Gerald v. Gerald, 30 S. C, 348 ; Stanley t.
Stanley, 35 S. C, 584.
When defendant surrendered possession of the premises, at the sale, that
was " delivery of possession pursuant to the judgment," and the undertaking
was then payable.— Gerald v. Gerald, 30 S. C. , 348 ; Ex Parte Winkler, 31 S.
C, 171.

stay of pro- 
Sec. 353. Whenever the defendant executes the bond hereseeurity8 being 'nbefore prescribed, or the appeal is perfected as provided by
8l¥eS; ~. - Sections 346, 350, 351 and 352, it stays all further proceedings
xv.i.ooi. .

. in the Court below upon the judgment appealed from, or upon
the matter embraced therein ; but the Court below may proceed
upon any other matter included in the action and not affected
by the judgment appealed from. And the Court below may, in
its discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
Sections 346, 350 and 352 when the appellant is an executor,
administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right ;
and may also limit such security to an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars in the cases mentioned in Sections 350, 351
and 352 where it would otherwise, according to those Sections,
exceed that sum.
The discretion of the Court as to security required will not be exercised with
out proper showing to justify it.—Stanley v. Stanley, 35 S. C, 584.

undertakings 
Sec. 354. The undertakings prescribed by Sections 346, 347
Snstrum e'nt° or and 352 may be in one instrument or several, at the option of
several. _ ~~ ^e appellant ; and a copy, including the names and residence of
18781 xv.i.soi. . the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with a notice
of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in Section 347
and notice thereof given.

Sec. 355. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no v
effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties approved7 a°n >i
that they are each worth double the amount specified therein. ?^re CT t° '"
The respondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the
lbsureties, within ten days after the notice of the appeal ; and un
less they or other sureties justify before a Judge, or Clerk of the
Court below, as prescribed by Sections 217 and 218, within ten
days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertak
ing had been given. The justification shall be upon a notice of
not less than five days.

Sec. 356. In cases not provided for in Sections 346, 350, when appeal
351, 352 and 353, the notice of appeal shall stay proceedings in Jnt&ViowTexthe Court below upon the judgment appealed from, except that plEShabieprop^
where it directs the sale of perishable property the Court below tTaJnieaTlrom
may order the property to be sold and the proceeds thereof to i^^emujTer"'"
be deposited or invested in this State or United States bonds, 2£:;l*a^VjF.
to abide the judgment of the Supreme Court : Provided, An sws..
appeal from a judgment or decree overruling a demurrer shall
stay the further hearing of the cause unless the presiding Judge
shall be satisfied that the ends of justice will be subserved by
proceeding with the trial and shall order the trial of the cause
to proceed to judgment : Provided, further, That nothing con
tained in the preceding proviso shall be construed to prevent a
review, upon appeal from the final order or judgment in the cause,
of any judgment or decree on demurrer.
Appeal from order overruling demurrer to one cause of action shall stay
proceedings as to second cause of action.—Hammond v. R. It. Co., 15 S. C, 10.
When appeal from an order confirming the sale in an action for foreclosure
has been taken, it operates to stay proceedings to put the purchaser in posses
sion.—LeConte v. Irwin, 23 S. C, 106.
A notice of appeal, orally given, from an order refusing an oral demurrer,
stays the further hearing of the cause on the Circuit.—Elliott v. Pollitzer, 24
S. C, 81.
Appeal from return of homestead appraisers operates as a supersedeas upon
all the proceedings in the Court below.—Simonds v. Haithcock, 26 S. C, 595.
But appeal from order setting aside attachment does not stay trial of cause
upon merits.—Cureton v. Dargan, 16 S. C, 619.


Sec. 357. The undertaking must be filed with the Clerk with undertaking
whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The ^'^'^to
provisions of this Chapter as to the security to be given upon
appeals and as to the stay of proceedings shall apply to appeals
taken under subdivision 3 of Section 11.
By what Courts Judgments to be re
viewed ; to be beard on the papers.
. Appeal, when to be taken.
Notice of appeal to be served on Jus
tice, and on respondent, agent or
attorney.
. Filing In lieu of service of notice of
appeal.
, Return, when and bow made and
compelled.
How made If Justice be out of office.
Further return.
Justice dead, insane or absent.
Hearing upon return.
Appeal to be beard on the original
papers.
Judgment on appeal ; new trial.
Judgment roll.
Costs, how awarded.
Restitution.
Setting off costs and recovery.
Tbe costs on appeal.

By what court Section 358, When a judgment is rendered by a Trial JusrevSwed; tone tice's Court, by the County Commissioners, or any other inferior
papers.° n e Court or jurisdiction, save the Probate Court heretofore provided
188?. fix ' |IS9: for in th's Code of Procedure, the appeal shall be to the Circuit
Court of the County wherein the judgment was rendered, and
shall amount to a supersedeas if the party against whom judg
ment is rendered shall execute a good and sufficient bond with
surety to pay the amount of the judgment and costs in the event
that he fail to sustain such appeal ; and in all cases in which such
bond with surety shall be filed, no execution shall issue until the
termination of such appeal. The said appeal shall be heard by
the Court upon all the papers in the case, including the testi
mony on the trial, which shall be taken down in writing and
signed by the witnesses, and the grounds of exception made,
without the examination of witnesses in the Court.
This Section does not purport to confer the right of appeal in any case ; but
simply to provide to what Court such appeal shall be made, how it shall oper
ate as a supersedeas, and how it shall be heard.— Whipper v. Talbird, 32
S. C, 1.
No appeal lies from the decision of a State Board of Canvassers, it not being
an inferior Court.—lb.
An appeal from the City Court of Charleston does not lie to Circuit Court,
but must be taken to the Supreme Court exclusively, under the particular
intention declared in Section 2266, General Statutes, although it is an inferior
Court.— City Council v. Walker, 34 S. C, 357.
This Section as to hearing of appeal in Circuit Court did not apply to appeals
before it went into effect, May 1st, 1892.—McFadden v. Tant, 20 S. C, 585.
An appeal from an order made by two Trial Justices discharging a prisoner
under habeas corpus proceedings cannot be taken to the Supreme Court : it
must be taken to the Circuit Court.—State v. Duncan, 22 S. C, 87.
Party may appeal from judgment by Trial Justice without making a motion
for new trial before him.—Minnick v. Fort, 13 S. C, 215.
The Circuit Court cannot review findings of fact to which no exceptions
were taken.—Burns v. Gower, 84 S. C, 160.
The object of exceptions is to point out the particulars in which the errors
of law complained of consist.— Wolfe v. R. R. Co., 25 S. C, 379.
And where the ground of appeal taken is that " manifest injustice had been
done, and that defendant's default in not being present at trial was excusa
ble," it is insufficient.—lb.
An appeal lies to the Circuit Court from an order of Trial Justice granting a
new trial. —Redfearn v. Douglass, 55 S. C, 569.

Sec. 359. The appellant shall, within five days after judg- Appeal, when
ment, serve a notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which ^/^8^0 —
the appeal is founded. If the judgment is rendered upon pro
cess not personally served, and the defendant did not appear, he
shall have five days after personal notice of the judgment to
serve the notice of appeal provided for in this and the next Sec
tion.
The Circuit Judge has no power to extend this time within which to appeal.
—Can.s v. Vaughan, 7 S. C, 342. Nor jurisdiction to hear an appeal where
notice in writing was not served within that time.—Davis v. Vaughan, 7 S. C,
343 : Scott v. Pratt, 9 S. C, 82 ; Foot y. Williams, 13 S. C, 601.
The notice of appeal must state the grounds in every case.—Sternberger v.
MeStceen, 14 S. C, 35.
The grounds of appeal being referred to in notice, as being made before the
Trial Justice on motion for new trial and on the evidence and records, is a
sufficient statement of the grounds.—Dargan v. West, 27 S. C, 156. When no
objection is raised in the Circuit Court as to the sufficiency of the notice of
appeal, it cannot properly be raised on appeal to Supreme Court.—lb.


Sec. 360. The notice of appeal must, within the same time, Notice of apbe served on the Trial Justice personally, if living and within ed on justice,
the County, or on his clerk, if there be one, and upon the ent, agent orlitattorney for the respondent, or on the respondent personally, or y^.^jTisSr
by leaving it at his residence, with some person of suitable age jggo.j^Ji i$w
and discretion ; or in case the respondent is not a resident of
such County, or cannot, after due diligence, be found therein,
in the same manner on the agent, if any, who is a resident of
such County, who appeared for the respondent on the trial ;
and if neither the respondent nor such agent or attorney can be
found in the County, the notice may be served on the respondent
by leaving it with the Clerk of the appellate Court.
Failure to serve the Trial Justice with such notice of appeal within the five
days is fatal, and Circuit will dismiss the appeal, being without jurisdiction to
hear it.—Scott v. Pratt, 9 S. C, 82 ; Davis v. Vuughan, 7 S. C, 343 ; Foot v.
Williams, 13 S. C, 601.


Sec. 361. When, by reason of the death of a Trial Justice, or Finn* in ueu
of h * . v v i * ' i * of
his absence from the County, or any other cause, the notice of notice of appeal.
appeal cannot be served as provided by Section 360, it may be 1870. X1T.. 537U
served by leaving the same with the Clerk of the County.
"""—v"~""'

Sec. 362. The Court below shall thereupon, after ten days,
and how. made and within thirty days after service of the notice of appeal, make
a°h.^"8arn 1880 a return to the appellate Court of the testimony, proceedings and
xvii., 806.
judgment, and file the same in the appellate Court. The return
may be compelled by attachment.
how made it 
Sec. 363. When a Trial Justice by whom a judgment apJustice be nut of
office.
pealed from was rendered shall have gone out of office before a
ik7o,xiv., 8378. reTurn is ordered he shall, nevertheless, make a return in the
same manner, and with the like effect, as if he were still in office.
Further re- 
Sec. 364. If the return be defective, the appellate Court may
~li>. 8are.— direct a further or amended return as often as may be necessary,
and may compel a compliance with its order by attachment.
And the Court shall always be deemed open for these purposes.
justice dead, 
Sec. 365. If a Trial Justice whose judgment is appealed from
sent.
~ shall die, become insane, or remove from the State, before hav187b, xiv., tm. ing made a return, the appellate Court may examine witnesses
on oath as to the facts and circumstances of the trial or judg
ment, and determine the appeal as if the facts had been returned
by the Trial Justice. If he shall have removed to another County
within the State, the appellate Court may compel him to make
the return, as if he were still within the County where the judg
ment was rendered.
Hearing upon 
Sec. 366. If a return be made, the appeal may be brought to
^*"r"-»i- xv~ a nearinc, by either party. It shall be placed upon the calendar
408,820.
and continue thereon until finally disposed of. But if neither
party bring it to a hearing before the end of the second term,
the Court shall dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same
by special order for cause shown. At least eight days before
the Court, the party desiring to bring on the appeal shall file the
return and accompanying papers, if any, with the Clerk, and the
Clerk shall thereupon enter the cause on the calendar, according
to the date of the return, and it shall stand for trial without
any further notice.
Appeal to be 
Sec. 367. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers,
nrigma? papere and no C(W thereof need be furnished for the use of the Court.
isro, xiv.,rim 
Sec. 368. 1. Upon hearing appeal, the appellate Court shall
judgment on give judgment according to the justice of the case without
appeal; new
~
trial.
regard to technical errors and defects which do not affect the
lb., 8asa.
merits. In giving judgment, the Court may affirm or reverse
the judgment of the Court below, in whole or in part, and as to
any or all the parties, and for errors of law or fact. If the
appeal is founded on an error in fact in the proceedings, not '
affecting the merits of the action, and not within the knowledge
of the Trial Justice, the Court may determine the alleged error
in fact on affidavits, and may, in its discretion, inquire into and
determine the same upon examination of the witnesses. If the
defendant failed to appear before the Trial Justice, and it is
shown by the affidavits served by the appellant, or otherwise,
that manifest injustice has been done, and he satisfactorily ex
cuses his default, the Court may, in its discretion, set aside or
suspend judgment, and order a new trial, before the same or any
Trial Justice in the same County, at such time and place, and on
such terms, as the Court may deem proper. Where a new trial
shall be ordered before a Trial Justice, the parties must appear
before him according to the order of the Court, and the same
proceedings must thereupon be had in the action as on the re
turn of a summons personally served.
The Supreme Court will not lend a ready ear to any objections based upon
mere matter of form ; but will decide without regard to technical errors and
defects.—Dargan v. West, 27 S. C., 156.
And the Circuit Court will, in order to do justice when the verdict in Trial
Justice Court is not in proper form, send the case back there for new trial.—
DuBose v. Armstrong, 29 S. C, 290.
The Circuit Court, on appeal, can review and reverse errors of fact in Trial
Justice's Court.—Red/earn v. Douglass, 35 S. C, 569.
But it cannot review findings of fact by Trial Justice not excepted to. —
Burns v. Gower, 34 S. C, 160.
The only mode of relief from a Trial Justice's judgment, rendered against a
party through his excusable defaults, is by appeal to the Circuit Court.—Doty
v. Duvall, 19 S. C, 143 ; Wolfe v. R. R. Co., 25 S. C, 879 ; Lawrence v. Isear,
27 S. C, 244.
Such relief applies only to cases of judgment by default, and not where
there was trial.—Miller v. Schmidt, 20 S. C, 58S ; Green v. County Commis
sioners, 27 S. C, 9.
Whether Circuit Court can remand a case to County Commissioners for new
trial not determined.— Green v. County Commissioners, 27 S. C, 9.

2. If the issue joined before the Trial Justice was an issue of
law, the Court shall render judgment thereon according to the
law of the case ; and if such judgment be against the pleadings
of either party, an amendment of such pleading may be allowed
on the same terms, and in like case, as pleadings in actions in
the Circuit Court, and the Court may thereupon require the
opposite party to answer such amended pleading, or join issue
thereon, as the case may require, summarily.
3. If, upon an appeal in an issue of law, the Court should
adjudge the pleading complained of to be valid, it shall, in like
manner, require the opposite party summarily to answer such
pleading, or join issue thereon, as the case may require.
4. Every issue of fact so joined or brought upon an appeal
shall be tried in the manner as provided in Section 358.
1873 xv. soa 5. The Court shall have the same power over its own determi
t id.
nations, and shall render judgment thereon in the same manner,
as the Circuit Court in actions pending therein, without trial by
jury, and may allow either party to amend his pleadings upon
such terms as shall be just ; and in any appeal, either party may,
at any time before the trial, 8erve upon the opposite party an
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for
the sum or property, or to the effect in such offer specified, and
with or without costs, as said offer shall specify. If the party
receiving such offer accept the same, and give notice thereof, in
writing, within ten days, he may file the return and offer, with
an affidavit of service of notice of acceptance thereof, and judg
ment shall be entered thereon according to said offer. If the
notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed with
drawn, and cannot be given in evidence. And if the party to
whom such offer is made fail to obtain a judgment more favor
able to him than that specified in said offer, then he shall not
recover costs, but must pay the other party's costs from the date
of the service of the offer.
6. Either party may move for a new trial in said Court on a
case or exceptions, or otherwise, and such motion may be made
before or after judgment has been entered ; and the provisions
of this Code of Procedure in relation to the proceedings, excep
tions to the decisions of the Court, making and settling cases and
exceptions, motions for new trials, and making up the judgment
roll in the Circuit Court, are hereby made applicable to all ap
peals brought up for trial, as in this Chapter provided,
judgment roii. 
Sec. 369. To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be
1870, xiv., 8384. annexed the return on which it was heard, the notice of appeal,
with any offer, decision of the Court, exceptions, case, and all
orders and papers in any way involving the merits and neces
sarily affecting the judgment, which shall be filed with the Clerk
of the Court, and shall constitute the judgment roll.
costs, now 
Sec. 370. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded
i"sri> 'xiv~"j3t» to tne respondent. If it De reversed, costs shall be awarded to
the appellant. If it be affirmed in part, the costs, or such part
as to the Court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party.
Restitution.

Sec. 371. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be
//(., 8arn,
paid or collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the
appellate Court shall order the amount paid or collected to
be restored, with interest from the time of such payment or col-
lection. The order may be obtained on proof of the facts, made
at or after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days; and
if the order shall be made before the judgment is entered, the
amount may be included in the judgment.

Sec. 372. If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one setting off
party, and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate Court ejy.
shall set off the one against the other, and render judgment for /*.,8387the balance.

Sec. 373. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party, in The cost8 on
judgments rendered on appeal, in all cases, with the following /b~§388; isra,
exceptions and limitations : In the notice of appeal, the appel- xy-.Xi.iWlant shall state in what particular, or particulars, he claims the
judgment should have been more favorable to him. If he claims
that the amount of judgment is less favorable to him than it
should have been, he shall state what should have been its
amount. Within fifteen days after the service of the notice of
appeal, the respondent may serve upon the appellant and Trial
Justice an offer, in writing, to allow the judgment to be cor
rected in any of the particulars mentioned in the notice of ap
peal. The appellant may thereupon, and within five days there
after, file with the Trial Justice a written acceptance of such
offer, who shall thereupon make a minute thereof in his docket,
and correct such judgment accordingly, and the same, so cor
rected, shall stand as his judgment and be enforced accordingly ;
and any execution which has been issued upon the judgment
appealed from shall be amended by the Trial Justice to corre
spond with the amended judgment. If such offer be not made,
and the judgment in the appellate Court be more favorable to
the appellant than the judgment of the Court below, or if such
offer be made and not accepted, and the judgment in the appel
late Court be more favorable to the appellant than the offer of
the respondent, the appellant shall recover costs : Provided,
however, That the appellant shall not recover costs unless the
judgment appealed from shall be reversed on such appeal, or be
made more favorable to him to the amount of at least ten dollars.
If the offer be made and accepted by the appellant, the appellant
shall recover all his disbursements on appeal and all his costs in
the Court below. But the appellant shall not recover costs ex
cept as provided in this Chapter. The respondent shall be enti
tled to recover costs where the appellant is not. Whenever costs
are awarded to the appellant, and when the judgment in the suit
before the Court below was against such appellant, he shall
c~—. further be allowed to tax the costs incurred by him which he
would have been entitled to recover in case the judgment below
had been rendered in his favor. If, upon an appeal, a recovery
for any debt or damages be had by one party, and costs be
awarded to the other party, the Court shall set off such costs
against such debt or damages, and render judgment for the bal
ance. The following fees and costs, and no others, except fees
of officers, disbursements, and witnesses' fees, shall be allowed,
on appeal, to the party entitled to costs, as herein provided,
when the new trial is in the Circuit Court : For the proceedings
before trial, three dollars ; for trial of the cause, five dollars ;
when the amount sued for is under twenty dollars, only two dol
lars and fifty cents. If the judgment appealed from be reversed
~ 1873, xv.; ms, in part, and affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed
8 so; xvii., 297, ^Q e^er party shall be such sum as the appellate Court may
TbTTif.
award, not exceeding five dollars. If the appeal be dismissed
for w»nt of prosecution, as provided by Section 366, no costs
shall be allowed to either party. In every appeal the Trial Jus
tice before whom the judgment appealed from was rendered
shall receive sixty cents for his return. If the judgment be re
versed for an error of fact in the proceedings, not affecting the
merits, costs shall be in the discretion of the Court. If, in the
notice of appeal, the appellant shall not state in what particular,
or particulars, he claims the judgment should have been more
favorable to him, he shall not be entitled to costs unless the
judgment appealed from shall be wholly reversed.
Where a party appeals from judgment of Trial Justice without stating in
what particular or particulars the judgment should have been more favorable
to him, he will not be entitled to costs unless the judgment be wholly re
versed.— Wall v. Davis, 19 S. C, 455. And where appellant is not entitled to
costs the respondent is.—lb.
Where appellant refuses to accept offer of respondent to allow judgment for
certain amount, and finally obtains judgment for less than defendants offer,
he is liable for all costs subsequent to the offer.— Williford v. Oadtden, 27
S. C, 87.
Section 374. Parties to a matter in dispute which might controversy,
be the subject of a civil action may, without action, agree upon w°th°ut1a™ione.d
a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, wo, xiv., wso.
and present a submission of the same to any Court which would
have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceed
ings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The
Court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render
judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.
Cases submitted to Supreme Court.—Simpson v. Willard, 14 S. C, 191 ;
Macoy v. Curtis, 14 S. C, 367.
The Court of Common Pleas refused to entertain a case for prohibition
under this Section because Section 452, Code, provides that this Section shall
not affect the procedure in cases of mandamus and prohibition.— The South
Carolina Society v. Gurney, 3 S. C, 51.

Sec. 375. Judgment shall be entered, as in other cases, but
enforced? .~^ without cost for any proceeding prior to the trial. The case, the
i<>., 8aw.
submission and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the judg
ment roll,
.judgment, now 
Sec. 376. The judgment may be enforced in the same manpeaiod from. ner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject
i6.,88oi.
to appeal in like manner.
377. When a judgment shall be recovered against
ttot?dn°one?oin° one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon a contract,
rfe'^ummoned by proceeding as provided in Section 157, those who were not
is^xiv^'S1 originally summoned to answer the complaint may be summoned
to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment,
in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.
Judgment was obtained against a copartnership and one of the firm. Sev
eral years afterwards the other copartner, having returned to the State, was
summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by the judgment.
Judgment against him was entered for the sum of the original judgment, with
Interest to date. This was error, as the judgment against him should have
been that he "be bound by" the original judgment, and that plaintiff have
leave to issue execution thereon. Form of such judgment suggested. —Adickes
v. Allison, 21 S. C, 245.

Form of sum- 
Sec. 378. The summons provided in the last Section shall
P1°119be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representative or
attorney, shall describe the judgment, and require the person
summoned to show cause within twenty days after the service of
the summons ; and shall be served in like manner as the original
summons,
summonstobe 
Sec. 379. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit
aCfflaaaav u of of the person subscribing it that the judgmeut has not been
mountdue^
"/o.,
' " 8395."''

satisfied, to his knowledge, or information and belief, and shall
specify the amount due thereon.

Sec. 380. Upon such summons any party summoned may * v
'
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment ed may answer
or setting up any defense thereto which may have arisen subse- —ib 88ilc|
quently to such judgment ; and in addition thereto, if the party
be proceeded against according to Section 377, he may make any
defense which he might have made to the action if the summons
had been served on him at the time when the same was originally
commenced and such defense had been then interposed to such
action.
In answer to such summons the Statute of Limitations cannot be pleaded to
the claim upon which the judgment had been entered, if not barred when the
action commenced.—Adickes v. Allison, 21 S. C, 245.


Sec. 381. The party issuing the summons may demur or subsequent
reply to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the piweedfngs "he
reply ; and the issues may be tried and judgment may be given Son.88 n ""
in the same manner as in an action and enforced by execution ; ib-. 8S97or the application of the property charged to the payment of the
judgment may be compelled by attachment if necessary.

Sec. 382. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like Answer and
cases and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the SeSasin anacanswer and reply in an action.
~ib~8m.—
Section 383. A judgment by confession may be entered
without action, either for money due or to become due, or to
secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the
defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed in this Chapter.
A confession of judgment may be made by a client to his attorney, if made
with entire fairness and full knowledge.— Wise v. Hardin, 5 9. C, 325.
A judgment by confession has all the characteristics of an ordinary judg
ment and cannot be attacked collaterally ; the remedy is by application to the
Court in which the confession is entered to vacate or modify it, if it is insuffi
cient in form or for any reason void.—Southern Co. v. Thew, 5 S. C.,5. A con
fession of judgment against it, by the President of a corporation, is invalid, it
not appearing that he had authority to make it, or that it had been confirmed
by acquiescence. —Ib.
A confession of judgment entered without action in the Clerk.s office during
vacation is valid. Section 267, subdivision 1 , does not conflict with this Sec
tion.— Weinges v. Cash, 15 S. C, 44.

Judgment may
1m1 confessed for
debt due or for
wuty.
'»">, xnr., woo.
There is no law which requires a confession of judgment to be obtained or
read in open Court.—lb.
A confession made with view to protect debtor's property against debts
present or which he expects to contract may be set aside for fraud, by the
subsequent creditors.—Kohn v. Meyer, 19 S. C, 190.
The Clerk of Court may take a confession of judgment in his own favor.—
Trimmier v. Winsmith, 28 9. C, 449.

statement in 
Sec. 384. A statement in writing must be made and signed
TJrm th"reof*nd by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect :
/6., 84oo.
J, it mu8t state the amount for which judgment may be en
tered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the
sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a
contingent liability, it must state coucisely the facts constituting
the liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor does
not exceed the same.
A confession is not void merely because the value of the consideration is less
than the amount of the confession.— Wise v. Hardin, 5 S. C, 325.
A confession for an amount less than what is actually due contains a suffi
cient statement.— Weinges v. Cash, 15 S. C, 44.
A description of the debt without a statement of its consideration and facts
out of which it arose is insufficient.—Ex Parte Carroll, 17 S. C, 446 ; Kohn v.
Meyer, 19 S. C, 190. A confession insufficient in statement is not merely
irregular but is invalid.—Ex Parle Carroll, 17 S. C, 446 ; Kohn v. Meyer, 19 S.
C, 190. And cannot be corrected by amendment.—Ex Parte Carroll, 17 S. C.
446. And should be set aside on motion, as proper proceeding. —lb. And
such motion may be made at any time within five years.—lb.
When statement is false or so grossly inaccurate as to mislead inquirers, it
is void as to other creditors.—Kohn v. Meyer, 19 S. C, 190.
judgment and 
Sec. 385. The statement may be filed with the Clerk of the
Tr^T,."nuT
Court of Common Pleas, or with a Trial Justice if the amount
I n., 8401; lotH,
xvm., Ma.
for which judgment is confessed shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, who shall enter a judgment endorsed upon the statement
for the amount confessed, with five dollars, plaintiff's attorney's
costs, when the confession is entered by an attorney, and the
usual fees provided by law to the Clerk of the Court of Common
Pleas or Trial Justice, as the caso may be, for entering up judg
ments and issuing executions in any case, together with any neces
sary disbursements of the plaintiff. The statement and affidavit,
with the judgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judg
ment roll. Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in
the same manner as upon judgments in other cases in such
Courts. When the debt for which the judgment is entered is
not all due, or is payable in installments, and the installments
are not all due, the execution may issue upon such judgment for
the collection of such installments as have become due, and shall
be in the usual form, but shall have endorsed thereon, by the
attorney or person issuing the same, a direction to the Sheriff to
collect the amount due on such judgment, with interest and
costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest thereon, and
the costs of said judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and col
lection of such execution, the judgment shall remain as security
for the installments thereafter to become due ; and whenever any
further installments become due, execution may, in like manner,
be issued for the collection and enforcement of the same.
Debtor confessing judgment to Clerk himself, his creditor cannot object that
the Clerk had no right to consider his application and statement and enroll
the judgment. — Trimmier v. VVinsmith, 23 S. C, 449.
Section 386. The defendant may, at any time before the offer of comtrial or verdict, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to J^xrV umallow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, Jl^3, xv" 508>
or to the effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff
accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten
days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an
affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the Court shall direct
judgment to be entered thereon accordingly. If the notice of
acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn,
and cannot be given in evidence ; and if the plaintiff fail to ob
tain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but
must pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer ; and
in case the defendant shall set up a counter-claim in his answer
to an amount greater than the plaintiff's claim, or sufficient to
reduce the plaintiff's recovery below fifty dollars, then the plain
tiff may serve upon the defendant an offer in writing to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the amount specified,
or to allow said counter-claim to the amount specified, with costs. If the defendant accept the offer, and give notice thereof
in writing within ten days., he may enter judgment as above for
the amount specified, if the offer entitled him to judgment, or
the amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him in the
trial of the action. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evi
dence ; and if the defendant fail to recover a more favorable
judgment, or to establish his counter-claim for a greater amount
than is specified in said offer, he cannot recover costs, but must
pay the plaintiff's costs from the time of the offer.
Defendant may 
Sec. 387. In an action arising on contract, the defendant
ate'tamages. . may, with his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing
ib., 8403.
that if he fail in his defense the damages be assessed at a
specified sum ; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof
in writing, before trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the dam
ages shall be assessed accordingly.
Effect of ac- 
Sec. 388. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall
fusaioroffer.re" prove his damages as if the offer had not been made, and shall
ib., 8404.
not be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages
assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the
offer, the defendant shall recover his costs incurred in conse
quence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the
question of damages.

Sec. 389. Inspection and copy of books, papers, 4c., how obtained.
inspection and Section 389. Either party may exhibit to the other. or to
papers°, 4c., now his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper material to
"fiTo'xTv ~-i)5 *ne action, and request an admission in writing of its genuine
ness. If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the ad
mission, within four days after the request, and if the party
exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to expense in order to
prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted
on the trial, such expense shall be paid by the party refusing the
admission, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the Court that
there were good reasons for the refusal. The Court before which
an action is pending, or a Judge or Justice thereof, may, in their
discretion, and upon due notice, order either party to give to the
other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or per
mission to take a copy, of any books, papers and documents in
his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating
to the merits of the action or the defense therein. If compliance
with the order be refused, the Court, on motion, may exclude
the paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party
refusing, or both.
The Master is a special tribunal and has no power as a Court to require the
defendants to produce a deed in their possession, no such power having been
conferred upon him.—Cartee v. Spence, 24 S. C, 550.
Doubted whether a Circuit Judge or Court authorized to do so.—lb.
Section 390. No action to obtain discovery under oath in Action for disaid of the prosecution or defense of another action shall be edVery * ~"J
allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf ib.,8406.
of the adverse party, except in the manner prescribed by this
Chapter.

Sec. 391. A party to an action may be examined as a wit- a party may
ness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of sev- vereary asawiu
eral adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in 5^—-"^ —
the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination
as any other witness, to testify, either at the trial, or condition
ally, or upon commission.
Party examined on his own behalf is entitled to the same means of refresh
ing his memory as are allowed to other witnesses.— Bull v. Lambxon, 5 S. C,
285.


Sec. 392. The examination, instead of being had at the trial, such examinaas provided in the last Section, may be had at any time before ed before trial;
trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before a Judge of Fhcrefor.
the Court, on a previous notice to the party to be examined, and isto, xiv., mm.
any other adverse party, of at least five days, unless, for good
' cause shown, the Judge order otherwise. But the party to be
examined shall not be compelled to attend in auy other County
than that of his residence, or where he may be served with a
summons for his attendance.
Party, how 
Sec. 393. The party to be examined, as in the last Section
tend^
provided, may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a
ib., 8409.
witness who is to be examined conditionally; and the examina
tion shall be taken and filed by the Judge in like manner, and
may be read by either party on the trial.
Testimony of 
Sec. 394. The examination of the party thus taken may be
rebutted.
rebutted by adverse testimony.
//>., 84io.

Sec. 395. If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the
fusai u> testify^ last four Sections provided, he may be punished as for a con/&., 84ii.
tempt, and his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out.
Testimony of 
Sec. 396. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this
gp>?nsivento the Chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject
^'rebutted by to the same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he
party calling testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to
Tj 8412
n'm DV the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his
answers thereto, or discharge when his answers would charge
himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his
own behalf in respect to such new matter, subject to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses, and shall be so received.
Persons
foris . h"/v.

Sec. 397.
person for whose immediate benefit
the action
whom
action
brought or de- is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
examined.
be examined as a witness in the same manner and subject to the
ib., 8413.
8ame rules of examination as if he were named as a part}-.
Examination 
Sec. 398. A party may be examined on behalf of his co
co-defendant^ plaintiff, or of a co-defendant, as to any matter in which he is
lb., 84i4.
nof. jointly interested or liable with such co-plaintiff or co-defend
ant, and as to which a separate and not joint verdict or judg
ment can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend in
the same manner as at the instance of an adverse party ; but the
examination thus taken shall not be used in the behalf of the
party examined. And whenever, in the case mentioned in Sec
tions 391 and 392, one of the several plaintiffs or defendants who
are joint contractors, or are united in interest, is examined by
the adverse party, the other of such plaintiffs or defendants may
offer himself as a witness to the same cause of action or defense,
and shall be so received.
Section 399. No person offered as a witness shall be ex- interest not to
eluded by reason of his interest in the event of the action.
ness.
'

Sec. 400. A party to an action or special proceeding in any 187°- XIV., M14and all Courts, and before any and all officers and persons acting tioIn^3stSuon1£i
judicially,
mav
be examined as a witness on his own behalf, or in maybewitproceedings
behalf of anv other party,
conditionally,
on
commission,
and
naBS>? jn 1neir
1
."
•"
own behalf, exupon the trial or hearing in the case, in the same manner and cept u» certain
, .
.
cases.
subject to the same rales of examination as any other witness: /o.,8«s.
Provided, however, That no party to the action or proceeding,
nor any person who has a legal or equitable interest which may
be affected by the event of the action or proceeding, nor any
person who, previous to such examination, has had such an
interest, however the same may have been transferred to, or come
to, the party to the action or proceeding, nor any assignor of any
thing in controversy in the action, shall be examined in regard
to any transaction or communication between such witness and a
person at the time of such examination deceased, insane, or
lunatic, as a witness against a party then prosecuting or defend
ing the action as executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next of
kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, or survivor of such deceased per
son, or as assignee or committee of such insane person or lunatic,
when such examination, or any judgment or determination in
such action or proceeding, can in any manner affect the interest
of such witness or the interest previously owned or represented
by him. But when such executor, administrator, heir-at-law,
next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor, or committee,
shall be examined on his own behalf in regard to such transac
tion or communication, or the testimony of such deceased or
insane person or lunatic, in regard to such transaction or com
munication, (however the same may have been perpetuated or
made competent,) shall be given in evidence on the trial or hear
ing in behalf of such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next
of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor, or committee, then
all other persons not otherwise rendered incompetent shall be
made competent witnesses in relation to such transaction or com-
munication on said trial or hearing. Nothing contained in Sec
tion 8 of this Code of Procedure shall be held or construed to
affect or restrain the operation of this Section.
1. In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding in
any Court, or before any person having, by law, or consent of
parties, authority to examine witnesses or hear evidence, the
husband or wife of any party thereto, or of any person in whose
behalf any such suit, action or proceeding is brought, prose
cuted, opposed, or defended, shall, except as hereinafter stated,
be competent and compellable to give evidence, the same as any
other witness, on behalf of any party to such suit, action or pro
ceeding.
2. No husband or wife shall be compellable to disclose any
confidential communication made by one to the other during
their marriage.
This Section is in restriction of the general right conferred by the preceding
Section and cannot be extended by construction beyond its clearly expressed
design.— Guery v. Kinsler, 3 S. C, 423 ; Jones v. Plunkett, 9 S. C, 392.
Only persons included in the particular relations therein referred to can be
considered as .embraced in the proviso or exceptions ; others not named,
though within the mischief intended to be prevented, cannot be included.—
Guery v. Kinsler, 3 S. C, 423 ; Jones v. Plunkett, 9 S. C, 392 ; Colvin v. Phil
lips, 25 S. C, 228 ; Brown v. Moore, 26 S. C, 160 ; Huff v. Latimer, 33 S. C,
255. But the Section must be construed by the intent appearing on its face,
and whether the proviso should be applied must be determined by the issue
raised through the pleadings and not by the form of the action.—Boykin v.
Watts, 6S.C, 76.
These provisions do not apply where the witness is not a party to the
action, has no interest in the event of it, and cannot be affected by it.—Bollman
v. Bollman, 6S. C, 2SI ; Twitty v. Houser, 7 S. C, 153 ; Blakely v. Frazier, 11
S. C, 122 ; Shaw v. Cunningham, 16 S. C, 631.
A person is not excluded as a witness whose liability on a note will in no
way be increased or diminished by the event of the suit.— Twitty v. Houser, 7
S. C, 153.
It is the possibility that " any person who has a legal or equitable interest
which may be affected by the event of the action " that will exclude him as a
witness.—Roe v. Harrison, 9 S. C, 279.
If the defendant, though not named as executor, defends for the benefit of
the estate of his testator, whose declarations the plaintiff is offered to prove,
he is protected against such testimony.—Boykin v. Watts, 6 S. C, 76.
A party as witness is incompetent to testify as to communication with
deceased person against his administrator where the judgment would affect his
interest.—Ea rle v. Harrison, IK S. C, 329.
A witness in interest is not incompetent to testify to communications and
transactions had between a person deceased and some third person. —Roe v.
Harrison, 9 S. C, 279 ; Hughey v. Eiehelberger, 11 S. C, 36 ; Shaic v. Cun
ningham, 16 S. C, 631 ; McLaurin v. Wilson, 16 S. C, 402 : Robinson v. Robin
son, 20 S. C, 567 ; Kennemore v. Kennemore, 26 S. C, 251 ; Moore v. Trimmier,
32 S. C, 511 ; Brice v. Miller, 35 S. C, 537.
Nor to testify against his own interest, though his testimony should affect
the rights of others.—Shell v. Boyd, 32 S. C, 539.
The interest affected means the interest promoted ; parties are competent to
testify against their interest. - Boykin v. Watts, 6 S. C, 76 ; Robinson v. Rob
inson, 20 S. C, 567 ; Moffatt v. Hardin, 22 S. C, 25 ; Griffin v. Earle, 34
S. C, 246.
A factor in his action against executor of owners of cotton for reclama
tion cannot testify to conversation had with him. —Blakely v. Frazier, 11
S. C, 122.
Where assignee of sealed note sues, the defendant may prove the loss of the
receipt given him by assignor, since deceased, but he cannot testify to contents
of it.—Standeridge v. Powell, 11 S. C, 549.
The introduction of testimony other than that of the representative of the
deceased, as to certain transactions or communications of the deceased, does
not render a party in interest competent to testify as to the same matter.—
Brice v. Hamilton, 12 S. C, 32.
A legatee under lost will, in attempting to set up same, cannot testify to com
munications or transactions with testator.—Bauskett v. Keitt, 22 S. C, 187.
In proceeding to revive execution by administrator of the assignee the
defendant cannot testify that he had placed two notes in hands of the
deceased assignee to collect.—Monts v. Koon, 21 S. C, 110.
A ward, in action for account brought by him after majority, against the
executor of his deceased guardian, cannot testify to communications made to
him by the deceased upon the matter of compromise formerly made between
them, as to the value of the estate, although the returns of the guardian had
been introduced in evidence by the executor.— Owens v. Watts, 24 S. C, 76.
Where plaintiff sues administrator of deceased on account for services ren
dered the deceased, he cannot testify that the account is correct, as that is, in
substance and effect, testifying that the services had been rendered under con
tract or upon request, and related to a contract with deceased.—Boyd v. Cauthen. 28 S. C, 72.
A surviving executor may not testify to communications or transactions
between himself and the deceased executor affecting their liability to each
other for the administration of their testator.s estate.— Williams v. Mower, 29
S. C.,332.
In action by creditor to set aside a judgment confessed by father, since
deceased, to defendant, his daughter, and to set aside sale of land thereunder,
the plaintiff could not prove communications had by him with the deceased.
-Martin v. Adams, 29 S. C, 597.
In action by survivor of firm against devisee of deceased partner to recover
his share of certain lands held in deceased partner's name, but being really
partnership property, the plaintiff was incompetent to prove any communica
tions or transactions between the deceased and himself.—Jones v. Smith, 31
S. C, 527.
When defendant, as administrator of deceased son, being sued on note by
the executor of the deceased father, testified as to the facts of the conversa
tions with the testator, relative to the note, without giving any detail thereof,
the plaintiff could not, in reply, prove the substance of conversation with his
testator about the note.- Richards v. Munro, 30 S. C, 284.
A trustee is not the representative of his deceased predecessor, and the
obligor of bond, given to the latter, can prove payment to him in the action
thereon by the former. —Guery v. Kinsler, 3 S. C, 423.
In an action to recover land, brought against one, who claimed as purchaser
under A, who had purchased from C, deceased, A was a competent witness
to prove C's declarations as to the title to the land. —Jones v. Plunkett, 9
S. C, 392.
A remote alienee of one deceased is within the mischief intended to be reme
died by the exception, but she is not within its express terms, and can testify

177
A. D. 1894.
>_ f~—'
A. D. 1894.
as to communications and transactions between herself and the deceased as to
the land she seeks to recover in the action.— Cantey v. Whittaker, 14 S. C,
527 ; Brice v. Miller, 35 S. C, 537.
Plaintiff in action against a town can testify as to the transactions between
himself and a former Intendant of the town, acting for the corporation, but
at the time of trial deceased.— Coleman v. Chester, 14 S. C, 286.
In action to recover share of crop made by plaintiff on defendant's farm
revived after defendant's death against his executors, the plaintiff could testify
as to his own acts in connection with the subject matter, in no way attempted
to be connected with the deceased. —Jtookheart v. Dean, 21 S. C, 597.
In action by executrix, an attorney can testify to communications between
himself as attorney for the testator and the administrator, now deceased, of
an estate under which defendants claim. —Reynolds v. Rees, 23 S. C, 438.
A defendant to an action for partition is not incompetent to testify to com
munications between himself and a former trustee of the property now
deceased, under whom plaintiff claimed, the plaintiff not holding any of the
relations to the deceased specified in this Section. —Minton v. Pickens, 24
S. C, 592.
And the assignee of a judgment, in his action thereon against the adminisistrator of the deceased judgment debtor, can testify to communications
between his assignor, then owner of the judgment, and the judgment
debtor.— Colvin v. Phillips, 25 S. C, 228.
In a contest between two claimants under the obligee in a bond for titles,
the obligor can testify to communications between himself and the deceased
obligee, as such a witness, though a party to the cause, has no interest in the
action.— Wood. v. Wood, 25 S. C, 600.
Witness, through whom defendants claimed, was competent to testify in
their behalf that he permitted another party, since deceased, to remain on the
land in dispute, the testimony relating to an act of the witness and not to a
transaction with the deceased. — Brown v. Moore, 26 S. C, 160.
A grantor, as against her grantee, is a competent witness to prove the decla
ration of one deceased under whom both of the parties to the cause derived
their title.—Blohme v. Lynch, 26 S. C, 300.
In action by beneficiaries under a policy of life insurance against a bank for
the possession of the policy, the President and Cashier of the bank can testify
as to conversations and transactions by them with the assured, since deceased,
as to the policy, because the plaintiffs are not prosecuting the action in any of
the representative characters referred to in this Section.— McCauley v. National
Bank, 27 S. C, 215.
Where the defendant, as administrator of deceased executor, brings out on
cross-examination of the plaintiff, the surviving co-executor, that certain pay
ments have been made to him by defendant's intestate, the plaintiff was
allowed to testify as to whether other alleged payments had been made to
him. — Williams v. Mower, 29 S. C, 332.
In action by creditor to set aside judgment confessed to defendant by her
father, who died before the trial, and to set aside the sale of land under the
judgment, a witness who held none of the relations prohibited under this Sec
tion could testify to comunications had by him with the father. —Martin v.
A dams, 29 S. C, 597.
Defendant, as administrator of deceased son, being sued on note by executor
of deceased father, was competent to prove the facts that he had had repeated
conversations with the father and he had never made demand upon the
defendant, as administrator, for payment of the note.— Richards v. Munro,
30 S. C, 284.
In action by creditor to set aside for fraud a deed made by his debtor, now
deceased, one of the grantees to the deed, and party defendant, who has sold
his interest in the land, can testify to the circumstances of the transaction
and the declarations of the grantor, to show the fraud. —Shell v. Boyd, 32 S.
C, S59.
In action by tenant to recover personal property seized by the executor of
the land owner for rent, which had been paid by plaintiff to one from whom
he claimed to have leased the land, such person can testify as to communica
tions and transactions with the deceased land owner, he being no party to
action nor interested in the result, and the action being against the defendants
individually and not as executors. —Huff v. Latimer, 33 S. C, 255.
In action against administrator of a deceased debtor to recover the value of
work done in building and repairing houses, the plaintiff may testify as to
what work was done by him on the premises of intestate, in his presence, that
being an independent fact.—Fogette v. Gaffney, 33 S. C, 303.
In action by assignee of mortgagee, the mortgagor may testify that she never
had any communication or transaction with the mortgagee, now deceased. —
Griffin v. Earle, 34 S. C, 246.
In action by surviving executor against administrator of deceased co-execu
tor, for account and settlement, the plaintiff can testify to the fact that he
had conversations with defendant.s intestate as to certain matters, and when,
where, and in whose presence such conversation was had, the statements of
witness or deceased not being disclosed.— Williams v. Mower, 35 S. C, 206.
Testimony incompetent under this Section is admissible if not objected to at
time.— Tompkins v. Tompkins, 18 S. C, 1; Burris v. Whitner, 3 S. C, 510;
Bollman v. Bollman, 6 S. C, 30 ; McCougan v. Hall, 21 S. C, 601.
It was error for Probate Judge to strike out on motion testimony as incom
petent under this Section, where such testimony had been previously given
without objection.—Stark v. Hopson, 22 S. C, 42. And Circuit Judge erred
in holding such testimony to be competent and sustaining the decree below ;
he should have ordered a new trial so that the Court below might first con
sider such testimony.—lb.
These provisions as to testimony of husband and wife do not apply to crimi
nal cases.— State v. Belcher, 13 S. C, 459.
A party examined on his own behalf may, like other witnesses, refresh his
memory by book entries and other memoranda.—Bull v. Lambson, 5 S. C, 284.
SEC.
404. In absence, &c., of Judge at cham

bers, motion may be transferred to
another Judge.
105. Enlarging time for the proceedings In
an action.

Section 401. Every direction of a Court or Judge, made or Definition of
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denomi- f^-o'xTv .Tm.
nated an order.
The refusal of a motion for nonsuit, never being " made or entered in writ
ing," is not an order.—Agnew v. Adams, 24 S. C, 86.
A Judge has no power of his own mere motion to make an order affecting
the rights of a party.—State v. Parker, 7 S. C, 285.
The order of one Court or Judge cannot be set aside or disregarded for
irregularity by another.— Furman v. R. R. Co., 3 S. C, 438.
The order of one Judge granting leave to a party to make a motion before
another Judge is without force.—Steele, v. R. R. Co., 14 S. C, 324.
Order passed in equity cause valid, although the cause is not on calendar.—
Wright v. Herlong, l(i S. C, 620.


Sec. 402. 1- An application for an order is a motion.

tious, how and Motion is proper mode of obtaining relief in a cause not ended.— Wright v.
when in a d e; Herlong, Hi S. C, 620.
ing; compelling Such motions must be tirst made before the Judge of the Court having
parties to testify jurisdiction of the case.— State v. Block, 34 S. C, 1!14.
on motions ; de- "

"77r74rr°tiO"

2- Motions may be made to a Judge or Justice out of Court,
except for a new trial on the merits.
The right to move to vacate judgment as erroneous., at chambers, is hereby
repealed.— Clawson v. Hutchinson, 14 S. C, 517.
A Judge has no power at chambers to grant a new trial on the merits.—
Charles v. Jacobs, 5 S. C, 34S.
The following motions may be made at chambers :
Motion to dissolve an attachment upon notice.— Cureton v. Dargan, 12 S. C,
122.
Motion for leave to file a supplemental complaint.—Edwards v. Edwards, 14
S. C, 11.
Motion to vacate a warrant of seizure to enforce agricultural lien.—Seglrr
v. Canard, 24 S. C, 119.
Motion for leave to amend complaint.—Ellen v. Ellen, 26 S. C, 99.

3. Orders made oat of Court, without notice, may be made
by the Judge of the Court, in any part of the State.
Judge can correct mere clerical error in his decree on ex parte application
out of Court.— Chafee v. Rainey, 21 S. C, 11.
It is doubted whether this subdivision applies to the granting of a writ of
certiorari.—State v. Block, 34 S. C, 194.

4. Motions upon notice must be made within the Circuit in
which the action is triable, or, in the absence or inability of the
Judge of the Circuit, may be made before the resident or pre
siding Judge of a Circuit adjoining that in which it is triable.
This subdivision does not empower a Circuit Judge to perform judicial
duties outside of his own Circuit —Ex Parte Parker, 6 S. C, 472.
But Judge may render a decree in cause heard by him in one Circuit after
he has entered upon his duties in another Circuit.— Chafee v. Rainey, 21 S.
C, 11.
Motion to set aside a decree of foreclosure can be made only in the Circuit
where the action is pending. — Thomas v. Raymond, 4 S. C, 1547.
It is error to grant relief beyond the terms of the notice.—De Walt v. Kinard,
IS) S. C, 286.

5. A motion to modify or vacate a provisional remedy, and an
appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall have
preference over all other motions.
6. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty '
v '
days shall be granted by a Judge out of Court except upon pre
vious notice to the adverse party.
7. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any
Court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to have the
affidavit of any person who shall have refused to make the same,
such Court, or a Judge thereof, may, by order, appoint a referee
to take the affidavit or deposition of such person. Such person
may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and make an affidavit
before such referee, the same as before a referee to whom it is
referred to try an issue. And the fees of such referee for such
service shall be three dollars per day.
8. Whenever a motion shall be made in any cause or proceed
ing in any of the Courts of this State to obtain an injunction
order, order of arrest, or warrant of attachment, granted in any
such case or proceeding, it shall be the duty of the Judge, Trial
Justice, or other officer before whom such motion is made, to
render and make known his decision on such motion within
twenty days after the day upon which such motion shall or may
be submitted to him for his decision.

Sec. 403. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be Notice of moserved four days before the time appointed for the hearing ; but i^70. XIV W18
the Court or Judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a
shorter time.
An order cannot be made without notice to the party prejudiced by it.—
State v. Parker, 7 S. C, 235.
An order to enjoin a decree for sale of mortgaged premises cannot be made
without four days' notice.—Rice v. Mahaffey, '.) S. C, 2SI.
Motion for security for costs should be notified four days before the time for
hearing.—Dulany v. Elford, 22 S. C, 304.
Orders granted upon notice for less time should be set aside.— Ex Parte
Apeler, 35 S. C, 419.


Sec. 404. When notice of a motion is given, or an order to In absence.
show cause is returnable before a Judge out of Court, and at the fhamberafm otime fixed for the motion he is absent or unable to hear it, the [ranSfm-redt)to
same may be transferred, by his order, to some other Judge, ?"other judge,
before whom the motion, in case of his absence or inability,
might originally have been made.
This Section extends the provisions of Section 402, subdivision 4, to the case
of a motion already noticed or ordered to be heard in proper Circuit.—Ex
Parte Parker, 6 S. C, 472.
It does not enlarge the authority of the Judges to perform judicial acts be
yond the limits of their own Circuits.—76.

Sec. 405. The time within which any proceeding in an action
Enliiriringtime
for the proceed- must be had, after its commencement, except the time within
tion.
which an appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidaib., 8420.
vif. showi„g grounds therefor, by a Judge of the Circuit Court.
The affidavit, or a copy thereof, must be served with a copy of the
order, or the order may be disregarded.
Affidavit8 de- Section 405. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit
uued Valid. en" *n the action ; but an affidavit made without a title, or with a
ib., 8421.
defective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose,
as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or
proceeding in which it is made.
Section 407. The time within which an act is to be done,
1870, XIV., M22. as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day
and including the last, If the last day be Sunday, it shall be
excluded.
Section 408. Notices shall be in writing, and notices and other papers may be served on the party or attorney, in the man- how served.
ner prescribed in the next three Sections, where not otherwise *
provided by this Code of Procedure.
Telephone notices are verbal and do not comply with this Section.—Ex
Parte Apeler, 35 S. C, 417.

Sec. 409. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the service, how
party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made ; Ih. 84S4
or it may be as follows :
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his office by leaving it with the clerk therein, or with a
person having charge thereof ; or, when there is no person in the
office, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the morning and
nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or, if
it be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leaving it
at the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age and
discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his service by man.
residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in
" 485the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Sac. 41.0. Service by mail may be made where the person The like. _
making the service and the person on whom it is to be made ib.,imreside in different places between which there is a regular com
munication by mail.

Sec. 411, In case of service by mail, the paper must be de- Double time
posited in the postoffice, addressed to the person on whom it is by man. serv(.*
to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.
1870, iiv., M27.

Sec. 412. When the service is by mail, it shall be double the
time required in cases of personal service.
This provision is intended for the benefit of the party upon whom the ser
vice is made and not for the party making the service. The service is com
plete as soon as the paper is deposited in postoffice, properly addressed and
stamped.—Sullivan v. Speights, 12 S. C, 661. The time for service of excep
tions upon the Judge, after rising of the Court, not extended when sent by
mail.—lb.


Sec. 413. Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a Notice of moCourt or Judge, when personally served, shall be given at least personaiiy servfour days before the time appointed therefor.
.ib j.^ —
An order to enjoin a decree for sale of mortgaged premises cannot be made
without four days. notice.— Rire v. Mahaffetj, St S. C, ~M. Motion requiring
security for costs should be notified four days beforehand. -Dittany v. Elford,
22 a C., 304.


Sec. 414. When a defendant shall not have demurred or an- when papers
swered, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in Served on de
an action need not be made upon him unless he be imprisoned '"'(""j.^—
for want of bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney if
notice of appearance in the action has been given,
service of pa- 
Sec. 415. Where a plaintiff or a defendant who has demurred
pers where parties reside out or answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the
ib., 8480.
State, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made
by mail, if his residence be known ; if not known, on the Clerk,
for the party,
summons and 
Sec. 416, The summons and the several pleadings in an
fiied.
/&.,148 .
action shall be filed with the Clerk within ten days after the
service thereof respectively, or the adverse party, on proof of the
omission, shall be entitled without notice to an order from a
Judge that the same be filed within a time to be specified in the
order or be deemed abandoned,
service on at- 
Sec. 417. AVhere a party shall have an attorney in the action,
~™l^84.K
the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney instead of

the party.
Applies only after action has been commenced. —Duncan v. Brown, 15 S. C,
416. Notice to set aside an execution should be served on the parties ; service
upon attorney who renewed the execution is not sufficient.—lb.

when this 
Sec. 418. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to
linuwry. °es the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to
lb., Mas.
bring a party into contempt.
Section 419. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withsuppiied. h°w neld by &ny person» tae Court may authorize a copy thereof to
/o.,8487f
be filed and used instead of the original.
This Section confers no new powers, but simply recognizes the general power
already existing in the Court of so substituting new records. —Ihi Bois v.
Thomas, 14 S. C, 30. Such general authority includes judgments. —lb.

Where under- 
Sec. 420. The various undertakings required to be given bv
toidngs t°~^ this Code of Procedure must be filed with the Clerk of the Court.
ib., iW.

unless the Court expressly provides for a different disposition
thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by this Chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property shall, after the
justification of the sureties, be delivered by the Sheriff to the ' v—'
parties, respectively, for whose benefit they are taken.

Sec. 421. The time for rpublication of legal
notices shall be 11 Time
°
cattfor
onpubol
couiputed so as to exclude the first day of publication and include notices, bow
computed.
the day on which the act or event of which notice is given is to isro, xiv., 8440.
happen, or which completes the full period required for publica
tion.

Sec. 422. Printed copies, in volumes, of Statutes, Code or Laws of other
.
-ii
i
•
<-.
States and govother written law enacted by any other sovereignty. State or ler- emments, how
ritory or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been ib.,%4417
published by the authority thereof, or proved to have been com
monly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the Courts
and judicial tribunals of such sovereignty, State, Territory or
government, shall be admitted by the Courts and officers of this
State on all occasions as presumptive evidence of such laws. The
unwritten or common law of any other sovereignty, State or Ter
ritory or foreign government may be proved as facts by parol
evidence ; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their
Courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.
Section 423. An action against a corporation created by or where and by
under the laws of any other State, government, or country, may brought* ' ' ' " "
be brought in the Circuit Court—
//i., 8442.
1. By any resident of this State, for any cause of action.
2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this State, when the cause
of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be
situated, within this State.
Where such corporation appears and answers on the merits, it submits itself
to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the complaint will not then be held de
fective because it failed to show that the plaintiff was a resident of the State.
—Chafee v. Postal Co., 35 S. C, 872.
A non-resident can sue a foreign corporation only in the two cases specified
in subdivision 2, and this action cannot be maintained unless it appear that it
is brought in one case or the other.— Central R. R. v. Georgia Company, 32
S. C, 319.
Sec.
424 Sch c facias and quo warranto abol

ished and this Chapter substituted.
I.M. Action may be brought, by direction
of the Legislature, by the AttorneyGeneral, to vacate a charter.
Action to annul a corporation, when
and how brought by the AttorneyGeneral, by leave of the Supreme
Court.
Leave to sue, how obtained.
Action upon Information or complaint
of course.
Action, when and how brought to
vacate letters patent.
Relator, when to be Joined as plaintiff.
Complaint and arrest of defendant in
action for usurping an office.
Judgment in such actions.
Assumption of office, 4c., by relator,
when judgment is In his favor.]
Section 424. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo icarrantoW»bam\. ranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of quo ivarChapterd8ub3ti- ranto, are abolished; and the remedies heretofore obtainable in
Itf.
r—r..ir those . forms may be obtained bv civil actions under the provisions
1870, XIV,, 5443.
*
of this Chapter. But any proceeding heretofore commenced, or
judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected by
such abolition.
The Supreme Court still retains the power conferred upon it by Cons., Art.
IV., 
Sec. 4, to issue writs of }tio warranto in the sense that it has jurisdiction
of such proceedings. This Section does not attempt to abolish that jurisdic
tion, but simply to abolish the formal characteristics of the writ. —Alexander
v. McKemie, 2 S. C, 81 ; State v. Bowen, 8 S. C, 382.
Relates only to scire facias as a civil remedy ; does not affect it as a remedy
to estreat a recognizance in the Court of General Sessions.—State v. Wilder,
13 S. C, 344.

Sec. 425. An action may be brought by the Attorney-Gen- Action m By
eral, in the name of the State, whenever the Legislature shall so direction of. the
Legislature, hy
direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or the AttorneyIIi.i_
* x *.
\a i.
-i.
General, to vaannulling the Act of incorporation, or an Act renewing its corpo- cate a charter^
rate existence, on the ground that such Act or renewal was pro- ib.,i4Mcured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them,
or with their knowledge and consent.

Sec. 426. An action may be brought by the Attorney-Gen- Action to anernl. in the name of the State, on leave, granted
byJ the Supreme
mod,
when and
°
r
how brought by
Court or a Justice thereof, or a Circuit Judge, for the purpose the Attomey*
a.
i. _.
iv
m.
• f
j
General, by
of vacating the charter or annulling the existence of a corpora- leave of the
tion, other than municipal, whenever such corporation shall—
/&., 8 ia.—.
1. Offend against any of the provisions of this Code of Pro
cedure, or the Acts creating, altering, or renewing such corpora
tion ; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation
shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers ; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises
by failure to exercise its powers ; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and
franchises ; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not con
ferred upon it by law.
And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, whenever he
shall have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions
can be established by proof, to apply for leave, and, upon leave
granted, to bring the action, in every case of public interest, and
also in every other case in which satisfactory security shall be
given to indemnify the State against the costs and expenses to be
incurred thereby.

Sec. 427. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the Leave to sue;
application of the Attorney-General; and the Court or Judge isro, xiv., 8«c.
may, at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given
to the corporation or to its officers, previous to granting such
leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
Sec.
428. An action mayJ be brought
byi the Attornev-GenAction upon
, . ™W8
J
Information
or
eral, in the name of the State, upon his own information, or upon complaint of
coursi*.
the complaint of any private party, or by a private party inter1,
v~"^ ested, on leave granted by a Circuit Judge, against the parties
offending, in the following cases :
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any fran
chise within this State, or any office in a corporation created by
the authority of this State ; or,
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done
or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a
forfeiture of his office ; or,
3. When any association or number of persons shall act within
this State as a corporation without being duly incorporated.
Action, when 
Sec. 429. An action may be brought by the Attorney-Genbrougnt to vu- eral, in the name of the State, for the purpose of vacating or
tent.
" pa" annulling letters patent granted by the people of this State in
ib., »«».
fhe foliowing cases :
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or con
cealment of a material fact, made by the person to whom the
same were issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge ; or,
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were issued through mistake, or m ignorance of material fact ;
or,
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee, or
those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in vio
lation of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent
were granted, or have, by any other means, forfeited the interest
acquired under the same.
Relator, when 
Sec. 430. When an action shall be brought by the Attorneypiaintifl.n "" General by virtue of this Chapter on the complaint of any private
1870, uv., M49. party, or by a person having an interest in the question, the
name of such person shall be joined with the State as plaintiff ;
and in every such case the Attorney-General or Circuit Judge,
as the case may be, may require, as a condition precedent to
bringing such action, that satisfactory surety shall be given to
indemnify the State against the costs and expenses to be incurred
thereby ; and in every such case brought by the Attorney-General
where such surety is given, the measure of compensation to be
paid by such person or persons to the Attorney-General shall be
left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.
complaint and 
Sec. 431. When such an action shall be brought against a
fendant m a (•- person for usurping an office, the Attorney-General, or private
iii°gan°o'pi""rp" party bringing the same, in addition to the statement of the
io., 8450.
cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of
the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of v~"~~v——'
his right thereto ; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that
the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to
the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may
be granted by a Judge of the Circuit or Justice of the Supreme
Court for the arrest of such defendant and holding him to bail ;
and thereupon he shall be arrested and held to bail in the man
ner and with the same effect and subject to the same rights and
liabilities as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject
to arrest.

Sec. 432. In overy case judgment shall be rendered upon the Judgment in
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so —/6~ lai..
alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant,
as justice shall require.

Sec. 433. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the Assumption of
offlc6* 4c. b v
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such relator. When
person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and his favor.
executing such official bond as may be required by law, to take //>..,45Supon himself the execution of the office ; and it shall be his
duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the
action all the books and papers in his custody, or within his
power, belonging to the office from which he shall have been
excluded.

Sec. 434. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver proceedings
over such books or papers pursuant to the demand, he shall be feniant, on'hte
guilty of a misdemeanor, and the following proceedings shall be Uv^Dooia ^"r
had to compel delivery of such books or papers :
""Pf™- —
1. Whenever any person shall be removed from office, or the
term for which he shall have been elected or appointed shall
expire, he shall, on demand, deliver over to his successor all the
books and papers in his custody as such officer, or in any way
appertaining to his office. Every person violating this provision
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
2. If any person shall refuse or neglect to deliver over to his
successor any books or papers, as required in the preceding Sec
tion, such successor may make complaint thereof to any Judge
of the Circuit Court, or Justice of the Supreme Court, where
the person so refusing shall reside ; and if such officer be satis
fied by the oath of the complainant, and such other testimony as
shall be offered, that any such books or papers are withheld, he
shall grant an order directing the person so refusing to show
cause before him, within some short reasonable time, why he
should not be compelled to deliver the same.
3. At the time so appointed, or at any other time to which the
matter may be adjourned, upon due proof being made of the
service of the said order, such officer shall proceed to inquire
into the circumstances. If the person charged with withhold
ing such books or papers shall make affidavit before such officer
that he has truly delivered over to his successor all such books
and papers in his custody, or appertaining to his office, within his
knowledge, all further proceedings before such officer shall cease,
and the person complained against shall be discharged.
4. If the person complained against shall not make such oath,
and it shall appear that any such books or papers are withheld,
the officer before whom such proceedings shall be had shall, by
warrant, commit the person so withholding to the jail of the
County, there to remain until he shall deliver such books and
papers, or be otherwise discharged according to law.
5. In the case stated in the last Section, if required by the
complainant, such officer shall also issue his warrant, directed to
any Sheriff or Constable, commanding him, in the day time, to
search such places as shall be designated in such warrant for
such books and papers as belonged to the officer so removed, or
whose term of office expired, in his official capacity, and which
appertained to such office, and seize and bring them before the
officer issuing the warrant.
6. Upon any books or papers being brought before such officer
by virtue of such warrant, he shall inquire and examine whether
the same appertained to the office from which the person so
refusing to deliver was removed, or of which the term expired,
and he shall cause the same to be delivered to the complainant.
7. If any person appointed or elected to any office shall die,
or his office shall in any way become vacant, and any books or
papers belonging or appertaining to such office shall come to the
hands of any person, the successor to such office may. in like
manner as hereinbefore prescribed, demand such books or papers
from the person having the same in his possession ; and on the
same being withheld, an order may be obtained, and the person
charged may, in like manner, make oath of the delivery of all
such books and papers that ever came to his possession ; and in
case of omission to make such oath, and to deliver up the books
and papers so demanded, such person may be committed to jail,
and a search warrant may be issued, and the property seized by
virtue thereof may be delivered to the complainant, as herein
before prescribed.	
Where a person has been elected Probate Judge and he qualifies and is commissioned as such, he is prima facie entitled to the possession of the office
and its books, records and property, without awaiting a judgment in his favor
under a proceeding in quo warranto; and his predecessor in office may be
committed to jail, as for contempt, for refusal to obey an order of the Circuit
Judge directing him to surrender such office and property to his successor.—
Ex Parte Whipper, 32 S. C, 5.

A. D. 1894.
*——y~"""


Sec. 435. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may
recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained
by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the office from
which such defendant has been excluded.

Sec. 436. Where several persons
claim to be entitled . to the
r
same office or franchise, one action may be brought against all
such persons, m order to try their respective rights to such office
or franchise.
'

Damages, bow
isnJTxiv., 8454.

ope action
against
several
persons ciaimfranchise.
ib.,945s-


Sec. 437. When a defendant, whether a natural person or Penalty for
a corporation, against whom such action shall have been brought, or franchise,
shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or an- i0., 84£G."~
lawfully holding or exercising, any office, franchise or privilege,
judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded
from such office, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintiff
recover costs against such defendant. The Court may also, in
its discretion, fine such defendant a sum not exceeding two
thousand dollars, which fine, when collected, shall be paid into
the Treasury of the State.

Sec. 438. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against judgment of
which an action shall have been brought pursuant to this Chapter i^nst a'cVrhas, by neglect, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, -J^l°?V.. privileges and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the
corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges
and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.

Sec. 439. If judgment be rendered in such action against a costs against
., a corporation,
corporation, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the or persons
Court may cause the costs therein to be collected by execution 8"ch, how coiagainst the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attach—jb^ilss.
ment or process against the Directors or other officers of such
corporation.

Sec. 440. When such judgment shall be rendered against a Restraining
corporation, the Court shall have power to restrain the corpora- andappointtion, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an cetrer.
account, and make distribution thereof among its creditors; /''.,8459and it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, immediately
v""-~v~'' after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings
for that purpose,
copy of jndg- 
Sec. 441. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a
ment roll
aiarainst corpora- corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it
bejiied.
~ shall be the duty of the Attorney-General to cause a copy of the
1870. xr?., weo. judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the Secretary
of State.
Entry of judg- 
Sec. 442. Such Secretary shall thereupon, if the record re!" MK.rTpntMa lates to letters patent, make an entry in the records of the
i /j., 8 4di.
office of the Secretary of State of the substance and effect of such
judgment, and of the time when the record thereof was docketed :
and the real property granted by such letters patent may there
after be disposed of in the same manner as if such letters patent
had never been issued.
Action for ">r- 
Sec. 443. Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property,
ertyw the state real or personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any officer
for its use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging
the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper
officer in the Circuit Court.
Section 444. The words " real property " and " real estate,"
re^o7™4«i!~ as used in this Code of Procedure, are coextensive with lands,
tenements and hereditaments.
Definition of 
Sec. 445. The words "personal property," as used in this
erty.
Code of Procedure, include money, goods, chattels, things in
lb., 8407.
action and evidences of debt.
Definition of 
Sec. 446. The word "property," as used in this Code of
PTb.,840&— Procedure, includes property, real and personal.

Sec. 447. The word "Clerk," as used in this Code of Pro- '
v
'
cedure, signifies the Clerk of the Court where the action is peud- cierk.
"
ing, and in the Supreme Court the Clerk of the County mentioned /b., 8489in the title of the complaint, or in another County to which the
Court may have changed the place of trial, unless otherwise
specified.

Sec. 448. The rule of common law, that statutes in deroga- Ruie» °* (»1>tion of that law are to be strictly construed, has no application ib.,itfo.
to this Code of Procedure.

Sec. 449. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this Code incoDsistent
of Procedure are repealed ; but this repeal shall not revive a vtsfonsVepeaied
statute or law which may have been repealed or abolished by the lb7u. xiv.,M7i.
provisions hereby repealed. And all rights of action given or
secured by existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner pro
vided by this Code of Procedure. If a case shall arise in which
an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the
redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this Code
of Procedure, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so
far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
Remedy can be had under the Code, in action already pending, according to
its new forms of proceeding if practicable ; if not practicable, in order to pre
vent failure of justice, resort might be had to the former practice.—Parnell v.
Maner, 16 S. C, 348 ; Arthur v. Allen, 22 S. C, 432. In the light of this Sec
tion so much of the Act of 1878 as to appeals (16 Stat., 698,) is inconsistent
with Section 345, subdivision 2, and must be considered as repealed.—Molair
v. R. R. Co., 31 S. C, 510.
The Code making no provision as to proceedings in case of certiorari, the
"practice heretofore in use" must govern in such case.—Ex Parte Black, 34
a C, 194.


Sec. 450. The Justices of the Supreme Court and the Judges judges meet
of the Circuit Courts shall meet in general convention, on suchJSe^iafiytore^
day and at such place as may be designated by the Chief Justice, r^/lt ci'^ui't
at least once in every two years, counting from the year of our ~?£rt.«478. lsS2_
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two, for the purpose xviii., so.
of revising and amending the rules of the Circuit Court and
establishing such additional rules as may be deemed necessary to
regulate the practice in the Circuit Courts : Provided, Such
alterations or additions be not inconsistent with any of the
statutes of the State.
Such convention has no power to prescribe rules for the exercise of any
special jurisdiction conferred by statute upon a Clerk or Trial Justice. Rule
66 of the Circuit Court does not apply to sureties on a bond given by lienee to
obtain warrant for seizure of crop under agricultural lien.—Sharp v. Palmer,
31 S. C, 444.
The authority of the Rules, so adopted, not inconsistent with the Code,
recognized.—Ketchin v. Landecker, 32 S. C. , 155.
"""—v~~~>

Sec. 451. The Justices of the Supreme Court shall, from
supreme5 ecourt time to time, make such rules for the orderly conduct of business
^2^84r^"^ in 8a^ Court as they may deem proper, not inconsistent with
this Code of Procedure.
Proceeding a 
Sec. 452. Until the Legislature shall otherwise provide, the
and prohibition seoond part of this Code of Procedure shall not affect proceedings
not affected, 4c. ,
,
, .,...
~ib~8i7&.— Dv mandamus or prohibition.
Equity Rules 
Sec. 453. Generally in all matters in which there is any concasesof-conflict! ^K^ or variance between the rules of Equity and the rules of the
Common Law, with reference to the same matter, the rules of
Equity shall prevail.


