
Sec. 1. Remedies in the Courts of Justice are divided into:
remedies.
(1.) Actions.
(2.) Special proceedings.

Sec. 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a Court of Jus- Action,
tice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement 4-36. 8-62, na.
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or
the punishment of a public offence.

Sec. 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
Special Pro
Sec. 4. Actions are of two kinds:
Divfsion of
Actions.
1. Civil.
Wilson ra.rabb
2. Criminal.
(Mss.)

Sec. 5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the State, as a party, criminal Acagainst a person charged with a public offence, for the punish
ment thereof.

Sec. 6. Every other is a civil action.
civil Action,

Sec. 7. Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil Remedies not
i
.
merged.
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged
in the other.

Sec. 8. This Code of Procedure is divided into two parts: The Division of
Act
first relates to Courts of Justice and their jurisdiction. The
second relates to civil actions in the Courts of this State.

Sec. 9. The several Courts of this State.
10. Their jurisdiction generally.
The several

Sec. 0. The following are the Courts of Justice in this State :
Courts.
Their
juristic- 
Sec. |0. These Courts shall exercise the J-jurisdiction now vested
turn
generally.
in them respectively, except as otherwise prescribed by this Code
of Procedure.
Its jurisdiction,
Power of Court.
Terms. Preference of Causes.
Judgment, rehearing. Opinions.
Sheriffs to provide rooms, &c.
Courts, where held. Adjournment.


Sec. 11. The Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to review upon appeal:
or final judg- 1. Any intermediate judgment, order or decree involving the
merits in actions commenced in the Court of Common Pleas and
15 siat., 495. General Sessions, brought there by original process, or removed there from any inferior Court or jurisdiction, and final judgment r.r^ativeto^uin such actions: Provided, If no appeal be taken until final judg- preme Court,
ment is entered, the Court may, upon appeal from such final judg-3-22^ 265.
.
3-417, 607
ment, review any intermediate order or decree necessarily affecting 4-36 ' ^
the judgment not before appealed from.
2. An order affecting a substantial right made in an action, w^subftai'when such order in effect determines the action, and prevents atl*"£lltjudgment from which an appeal might betaken, or discontinues 777 g-61 „g
the action, and when such order grants or refuses a new trial, or u-isa.
when such order strikes out an answer, or any part thereof, or any 15gtat im
pleading in an action; but no appeal to the Supreme Court from
an order granting a new trial, on a case made or bill of excep
tions, shall be effectual for any purpose, unless the notice of
appeal contains an assent on the part of the appellant, that if the
order be affirmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered against the
appellant. Upon every appeal from an order granting a new trial, condition of
on a case made, or on exceptions taken if the Supreme Court der granting new trial .
shall determine that no error was committed in granting the new
trial, they shall render judgment absolute upon the right of the
appellant; and after the proceedings are remitted to the Court
from which the appeal was taken, an assessment of damages or
other proceedings, to render judgment effectual, may be then and
there had in cases where such subsequent proceedings are requisite.
1>. A final order affecting a substantial right made in a special Final order affecting substanproceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after tiai right,
judgment, and upon such appeal to review any intermediate order
involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the order appealed
from.

Sec. 12. The Supreme Court mav reverse, affirm or modify the Power of 8n1
preme Court.
judgment, decree or order appealed from, in whole or in part, and
as to any or all of the parties; and its judgment shall be remitted
to the Court below, to be enforced according to law.

Sec. 13. The Supreme Court shall hold annually, at the seat of Te™s.
government, two sessions, the one commencing on the fourth 11 oLUtr., nol.
Tuesday of November, and the other the third Tuesday of April;
and each of said terms shall be continued for so long a period as
the public interest may require.
Additional terms mayJ be appointed
and held at such times and causes.
Preference of
cr
places as the Court may direct, when the public interest requires it.
The Court may, by general rules, provide what causes shall have a preference on the calendar. On a second, and each subsequent
appeal to the Supreme Court, or when an appeal has once been
dismissed for defect or irregularity, the cause shall be placed upon
the calendar as of the time of filing the first appeal, and may be
noticed and put on the calendar for any succeeding term; and
whenever, in any action or proceeding in which the State, or any
State officer, or any Board of State officers, is, or are, sole Plaintiff
or Defendant, an' appeal has been, or shall be, brought up from
any judgment or order, for, or against him or them, in any Court,
such appeal shall have preference in the Supreme Court, and may
be moved by either party out of the order on the calendar.
Judgments.

Sec. 14. The concurrence of two Judges is necessary to pro
nounce a judgment. If two do not concur, the case must be
rehearing.
reheard. But no more than two rehearings shall be had; and if,
on the second rehearing, two Judges do not concur, the judgment
shall be affirmed.
Opinions.
When two of the Judges do not concur, and a rehearing of the
case is ordered, the two Judges shall file the opinions read by them
with the Reporter of the Court, but such opinions shall not be
published. No person, other than the Judges of the Court, the
Reporter of the Court, or the counsel or attorney of either of the
parties to the action, shall have access to, or a copy of the said
opinions, but such counsel or attorney may have access to. and a
copy thereof.
sheriff to pro- 
Sec. 15. If, at a term of the Supreme Court, proper and con
venient rooms, both for the consultation of the Judges and the
holding of the Court, with furniture; attendants, fuel, lights and
stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its business,
be not provided for in toe place where by law the Court may be
held, the Court may order the Sheriff of the County to make such
provision, and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order
into effect shall be a County charge.
Courts, where 
Sec. 1 6. The Supreme Court may be held in other buildings than
those designated by law as places for holding Courts, and at a
different place, in the same city or town from that at which it is
Adjournment, appointed to be held. Any one, or more of the Judges may
adjourn the Court with the like effect as if all were present.
Act March 7th, 1871, (14 Stat., 604,) enacts as follows: That
the Supreme Court shall, on the last day of each stated term,
make and publish an order designating the order in which the causes from the several Circuits shall be called at the stated term
of the Court next ensuing, which order shall also specify the
time to be allotted to the hearing of causes from each Circuit.
This order shall be irrevocable.
If the causes from the several Circuits cannot be heard ,. Order for cal
ling causes to
within the period allotted, as provided in the preceding Section, be published,
the Court shall continue the same to be heard after the regular
call of .the Circuits, or in its discretion, till the next stated term.
To Regulate the Service of Process Issuing from the Supreme
Court.
February 20, 1873. (15 Stat., 353.)
That the Supreme Court of this State be, and is hereby em- Supreme Court
may require
powered to require the Sheriff of each and every County in this sheriffs to serve process.
State, to whom any order or process issuing from said Court may
be directed, to serve and execute the same; and shall have the Empowered to
same power to enforce such service and execution, and to punish enforce "enrice.
default therein, as is now vested in the Circuit Courts in process
issuing therefrom.
To Empower the Supreme Court to Frame Issues and Direct
the Same to be Tried in the Circuit Court, and to Order
Referees in Certain Cases.
January 23, 1873. (15 Stat., 314.)
That whenever, in the course of any suit, action or proceeding Supreme Court when may
in the Supreme Court, arising in the exercise of the original frame issues, jurisdiction conferred upon the Court by the Constitution and laws
of the State, an issue of fact shall arise upon the pleadings, or
whenever an issue of fact shall arise upon a traverse to a return
in mandamus, prohibition or certiorari, or whenever the deter
mination of any question of fact shall be necessary to the full
exercise of the jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court, the
said Court shall have power to frame an issue therein, and certify
the same to the Circuit Court for the County wherein the cause
shall have originated, or, in cases of original jurisdiction, to the
Circuit Court of the County in which the cause of action shall
have arisen.
Court
receiving° the certificate of such issue framed,
tocircuit
place issue
at o That upon
r
head
of
Caieifrom
the
Supreme
Court,'. the said Circuit Court shall forthwith
dar, try same,
r
and certify de- cause the same to be placed at the head of the appropriate
termination to
1
Supreme court, calendar or docket of said Court, and proceed to try and determine
the said issue in its due order, and shall certify the determination
thereof to the Supreme Court immediately after the trial thereof,
and, when required, shall settle and sign a case, or a case contain
ing exceptions, according to the practice in other causes tried in
the Circuit Court.
supreme
court
Court shall also have the same Lpowers
may appoint 3 That the Supreme
r
Kefereesto
mke
for
the
appointment
of
Referees
to take testimonyJ and report
testimony.
cl
L
thereon, under such instructions as may be prescribed by the said
Court, in any causes arising in the Supreme Court, wherein issues
of fact shall arise, as are now possessed by the Circuit Court of
the State.
Judges to hold Circuit Court.
Judges' power to adjourn Court Common Pleas.
Special Sessions of Circuit Courts.
Petit Jurors in Common Pleas and General Sessions.
Adjournment of Circuit Courts.
Qualification of Judges.
Circuit Courts made Courts of Record.
Clerk and Deputy Clerk of Circuit Courts.
Transfer of causes from Court of Chancery.

Sec. 17. The State is divided into eight Circuits, as follows:
First Circuit.—The Counties of Charleston and Orangeburg shall
constitute the First Circuit.
Second Circuit.—The Counties of Aiken, Beaufort, Barnwell,
Colleton and Hampton* shall constitute the Second Circuit.
Third Circuit. —The Counties of Sumter, Clarendon, Williams
burg and Georgetown shall constitute the Third Circuit.
Fourth Circuit. —The Counties of Chesterfield. Marlborc, Dar
lington, Marion and Horry shall constitute the Fourth Circuit.
Fifth Circuit. —The Counties of Kershaw, Richland, Edgefield
and Lexington shall constitute the Fifth Circuit.
Sixth Circuit. —The Counties of Chester. Lancaster, York and
Fairfield shall constitute the Sixth Circuit.
Seventh Circuit.—The Counties of Newberry, Laurens, Union
and Spartanburg shall constitute the Seventh Circuit.
Eighth Circuit.—The Counties of Abbeville, Anderson, Oconee
and Pickens shall constitute the Eighth Circuit.
- Secs. IS, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25, Repealed June 9, 1877,
(16 Stat., 296,) and the following substituted:
The Circuit Courts of the First Circuit shall be held as follows: pirst circnit,
The Court of General Sessions at Charleston, for the County of Charleston.
Charleston, on the first Mondays in February, June and Novem
ber; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the
second Mondays of February, June and November.
The Court of General Sessions at Orangeburg, for the County Orangeburg,
of Orangeburg, on the first Mondays of January, May and
October; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the
Wednesdays after the first Mondays in January, May and October.
The Circuit Courts of the Second Circuit shall be held as follows: Second circuit .
The Court of General Sessions at Aiken, for the Countyof Aiken, Aiken,
on the first Monday in February, the last Monday in May and the
second Monday in September; and the Court of Common Pleas at
the same place on the Wednesdays following the first Monday in
February and the second Monday in September.
The Court of General Sessions at Barnwell, for the County of Barnwell.
Barnwell, on the third Monday in February, #the first Monday
in June and the fourth Monday in September; and the Court of.
* Note.—Hampton was made a portion of the Second Circuit. 1878. (16
Stat.. 376.)
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the
third Monday in February and the fourth Monday in September.
Hampton.
The Court of General Sessions at Hampton, for the County. of
Hampton, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in February,
the second Monday in June and the second Monday after the
fourth Monday in September; and the Court of Common Pleas
at the same place on the Wednesdays following the first Monday
after the fourth Monday in February, the second Monday in June
and the second Monday after the fourth Monday in September.
Walterboro.
The Court of General Sessions at Walterboro, for the County of
Colleton, on the third Monday after the fourth Monday in
February, the third Monday in June and the fourth Monday
after the fourth Monday in September; and the Court of Common
Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the third
Monday after the fourth Monda}' in February and the fourth
Monday after the fourth Monday in September.
The Court of General Sessions at Beaufort, for the County of
Beaufort.
Beaufort, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in February,
the fourth Monday in June, and the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday in September; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same
place on the Wednesdays following the fifth Monday after the
fourth Monday in February and the sixth Monday after the
fourth Monday in September.
The Circuit Courts of the Third Circuit shall be held as follows:
Third Circuit.
The Court of General Sessions at Sumter, for the County of Sum
Sumter.
ter, on the first Monday in February, the second Monday after
16 Stat., 805. the fourth Monday in May and the first Monday in October;
and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place, on the Monday
following the first Monday in February and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Manning, for the County of
Clarendon .
Clarendon, on the third Monday in February, the first Monday
after the fourth Monday in May and the third Monday in October;
and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place, on the
Wednesdays following the third Mondays in February and October.
The Court of General Sessions at- Kingstree, for the County of
Williamsburg.
Williamsburg, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in
February, on the fourth Monday in May and the first Monday
after the fourth Monday in October; and the Court of Common
Pleas at the same place, on the Wednesday following the first
Monday after the fourth Mondays in February and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Georgetown, for the County Georgetown,
of Georgetown, on the third Monday after the fourth Monday in
February, the third Monday in May and the third Monday after
the fourth Monday in October; and the Court of Common Pleas at
the same place, on the Wednesdays following the third Mondays
after the fourth Mondays in February and October.
The Circuit Courts of the Fourth Circuit shall be held as follows: o rder of
Courts in the
The Court of General Sessions at Chesterfield Court House, for Fourth circuit,
the County of Chesterfield, on the first Mondays in February, June
Chesterfield.
and September; and the Court of Common Fleas at tne same place
on the Wednesdays following the first Mondays in February and 16 Stat., 898.
September.
The Court of General Sessions at Bennettsville, for the County Marlboro,
of Marlboro, on the third Monday in February, second Monday in
June and third Monday in September; and the Court of Common
Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the third
Mondays in February and September.
The Court of General Sessions at Darlington, for the County of Darlington.
Darlington, on the first Monday in March, the third Monday in
June and the first Monday in October; and the Court of Common
Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the first
Mondays in March and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Marion, for the County of
Prescribing
times for holdMarion, on the fourth MondayJ in March, the Monday after the Marion
ing Courts
County.in
fourth Monday in June and the fourth Monday in October; and
the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays
following the fourth Mondays in March and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Conwayboro, for the County of Horry.
Horry, on the fourth Mondays after the fourth Mondays of March
and October, and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place 16 bta'"
on the Wednesdays following the fourth Mondays after the fourth
Mondays in March and October.
The Circuit Courts of the Fifth Circuit shall be held as follows: _ Order of
The Court of General Sessions at Camden, for the County of Fifth circuit.
Kershaw, on the first Mondays in February, June and September; Kershaw,
and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the Thursdays 16 stat" 899,
following the first Mondays in February and September.
The Court of General Sessions at Lexington, for the County of Lexington.
Lexington, on the third Monday in February, the second Monday 16 star., 571.
in June and the third Monday in September; and the Court of 16 stat., 722.
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the
third Monday in February and third Monday in September.
The Court of General Sessions at Edgefield, for the County of
Edgefield .
Edgefield, on the first Monday in March, third Monday in June
IT Stilt., 288. and first Monday in October, and the Court of Common Pleas at
the same place on the second Monday in March and second Mon
day in October.
Kichhind.
The Court of General Sessions at Columbia, for the County of
Richland, on the fourth Monday in March, the first Monday in
July, and the fourth Monday in October; and the Court of Coin
18 St:it., 299.
mon Pleas at the same place on the Monday after the fourth Mon
day in March, the second Monday in July, and the Monday after
the fourth Monday in October.
Amended Ros The Circuit Courts of the Sixth Circuit shall bo held as follows:
ter of sixth Cireuil .
The Court of General Sessions at Winnsboro, for the County of
Fairfield, on the second Monday in February, the first Monday in
Fairfield.
June and the second Monday in September; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following the
second Mondays in February and September.
Lancaster.
The Court of General Sessions at Lancaster, for the County of
Lancaster, on the fourth Monday in February, the second Monday
in June and the fourth Monday in September; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the
fourth Mondays in February and September.
The Court of General Sessions at Chester, for the County of
Chester.
Chester, on the second Monday in March, the third Monday in
1H Stat., 716.
June and the second Monday in October: and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the second Mondays in March and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Yorkville, for the County
York.
of York, on the fourth Mondays in March, June and October;
and the Courts of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednes
days following the fourth Mondays in March and October.
Seventh Circuit The Circuit Courts of the Seventh Circuit shall be held as
follows:
The Court of Common Fleas at Newberry, for the County
Newberry.
of Newberry, on the first Mondays of February, June and Septem
ber; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the
16 Stat., 800. Wednesdays following the first Mondays in February and Sep
tember.
The Court of General Sessions at Laurens, for the County of Laurens.
Laurens, on the third Mondays in February and June, and the
second Monday after the third Monday in October; and the Court
of Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesday following
the first Monday in February and the Wednesday following the i« Stat., 563.
second Monday after the third Monday in October.
The Court of General Sessions at Union, for the County of Union.
Union, on the first Monday in March, the third Monday in June
and the first Monday in October; and the Court of Common Pleas
at the same place on the Wednesdays following the first Mondays ie stat., 300.
of March and October.
The Court of General Sessions at Spartanburg, for the County Spartanburg,
of Spartanburg, on the third Monday in March, the fourth Mon
day in June and the third Monday in October; and the Court of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following
the third Mondays in March and October.
The Circuit Courts of the Eighth Circuit shall be held as follows: Eighth circuit.
The Court of General Sessions at Abbeville, for the County of Abbeville.
Abbeville, on the first Mondays in February and June and the
third Monday in October; and the Court of Common Pleas at the
same place on the Wednesdays following the first Monday in Feb
ruary and the third Monday in October.
The Court of General Sessions at Anderson, for the County o;f Anderson.
Anderson, on the fourth Monday in February, the second Monday
in June and the- second Monday after the third Monday in Septem
ber: and the Court of Common Pleas at the same place on the 17 stat., 289.
Wednesdays following the fourth Monday in February and the
second Monday after the third Monday in September.
The Court of General Sessions at Walhalla, for the County of Waihaiia.
Oconee, on the second Monday in March, the third Monday in
June and the first Monday in September; and the Court of Com
mon Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the
second Mondays in March and September.
The Court of General Sessions at Pickens, for the County of Pickens.
Pickens, on the fourth Monday in March, the fourth Monday in
June and the third Monday in September; and the Courts of
Common Pleas at the same place on the Wednesdays following the
fourth Mondays in March and September.
The Court of General Sessions at Greenville, for the County of Greenville.
Greenville, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in March and the first Monday in July and the first Monday after the fourth
Monday in October; and the Court of Common Pleas at the same
place on the Wednesdays following the first Monday after the
fourth Monday in March, the first Monday in July and the
Wednesday following the first Monday after the fourth Monday in
October.

Sec. '26. Repealed May 31, 1877, (16 Vol., 228,) and the follow
ing Act substituted:
SeeActMarch 1. That to carry the said constitutional provision into effect
1st, 1878. Post. ....
within sixty days after the passage of this Act, the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court, or, in case of his death, resignation, illness
or absence from the State, the presiding Associate Justice shall
Roster to be cause to be made a roster of the Circuit Judges of this State, and
made of Circuit
Judges, and shall assign each of the said Circuit Judges to hold the Fall Terms
toxoid Coufttn of the Courts of one of the Circuits for the year 1 877, commencing
with the First Circuit; and the Judge assigned to hold the Courts
of the First Circuit shall continue to be assigned to the other Cir
cuits in regular order as the Circuits stand in their numerical
series, and the other Circuit Judges shall be assigned to hold the
terms of the Courts of the other Circuits, as the Chief Justice may
select them, in the numerical order of the Circuits following, so
that the Circuit Judges shall regularly rotate in holding the terms
of the Courts in all the Circuits of the State.
2. That between the first and fifteenth of December, 1877, and
during the same period of each succeeding year, th,e Chief Justice
or presiding Associate Justice, from the said roster, shall make the
assignment of Circuit Judges to hold the various Courts in all of
the Circuits for the whole of the succeeding year, in such order
as will effect a constant interchange of Circuits; and immediately
upon any such assignment, as provided in this and the piecedina;
Section of this Act, the Chief Justice or presiding Associate Justice
shall cause official notification to be given to the Circuit Judges of
the order of their assignment, and shall cause a notice to be inserted
in two daily newspapers (one in the City of Charleston and one in
the City of Columbia) for two weeks, of the order of such assign
ment; and said notifications shall be sufficient notice to the said
Circuit Judges, and they shall proceed to hold the terms of the
Courts in the Circuits to which they are respectively assigned at
the times appointed by law for the various Circuit Courts therein
to convene.
3. Whenever anyJ Circuit Judge,
to hold made
Provision
o.ipendingo his assignment
a
tor vathe Courts of any Circuit,' shall die,> resign,
cancy
office
e > be disabled byJ illness ' of
anyinCircuit
or be absent from the State, or in case of a vacancy in the office of Judge.
Circuit Judge of any Circuit, the Chief Justice or presiding Asso
ciate Justice may assign any other Circuit Judge disengagcd to
hold the Courts of such Circuits, or to fill any appointment made
necessary by such vacancy.
4. No Circuit Judge shall absent himself from this State with- Judges cannot
°
absent the mout leave first granted
in writing
selves without
,
° bv the Chief Justice or ipresidingo permission.
Associate Justice.
5. Any Circuit Judge who shall fail or neglect to hold the term Judges to be
held amenable
or terms of any Court of General Sessions or Common Pleas, in for neglect of
any Circuit to which he may be assigned, until the business of said
Courts shall have been disposed of, or the end of the term or terms
arrives, or shall fail to recognize and obey the order of assignment
of the Chief Justice or presiding Associate Justice, or shall violate
the fourth Section of this Act, upon any reliable information of
the same, the Attorney General of the State shall, by official com
munication, bring such violations of this Act to the notice of the
General Assembly at its first session, and such Circuit Judge shall
be held amenable to proceedings for neglect of duty, as provided
in Article VII, Section 4, of the Constitution.
6. That Section 26, Title III, of the Code of Procedure, Chapter
CXXII of the Revised Statutes, and all other Acts or parts of Acts
conflicting with the provisions of this Act, are hereby repealed.

Sec. 27. Should the business before the Court of General Ses- Judge's power
to a d j o u r n
sious, at anv term, not be completed on the arrival of the day fixed court of com^
j i i•
mon Pleas,
by law for the holding of the Court of Common Pleas for said
County, the Judge presiding may, in his discretion, adjourn said
Court of Common Pleas until the said business of the Court of
General Sessions shall have been concluded.

Sec. 28. The several Circuit Judges
Special
ses° shall have Lpower to hold sions
of Circuit
special sessions within their respective Circuits, at any time in their Courts,
discretion, or at the discretion of the Chief Justice, of which the
Judge presiding shall give such notice as the Chief Justice may
direct, or as may, in his judgment, be necessary, should no direc
tions be given. The Clerk of suoh Court shall, at least fifteen days
before the commencement of such special session, cause the time
and place for holding the same to be notified, for at least two
weeks, successively, in one or more of the newspapers published
 nearest the place where the session is to be holden. All processes,
writs and recognizances of every kind, whether respecting juries,
witnesses, bail or otherwise, which relate to the cases to be tried
at the said special session, shall be considered as belonging to such
sessions, in the same manner as if they had been issued or taken
in reference thereto. All business depending for trial at any special
session shall, at the close thereof, be considered as of course removed
to the next stated term of the Court. Said special session shall be
held in pursuance of an order which shall be transmitted to the
Clerk of the Court, and by him entered on the records of the Court.
Petit jurors in 
Sec. 29. Petit jurors summoned to attend the Court of General
Common Pleas
and General Sessions in any County, except the County of Charleston, shall also
Sessions.
attend and serve as jurors for the Court of Common 1 leas next
ensuing in and for said County.
Adjournment 
Sec. 30. The Judge of the Circuit Court shall have power to
of the circuit
Courts.
direct any Circuit Court in his Circuit to be adjourned over to a
future day, designated in a written order to the Clerk of said
Court, whenever there is a dangerous and general disease at the
place where said Court is usually holden.
Qualification 
Sec. 31. The Judges elected and qualified bv taking the oath
of Judges.
0
prescribed in the thirtieth Section of the second Article of the Con
stitution, which oath, to the Judges under the first election, shall
be administered by the Governor of the State of South Carolina,
who is hereby empowered to administer the same, and to the
Judges under any subsequent election, by one of the Justices of
the Supreme Court, shall forthwith enter upon their duties,
circuit courts 
Sec. 32. The Circuit Courts herein established shall be the Courts
made Courts of
.in
11 .
i
record.
of record, and the books oi record tnereol shall at all times be
subject to the inspection of any person interested therein,
clerk and 
Sec. 33. The Clerk elected in each County under the provisions
oftPthe circuit of Section 27 of Article IV of the Constitution, shall be Clerk of
the Courts of General Sessions and Common Pleas, and may
appoint a deputy, who may perform the duties of Clerk, for whose
acts such Clerk shall be respcnsible; and a record of whose appoint
ment shall be made in the Clerk's office; and such appointment
may be revoked at the pleasure of the Clerk; and in case no Clerk
exists, the Judge shall have authority to appoint a person,, who
shall perform the duties of Clerk, and said Deputy Clerk, or the
one appointed by the Judge, shall be required to give the usual
bond before entering upon the duties of the office.

Sec. 34. All suits in Equity
Transfer
of
^ J depending
° in the Courts of causes
from the
Chancery, and not finally disposed of, and the property and Courts of chanrecords relating thereto, on the first day of January, A. D. 1S69,
shall be transferred to the Courts of Common Pleas in and for the
respective Counties, and shall be entered upon the dockets of said
Courts for the stated term thereof next ensuing, and thereupon
shall be heard, tried and determined, with all rights respected and
preserved, in the same manner as if originally brought there:
Provided, That no cause shall be transferred to the dockets of the
Courts aforesaid, not cognizable therein under the Constitution:
Provided, further, Tliat all causes depending as aforesaid, and the
property and records pertaining thereto, cognizable under the
Constitution in the Courts of Probate, shall be transferred to said
Courts.
To Declare the Law Respecting the Powers and Duties op the
Circuit Judges of this State.
(16 Statutes, 395.)
1. That every Judge, while holding the Circuit Court for any powers of
Circuit pursuant to the provisions of the law of this State, shall be oon?t s in^cli?
invested with powers equal to those of the Judge of such Circuit, their own' tha"
and may hear and determine all causes and motions, and grant all
orders in open Court, or at Chambers, which it is competent for
the Judge residing in such Circuit to hear, determine or grant,
any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.
2. That every Circuit Judge in this State shall at all times have circuit Judge
nilc i • w t0 discharge
jurisdiction to discharge and perform all the duties of his Qflice duties when in
within the Circuit wherein he resides, except the holding of Circuit " 'rcm '
Courts therein when some other Circuit Judge shall be engaged
in holding said Courts.
3. That no extra term of any Circuit CouLt shall be ordered circuit judge
to order extra
except by the Circuit Judge at the time holding the Circuit Court Courts,
of the County for which the extra term may be ordered, and such
extra term shall be held only by the Judge ordering the same:
Provided, The same shall not interfere with the power now lodged provis<..
in the Chief Justice in the premises: And provided, further, That
no cause shall be tried at any extra term of any Circuit Court
unless the said cause shall have been previously docketed upon
some of the calendars of the last preceding regular term of said
Court.
4. That all Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent with this Act be,
and the same are hereby, repealed.
Clerks op the Courts of Common Pleas to take testimony in
Certain Cases.
Clerks of 1. That the Clerks of the Courts of Common Pleas in this State,
Court may take depositions. in all civil causes or proceedings hereafter to be instituted, or now
pending or at issue, in the Courts of Common Pleas, for their
respective Counties, shall, upon the application of either party to
such cause or proceeding, after ten days' notice to the adverse
party, take, in writing, the depositions of said party, or of any
witness or witnesses in said cause or proceeding, whose examina
tion shall be required by the party making such application; upon
rights of taking which depositions, the several parties shall be entitled to
examination.
the same rights of examination, cross-examination, and examination
in reply, and the same exceptions to the admissibility of evidence,
as are allowed by law upon examination before the Court.
And
Depositions the depositions so taken shall be certified by the Clerk before
° e ce e ' whom such examination was had, and shall be read in evidence at
the trial of the said cause or proceeding; subject, nevertheless,
Person alto the right of either party to require the personal attendance and
attendance.
viva voce examination of the witness or witnesses at the trial of
said cause or proceeding; the exercise of which right, however.
not to cause a continuance or delay in the trial of the said cause or
proceeding.
Power
to
compel attendance 2. That evervJ Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas shall have
of witnesses, power to compel the attendance before him of the witness or wit
nesses to be examined, as aforesaid, upon the application of a party
to any civil cause or proceeding hereafter to be instituted, pending
or at issue in the said Court; for which purpose, he may issue a
May issue a subpcena to any such witness, which shall be served personally;
.ubpoma.
witness, upon whom such subpoena has been duly
Failure to at- served, shall fail to attend conformably thereto, the Clerk by whom
tend — penalty
same was issued shall have power to issue a rule, requiring
such witness to show cause why he should not be attached for contempt; and, upon the failure or neglect of such witness to show for^,n^™'nt
cause, the said Clerk shall have power to issue an attachment
against such witness for contempt, which attachment shall not be
dissolved, except by the order of a Judge, or of the said Clerk.
3. That every Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas, for taking
of Clerk
" of Ouirt for exthe depositions
hereinbefore
mentioned,
shall
be
entitled
to
demand
aminatioa
r
witnesses . of
and receive the sum of one dollar for each witness examined, to
be paid by the party against whom judgment shall be rendered in
said cause or proceeding.

To Accelerate the Proceedings in Actions for Partition.
Approved December, 1878.
1. That Clerks of the Court of Common Pleas and Masters C'«rk 8 and
Masters may
in those Counties where the office of Master now or hereafter grant writs of
partition.
may exist in their respective Counties, shall have power, upon
proper proceedings filed, to grant writs of partition of real or per
sonal estate in cases where the right to partition is not contested,
or the same has been ascertained by a decree of the Court; and
all such writs shall be made returnable to the next succeeding sit
ting of the Court of Common Pleas for the adjudication of the
Judge, or to the Judge at Chambers, as is hereafter provided, until
which adjudication, all equities of the parties shall be reserved;
and power of appointing guardians ad litem in all such cases is 17 stat"' 32'
hereby vested in the Clerks of the Court of Common Pleas and
Masters in those Counties where the office of Master now or here
after may exist.
2. That, after the passage of this Act, the Judges of the Court of hel£acSe8mfSr
Common Pleas may hear and determine actions for partition, and Cambers'1
may grant all writs and processes in such actions, at Chambers, in
the like manner and with the same effect as are now granted in
term time.
.'i. That all Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent with this Act
be, and hereby are, repealed.
Judicial Hales of Land; Powers of Probate Judge; Clerks of
Circuit Courts, Sheriffs and Trial Justices.
February, 1878.
Order regu- 
Sec. 2. That on and after the passage of this Act, all sales of real
pubifc officers/ estate or personal property under the orders of the Probate Court,
shall be made by the Judge of Probate; and all sales under the
order of the Court, where the title is to be made by the Clerk of
the Circuit Court, such sales shall be made by the Clerk; and all
other judicial sales shall be made by the Sheriffs, as now provided
Proviso
by law: Provided, Nothing herein contained shall affect the sales
under executions issued out of the Courts of Trial Justices or those
to be made by executors or administrators.
Note.—Masters to make sales where ordered by the Circuit Court in granting
equitable relief. (Mareli 23, 1878, 16 Stat., 609.) Post, page—
All proceedings relative to Estates under Guardianship
had in the Court of Probate.
Judges not to act when interested. When Judges of
adjoining County to act.
Power to administer Oath.
Probate Court may issue Warrants and Processes.
In cases of Contumacy may commit to Jail.
When Depositions may be taken and used.
Exclusive Jurisdiction after once acquired.
Jurisdiction not to be collaterally impeached.
When minor may choose guardian; guardian interested ;
where appointed.
Authorized to permit sale and settle accounts of guar
dian.

Sec. 5 "2. Judges may appoint times and places for holding
Courts.
53. Open at all times for certain business.
54. Adjournment of Court. When by Clerk.
55. Appellate jurisdiction of Circuit Court.
56. Jurisdiction of Supreme Court in Probate matters.
37. Appeal to the Circuit Court to be taken within fifteen
days.
58. Repealed.
59. Grounds of appeal to be filed.
60. Certified copies of record to be filed in Circuit Court.
61. Proceedings stayed by appeal.
6'2. How Circuit Court proceed to the trial.
63. Costs given to prevailing party.
64. Appellant neglecting to enter appeal, judgment affirmed
with costs. .
65. Final decision to be certified to Probate Court.
66. Probate Judge not to have voice in determining appeal.
When may practice law.
67. All proceedings to be commenced by petition.
68. Supreme Court to make rules.
69. County Commissioners to provide all books, etc.
70. Judge may keep order, and punish contempt.
71. Processes of Court—how executed.
72. Judge may commit lunatics, etc., to Lunatic Asylum.
73. Laws of Provisional Government, how far adopted.
Transfer of record.

Sec. 35. A Court of Probate is hereby established in each of the sessions,
several Counties in the State, which shall hold a session on the
first Monday of each month, at or near the Court House, and con
tinue thereafter so long as the business may require.

Sec. 36. The Court of Probate shall be a Court of Record, and Comt of Re7
cord.
have a seal, may appoint a Clerk, and remove him at pleasure; and
on failure of the Court to appoint such Clerk, the Judge of the
Court may perform all the duties of Clerk.
.

Sec. 37. The Clerk of the Court of Probate shall keep a true Duties of the
and fair record of each order, sentence and decree of the Court,
and of all other things proper to be recorded; and on the legal
fees being paid, shall give true and attested copies of the files and proceedings of the Court. All copies so attested, shall be legal
evidence in the Courts of this State.
Jurisdiction

Sec. 38. EveryJo
Judge of Probate, in his County,
of Judges.
J > shall have
jurisdiction in all matters testamentary, and of administration in
business appertaining to minors and the allotment of dower, cases
of idiocy and lunacy, and persons non compotes mentis.
in relation to 
Sec. 39. The Judge of Probate shall have jurisdiction in relation
Guardians.
to the appointment and removal of guardians of minors, insane
and idiotic persons, and persons non compotes mentis, and in relation
to the duties imposed by law on such guardians, and the manage
ment and disposition of the estates of their wards. He shall
exercise original jurisdiction in relation to trustees appointed by
will in cases prescribed by law.
Tidies and 
Sec. 40. He may exercise jurisdiction of all petitions for partipartition of real estate.
tion of real estate where no dispute exists in relation to the title
The first sen- thereof; and when the title to such real estate is disputed, he shall
tence of 
Sec. 40
declared uncon- refer the same to the Circuit Court for adjudication, unless the
Davenport vs. parties shall consent to his determination of the same. The probate
s'c, 816.
' of the will, and the granting of administration of the estate of any
10-347.
person deceased, shall belong to the Judge of Probate for the
Scott ra. Bry- County in which such person was last an inhabitant; but if such
amt. (M8s.) person was not an inhabitant of this State, the same shall belong
10-435.

to ^e Ju(jge of ProDate in any County in which the greater part
of his or her estate may be.
Settlement
of 
Sec. 41. yyi Aproceedings
estate
m County
° in relation to the settlement of the
where will i * estate of any person deceased shall be had in the Probate Court
proved.
....
„ Stat.,
_ . 4%.
.,„. of the CountyJ in which his will was. .proved, or administration of
15
estate was granted. And whenever it shall appear to the satisfac
tion of any Judge of Probate that the personal estate of any per
son deceased is insufficient for the payment of his debts, and all
persons interested in such estate being first summoned before him,
and showing no cause to the contrary, such Judge of Probate shall
judge of Pro- have power to order the sale of the real estate of such person de
bate, now and
when he may ceased, or of so much thereof as may be necessary for the payment
real estate in of the debts of such deceased person, upon such terms and in such
cea™dnperson's manner as he may think best; may grant orders of injunction to
May grant stay actions or proceedings against the executors or administrators
writs of injunc- , . , ,
,
j
u ±-u
j
-u
tion, etc.
of such deceased person, and such other orders as may be necessary
to secure the marshaling and administering the assets of such de
ceased person. All proceedings under this Section to be by summons and complaint,
wherein the time for answering,
. Pioceedings
r
°7 manner of to
be by sumservice, etc.,' shall conform as nearlyJ as mayJ be to the form and plaint.
mKns ™<i compractice in the Courts of Common Pleas of this State.

Sec. 42. All proceedings in relation to the property or estate of ing^Jelattve6^
any person under guardianship shall be had in the Court of Pro- ^ardiansMp r
bate of the Oounty in which the guardian was appointedProbateC°Urt of

Sec. 43. No' Judge of Probate shall act as such in the settlement Judges not to
°
act when mterof anyJ estate wherein he is interested
as heir or legatee,
executor ested.
in such
•
°
cases Judges
cf
or administrator, or as guardian or trustee of any person; in every adjoining county to fict ,
such case the Judge of Probate of any adjoining County shall have
jurisdiction, and it shall be his duty, upon application, to attend at
some term of the Court of Probate in which such case may be pend
ing, which shall not interfere with the duties in his own County,
and hear and determine such case.

Sec. 44. The Judge or Clerk of the Probate Court shall have .Pl»ver to "d°
minister oath .
power to administer all oaths necessary in the transaction of busi
ness before the Probate Court, and all oaths required by law to be
administered to persons executing trust under the appointment of
said Court.

Sec. 45. Probate Courts may.* issue . all warrants and processes,
,, Thumay
Pr<!bate
r
> Court
issue
in conformityJ to the rules of law, which mayJ be necessaryJ to com- Warrants
Processes. and
pel the attendance of witnesses, or to carry into effect any order,
sentence or decree of such Courts, or the powers granted them by 2-450law.

Sec. 46. If any person shall refuse or neglect to perform any in cases of
order, sentence or decree of a Probate Court, such Court may issue «S'to jaii°
a warrant, directed to any Sheriff or Constable in the State, re2-450
quiring him to apprehend and imprison such person in the common
jail of the County; and if there be no jail of the County, then in
the jail of the adjoining County, until he shall perform such order,
sentence or decree, or be delivered by due course of law.

Sec. 47. When a witness whose testimonyJ is necessaryJ to be used tlons
whenmay
deposibe
before any Probate Court shall reside out of this State, (or more takon aild usedthan thirty miles from the place of holding Court,) or by reason of
age or bodily infirmity shall be unable to attend in person, the
Court may issue a commission to one or more competent persons
to take the testmony of such witness; and depositions taken accord
ing to the provisions of the law for taking depositions to be used
on the trial of civil causes may be used on the trial of any question
before the Probate Court where such testimony may be proper.
Bxchwiveafter
ju- 
Sec. 48. When an Jv Probate ( 'ourt shall have first taken cogninsdiction
°
once acquired, zance of the settlement of the estate of a deceased person, such
Court shall have jurisdiction of the disposition and settlement of
all the estate of such deceased person to the exclusion of all other
Probate Courts.
Jurisdiction 
Sec. 49. The jurisdiction assumed by any Probate Court in any
nol to be collat.
.
eraiiy impeach- case, so far as it depends on the place of residence or the location
of his estate, shall not be contested in any suit or proceeding
10-435.
• . .
whatever, except in an appeal from the Probate Court in the original
case, or when the want of jurisdiction appears on the record,
terested—where 
Sec. 50. When, by law, a guardian is required to be appointed
WhenPa minor of a minor, who is interested as heir or legatee, or representative
J;uardianh00bL of such heir or legatee, in any estate which is in a course of settle
ment, such guardian shall be appointed by the Probate Court
before which such estate is in course of settlement; but afterwards,
if the minor shall reside in another County, and is of the age of
fourteen years, he may choose and have a guardian appointed in
the County where he shall reside; and in that case, the powers of
the first guardian shall cease. In all other cases, guardians shall
be appointed by the Probate Court of the County where the persons
for whom the guardian shall be appointed shall reside.
pefmrh°8afeind 
Sec. 5'- The Probate Court, by which a guardian shall be
to
settotlekruar- appointed,
counts
rr
' shall have Jjurisdiction of the estate of the ward,' and
dianshall be alone authorized to permit the sale of such estate, and
settle such guardian's accounts.
Judges may 
Sec. 52. Except as provided in the 35th Section, the Probate
appoint times
1
1
and
places
for Court. in each County; shall
such times and rplaces for
holding
Probate
, appoint
"
Courts.
holding Courts as shall be judged most convenient for all persons
ir> stiit., 496. interested, and shall give notice of such times and places in one or
more newspapers circulating in the County.
open
at
ail
at all times
times for cer- SeC 53 The Probate Court shall be deemed open
r
tain business. for the transaction of ordinary business which may be necessary,
when previous notice is not required to be given to the persons
interested.
of ofadjournas occasion may
nient
Court 
Sec. 54. A Probate Court mayJ be adjourned
J
J
clerk" by the re(3u^re > and wnen tne Judge is absent at the time for holding a
Court the Clerk may adjourn it.
jurisdiction8 of Sec.
^ne Circuit Court shall have appellate jurisdiction
circuit Court. of ajl matters originally within the jurisdiction of the Probate
Court.

Sec. 56. The Supreme
Court shall have 1jurisdiction of all of. Jurisdiction
r_
Supreme
questions of law arising in the course of the proceedings of the *Jourt in froCircuit Court, in Probate matters, in the same manner as pro
vided by law in other cases.
Sec 57. Any person interested in any final order, sentence or ciroultco'art to
decree of any Probate Court, and considering himself injured fl^k™^'1™
thereby, may appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court in the same
County, at the stated session next after such appeal, and such
appeal shall be granted by the Probate Court, if application be
made and filed in the office of the Probate Court within fifteen
days from the date of the decision appealed from.

Sec. 58. (Repealed, 15 Stat., 868.)
isstat., 496.

Sec. 59. In all cases of appeal the appellant shall file in the pcaYtoire
Probate Office his grounds of appeal, and cause a copy thereof to
be served on the adverse party, at least twelve days before the
time when the appeal is to be entered in the Circuit Court.

Sec. 60. The person appealing shall procure and file in the ses'of^feSora0!^
Circuit Court to which such appeal
is ogranted a certified copy
be..flJf<i
™ cir"
rr
fj of cult
Court.
the record of the proceedings appealed from, of the application
and grounds for the appeal filed in the Probate Court, and of the 4-440allowance of the same, together with the proper evidence that
notice has been given to the adverse party according to law.

Sec. 61. When an appeal,
according° to law, is allowed byJ the stayed
. Proceeding?
rr
by apE'robate Court, all proceedings in pursuance of the order, sentence Pealor decree appealed from shall cease until the judgment of the
Circuit or Supreme Court is had; but if the appellant, in writing,
waives his appeal before the entry thereof, proceedings may be
hart in the Probate Court as if no appeal had been taken.

Sec. 62. When such certified copy
1 J shall have been filed in the„now
Court toCircuit
proCircuit Court, such Court shall proceed to the trial and determina- ceed to the trial,
tion of the question
according° to the rules of law; and if there 7-163.
^
shall be any question of fact or title to land to be decided, issue
may be joined thereon under the direction of the Court, and a trial
thereof had by jury.

Sec. 63. The Circuit Court or Supreme
Court, as the case mayJ prevailing:
Costs givenparto
x
be, may tax costs for the party who shall prevail; or when, in the 'yopinion of the Court, justice shall require it, the Court may deny
such costs, and mav tax oosts for either party; and if costs be
taxed against an executor or administrator, the same shall be
allowed to him in his administration account.

Appellant ne- 
Sec. 64, if the person appealing from the proceedings of the
glectfngtoer.ter
1
. ,
,
,
an appeal, judg- Probate Court, as provided in this Act, shall neglect to enter his
ment affirmed
-i
'
with costs,
appeal, the Circuit Court to which such appeal shall be taken, on
motion, and producing attested copies of such appeal by the ad
verse party, shall affirm the proceedings appealed from, and may
allow costs against the appellant.
Final
decision
in cases appealed,
to be certified Sec.
, 65. The final decision and judgment
J &
,r
' as
to p r o i> a ' <- hereinbefore provided, shall be certified to the Probate Court by
Court.
.
.
Circuit Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be. and the same
proceedings shall be had in the Probate Court, as though such
decision had been made in such Probate Court.
No
Probate
No Judge of anyJ Probate Court shall be admitted to
Judge to have sEc.
voice
in
deterhave
any
voice
in Jjudging
from his
minim; an apo o or determining
o anyJ appeal
rr
peal, when decision, or be permitted to act as attornev or counsel thereon, or
may practice
law.
receive fees as counsel in any matter pending in the Probate Court
of which he is Judge: Provided, It shall be lawful for Judges of
Probate to practice law in other Courts in such cases as are not
cognizable in the Courts of Probate.
ProceedingH to Sec 67. All proceedings in the Court of Probate shall be com
be commenced
. .
by petition.
nienced by petition to the Judge of Probate for the County to
whom the jurisdiction of the subject matter belongs, briefly setting
forth the facts or grounds of the application.
The supreme 
Sec. 68. The Supreme Court mav, from time to time, make rules
Court to make
.
.
.
,
rnies.
regulating the practice and conducting the business in the ( ourts
of Probate, in all cases not expressly provided for by law.
county com- 
Sec. 69. The County Commissioners of each ( 'ountv shall promissioners to
provide books, vide all books necessary for keeping the records; also, a seal and
necessary office furniture: Provided, Said furniture shall not ex
ceed in cost the sum of one hundred dollars,
.rudfje may 
Sec. 70. The Judge may keep order in Court, and punish any
keep order and
......
.
punish con- contempt of his authority in like manner as such contempt might
tempt.
. 1
. 1
.
_
be punished in the Circuit or Supreme ( ourt.
a 4M.
Sec 71. When costs are awarded, to be paid by one party to the
other, in the Courts of Probate, said Courts may issue execution
therefor, in like manner as is practiced in the Courts of common
law; and when no form for a warrant or process is prescribed by
statute or rules of Court, he shall frame one in conformity to the
rules of law, and the usual course of proceedings in this State.
Any Sheriff or Constable in the State shall execute the order or processes of said Court, in the same manner as the order or pro
cesses of the Circuit or Supreme Courts.
Sec 72. The Judge
Judgeslunamay
° of the Probate Court may■* commit to the commit
Lunatic Asylum any idiot, lunatic or person non compos mentis, ^{^^l"^1'
who, in his opinion, is so furiously mad as to render it manifestly
dangerous to the peace and safety of the community that he or she
should be at large; and, also, in all such other cases provided by
law. In all cases, the Judge shall certify in what place the said
person or persons resided at the time of the commitment, and such
certificate shall be conclusive evidence of such residence.
Sec 73. All laws and parts of laws of the late Provisional Gov- . Lawsof Pro*
visional Gov
ernment of South Carolina, relative to the powers,
duties and eminent,
how
r
far adopted.
course of procedure of the Courts of Ordinary and Equity, as far10-4r
as the jurisdiction of said Courts is herein conferred on the Courts
of Probate, not inconsistent with the Constitution and this Act, or
supplied by it, are hereby adopted and declared to be of force, and
applicable to the Courts of Probate.

To Enable Probate Court to Issue Executions.
January 31, 1872.

(15 Stat., 23.)

That, from and after the passage
r Probate
r
° of this Act, the Judges
° of the Judges
may
Probate Court, in the several Counties in this State, may, and they 1 88 "e execn'
_
.
tions.
are hereby, fully authorized and empowered to issue executions,
when that is the necessary and proper process, to carry into effect
any order, sentence or decree of such Court. ''And they are further
more authorized and empowered to issue executions to enforce a
decee of the Probate Judge of any other County: Provided, A Proviso,
transcript of such decree shall be duly filed in the office of the Pro-r i
1,!() Stat., 438.
bate J udge, who may be required to issue such execution, and also
filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas for
the County in which the execution is obtained."

For Enrolling Probate Decrees and Tsscing Executions thereon.
December 20, 1878.

(1« Stat., 710.)

1 . That any party in whose favor an order or decree for the paywhich
r J anTime
orderinmay
be
ment of money may be made by a Court of Probate may cause enrolled.
such order or decree to be enrolled at any time within a year and
a day after making the same, and for that purpose shall prepare
and deliver to the Judge' of Probate a brief or abstract, setting
forth the title of the proceedings wherein such order or decree was
made, the parties thereto, and the date when the same was made;
also the date of the said order and the names of the parties bound
thereby, together with such other particulars as may be necessary
to identify the said order with the said proceedings, and to exhibit
the grounds for making the same and the operations and effect
Dutyof Judge thereof ; and the said Judge of Probate shall annex thereto the
of Probate .
'
°
said order or decree, or else an exact copy thereof, certified by
him, together with the time when the same was made and entered:
and the said Judge of Probate shall endorse on the said record the
day of the month and the year when the said brief or abstract was
lodged in his office, and shall deposit the same in a case in his office,
Effect of de- with the other papers pertaining to the cause. And no order or
ment oT money decree of any Court of Probate for the payment of money shall, as
by Probate
Judge.
to third persons, without express notice, have any effect as a hen
on the real estate of the person intended to be bound thereby, but
from the day when the said brief or abstract shall have been deliv
ered to, or lodged with the said Judge of Probate as aforesaid, and
a transcript of the docket thereof in the index of money decrees
hereinafter prescribed, has been filed in the office of the Clerk of
the Court of Common Pleas for the same County and duly entered
by said Clerk on the calendar of judgments kept in his office, nor
shall such order or decree rank as a judgment against the estate of
any person deceased, unless such abstract was duly filed and
indexed with said Judge of Probate, and a transcript of the entry
Decrees here- ^n tne index was filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court for the
not°affectedered 8ame County and duly docketed by said Clerk on the calendar of
judgments of the Court of Common Pleas before the death of such
deceased person; except that the lien of decrees .and orders for the
payment of money made before the ratification of this Act shall
not be affected thereby; and after the transcript of the docket in
Effect of de- the index of money decrees has been duly entered upon the calen
dered. Vhnn °n dar of judgments kept in the office of the Clerk of the Court of
Common Pleas, such order or decree shall have like force and effect
as judgments of the Court of Common Pleas: Provided, That such
peal*811' of .ap enrollment of any order or decree for the payment of money shall
not deprive any party thereto of the right to appeal therefrom; but when notice of such appeal
shall be duly
rr
> given, execution upon ."eEnrollment
amended . to
the said order or decree, issued as is hereinafter provided, shall be
lodged to bind only, and shall not be enforced until su*ch appeal
shall have been dismissed; and if such order or decree shall be
reversed, set aside or modified on appeal, the enrollment thereof
shall be amended or wholly vacated accordingly.
2. EvervJ Judge
and keepr in his office.bate Judge
°J Pr°"
° of Probate shall provide
r
as
an index of money decrees, in which every enrolled order or de- '°rmatter of re"
cree for the payment of money shall be entered, with the names of
every party or estate bound thereby, alphabetically arranged,
together with the names of the parties plaintiff, and (besides the
title of the package in which the order or decree is contained and
the number in the package) shall exhibit the amount ordered to be
paid, the costs, (if any) date of enrollment, date of execution and
date of satisfaction, where satisfaction has been entered. Said book
shall be of convenient size, of durable paper and well bound, and
the expense of providing the same shall be defrayed by the County
Commissioners of the respective Counties.
3. No execution shall be issued byJ anyJ Judge
t.Kf'e<!t
of
° of Probate to this
Act upon
enforce the collection of moneyJ under anyJ order or decree of &™««
°,f
Probate Judge.
Court of Probate until an abstract or brief has been prepared ac
cording to the directions of this Act, and until such abstract or
brief has been filed in such Court of Proba te, and the proper minute
thereof has been entered in the index of money decrees hereinabove
prescribed, and the proper transcript of such minute has been filed
in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court for the same County
and entered upon the calendar of judgments of the Court of Com
mon Pleas kept in his office. And when any such execution has Duty of Probeen duly returned satisfied to the office of the Judge of Probate when exefufrom whence it issued, it shall be the duty of the Judge of such satisfied? U™
Court of Probate to have such satisfaction recorded upon the
proper transcript in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
entered upon the docket thereof on the calendar of judgments of
the Court of Common Pleas kept in said Clerk's office.
4. That all Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent with this Act be,
and the same are hereby, repealed.
To Provide a Mode for Revoking Letters Testamentary, and to
Better Protect the Interest of Minors, &c.
Approved December 19, 1878.
1. That when any executor or administrator has, since the grant
of letters testamentary or of administration, or any trustee, guar
dian of minors, committee of lunatics and persons non compos
mentis, changed his domicile to a place beyond the limits of this
State, or has been absent from the State for ten consecutive months
then last past, and such change or absence is made to appear to the
satisfaction of the Judge of Probate of the County wherein the
letters were granted or appointment made, it shall be the duty of
judge of Pro- such Judge of Probate to cite such executor or administrator,
ecutors,Cetc.,eto trustee, guardian of minors, committee of lunatics and persons non
arjpear before compOS men{is to account in person before him on a day named
in the citation, which shall not be less than sixty days from the
date thereof; and such citation shall be served upon such absent
executor or administrator, trustee, guardian of minors, committee
citation to be of lunatics and persons non compos mentis by publication forthwith,
by publication . oaCQ & weeli for four .weeks, in the newspaper in which the said
Judge of Probate publishes his official advertisements, and a copy
shall be mailed to such absent executor or administrator, trustee,
guardian of minors, committee of lunatics and persons non compos
mentis at his or her or their place of residence, if it is known or can
with reasonable diligence be ascertained.
When letters
If, upon such citation, such absent executor or administrator,
tion sntuMbefre^ trustee, guardian of minors, committee of lunatics and persons non
^'k(d
compos mentis fail to appear in person upon the day named and
render a return of his administration up to date, or, appearing by
attorney, fails to disprove a change of domicile and continuous
absence for ten months next preceding the date of citation, in the
case of an administrator the letters of administration shall be re
voked ; and in the case of an executor, such failure shall be received
as a formal renunciation of the office, notwithstanding his previous
acceptance; and in the case of any trustee, committee or guardian,
the appointment shall be revoked and annulled.
To Empower the Judge of Probate to Make Sales of Real and
Personal Property.
February 2, 1878.

(16 Stat., 336.)

That on and after the passage of this Act, all sales of real estate See Ante,
or personal property under the orders of the Probate Court, shall
be made by the Judge of Probate.

Sec. 74. Trial Justices shall have civil jurisdiction in the follow- Jurisdiction,
ing actions, and no others.
1^303
1. In actions arising on contracts for the recovery of money n-5s5.
only, if the sum claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars.
2. An action for damages for injury to rights pertaining to the
person, or the personal or real property, if the damages claimed
do not exceed one hundred dollars, and in cases, of bastardy.
3. An action for a penalty, fine or forfeiture, where the amount
claimed or forfeited does not exceed one hundred dollars.
_ 4. An action commenced by attachment of property, as now
provided by statute, if the debt or damages claimed do not exceed
one hundred dollars.
5. An action upon bond conditioned for the payment of money,
not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed
that sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due.
"Where the payments are to be made by installments, an action
may be brought for each installment as it becomes due.
6. An action upon a surety bond taken by 'them, where the
penalty or amount claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars.
7. An action upon a judgment rendered in a Court of a> Trial
Justice or an inferior Court in a <:ity where such action is not
prohibited by Section 94.
8. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defend
ant, where the amount confessed shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, in the manner prescribed by law.
9. An action for damages, fraud in the sale, purchase or
exchange of personal property, if the damages claimed do not
exceed one hundred dollars.
10. An action to recover the possession of personal property
claimed, the value of which, as stated in the affidavit of the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney, shall not exceed the sum of one hundred
dollars.
The plaintiff in such action, at the time of issuing the summons,
but not afterwards, may claim the immediate delivery of such
property as hereinafter provided.
Before any process shall be issued in an action to recover the
possession of personal property, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
shall make proof by affidavit, showing:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner, or entitled to immediate pos
session of the property claimed, particularly describing the same.
2. That such property is wrongfully withheld or detained by the
defendant.
3. The cause of srch detention or withholding thereof, accord
ing to the best knowledge, information and belief of the person
making the affidavit.
4. That said personal property has not been taken for any tax,
fine or assessment, pursuant to statute, or seized by virtue of an
execution or attachment against the property of said plaintiff; or
if so seized, that it is exempt from such seizure by statute.
5. The actual value of said personal property.
On receipt of such affidavit, and an undertaking, in writing,
executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Trial Justice before whom such action is commenced, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of such property as stated
in said affidavit, for the prosecution of said action, and for the
return of said property to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against said plaintiff, the Trial Justice shall
endorse upon said affidavit a direction to. any Constable of the
County in which said Trial Justice shall reside, requiring said Con
stable to take the property described therein from the defendant,
and keep the same, to be disposed of according to law; and the said
Trial Justice shall at the same time issue a summons with a copy of 17 stat., 88.
the undertaking, directed to the defendant, and requiring him to
appear before said Trial Justice at a time and place to be therein
specified, and not more than twelve days from the date thereof, to
answer the complaint of said plaintiff; and the said summons shall
contain a notice to the defendant that, in case he shall fail to
appear at the time and place therein mentioned, the plaintiff will
have judgment for the possession of the property described in said
affidavit, with the costs and disbursements of said action.
The Constable to whom said affidavit, indorsement and summons
shall be delivered, shall forthwith take the property described in
said affidavit, if he can find the same, and shall keep the same in
his custody. He shall thereupon, without delay, serve upon said
defendant a copy of such affidavit, notice and summons, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found in said
County; if not found, to the agent of the defendant in whose pos
session said property shall be found; if neither can be found, by
leaving such copies at the last or usual place of abode of the de
fendant, with some person of suitable age and discretion. And
shall forthwith make a return of his proceedings thereon, -and the
manner of serving the same, to the Trial Justice who issued the
said summons.
The- defendant may at any time after such service, and at least
two days before the return-day of said summons, serve upon plain
tiff, or upon the Constable who made such service, a notice in
writing that he excepts to the sureties in said bond or undertaking;
and if he fail to do so, all objection thereto shall be waived. If
such notice be served, the sureties shall justify, or the plaintiff give
new sureties on the return-day of said summons, who shall then
appear and justify, or said Trial Justice shall order said property
delivered to Defendant, and shall also render judgment for De
fendant's costs and disbursements.
At any time before the return-day of said summons, the said
defendant may, if he has not excepted to plaintiff's sureties, require
the return of said property to him upon giving to the plaintiff, and
filing same with the Trial Justice, a written undertaking, with one
or more sureties, who shall justify before said Trial Justice on the
return-day of said summons, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of said property, as stated in plaintiff's affidavit,
for the delivery thereof to said plaintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against said defendant; and if such return be
not required before the return-day of said summons, the property
shall be delivered to said plaintiff,
^laiiflcatious 
Sec. 75. The qualification of bail must be as follows:
1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or free
holder within the State.
'I. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of
arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge
or a Trial Justice, on justification, may allow more than two bail to
justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order,
if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

Sec. 76. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before che Judge or a Trial Justice at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part
of the plaintiff touching his insufficiency, in such manner as the
Judge or Trial Justice, in his discretion, may think proper. The
examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff.
Justification 
Sec. 77. If the Judge or Trial Justice find the bail sufficient, he
shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and_cajjse-^em4o-be.-filejd-Jwi^ the Clerk; and the
Sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

Sec. 78. If the property,
thereof,' be concealed in a taken
Property-if -how
F r •" or anyJ part
f
conbuilding or inclosure, the Constable shall publicly demanji itgjlQ; ^edmi" ™9}°livery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or ing.
inclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his pos
session ; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of
his County.

Sec. 79. When a Constable shall have taken property, as in this Property—how
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for
taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec 80. If the property taken be claimed by any other person ciaim oftDr°j
than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make afR- person
davit of his title thereto, and right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same
upon the Constable, the Constable shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on de
mand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the Constable against
such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth double
the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plain
tiff, and freeholders and householders of the County. And no
claim to such property, by any other person than the defendant
or his agent, shall be valid against the Constable, unless made as
aforesaid ; and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he
may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such in
demnity.
The actions so commenced shall be tried in all respects as other
actions are tried in Trial Justices' Courts.
The judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or
for the recovery of the possession, or the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the
property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a
return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot
be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same. An
execution shall be issued thereon, and if the judgment be for the
delivery of the possession of personal property, it shall require the
officer to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered by the same
judgment out of the personal property of the party against whom
it was rendered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof
cannot be had. The execution shall be returnable within sixty days
after its receipt by the officer, to the Trial Justice who issued the
same.
In all actions for the recovery of the possession of personal
property, as herein provided, if the property shall not have been
delivered to plaintiff, or the defendant, by answer, shall claim a
return thereof, the Trial Justice or Jury shall assess the value
thereof, and the injury sustained by the prevailing party by reason
of the taking or detention thereof, and the Trial Justice shall
render judgment accordingly, with costs and disbursements.
If it shall appear by the return of a Constable that he has taken
the property described in the plaintiff's affidavit, and that defendant
cannot be found, and has no last place of abode in said County, or
that no agent of defendant could be found on whom service could be
made, the Trial Justice may proceed with the cause in the same
manner as though there had been a personal service.
For the indorsement on said affidavit the Trial Justice shall
receive an additional fee of twenty-five cents, which shall be in
cluded in the costs of the suit.
10-303.

Sec. 81. But no Trial Justice shall have cognizance of a civil
action :
No jurisdic- 1. In which the State is a party, excepting for penalties not
tion in certain exceeding
-. .
i , dollars.
n n
cases.
one ihundred
2. Nor where the title to real property shall come in question.
3. Nor of a civil action for an assault, battery, false imprison
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or
seduction; where the damages claimed exceed one hundred dollars.
Subdivision 4 repealed. (15 Stat., 4!>H.)
Answer of 
Sec. 82. In every action brought in a Court of Trial Justice,
where the title to real property shall come in question, the defend10-303.
ant may, either with or without other matter of defence, set forth
in his answer any matter showing that such title will come in
question. Such answer shall be in writing, signed by the defend
ant or his attorney, and delivered to the Trial Justice. The Trial
Justice shall thereupon countersign the same, and deliver it to the
plaintiff.

Sec. 83. At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver Written under°'
taking to be
to the Trial Justice a written undertaking, executed by at least given,
one sufficient surety, and approved by the Trial Justice, to the )Q
effect that if the plaintiff shall, within twenty days thereafter, de
posit with the Trial Justice a summons and complaint in an action
in the Circuit Court for the same cause, the defendant will, within
twenty days after such deposit, give an admission in writing of the
service thereof.
Where the defendant was arrested in the action before the Trial
Justice, the undertaking shall further provide, that he will, at all
times, render himself amenable to the process of the Court during
the pending of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein. In case of failure to comply with the
undertaking, the surety shall be liable not exceeding one hundred
dollars.
Sec 84. Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the Trial Jus- ti^^n diBCOn"
tice, the action before him shall be discontinued, and each party 10-303.
shall pay his own costs. The costs so paid by either party shall Costs,
be allowed to him if he recover costs in the action to be brought
for the same cause in the Circuit Court. If no such action be
brought within thirty days after the delivery of the undertaking,
the defendant's costs before the Trial Justice may be recovered of
the plaintiff.
Sec 85. If the undertaking be not delivered to the Trial Jus- if undertaking
&
not given.
tice, he shall have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed
therein ; and the defendant shall be precluded, in his defence, from
drawing the title in question.
Sec 86. If, however, it-appear on the trial, from the plaintiff's The same,
own showing, that the title to real property is in question, and such
title shall be disputed by the defendant, the Trial Justice shall
dismiss the action and render judgment against the plaintiff for
the costs. _

Sec. 87. When a suit before a Trial Justice shall be discontinued Another action
maybe brought.
by the delivery of an answer and undertaking, as provided in
Sections eighty-two, eighty-three, eighty-four, the plaintiff may
prosecute an action for the same cause in the Circuit Court, and
shall complain for the same cause of action only on which he
relied before the Trial Justice; and the answer of the defendant
shall set up the same defence only which he made before the Trial
Justice.

Sec. 88. If the judgment in the Circuit Court be for the plain
tiff, he shall recover costs; if it be for the defendant, he shall
recover costs, except that upon a verdict he shall pay costs to the
plaintiff, unless the Judge certify that the title to real property
came in question on the trial.
Answer
of
have
title as to one 
Sec. 89. If, in an action before a Trial Justice, the plaintiff
r
cause of action, several causes of action, to one of which the defence of title to real
Transfer of
case^ to circuit property shall be interposed, and as to such cause the defendant
shall deliver an answer and undertaking, as provided in Sections
eighty-two and eighty-three, and the Trial Justice shall discon
tinue the proceedings as to that cause, and the plaintiff may
commence another action therefor in the Circuit Court. As to
the other causes of action, the Trial Justice may continue his
proceedings.
Docketing 
Sec. 90. A Trial Justice, on the demand of a party in whose
judgment of
Justices.
favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the office of the Clerk
of the County where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
rcceipt of the transcript by the Clerk shall be noted thereon and
entered in the docket; and from that time the judgment shall be
a judgment of the Circuit Court. A certified transcript of such
judgment may be filed and docketed in the Clerk's office of any
other County, and with the like effect, in every respect, as in the
County where the judgment was rendered. But no such judgment
for a less sum than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, shall be so
docketed or enforced against real property.
Rules.

Sec. 91. The following rules shall be observed in the Courts of
Trial Justices:
1. The pleadings in the Courts are: 1. The complaint by the
plaintiff; 2. The answer by the defendant.
2. The pleadings may be oral or in writing; if oral, the sub
stance of them shall be entered by the Trial Justice in his docket;
if in writing, they shall be filed by him, and a reference to them
shall be made in the docket.
3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the
facts constituting the cause of action.
.'
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or ariy
part thereof, and also a notice, in a plain and direct manner; of any
facts constituting a defence or counter claim.
5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended.
6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or
any part thereof, when it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him
to understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defence,
although it be taken as true.
7. If the Court deem the objection well founded, it shall order
the pleading to be amended ; and if the party refuse to amend, the
defective pleading shall be disregarded.
8. In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the plain
tiff cannot recover without proving his case.
9. In an action or defence founded upon an account, or an in
strument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for
a party to deliver the account or instrument to the Court, and
to state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party,
a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set off.
10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allega
tions in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the
Court shall be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to
his prejudice thereby.
1 1. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial,
or during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by such amendment,
substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made
after the joining of the issue, and it be made to appear to the sat
isfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to
the adverse party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjourn
ment shall be granted. The Court may also, in its discretion,
require, as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to
the adverse party.
12. Execution may be issued on a judgment, heretofore or here
after rendered in Trial Justice's Court, at any time within five
years after the rendition thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days
from the date of the same.
13. If the judgment be docketed with the Clerk of the Circuit
Court, the execution shall be issued by him to the Sheriff of the
County, and have the same effect, and be executed in the same
manner, as other executions and judgments of the Circuit Court.
14. The Court may, at the joining of the issue, require either
party, at the request of the other, at that or some other specified time, to exhibit his account, or state the nature thereof, as far
forth as may be in his power, and, in case of his default, preclude
him from giving evidence of such parts thereof as shall not have
been so exhibited or stated.
15. The provisions of this Code of Procedure, respecting forms
of action, parties to actions, the rules of evidence, the times of
commencing actions, and the service of process upon corporations,
shall apply to these Courts.
The defendant may, on the return of process, and before an
swering, make an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken
against him for an amount, to be stated in such offer, with costs.
The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before any other proceedings
shall be had in the action, determine whether he will accept or
reject such offer. If he accept the offer, and give notice thereof
in writing, the Trial Justice shall file the offer and the acceptance
thereof, and render judgment accordingly. If notice of accep
tance be not given, and if the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for
a greater amount, exclusive of costs, than has been specified in
the offer, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay to the defendant
his costs accruing subsequent to the offer,
when process 16. Where more than twenty-five dollars is demanded in a
may be returna
ble at discretion complaint, the same shall be served on the defendant twenty
of TrialJustice.
days, and where less than that sum is demanded, five days before
15 Stat., 496. the day therein fixed for trial : Provided, That if the plaintiff shall
make out that he is apprehensive of losing his debt by such delay,
and the Trial Justice considers that there is good reason therefor,
(the ground of such apprehension being set forth in an affidavit,
and served with a copy of the complaint,) he may make such pro
cess returnable in such time as the justice of the case may lequire
To Allow Trial Justices to Grant New Trial.
February, 1876.
when new That any Trial Justice's Court of this State shall have power
trials may be granted.
to grant a new trial in any case tried in the said Court for reasons
which new trials have usually been granted in the Courts of law
bf the United States : Provided, however, The case tried shall only
be heard and tried anew by the Trial Justice before whom the
case shalljfirst be tried.
2. That no motion for a new trial shall be heard unless made . w|;en may be
heard.
within five days from the rendering of the judgment.
3. That the right of appeal from the judgment shall exist for Appeals
five days after the refusal of a motion for a new trial.
between actions
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore at law and suits
existing, are abolished ; and there shall be in this State hereafter, ished1'11 y s 0
but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private
rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denomi
nated a civil action.
Parties—how 
Sec. 93.. In such action, the party
designated.
r J complaining
- shall be known
as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant,
judgments" on 
Sec. 94. No action shall be brought upon a judgment lendered
in any Court in this State, except a Court of Trial Justice, between
the same parties, without leave of the Court, for good cause shown,
on notice to the adverse party; and no action on a judgment ren
dered by a Trial Justice shall be brought in the same County
within five years after its rendition, except in case of his death,
resignation, incapacity to act or removal from the County, or that
the process was not personally served on the defendant, or on all
the defendants, or in case of the death of some of the parties, or
where the docket or record of such judgment is, or shall have been
lost or destroyed.
Feigned is
Sec 95. Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof, in
sues abolished
the cases where the power now exists to order a feigned issue, or
when a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be
tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating dis
tinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried ; and such order
shall be the only authority necessary for a trial.

Sec. 96. Repeal of existing limitations.
97. Time for commencing actions, etc.
Limitations 
Sec. 96. The provisions of this title shall not extend to actions
existing repea alrea(jy commenced, or to cases where the right of action has
9-180, 449.

already accrued; but the statutes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without 9-391.
regard to the form.

Sec. 97. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed
by statute, and in the cases mentioned in Section ninety -six.
But the objection that the action was not commenced within the
time limited, can only be taken by answer.

Sec. 98. When the State will not sue.
99. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the
State.
100. When action by the State or their grantees to be brought
within twenty years.
101. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary.
102. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary in action or
defence, founded on title, &c.
103. Action after entry, or right of entry.
104. Possession, when presumed. Occupation, when deemed
under legal title.
105. Occupation under written instrument, &c.
106. Adverse possession under written instrument, &c.
1 07. Premises actually occupied, held adversely.
108. Adverse possession under claim of title not written.
109. Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse
possession.
1 10. Descent cast—effect of.
111. Persons under disability.

Sec. 98. The State will not sue any person for or in respect to when the state
any real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of willnot,",e
the right or title of the State to the same, unless :
isstat., 496.
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within twenty years
before any action or other proceeding for the same shall be com
menced; or unless,
'l. The State, or those from whom it claims, shall have received
the rents and profits of such real property, or of some part thereof,
within the space of twenty years.
No action to 
Sec. 99. No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, real
be brought by
grantee f r o m property, by any person claiming bv virtue of letters patent or
the State.
in
i
grants irom the htate, unless the same might have been com
menced by the State as herein specified, in case such patent or
grant had not been issued or made.
when
actions
by the State or 
Sec. 100. , When letters rpatent or °grants of real rproperty
r J shall
its grantees to have been issued or made by the State, and the same shall be
be brought
. .
within twenty declared void by the determination of a competent Court, rendered
years.
.
upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or
15 stat., 4%. forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful
detaining, or defective title, in such case an action for the recovery
of the premises so conveyed may be brought either by the State,
or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the premises, his
heirs or assigns, within ten years after such determination was
made, but not after that period.
Seizin within 
Sec. 101. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the
whm'neces'ary. recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it
•
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was
seized or possessed of the premises in question within ten years
before the commencement of such action.
Seizin within 
Sec. 102. No cause of action, or defence to an action, founded
twenty years
when in action upon the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the
founded on ti- same, shall be effectual, unless it appear that, the person prose
cuting the action or making the defence, or under whose title the
is stat., 4%. action is prosecuted or the defence is made, or the ancestor,
predecessor or grantor of such person, was seized or possessed of
the premises in question within ten years before the committing of
the act in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense
made.
Action after 
Sec. 103. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient
entry.""8 ° or valid, as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon
within one year after the making of such entry, and within ten
years from the time when the right to make such entry descended
or accrued.

Sec. 104. In every action for the recovery of real property, or Possession prethe possession thereof, the person establishing; a legal title to the
premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within Occupation,
the time required by law; and the occupation of such premises by underlegal title,
any other person shall be deemed to have been under and in sub
ordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such premises 15 Stat' 496
have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title for
ten years before the commencement of such action.

Sec. 105. Whenever it shall appear
that the occupant,
. Occupation
rr
r ' or those under
written
under whom he claims, entered into the possession of premises instrument,
under claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such 15 s.at 4%
claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the
premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a compe
tent Court, and that there has been a continued occupation and
possession of the premises included in such instrument, decree or
judgment, or of some part of such premises, under such claim,
for ten years, the premises so included shall be deemed to
have been held adversely; except that where the premises so
included consist of a tract divided into lots, the possession of
one lot shall not be deemed a possession of any other lot of the
same tract.

Sec. 106. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, Adverse pos.■*
. i /.
i -«
session .
by any person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument,
or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been pos
sessed and occupied in the following cases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure;
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply
of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry or the
ordinary use of the occupant;
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved,
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared
or not inclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the
adjoining country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the
same length of time as the part improved and cultivated.
Sec 107. Where it. shall appear that there has been an actual Premises ac'
tually occupied
continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive held adversely,
of any o'ther right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or
a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no
other, shall be deemed to have been held adversely.session'undera ®KC' 1 08, ^or tne PurPoSe of constituting an adverse possession,
daim not writ- by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument,
6-404
or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been pos
sessed and occupied in the following cases only :
"Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure;
Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
lanSo'ri0 « u°d 
Sec. 10!*- Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall
tenant.
have existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
shall be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration
of ten years from the termination of the tenancy; or, where there
15 stat., 496. has been no written lease, until the expiration of ten years from
the time of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such
tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to
hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall not
be made after the periods herein limited.
Descent cast.

Sec. 110. The right of a person to the possession of any real
property shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast
in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such
property.
Persons under 
Sec. 111. If a person entitled to commence any action for the
disabilities.
recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defence founded
on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same,
be, at the time such title shall first descend or accrue, either—
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon con
viction of a criminal offence for a term less than for life ; the time
during which such disability shall continue shall not be deemed
any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commence
ment of such action or the making of such entry or defence; but
such action may be commenced, or entry or defence made, after
the period of ten years, and within five years after the disability
shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled who shall die
under such disability; but such action shall not be commenced, or
entry or defence made, after that period.

Sec. II "2. The periods prescribed in Section ninety-seven for the
commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real
property shall be as follows:
Sec 113. Within twenty years:
Twenty years.
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United
States.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument, qther than sealed notes 15 gtat., 496.
and personal bonds, for the payment of money only, whereof the
period of limitation shall be the same as prescribed in the follow
ing Section:
. 
Sec. 114. Within six years:
six years.
1 . An action upon a contract obligation or liability, express or 9-lg8,
implied, excepting those mentioned in Section one hundred and
thirteen.
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture.
3. An action for tresspass upon real property.
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property.
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not
hereinafter enumerated.
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which
heretofore were solely cognizable by the Court of Chancery, the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued
until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting
the fraud.
Three yearn.

Sec. 115. Within three years:
1. An action against a Sheriff, Coroner or Constable, upon a
liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and
in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty,
including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
But this Section shall not apply to an action for an escape.
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the
State, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation.
Two years.

Sec. 116. Within two years:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery or false imprison
ment.
'I. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the State.
Oneyear.

Sec. 117. Within one year.
1. An action against a Sheriff or other officer, for the escape of
•a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
Action up™ a 
Sec. 1 18. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
current account.
.
mutual, open and current account, where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed
to have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the
account on either side.
Action for pen- 
Sec. 119. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture
'' '
given, in whole or in part, to any person who will prosecute for the
same, must be commenced within one year after the commission of
the offence; and if the action be not commenced within the year by
a private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter,
in behalf of the State, by the Attorney-General or the Solicitor of
the Circuit where the offence was committed.
Actions for 
Sec. 120. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for
other relief.
. .
.-in
must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall
have accrued.
Actions by 
Sec. 121. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply
to actions brought in the name of the State, or for its benefit, in
the same manner as to actions by private parties.
When action deemed commenced.
Exception, defendant out of State.
Exception as to person under disabilities.
Death of person entitled before limitation expires.
Suits by aliens.
Where judgment reversed.
Stay of action by injunction, &c.
Disability must exist when right accrued.
Two or more disabilities.
This title, when not to apply.
The like.
New promise must be in writing.

Sec. 122. An action is commenced as to each defendant when when action deemed c o mtne summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint menced.
contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him. An attempt
to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the commencement
thereof, within the meaning of this title, when the summons is
delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually served, to the
Sheriff or other officer of the County in which the defendants or
one of them usually or last resided ; or, if a corporation be defend
ant, to the Sheriff or other officer of the County in which such
corporation was established by law, or where its general business
was transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of
business.

Sec. 123. If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any
Exception, defendant out person, he shall be out of the btate, such action may be com- of state, menced within the terms herein respectively limited, after the
return of such person into this State; and if, after such cause of
action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside
out of this State, or remain continuously absent therefrom for the
space of one year or more, the time of his absence shall not be
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commence
ment of such action.
Sec 124. If a person entitled to brine an action mentioned in
Exceptions,
persons under
the last chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a disabilities
Sheriff or other officer, for an escape, be at the time the cause of
action accrued, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or, in execution under the
sentence of a criminal Court, for a term less than his natural life;
the time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action; except that the period within which
the action must be brought cannot be extended more than five
years by any such disability, except infancy; nor can it be so
extended in any case longer than one year after the disability
ceases.
Death of per- 
Sec. 12.r>. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the
Ron entitled be*
^
fore limitation expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and
expire*.
.
the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his
representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within one
year from his death. If a person against whom an action may be
brought die before the expiration of the time limited for the com
mencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may
be commenced against his executors or administrator after the
expiration of that time, and within one year after the issuing of
letters testamentary or of administration.
Action of 
Sec. 126. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of
aliens
a country at war with the United States, the time of the continu
ance of the war shall not be part of the period limited for the
commencement of the action.
where judg- 
Sec. 127. If an action shall be commenced within the time preincut reversed
scribed therefor, and a judgment therein be reversed on appeal,
the plaintiff, or, if he die and the cause of action survive, his heirs
or representatives may commence a new action within one year
after the reversal.
Time of stay 
Sec. 128. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed
by injunction,
.....
&c
by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance
of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action.
Disability- Skc. 129. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
not available
existed when his right of action accrued,
co-existing 
Sec. 130. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the
disabilities.
time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attacli
until they all be removed

Sec. 131. This title shall not affect actions to enforce the pay- Bills, notes,
ment of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed
corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.
Sec 132. This title shall not affect actions against directors or. This title not
°
to affect actions
stockholders of a moneyed corporation, or banking associations, toasainst ?ire?.
.
tors or stockrecover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability holders.
created by law; but such actions must be brought within six years
after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon Mj£;*n (M88rj°~
which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was
created.
Sec 133. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient Acknowledg"
1
ment or new
evidence of a new or continuing° contract, wherebyJ to take the case promise
be made in must
wntout of the operation of this title, unless the same be contained ininssome writing signed by the party to be charged thereby ; but this 4U
Section shall not alter the effect of any payment of principal or
interest.

Sec. 134, EvervJ action must be prosecuted
in the name of the
byAction
party intomter
rest.
Action
by
real
party
in
interest,
except
as
otherwise
provided
in Section one
grantee of land field adversely, hundred and thirty-six; but this Section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of
contract. But an action may be maintained by a grantee of land
6-184,8-50,9-3. .
„,
' , .
in the name of the grantor, or his or her heirs or legal represen
tatives, when the grant or grants are void by reason of the actual
possession of a person claiming under a title adverse to that of the
grantor at the time of the delivery of the grant, and the plaintiff
shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case within this
provision.
Assignment 
Sec. 135. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
of a thing in
0
j»
action.
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or
other defence existing at the time of, or before notice of, the
assignment; but this Section shall not apply to a negotiable pro
missory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and
upon good consideration, before due.
Action by ex- sE0. 136. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express
ecutor, trustee,
.
1
*c.
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue, without
6-182, 184, 9-3. joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is proseCarroii v. still, cuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this
Section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in
whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another.
Action byand 
Sec. 137. When a married woman is a party, her husband must
ned"womannar be joined with her, except that,
Ross v. Limier, 1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue
lMsB,)
or be sued alone: Provided, That neither her husband nor his
property shall be liable for any recovery against her in any such
suit, but judgment may be enforced by execution against her sole
and separate estate in the same manner as if she were sole.
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone; and in no case need she prosecute or
defend by a guardian or next friend,
infant to ap- 
Sec. 138. When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardpear bj „uar
^o
ke appointed by the Court in which the action is
prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof, or a Probate Judge.
Appointment 
Sec. 139. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
of guardian.
0
.
.
When by
When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the
Clerks and Mas- in-fant; if l-,e be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under that age,
Antepage!"
upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant; if made by a
relative or friend of an infant, notice thereof must first be given
to such guardian, if he has one; if he has none, then to the person
with whom such infant resides.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after service of the summons. If he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application
of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
infant, after notice of such application being first given to the
general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one
within this State; if he has none, then to the infant himself, if
over fourteen years of age, and within the State; or, if under that
age, and within the State, to the person with whom such infant
resides. And in actions for the partition of real property or for
the foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an infant
defendant resides out of the State, or is temporarily absent there
from, the plaintiff may apply to the Court in which the action is
pending, at an-y stated or special term thereof, ar.d will be entitled
to an order designating some suitable person to be the guardian
for the infant defendant, for the purposes of the action, unless the
infant defendant, or some one in his behalf, within a number of
days after the service of a copy of the order, which number of
days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure to be
appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the Court shall give
special directions in the order for the manner of the service there
of, which may be upon the infant.
And in case an infant defendant having an interest in the event
of the action shall reside in any State with which there shall not
be a regular communication by mail, on such fact satisfactorily
appearing to the Court, the Court may appoint a guardian ad
litem for such absent infant party, for the purpose of protecting
the right of such infant in said action, and on such guardian ad
litem process, pleadings and notices in the action may be served in
the like manner as upon a party residing in this State.

Sec. 140. All persons having an interest in the subject of the who to oe
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as p alntutsplaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title.

Sec. 141. Any person may be made a defendant who has or who to be de
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or 10-179. who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement
of the questions involved therein; and in an action to recover the
possession of real estate, the landlord and tenant thereof ma}' be
joined as defendants: and any person claiming title or a right of
possession to real estate may be made parties plaintiff or defend
ant, as the case may require, to any such actions.
Parties&c.to be 
Sec. 142. Of the parties
to the action, those who are united in
joined,
r
interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the con"4-513.
sent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being
stated in the complaint; and when the question is one of a common
or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are very
numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all before
the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the
whole.
10-179.

Sec. 143. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promis
sory notes, may all, or any of them, be included in the same action,
at the option of the plaintiff.
suite' Action
'
^o action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other
abate " ° ' ' ° disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death, mar6-146.
riage, or other disability of a party, the Court, on motion, at any
time within one year thereafter, or afterwards, on a supplemental
complaint, may allow the action to be continued by or against his
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other trans
fer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the
original party, or the Court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.
After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case
shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the
cause of action now survives by law.
A.t any time after the death, marriage or other disability of the
party plaintiff, the Court in which an action is pending, upon
notice to such persons as it may direct, and upon application of any
person aggrieved, may, in its discretion, order that the action be
deemed abated, unless the same be continued by the proper parties,
within a time to be fixed by the Court, not less than six months
nor exceeding one year from the granting of the order,

Sec. 145. The Court mayJ determine any1 controversyJ between deter
Courtmine
maya
the parties before it. when it can be done without prejudice to the controverey,*c.
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the pres
ence of other parties, the Court must cause them to be brought in. 'l'513.
And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal prop
erty, a person not a party to the action, but having an interest in
the subject thereof, makes application to the Court to be made a
party, it may order him to be brought in by the proper amendment.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract, Interpleader.
or for specific, real or personal property, may at any time before
answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and
without collusion by him, makes against him a demand for the
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and the ad
verse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute such
person in his place, and discharge him from liability to- either party
on his depositing in Court the amount of the debt, or delivering
the property or its value to such person as the Court may direct;
and the Court may, in its discretion, make the order.

Sec. 146. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
County in which the subject
of the action, or some rpart thereof,i is ,tried
Actions
he wheretosuhsituated, subject to the power of the Court to change the place of Joct matter situtrial, in the cases provided by statute:
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest 10-433.
therein, or for the determination in any form of such richt or
Barrett v Watts
interest, and for injuries to real property;
el. al. (Mm.)
2. For the partition of real property;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.
Actions to be SeC 147 Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
tnod where
0
arose of action County where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the Court to change the place of trial, in the cases pro
vided by statute:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except that, when it is imposed for an offence committed on a lake.
river or other stream of water, situated in two or more Counties, the
action may be brought in any County bordering on such lake, river
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offence was committed ;
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against
a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do anything
touching the duties of such officer.
to1>e"r!e'dWhere Se(1 148" In a11 other caSeS the action sha11 te tried ^ the County
in which the defendant resides at the time of the commencement of
li'm 9-285' the ac^on> an<^» ^ there be more than one defendant, then the action
may be tried in any County in which one or more of the defendants
15 Stat., 913. to such action reside at the time of the commencement of the action,
or if none of the parties shall reside in the State, the same may be
tried in any County which the plaintiff shall designate in his com
plaint, subject, however, to the power of the Court to change the
place of trial in the cases provided by statute.
6-314,9-876, 285, 
Sec. 149. The Court may change the place of trial in the follow
ing cases:
17 Stat,, 14.
l. "When the County designated for that purpose in the complaint
is not the proper County;
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein;
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings shall be
had in the County to which the place of trial is changed, unless
otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writing, duly
filed, or order of the Court; and the papers shall be filed or trans
ferred accordingly.

Sec. 150. Civil actions in the Courts of Record of this State shall Action, how commenced.
be commenced by service of a summons.
Sec 151. The summons shall be subscribed by■* the plaintiff
or his requisites
Summons—
L
of.
attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require him to
answer the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the person 6-175.
whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the
State, to be therein specified, in which there is a post office, within
twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day
of service.

Sec. 152. The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons a notice,
Summons—
7 notice to be inin substance as follows:
serted in.
1. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money 5-205, 6-188, 448.
only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint in twenty days after the
service of the summons.
2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the
complaint within twenty days after the service of the summons, the
plaintiff will apply to the Court for the relief demanded in the com
plaint.

Sec. 153. A copy of the complaint need not be served with the service of
,
complaint.
summons. In such case, the summons must state where the com- 8-83.
plaint is or will be filed ; and if the defendant, within twenty days
thereafter, causes notice of appearance to be given, and, in person or
by attorney, demands, in writing, a copy of the complaint, specify
ing a place within the State where it may be served, a copy thereof
must, within twenty days thereafter, be served accordingly; and
after such service, the defendant has twenty days to answer; but
only one copy need be served on the same attorney.
°° 
Sec. 154. In the case of a defendant against whom no personal
claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant, with the
summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the
property affected by it, if it affects specific real or personal property,
and that no personal claim is made against such defendant, in which
case no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant,
unless, within the time for answering, he shall, in writing, demand
the same. If a defendant on whom such notice is served unreason
ably defend the action, he shall pa}' costs to the plaintiff.
iiB 
Sec. 155. In an action affecting the title to real property, the
plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time after
wards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under chapter four of
title seven, part second, of this Code, shall be issued, or at any time
afterwards, the plaintiff, or a defendant, when he sets up an affirm
ative cause of action in his answer and demands substantive relief,
at the time of filing his answer, or at any time afterwards, if the
same be intended to affect real estate, may file with the Clerk of
each County in which the property is situated a notice of the
pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the
object 'of the action, and the description of the property in that
County affected thereby; and if the action be for the foreclosure of
a mortgage, such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment,
and must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and
the time and place of recording the same. From the time of filing
only shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a
purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby; and
every person whose conveyance or incumbrance is subsequently
executed or subsequently recorded shall be deemed a subsequent
purchaser or incumbrancer, and shall be bound, by all proceedings
taken after the filing of such notice, to the same extent as if he were
made a party to the action. For the purposes of this Section, an
action shall be deemed to be pending from the time of filing such notice: Provided, however, That such notice shall be of no avail, un
less it shall be followed by the first publication of the summons,
or an order therefor, or by the personal service thereof on a defend
ant within sixty days after such filing. And the Court in which the
said action was commenced may, in its discretion, at any time after
the action shall be settled, discontinued or abated, as is provided in
Section number one hundred and forty-four, on application of any
person aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and on such notice as
shall be directed or approved by the Court, order the notice author
ized' by this Section to be cancelled of record by the Clerk of any
County in whose office the same may have been filed or recorded;
and such cancellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect
on the margin of the record, which shall refer to the order, and for
which the Clerk shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.

Sec. 156. The summons mayJ be served byJ the Sheriff of the whom
Summons—by
served.
County where the defendant may be found, or by any other person
not a party to the action. The service shall be made, and the sum- Si
mons returned, with proof of the service, to the person whose name
is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person
subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an indorsement on
the summons, fix a time for the service thereof, and the service
shall then be made accordingly.
Sec 157. The summons shall be served byJ delivering:
Service of
o a copy
rj summons.
thereof as follows:
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other 8-^4.
head of the corporation,
r
' secretary,
- ' cashier, treasurer,' a director or See Act of
managing agent thereof; but such service can be made in respect to March 17, 1874.
a foreign corporation only when it has property within this State, or
the cause of action arose therein, or where such service shall be
made within this State personally upon the president, cashier, treas
urer or secretary thereof.
•2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or, if
there be none within the State, then to any person having the care
and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose
service he shall be employed.
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual
drunkenness, and for whom a committee or guardian has been appointed, to such committee or guardian and to the defendant
personally.
4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally. If the said de
fendant is a resident of the State, but is temporarily absent therefrom,
to any person over twenty-one years of age residing at the residence
Service of or employed at the place of business of said absent person.
summons on r
non-resident do- 
Sec. 158. Where the person on whom the service of the summons
maue"by pubiu is to be made cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State.
' '"
and that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Court, or
i8 stat., loo
a J udge thereof, the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas and
General Sessions, or the Probate Judge of the County where the
trial is to be had, and it in like manner appears that a cause of
action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is
to be made, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to real
property in this State, such Court, Judge, Clerk or Judge of Pro
bate may grant an order that the service be made by publication of
Cases wherein, the summons in either of the following cases:
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property
within the State, or the cause of action arose therein;
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has
departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with
the like intent;
3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property
therein, and the Court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action;
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property in
this State, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest actual
or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partly in excluding the defendant from any interest or liens therein;
5. Where the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law,
the order shall direct the publication to be made in one newspaper,
to be designated by the officer before whom the application is made
as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for
such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once
Sen-ice to be a week for six weeks. In case of publication, the Court, Judge.
made by mail
also, in certain Clerk or Judge of Probate shall also direct a copy of the summons
to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the person, to
be served at his place of residence, unless it appear that such resi
dence is neither known to the party making the application nor can
with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. Where publication
is ordered, personal service of the summons out of the State is
15 stat., 49r.
equivalent to publication and deposit in the post office. In case of
minors in like cases, a similar order shall be made, and like proceed
ings be had as in the case of adults. In cases of persons imprisoned
in the penitentiary or in the jail of any County in this State, and in
case of lunatics confined in the Asylum, or in any other place of con
finement, personal service of the summons and complaint or other pro
cess affecting the rights of such persons shall be made by the Sheriff
of the County in which such persons shall be imprisoned or confined,
with the like proof of service as required in case of minors; and
thereupon, the Judge of the Court or Trial Justice before whom the
action is to be tried shall appoint
some attorney or other competent
1r
r
of. Appointment
guardian ad
person to act as guardian ad litem for any person so imprisoned or litem.
confined, who shall receive out of the property of such persons a
reasonable compensation for services rendered in their behalf; and
the case shall proceed as in other cases of persons not under disabili
ties: Provided, That in case of persons imprisoned or confined as
herein stated outside of this State, service by publication shall be
deemed sufficient. The defendant against whom publication is
ordered, or his representatives, on publication and sufficient cause
shown at any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the
action; and except in an action for divorce, the defendant against
whom publication is ordered, or his representatives may, in like
manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to defend after jude- Defendant to r be allowed to
ment, or at anv time within one year after notice thereof, and within defend judgp
1 ..ment after renseven years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just; and it dition.
the defence be successful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, has
been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon
be compelled as the Court directs; but the title to property sold
under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be
thereby affected. And in all cases where publication is made, the service°byepubcomplaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published, must p{S£°*mnst ™e
state the time and place of such filing. In actions for the foreclosure flr8t flled'
of mortgages on real estate already instituted, or hereafter to be
instituted, if any party or parties having any interest in or lien upon
such mortgaged premises, are unknown to the plaintiff, and the
residence of such party or parties cannot, with reasonable diligence,
be ascertained by him, and such fact shall be made to appear by
affidavit to the Court, a Judge, Clerk of the Court or Judge of Pro
bate where the trial is to be had, such Court, Judge, Clerk or Judge
of Probate shall grant an order that the summons be served on such
unknown party or parties by publishing the same, for six weeks,
once a week, in a newspaper printed in the County where the
premises are situated, which publication shall be equivalent to a
personal service on such unknown party or parties.
erai°mdebtor8— Se0,
When the action is against two or more defendants, and
partners.
the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on all of
8~83them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon con
tract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the Court
otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all and the separate
property of the defendants served, and, if they are subject to arrest,
against the persons of the defendants served; or,
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants; .
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, where the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants,
if the action had been against them or any of them alone;
4. If the name of one or more partners shall, for any cause, have
been omitted in any action in which judgment shall have passed
against the defendants named in the summons, and such omission
shall not have been pleaded in such action, the plaintiff, in case the
judgment therein shall remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of
such partner severally, upon proving his joint liability, notwith
standing he may not have been named in the original action ; but
the plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only one judgment rendered
for the same cause of action.
completeServ'Ce !"'Ea l^O- ^n
cases mentioned in Section one hundred and
fifty-eight, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at
the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.
Proof of ser- SeC jqi Proof of the service of the summons, and of the comvice.
plaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, must be as follows:
state
ex
rel.
McOallu. Cohen. j. If served byJ the Sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,
(M8s.)
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his fore
man, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of a
deposit of a copy of the summons in the post office, as required by
law, if the same shall have been deposited; or,
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate,
affidavit or admission must state the time and place of the service.

Sec. 162. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil Jurisdiction,
action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the Court is deemed
to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subse
quent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is Appearance,
equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
To Regulate the Service of Legal Process upon Railroad and
Express Companies.
That on and after the passage of this Act, the service of any legal up^jgal ^^fad
process
upon
agent of anyJ railroad or express
company
express
r
r anyJo
r
r J within and
companies,
the limits of this State, shall be taken and held to be a valid service h°»' served,
upon such corporations.
All Acts or parts of Acts, Resolutions and parts of Resolutions, is Stat., 705.
n- •
, ,
1
' March 17, 1874.
inconsistent or conflicting with this Act be, and the same are hereby,
repealed.

Sec. 163. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are Of forms of
abolished; and, hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in
Courts of Record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the 6-68.
pleadings to be determined, are those prescribed by this Code of
Procedure.

Sec. 164. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the
complaint.
Complaint.

Sec. 165. The complaint shall contain:
Complaint— 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the Court in
what to contain.
which the action is brought, the name of the County in which the
plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties to
the action—plaintiff and defendant:
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a cause
of action, without unnecessary repetition:
3. A. demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.
Defendant to demur or answer.
When the defendant may demur.
Demurrer, what to specify.
How to proceed if complaint be amended.
Objection not appearing on complaint.
Objection, when waived.

Defendant
to 
Sec. 166. The onlyJ pleading
on the part of the defendant is either
demur
or anr
ewer.
a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within twenty days
Whendefend- after the service of the copv
rJ of the complaint.
1
.
ant may demur. 
Sec. 167. The defendant may demur to the complaint when it
shall appear upon the face thereof, either—
Ball v. Moseley.
ml
, „.
„.
-i i
i
(Msb.)
1. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defend
ant, or the subject of the action; or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties,
for the same cause; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.


Sec. 168. The demurrer shall distinctlyJ specify
of must
The Demurrer
r
J the grounds
.
specify
objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded, grounds of ob
it may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the alleged Carroll v. still,
causes of action stated therein.
(Mss.)
Sec 169. If the complaint
be amended, a copy
How ifto compror
rJ thereof must be ceed
served on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days, or plaint amended.
the plaintiff, upon filing with the Clerk, on due proof of the service, Sec Section 269.
and of the defendant's omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as
provided by Section two hundred and sixty-nine; but where an SeeActreiating to 
Sec. 269.
application to the Court for judgment is necessary, eight days Post. Page — .
notice thereof must be given to the defendant.

Sec. 170. When any of the matters enumerated in Section one 8-111, 9-877.
hundred and sixty-seven do not appear upon the face of the com- ar^pea^in'g'on
plaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
comp a,m"

Sec. 171. If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or w h e ^deemed
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, 5-89^8^111,9-277,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the jj^nV „, McLnobjection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti- Boas'u. Under,
tute a cause of action.

Answer, what to contain.
Counter claim. Several defences.
Demurrer and answer, when allowed.
Sham and irrelevant defences to be stricken out.

Skc 172. The answer of the defendant must contain:
Answer, what
to contain .
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or
information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence or 2-487, 3-351,
counter claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.

Sec. 173. The counter claim mentioned in the last Section must
counter
claim. Several
be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff, defences,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
„,,„..
10-485, 185,
arising out of one ol the following causes of action:
11-337
1 . A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or
connected with the subject of the action;
2. In an adion arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action.
The defendant may set forth by answer as many defences and
counter claims as he may have, whether they be such as have been
heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. They must
each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer, in sucn manner that they may be
intelligibly distinguished.
Demurrer.and 
Sec. 174. The defendant may demur to one or more of several
answer.
J
causes of action stateil in the complaint, and answer the residue,
sham and
175. Sham and irrelevant answers and defences mayJ be
irrelevant
de- Skc.
_
fences to be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the Court may, in
stricken out.
6-H7.
their discretion, impose.

Sec. 17C. When the answer contains new matter constituting a
B67 S89 to-18s counter claim, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such
new matter, denying generally or specifically each allegation con
troverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof
sufficient to form a belief; and he may allege, in ordinary and
concise language, without repetition, any new matter not inconsis
tent with the complaint, constituting a defence to such new matter
Demurrer to in the answer; and the plaintiff mav in all cases demur to an
answer.
,
answer containing new matter, where, upon its face, it does not
constitute a counter claim or defence; and the plaintiff may demur
to one or more of such defences or counter claims, and reply to
the residue of the counter claims. And in other cases, where an answer contains new matter con
stituting a defence by way of avoidance, the Court may, in its
discretion, on the defendant's motion, require a reply to such new
matter; and in that case the reply shall be subject to the same
rules as a reply to a counter claim.

Sec. 177. If the answer contain a statement of new matter con- . Motion for
judgment on
stituting a counter claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur answer,
thereto within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may
move, on a notice of not less than ten days, for such judgment as
he is entitled to upon such statement; and if the case require it, a
writ of inquiry of damages may be issued.
Sec 178. If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by the Demurrer to
answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may demur
thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.
Sec 179. Every pleading in a Court of Record must be sub- Pleadings to
be subscribed
scribed by the party or his attorney; and when any pleading is and verified,
verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must be 6-405.
verified also.

Pleadings—
now verified.


Sec. 180. The verification must be to the effect that the same it
true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on information and belief, and. as to those matters,
he believes it to be true; and must be by the affidavit of the party,
or, if there be several parties united in interest, and pleading
together, by one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts,
if such party be within the County where the attorney resides, and
capable of making the affidavit. The affidavit may also be made
by the agent or attorney, if the action or defence be founded upon
a written instrument for the payment of money only, and such
instrument be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all
the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal
knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is veri
fied by any other person than the party, he shall set forth in the
affidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of his belief on the subject,
and the reasons why it is not made bv the party. When a corpo
ration is a party, the verilication may be made by any officer
thereof; and when the State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is
a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts. The verification may be omitted when an admis
sion of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to
prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a
criminal prosecution against the party, as a proof of a fact
admitted or alleged in such pleading: Provided, That the verifica
tion of any pleading in any Court of Record in this State may be
omitted in all cases where the party called upon to verify would
be privileged from testifying as a witness to the truth of any
matter denied by such pleading,
items of ac- 
Sec. 181. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
nrnrs!' "rll< pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall
deliver to the adverse parly, within ten days after a demand
therefor in writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading
is verified, must be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent
or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or
attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true, or be pre
cluded from giving evidence thereof. The Court, or a Judge
thereof, may order a "further account," when the one delivered
is defective; and the Court may, in all cases, order a bill of par
ticulars of the claim of either party to be furnished.


Sec. 182. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of La^a"(Mss
determining° its effect, its allegations
shall be liberallyJ construed,1 how
. Pleadings—
°
to be conwith a view of substantial justice between the parties.
6li38d

Sec. 183. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in irrelevant or
a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are 9
11 41 '
so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or uncertain''6 °r
defence is not apparent, the Court may require the pleading to be
made definite and certain by amendment.

Sec. 184. In pleading
or other determination of a.howJudgments—
r
° a judgment,
J °
impleaded.
Court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or deter
mination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound
to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

Sec. 185. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent Conditions
precedent—how
in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing pleaded,
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the party
duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to estab
lish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. In an
action or defence founded upon an instrument for the payment of for paymenTof
money only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the monev onlyinstrument, and to state that there is due to him thereon from the
adverse party a specified sum, which he claims.

Sec. 186. In pleading
statute,i or a right
t Private
1
c a private
1
& derived there- utes,
how tostatbe
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and p'eaded.
the day of its passage, and the Court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof.

Sec. 187. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be neces- of libel and
sary to state, in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose stated in comof showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter plamt'
out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to
state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning
the plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff
shall be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so published or
spoken.

Sec. 188. In the actions mentioned in the last Section, the de- Answer in
fendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter™0 cmee'
charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the ronr. as it is.

the amount of damages; and, whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give, in evidence, the mitigating circumstances,
in
action
to
1 89. In an action to recover the rpossession of rproperty
recover proper- Sec.
.
c J disty
that
is
digtrained
doing
damage,
an
answer
that
the
defendant,
or
person
bvJ
trained for dam°
'
r
age, answer whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real propneed not yet
forth title.
erty upon which the distress was made, and that the property
distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good,
without setting forth the title to such real property.
of ^ctlon^may ^EC'
plaintiff may unite, in the same complaint, several
s^mecomp&int3 causes of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore de
nominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of:
7-8011 . The same transaction, or transactions connected with the
„Saber
. v. Allen.
.„ same subject
of action;' or,'
J
[Mss.j
2. Contract, express or implied; or,
3. Injuries with or without force, to person and property, or
either; or,
4. Injuries to character; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
,
the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without dam
ages for the withholding thereof; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of
these classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mort
gages, must affect all the parties to the action, and not require
different places of trial, and must be separately stated. In actions
to foreclose mortgages, the Court shall have power to adjudge and
direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any residue of the mort
gage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged
premises, in cases in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable
for the debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage debt
be secured by the covenant or obligation of any person other than
the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such person a party to the
action, and the Qourt may adjudge payment of the residue of such
debt remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises
against such other person, and may enforce such judgment as in
other cases.
defied—when 
Sec. 191. Every material allegation of the complaint, not contrue6 deemed troverted by the answer, as prescribed in Section one hundred and seventy-two, and every material allegation of new matter in the 6-67, »-458.
answer, constituting a counter claim, not controverted by the
reply, as prescribed in Section one hundred and seventy-six, shall,
for purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allega
tion of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counter claim,
or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the
adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case
may require.
Material variances, how provided for.
Immaterial variances, how provided for.
What not to be deemed a variance.
Amendments of course and after demurrer.
Amendments by the Court.
Court may give relief in case of complaint.
Suing a party by a fictitious name.
No error or defect to be regarded unless it affect
substantial rights.
200. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.


Sec. 192. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and Materiel varithe proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled ance'
the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or 3.410, e-138.
defence, upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that
a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satis
faction of the Court, and in what respect he has been misled; and
thereupon the Court may order the pleading to be amended, upon
such terms as shall be just.
'
Sec 193. Where the variance is not material, as provided in immaterial
the last Section, the Court may direct the fact to be found accord- 3-411, 6-138.
ing to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment
without costs.
Failure of
Sec 194. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action proof.

. 3-411, 5-S89,
or defence to which the proof is directed is not proved, not in 6-138. some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and
meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance, within the last
two Sections, but a failure of proof.
Amendments
of course and gEc. 1 95. Any Lpleading° mayJ be once amended byJ the cpartyJ of
after allowance course without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings
of demurrer.
.
.
already had, at any time within twenty days after it is served, or
s-200.
at any time before the period for answering it expires; or it can
be so amended at any time within twenty days after the service of
the answer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be made to
r^cohr^MsS appear to the Court that it was done for the purposes of delay,
and the plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a
circuit or term for which the cause is or may be noticed; and if it
appear to the Court that such amendment was made for such
purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms imposed as
to the Court may seem just. In such case a copy of the amended
pleading must be served on the adverse party. After the decision
of a demurrer, either at a general or special term, the Court may,
in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in
good faith, allow the party to plead over upon such terms as may
be just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in
the fifth sub-division of Section one hundred and sixty-seven, the
Court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just,
order the action to be divided into as many actions as may he
necessary to the proper determination of the causes of action
therein mentioned.
Amendment 
Sec. 196.
The Court may,
by order.
.
." before or after 0judgment,
O
! in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any
5-289, 8-47, 346, pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or striking out the
name of any party; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
or, by inserting other
Barrett. (Mas.)'party,
." .or a mistake " in anyJ other respect;
,
,
allegations material to the case; or, when the amendment does
not change substantially the claim or defence, by conforming the
pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.
reiiefincaseu Sec." 197. The Court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon
o mis a -e.
sugjj terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made,
a-3(i3,7-TB,8-346, or other Act to be done, after the time limited by this Act, or, by
ii^584.llM81' an order, enlarge such time; and may also, in its discretion, and
upon such terms as may be just, at any time within one year after
G"n (MeST notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other
proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence. surprise, or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any
proceeding; and whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails
to conform in any respect to the provisions of this Code, the Court
may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an amendment
of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

Sec. 198. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of Fictitious
.
name.
a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name; and when his true name shall be discov
ered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

Sec. 199. The Court shall, in every stage of action, disregard f(Jj™{j £j
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall regarded,
not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no wai'iac^'Lock
judgment shall be reversed or affected" by reason of such error or
(Msg.)
defect.

Sec. 200. The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be supplemental
allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or pe ngreply, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former
complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party was ignorant when
his former pleading was made, and either party may, by leave of
the Court, in any pending or future action, set up by a supplemental
pleading the judgment or decree of any Court of competent
jurisdiction rendered since the commencement of such action,
determining the matters in controversy in said action, or any part
thereof, and if said judgment be set up by the plaintiff, the same
shall be without prejudice to any provisional remedy theretofore
issued or other proceedings had in said action on his behalf.
Sec 201. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as t0Nbe Patresfed
prescribed by this Act; but the same shall not apply to proceedings J^bed as pre"
for contempt.

Sec. 202. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter pre- in what cases,
scribed, in the following cases:
1 . In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action
not arising out of contract, where the defendant is not resident of the
State, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an
injury to person or character, or for injuring or for wrongfully
taking, detaining or converting property.
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money received, or
property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer,
or by an attorney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent
of a corporation or banking association, in the course of his employ
ment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a
fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in
a professional employment.
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, where the property, or any part thereof, has been
concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or
taken by the Sheriff or Constable, and with the intent that it should
not be so found or taken, or with the intent to deprive the plaintiff
of the benefit thereof.
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought,
or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, deten
tion or conversion of which the action is brought, or when the
action is brought to recover damages for fraud or deceit.
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property,
or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a wilful
injury to person, character or property.
Order for ar- 
Sec. 203. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be
rest, by whom made.
obtained from a Judge, Irial Justice, or Clerk of the Court, m
which, or before whom, the action is brought.
Affidavit to 
Sec. 204. The order may be made where it shall appear to the
To \vha't action proper officer by the affidavit of the plaintiff or of any other person,
pii'esCbalJtLr "P that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case from the
facts stated is one of those mentioned in Section two hundred and
two.
Security by 
Sec. 205. Before making the order, the Judge or other officer
plaintiff before
order of arrest, shall require a written undertaking on the part ut the plaintiff, with
or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judg
ment, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in'the undertaking, which
shall be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be
executed by the plaintiff, without sureties, he shall annex thereto an
affidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within
the State, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking
over all his debts and liabilities.
Ordei, when 
Sec. 206. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
made, and its form. Time to at any tune aiterwards before judgment. It shall require the
move to vacate. Sheriff or Constable of the County where the defendant may be
found forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified
sum, and to return the order, at a place and time therein mentioned,
to the plaintiff or attorney by whom it shall lie subscribed or
indorsed.
But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be vacated
or set aside on motion, unless the same is served upon the defend
ant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any judgment in
the action; and the defendant shall have twenty days, after the
service of the order of arrest, in which to answer the complaint.
ordeflrdtoVbe1ded 
Sec. 207. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to
sheriff o^Con- tne Sheriff or Constahle, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall
copy to ttwfde* deliver to him a copy thereof.
fendant.
Se0. 208. The Sheriff or Constable shall execute the order by
made"*'' ll0W arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until dis
charged by law, and may call the power of the County to his aid ill
the execution of the arrest, as in case of process.

Sec. 209. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be Defendant to
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon deposit- on bail or deing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest as provided in p°81t'
this chapter.

Sec. 210. The defendant may give bail bv causing a written Hail, how to
... be given.
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the
defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process
of the Court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as may
be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or, if he be arrested for
the cause mentioned in third sub-division of Section two hundred
and two, an undertaking to the same effect as that provided by
Section two hundred and thirty-four.

Sec. 211. At anv time before a failure to comply
, Surrender of
r J with the under- defendant.
taking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration,
or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff of the County where he
was arrested, in the following manner:
1 . A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be deliv
ered to the Sheriff or Constable, who shall detain the defendant in
his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a
certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender;
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
Sheriff's or Constable's certificate, a Judge or Clerk of the Court
may, upon a notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the
certificate, order that the bail be exonerated; and on filing the
order and the papers used on said application, they shall be exone
rated accordingly. Rut this Section shall not apply to an arrest for
cause mentioned in sub-division three of Section two hundred and
two, so as to discharge the hail from an undertaking given to the
effect provided by Section two hundred and thirty-four.

Sec. 212. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the Surrender of
bail, at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him, or, by a written authority, indorsed on a
certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suit
able age and discretion to do so.

Sec. 213. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the Bail, how to
be proceeded
bail may be proceeded against, by action only.
against.

Sec. 214. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the Bail, how exdefendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, er by his surrender to the Sheriff or Constable of the
County where he was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty
days after the commencement of the action against the bail, or
within such further time as may be granted by the Court.
Delivery
of
undertaking to 
Sec. 215. Within the time limited for that rpurpose,
i i the Sheriff
plaintiff,
and
its
or
Constable
shall
deliver
the
order
of
arrest
to
the plaintiff,
acceptance or
r
' or
rejection by attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a "
certified copy of the undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within
ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sheriff or Constable a notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have
accepted it, and the Sheriff or Constable shall be exonerated from
liability.
Notice of jus- 
Sec. 216. On the receipt
or Constable,'
tiflcation.
, r of such notice,' the Sheriff
,
or defendant, may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff,
or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of
the justification of the same or other bail (specifying the places of
residence and occupation of the latter) before a Judge or Clerk of
the Court, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less
than five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be
New bail.
given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in
Section two hundred and ten.
Qualification 
Sec. '217. The qualification of bail must be as follows:
1. Bach of them must be a resident, and householder or free
holder, within the State.
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of
arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge
or Clerk of the Court, on justification, may allow more than two
bail to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the
order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient
bail.
Justification 
Sec. 218. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the Judge or Clerk of the Court at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part
of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
Judge or Clerk of the Court, in his discretion, may think proper.
The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff.
Allowance of 
Sec. 219. If the Judge or Clerk of the Court find the bail
insufficient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking,
indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed in the office of the Clerk; and the Sheriff shall thereby be exonerated
from liability.

Sec. 220. The defendant may,
instead of Deposit
■" at the time of his arrest,'the
Sheriff. with
giving bail, deposit with the Sheriff or Constable the amount men
tioned in the order. The Sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant
a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged
out of custody.

Sec. 221. The Sheriff or Constable shall, within four days after Payment of
ii ii
/v*
deposit into
the deposit, pay the same into Court, and shall take from the officer Court,
receiving the same two certificates of such payment, the one of
which he shall deliver to the plaintiff, and the other to the defend
ant. For any default in making such payment the same proceed
ings may be had on the official bond of the Sheriff or Constable, to
collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

Sec. 222. If money be deposited, as provided in the 'last two Substituting.ii bail for deposit.
Sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed
in Section two hundred and sixteen, anytime before judgment; and
thereupon the Judge before whom the justification is had shall
direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be
refunded by the Sheriff or Constable to the defendant, and it shall
be refunded accordingly.

Sec. 223. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain Deposit, how
on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of disp°8eii of'
money to the plaintiff, the Clerk shall, under direction of the Court,
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judg
ment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the
judgment be in favor of the defendant, the Clerk shall refund to
him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
Sec 224. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be The Sheriff or
rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made liable as bail,
instead thereof, the Sheriff or Constable shall himself be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability by the
giving and justification of bail, as provided in Sections two hundred
and sixteen, two hundred and seventeen, two hundred and eighteen,
and two hundred and nineteen, at any time before process against
the person of the defendant to enforce an order or judgment in the
action.

Sec. 225. If a judgment be recovered against the Sheriff or Con- Proceedings
on judgment
stable, upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be against sheriff,
returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may
be had on the official bond of the Sheriff or Constable to collect the
deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.
Bail liable to 
Sec. 226. The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify,
or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the Sheriff or Con
stable by action for damages which he may sustain by reason of
such omission.
derVacating
of arrest oror Skc. 227. A defendant arrested may,
J' at anyJ time before Jjudgo
reducing bail, nient, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail.
Afiiiiavits on 
Sec. 228. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same
by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the
order of arrest was made.

Sec. 229. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of
perty."al pr° personal property, may. at the time of issuing the summons, or at
10 49< '

any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such
property, as provided in this chapter.

Sec. 230. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be Affidavit—its
made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
" 1"
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (par
ticularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect
to which shall be set forth:
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or
fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attach
ment against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it
is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and
5. The actual value of the property.

Sec. 231. The rplaintiff may,
requisition
to
." thereupon,
f ' byJ an indorsement in Sheriff
to take
writing upon the affidavit, require the Sheriff of the County where and deliver the
the property claimed may be. to take the same from the defendant
and deliver it to the plaintiff.
Sec 232. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a security by
written undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sureties, plai""tt'
approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the Thompson v.
prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the de-Joi>1'"' <Mss')
fendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the
plaintiff, the Sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in
the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking,
by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or, if
neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode
of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion. In case
the plaintiff does not execute the required undertaking, the party 15 stat., 498.
having possession of the property shall retain the same until the
determination of the suit.
Skc. 233. The defendant may, within three days after the Exception to
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to 8"retK'Hthe Sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he
fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on
notice, in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the Sheriff
shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the
objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If
the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the prop
erty, as provided in the next Section.
Defendant,
when
entitled 
Sec. 234. At any time before the delivery* of the property
i r J to the
to re-delivery, plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the Sheriff
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
jopiin. (Mm.) to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the prop
erty, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so
required, within three days after the taking and service of notice
to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiffs, except as
provided in Section two hundred and thirty-nine.
Justification
of defendant's 
Sec. 235. The defendant's sureties, upon
r a notice to the plain1
sureties.
tiff of not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify before
a Judge, Clerk of the Court or Trial Justice, in the same manner
as upon bail on arrest. Upon such justification, the Sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. The Sheriff shall be respon
sible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until justifi
cation is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the
property until that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail
to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the
property to the plaintiff.
Salifications 
Sec. 236. The qualifications of sureties and their justification
justification
of sureties.
shall be as are prescribed by Sections two hundred and seventeen
and two hundred and eighteen, in respect to bail upon an order of
arrest.
Property— Skc. 237. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
wh"n concealed building or inclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery.
inciosure.mg °r If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclosure to
be broken open, and take the property into his possession; and, if
necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his County.
Property— 
Sec. 238. When the Sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
how kept.
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for
taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same.

Sec. 239. If the property taken be claimed by any other person claim of prothan the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make affi- party. by 4 M
davit of his title thereto, and right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the same
upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall not be bound to keep the pro
perty, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand
of him or his agent, shall indemnify the Sheriff against such
claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth double
the value of the property, as specified in the affidavit of the plain
tiff, and freeholders and householders of the County. And no
claim to such property, by any other person than the defendant or his
agent, shall be valid against the Sheriff, unless made as aforesaid;
and, notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain
the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

Sec. 240. The Sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with Notice and
his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which and where to be
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the pro
perty mentioned therein.

Sec. 241. An order of injunction
mayJ bo made byJ the Circuit
J
Court in which the action is brought, or by a Judge thereof, and
in the absence from the Circuit, or inability, from any cause, of a
Judge thereof, by a Judge of any other Circuit, or a Justice of
the Supreme Court,
injunction,
byJ the complaint
that the
what
cases. in 
Sec. 242. Til
L J Where it shall appear
rr
r
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or contin
uance of some act, the commission or continuance of which,
during the litigation, would produce injury to the plaintiff ; or,
[2] when, during the litigation, it shall appear that the defendant
is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suffering
some act to be done in violation of the plaintiff's rights respect
ing the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such act. [3] And where, during the pendency of an action, it
shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens, or is about
to remove, or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his
creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
removal or disposition,
injunction, 
Sec. 243. The injunction may be granted at the time of comat what time
granted.
mencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment,
upon its appearing satisfactorily to the Court or Judge, by the
affidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient
affidavits °grounds exist therefor. A copy
toCopy
he served.
* J of the affidavit must be served
with the injunction,
injunction 
Sec. 244. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defend after answer.
ant shall have answered, unless upon notice or upon an order to
show cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained
until the decision of the Court or Judge granting or refusing the
injunction.
Security upon 
Sec. 245. When no provision is made by statute as to security
injunction.
upon an injunction, the Court or Judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties,
to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such
damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall finally
Damages.
decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages
may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the Court
shall direct.

Sec. 246. If the Court or Judge deem it proper that the defend- Ordertoshow
cause.
ant, or any of several defendants, should be heard before grant
ing the injunction, an order may be made requiring to be shown,
at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be restraint in meantime.
granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.

Sec. 247. An injunction
to suspend
the general
and ordinaryJ injunction
. Secmityupon
to
business of a corporation shall not be granted except by the Court suspend buBi1
.
ne8S °f corporaor a Judge thereof. Nor shall it be granted without due notice tion.
of the application therefor, to the proper officers of the corpora
tion, except where the State is a party to the proceeding, and j
except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in
corporations and associations for banking purposes, after the first
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, as such
proceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless the plaintiff
shall give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by the Court or Judge, to the effect that the
plaintiff will pay all damages, not exceeding the sum to be men
tioned in the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the Court. shall finally decide that the
plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascer
tained by a reference, or otherwise, as the Court shall direct.

Sec. 248. If the injunction be granted by the Court or a ^otton^tovaJudge thereof, without notice, the defendant, at any time before injunction,
the trial, may apply, upon notice to the Court or a Judge thereof,
in which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same.
The application may be made upon the complaints and the affida
vits on which the injunction was granted, or upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

Sec. 249. If the application be made upon affidavits on the Affidavits on
motion.
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on
which the injunction was granted.

Sec. 250. In any action arising for the recovery of money or
for the recovery of property, whether real or personal, and dam8-418, 5-64, 746-1.
ages for the wrongful conversion and detention of personal pro
perty, or in an action for the recovery of damages for injury done to
either person or property against a corporation created by or
under the laws of any other State, government or country, or
against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or against
a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself, or whenever Property of foreign corporaany person or corporation is about to remove any of his or its Hons andof nonproperty from this State, or has assigued, disposed of, or secreted, scending, or of
or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his or fendants, to be
its property, with intent to defraud creditors, as hereinafter men- attacned,
tioned, the plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons, or any
time afterwards, may have the property of such defendant or cor
poration attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a secu
rity for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintiff may
recover; and for the purposes of this Section an action shall be
deemed commenced when the summons is issued: Provided, how
ever, That personal service of such summons shall be made, or
publication thereof commenced within thirty days.

Sec. 251. A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a Warrant, by
whom granted.
Judge or Clerk of the Court, or Trial Justice, in which or before
whom the action is brought, or from a Circuit Judge.

Sec. 252. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear i» what cases
a warrant may
byJ affidavit that a cause of action exists against
such defendant, be
issued°
affidavits
to be
specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds thereof, and filed,
that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resi
dent of this State, or has departed therefrom with intent to de
fraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keep
himself concealed therein with the like intent, or that such corpo
ration or person has removed, or is about to remove, any of his or
its property from this State, with intent to defraud his or its
creditors, or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to
assign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his or its property, with the
like intent, whether such defendant be a resident of this State
or not.
It shall be the duty of the plaintiff procuring such warrant,
within ten days after the issuing thereof, to cause the affidavits
on which the same was granted to be filed in the office of the
Court of Common Pleas, or with the Trial Justice, in which, or
before whom, the action is to be tried.

Sec. 253. Before issuing the warrant, the Judge, Clerk, or Of security on
°
obtaining warTrial Justice shall require a written undertaking, on the part of rant.
the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, to the effect that if the defend
ant recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside by order of
the Court, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which shall be at least two hundred and fifty dollars,
except in case of a warrant issued by a Trial Justice, when it
shall be at least twenty-five dollars.
who^ardai?ected 
Sec. 254. The warrant shall be directed to any Sheriff or Conquire hat '° ™ stable of anv County in which property of such defendant may
be, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the proper
ty of such defendant within his County, or so much thereof as
may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff 's demand, together with
costs and expenses, the amount of which must be stated in con
formity with the complaint, together with costs and expenses.
Several warrants may be issued at the same time to the Sheriffs
or Constables of different Counties.
attac°hPedrtytobe Skc- 255- Tne Sheriff or Constable to whom such warrant is
directed and delivered shall immediately attach all the real estate
of such debtor, and all his personal estate, including money and
Wa r r (i n t bank notes, except such real and personal estate as is exempt from
how'tevle(Ton attachment, levy or sale, by the Constitution; and shall take into
real estate.
nis cu8to(jy ali books of account, vouchers and papers relating to
the property, debts, credits and effects of such debtor, together
with all evidences of his title to real estate, which he shall safely
keep, to be disposed of as hereinafter directed.
When real estate is attached a true and attested copy of such
attachment, together with a description of the real estate attached,
shall be, by the officer serving the same, delivered to the party
whose real estate is attached, or left at his last and usual place of
abode; and the officer making such service shall also leave
a true and attested copy of such attachment, together with
a description of the real estate so attached, in the office where,
by law, a deed of such real estate is required to be re
corded; and if the party whose estate is attached does not
reside in this State, then such copy shall be delivered to
his tenant, agent or attorney, if any be known; and if no such
agent, tenant or attorney be known, then a copy of such warrant
of attachment, with the officer's return thereon, lodged in the
office where, by law, a deed of such real estate ought to be record
ed, shall be deemed sufficient service. It shall be the duty
of the Clerk or Register of the office wherein said warrant
of attachment is required to be lodged to receive the same, .
and enter, in a book kept for that purpose, the names of the parties, the dale of the warrant of attachment, the sum demanded,
and the officer's return thereon, Said attachment shall be a lien,
subject to all prior liens, and bind the real estate attached from
the date of lodgment: Provided, That all attachments lodged
upon the same day shall take rank together.

Sec. 256. He shall, immediately on maldng such seizure, with orofs^e^uties
the assistance of two disinterested freeholders, make a Jjust and cases.
Constables in
true inventory of all the property so seized, and of the books,
vouchers and papers taken into custody, stating therein the esti
mated value of the several articles of personal property, and enu
merating such of them as are perishable, which inventory, after
being signed by the Sheriff and appraisers, shall, within ten days
after such seizure, be returned to the officer who issued the war
rant; and the Sheriff or Constable shall, under the direction of
such officer, collect, receive and take into his possession all debts,
credits and effects of such debtor, and commence such suits, and
take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the name
of such debtor, as may be necessary for that purpose, prosecute
and discontinue the same at such times and on such terms as the
Court may direct. The property so seized, or the proceeds of such
as shall have been sold, and debts collected, shall be kept to an
swer any judgment which may be obtained in such action.
Sec 257. If any property so seized shall be perishable, orif.n ^r9°c^dipeKrB
any- rpart of it be claimed byJ anyJ other person
than such defend- on
ishabieproperty
i
vessels.
ant, or if any part of it consist of a vessel, or of any share or
interest therein, the same proceedings shall be had in all respects
as are provided by law upon attachments against absent debtors.

Sec. 258. The rights or shares which such defendant may have interest in
corporations, or
in the stock of any asscciation or corporation, together with the in associations
liable to attachinterest and profits thereon, and all other property in this Statement,
of such defendant, except that exempt from attachment by the
Constitution, shall be liable to be attached and levied upon, and
sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.
Sec 259. The execution of the attachment upon
any
A
. such rights,
°
not Attachment
executed on
shares,' or any. debts or other fproperty
incapable
of
manual
delivery
incat- j
f
j property
b^e of raanuaI
to the Sheriff or Constable, shall be made by leaving a certified delivery,
copy of the warrant of attachment with the president or other
head of the association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier,
or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding
such property, with a notice showing the property levied on. certificate of Se0. 260. Whenever the Sheriff or Constable shall, with a
defendant s tnniBhed'0 be
wai'rant of attachment, or execution against the defendant, apply
to such officer, debtor, or individual, for the purpose of attaching,
or levying upon such property, such officer, debtor, or individual
shall furnish him with a certificate under his hand, designating
the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of
such association or corporation, with any dividend or incumbrance
thereon, or the amount and description of the property held by
such association, corporation, or individual, for the benefit of or
debt owing to the defendant. If such officer, debtor, or individual
refuse to do so, he may be required by the Court or Judge to
attend before him, and be examined on oath, concerning the same,
and obedience to such order may be enforced by attachment.
how'satfifled'- 
Sec. ^1- In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such
action, the Sheriff or Constable shall satisfy the same out of the
property attached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that purpose—
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in any
vessel, sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, under such
execution, so much of the attached property, real or personal,
except as provided in sub-division four of this Section, as may be
necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose shall
remain in his hands; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares
in the stock of a corporation or association, the Sheriff or Consta
ble shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and
the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in
respect thereto which were had by such defendant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant
shall have passed out of the hands of the Sheriff or Constable
without having been sold or converted into money, such Sheriff or
Constable shall repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose
shall have all the authority which he had to seize the same under
the attachment; and any person who shall wilfully conceal or
withhold such property from the Sheriff or Constable shall be
liable to double damages, at the suit of the party injured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the
Sheriff or Constable may proceed to collect the notes and other evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized or
attached under the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any
bond he may have taken in the course of such proceedings, and
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment.
At the expiration of six months from the docketing of the
judgment, the Court shall have power, upon the petition of the
plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth fully all the
proceedings which have been had by the Sheriff or Constable
since the service of the attachment, the property attached, and the
disposition thereof, and, also, the affidavit of the Sheriff or Consta
ble, that he has used diligence and endeavored to collect the evi
dences of debt in his hands so attached, and that there remains
uncollected of the same any part or portion thereof, to order the
Sheriff or Constable to sell the same, upon such terms and in such
manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice of such application
shall be given to the defendant or his attorney, if the defendant
shall have appeared in the action. In case the summons has not
been personally served on the defendant, the Court shall make
such rule or order, as to the service of notice and the time of
service, as shall be deemed just.
When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have
been paid, the Sheriff or Constable, upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant, the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof.
Sec 262. The actions herein authorized to be brought by the when action
Sheriff or Constable may be prosecuted by .the plaintiff, or under not^&c^ of
his direction, upon the delivery by him to the Sheriff or Consta- b^proeecuteci
ble of an undertaking executed by two sufficient sureties, to the ^ '^e p'action
effect that the plaintiff will indemnify the Sheriff or Constable a°a^^t f«
from all damages, costs and expenses on account thereof, not ex-8ued'
ceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such
sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the Sheriff or Consta
ble, justify by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and
worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and
above all demands and liabilities.

Sec. 263. If the foreign corporation, or absent or absconding sh^^ °r°conC
or concealed defendant, recover Jjudgment
the plaintiff
in stable
on an at6
. against
6
r
tachment—how
such action, any bond taken by the Sheriff or Constable, except disposed of on
a judgment for
such as are mentioned in the last Section, all the proceeds of sales the defendant. and moneys collected by him, and all the property attached
remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant,
or his agent, on request, and the warrant shall be discharged, and
the property released therefrom.
Discharge of 
Sec. 264. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such
attachment and .
return of pro- action, he may apply to the officer who issued the attachment, or
perty or its pro
ceeds to defend- to the Court, for an order to discharge the saine ; and if the same
ant on appear^
ance in action, be granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by him,
and all the property attached, remaining in his hands, shall be
delivered or paid by him to the defendant or his agent, and
released from the attachment.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several pro
perty of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the
order of attachment, the defendant whose several property has
been seized may apply to the officer who issued the attachment for
relief under this Section.
undertaking 
Sec. 265. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to
on
the part of• the Court, or oflicer, an undertaking
.
the defendant
executed by at least two suredischarge of lit- .
.
tachment.
ties, who are resident and freeholders or householders in this
State, approved by such Court, or officer, to the effect that such
sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judg
ment that may be recovered against the defendant in the action,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall
be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his com
plaint. If1 it shall appear by affidavit that the property attached
be less than the amount claimed by the plaintiff, the Court, or officer,
issuing the attachment, may order the same to be appraised and
the amount of the undertaking shall then be double the amount so
appraised. And in all cases the defendant may move to discharge
the. attachment, as in the case of other provisional remedies.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several pro
perty of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the
order of attachment, the defendant, whose several property has
been seized, may deliver to the Court, or officer, an undertaking,
in accordance with the provisions of this Section, to the eft'ect
that he will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judg
ment that may be recovered against such defendant. And all the
provisions of this Section applicable to such undertaking shall be
applied thereto.

Sec. 266. When the warrant shall be fully executed or dis- Wnen sheriff
charged, the Sheriff or Constable shall return the same, with rant^wich prohis proceedings thereon, to the Court in which the action was ceedmgs'
brought.

Sec. 267. A receiver may be appointed:
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when powers of
he establishes an apparent right to property which is the subject ceivere, deposit
of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party, °n "conn, &n&
and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being Jf remedies!™1
lost, or materially injured or impaired; except in cases where
judgment upon failure to answer may be had without application
to the Court.
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment for
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or due"
when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judg
ment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the
judgment.
4. In the cases provided in this Code of Procedure, and by
statute, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or
in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights; and in like cases, of the property within this State, of
foreign corporations. Receivers of the property within this State,
of foreign or other corporations, shall be allowed such commission
as may be fixed by the Court appointing them, not exceeding five
per cent, on the amount received and disbursed by them.
5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may be
in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise pro
vided in this Code of Procedure.
When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party
that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litiga.
tion, is held by him as trustee, for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the Court may order the same to be deposited in Court, or delivered to such party, with or with
out security, subject to the further direction of the Court.
Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Court shall have
ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other
property, and the order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing
the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring
the Sheriff or Constable to take the money or property, and deposit,
deliver, or convey it, in conformity with the direction of the
Court.
When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not denying,
admits part of the plaintiff's claim to be just, the Court, on motion,
may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and
may enforce the order as it enforces a judgment or provisional
remedy.

Sec. 268. Judgment defined.
269. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for
excess over counter claim.
270. Judgments on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.
judgment de- 
Sec. 268. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
ned.
the parties in the action.

Sec. 269. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer on'faii^™« of
the complaint, as follows :
defendant to
answer, or for
1. In anyJ action arising° on contract for the recovery of money«ces8,°.Ter
. counter claim.
only, the plaintiff may file with the Clerk proof of personal service
of the summons and complaint on one or more of the defendants, 6-4, 6-ia, 8-83.
or of the summons according to the provisions of Section one hun
dred and fifty-three, and that no answer has been received. The
Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in
the summons, against the defendant, or defendants, or against one
or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in Section
L
, . .
This Section,
one hundred and fifty-nine. But if the complaint be not sworn to, though not re,
f e r r e d to, is
and such action is on an instrument for the payment of money amended by
2lst Sec Act 25
only, the Clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount Nov^, 1875. see
< 1 ue to the plaintiff thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the page ire»" °S '
amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recover in such action,
from his examination, under oath, or other proof, and enter
the judgment for the amount so assessed or ascertained. In
case the defendant give notice of appearance in the action, he
shall be entitled to five days' notice of the time and place of such
assessment.
Where the defendant, by his answer in any such action, shall not
deny the plaintiff's claim, but shall set up a counter claim, amount
ing to less than the plaintiff's claim, judgment may be had by the plain
tiff for the excess of said claim over the said counter claim, in like
manner in any such action, upon the plaintiff's filing with the Clerk of the Court a statement admitting such counter claim, which
statement shall be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.
2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon like proof, apply to
the Court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for the
relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account or
the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the Court to give
judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take
the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a
reference for that purpose. And' where the action is for the recov
ery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, with
damages for the withholding thereof, the Court may order the
damages to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long
account be involved, by a reference as above provided. If the de
fendant give notice of appearance in the action before the expira
tion of the time for answering, he shall be entitled to eight days' notice of the time and place of application to the Court for the
relief demanded by the complaint.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by applica
tion, the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, and the
Court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand
mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be not a resident
of the State, must require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined
on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the plain
tiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such" demand, and
may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Before rendering judgment the Court may, in its discretion, require
the plaintiff to cause to be filed satisfactory security to abide the
order of the Court, touching the restitution of any estate or effects
which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or
delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected
under or by virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or his
representatives shall .apply and be admitted to defend the action,
and shall succeed in such defence.
Judgment 
Sec. 270. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party
on frivolous de
mnrrer, answer prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, may applv
to a Judge of the Court, either in or out of the Court, for judgment
6-117.
thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.
Act Relating to Manner of Entering Judgment.
March, 1875.

(15 Stat.; 502.)

judgments
shall be obtained
obtainable
only That after the passage
to of this Act no Jjudgment
e>
during
term
m
Court
of
Common
Pleas,
except
during
Term
time and in
time.
r
°
open Court, and it shall be the duty of the Clerk to place all cases
filed in his office, in which there is no defence, upon a docket, to be
Special
byJ him for the purpose,
—w
h e n docket
to be prepared
r 1
r t
t to be known as Docket Number
called.
' Six (6), and they shall be called on the first day of the term, and
the order for judgment shall be endorsed on the complaint and
signed by the presiding Judge, and no execution shall be signed on
judgments obtained by default in any other manner than is herein
provided.
The different kinds of issues.
issue of law.
Issue of fact.
On issues of both law and fact. The issue of law to
be first tried.
Trial defined.
Issues. How tried.
Issues triable by the Court.
Either party may give notice of trial. Note of issue.
Stenographer to be appointed by the Judges of certain
Circuits, to take stenographic notes.
Duty of stenographer.
Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.


Sec. 271. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclu- The different
sion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the kmdli of issues'
other.

They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.

Sec. 272. An issue of law arises:
issue of law.
1. Upon a deinurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to
some part thereof.

Sec. 273. An issue of fact arises:
issue of fact.
1 . Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by
the answer; or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is joined
thereon.
Sec 274. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon different ofTawaudfact
parts of the pleadings in the saine action. In such cases, the l™5^ tned tu"
cause shall be placed on the calendar of issues of fact, and the 15 Btat ^
issues shall be tried together, unless the Court otherwise direct.

Sec. 275. Atrial is the judicial examination of the issues be- Trial deflned,
tween the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

Sec. 276. An issue of law must be tried by the Court, unless it trie|fues' h°W
be referred as provided in Sections two hundred and ninety-four s-206, sis.
and two hundred and ninety-five. An issue of fact, in an action
for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, or for a divorce from the marriage contract on the ground
of adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived,
as provided in Section two hundred and ninety, or a reference be
ordered, as provided in Sections two hundred and ninety-four and
two hundred and ninety-five,
other
issues
to be tried by 
Sec. 277. EveryJ other issue is triable by .the Court,
. which,
the Court.
however, may order the whole issue, or any specific question of fact
4151 811 5- '12 involved therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it, as provided
6-812!
' in Sections two hundred and ninety-four and two hundred and
ninety-five.
Summonsand 
Sec. 278. At any time after issue, and at least fourteen days
complaint to be
.
filed in clerk's before Court, the plaintiff shall file in the Clerks office the suinofiice.
mons and complaint in the cause, endorsing thereon the nature of
° "
the issue and the number of the docket upon which the same shall
be placed; and, if the plaintiff fail so to do, the defendant, seven
days before the Court, may file copies of said papers with a like
when cicrk to endorsement, and the Clerk shall thereupon place said cause upon
docket"1''''<' °n its appropriate docket, and it shall stand for trial without any
e-844.

further notice of trial or notice of issue.
In every action in which issue of fact is now joined, and the
action is now placed upon the calendar of the Court of Common
Pleas, in the First, Second and Fifth Circuits, the party who shall
have filed such note of issue, shall, as a condition precedent to
such' action being brought to trial, pay to the Clerk of the Court
the sum of three dollars; and in every action in either of the said
Courts, commenced after the passage of this Code of Procedure, the
party who shall file therein, a first note of issue of fact, shall, as a
condition precedent to such filing, pay to the Clerk of the Court,
the sum of three dollars; and the amounts so received, shall be
accounted for under oath, and paid over monthly, by the Clerk of
each of said Courts, to the County Treasurer, to be used as a fund
for the payment of the salaries of stenographers employed in
Courts. If the fund thus created be inadequate to pay such sala
ries, the additional amount necessary for such payment shall be
paid by the County Treasurers of the several Counties in the Cir
cuit, out of any moneys raised for County purposes, and in pro
portion to the valuation for taxation of their respective Counties.
The several County Auditors in a Circuit shall furnish the Circuit
Solicitor, on demand, a certificate of the amount of taxable pro
perty in their respective Counties, upon which he shall apportion
to said Counties, the several sums to be paid by them to the stenographer, which sums shall be paid upon the order of the Solicitor,
approved by the Judge of the Circuit. Any surplus in the fund
received by County Treasurers, to pay the salary of stenographers,
shall be appropriated to County purposes.

Sec. 279. The Judges of the First, Second and Fifth Circuit t a gtenoera°
pher to be apCourts shall, , each, appoint a stenographer for their several Cir-pointed for
three Circuits,
cuits, who shall be a sworn officer of the Court, and who shall to take fun
stenographic
hold office during the pleasure of the Court, and shall be paid a notes <3 trial,
salary of twenty-five hundred dollars per annum, payable quar
terly, upon the order of the presiding Judge. It shall be the duty
of every stenographer so appointed, for any Circuit, under the
direction of the presiding Judge thereof, to take full steno
graphic notes of all proceedings, including the rulings and charge
of the Court, in every trial thereat, and in case the presiding
Judge shall require a transcript of said stenographic notes, he may
order the same to be furnished by the stenographer.

Sec. 280. It shall be the duty of such stenographer to furnish Duty of ste•
»
•i
nographer.
to any party to such trials, upon request, a copy of the evidence
and proceedings taken by him on such trials, or of such part
thereof as may be required, on payment, on behalf of such party,
of ten cents for every one hundred words of the copy so furnished.
The sum paid as a condition precedent to the cause being brought
on trial, or to the first note of issue being filed as hereinbefore
provided, shall be deemed a necessary disbursement within the
meaning of Section three hundred and thirty-seven of the Code
of Procedure, and shall be allowed as such to the prevailing party
in the action.
Sec 281. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in' the order of disfollowing order, unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dis- Un"he c^endar8
patch of business, the Court shall otherwise direct:
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the Court;
3. Issues of law.
Note.—The clauses of Section 278, referring to official stenographers, were
repealed, except as to First Circuit, by Act, May 31, 1877, 16th Stat., 233.
Note. —Sections 279 and 280 repealed, except as to First Circuit, May 31,
187 7, 16th Stat., 233.
Notice of trial. Separate trials.
Court to be furnished with a copy of the pleadings.
General and special verdicts denned.
When jury may render either general or special ver
dict, and when the Court may direct a special
finding.
On special finding with a general verdict, the former
to control.
Jury to assess defendant's damages in certain cases.
Entry of the verdict. Motion for new trial.
Motion for new trial, or for judgment on special
verdict, where to be heard.
Sec 282. Either party giving the notice may bring the issue
to trial, and, in absence of the adverse party, unless the Court, for
good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take
a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as the case
Separate trial, may require. A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the
several defendants may be allowed by the Court, whenever, in its
opinion, justice will thereby be promoted.
The Court to Sec 283. When the issue shall be brought to trial bv the nlainbe furnished
with a copy of tiff he shall furnish the Court with a copv of the summons and
pleadings, k,c.
pleadings, with the offer of defendant, if any shall have been
made. When the issue shall be brought to trial by the defendant,
and the plaintiff shall neglect or refuse to furnish the Court with
a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the offer of the defend
ant, the same may be furnished by the defendant.
General and 
Sec. 284. A general verdict is that by which the jury prodefined. verd'anounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the
jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court.
when jury to 
Sec. 285. In an action for the recovery of specific personal proor^peciai"?™! perty, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or
Court* nmyfhdi^ if it have, and the defendant, by his answer, claim a return therefinding Bpeclal of, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their verdict
10-497.

be in favor of the plaintiff; or, if they find in favor of the defend
ant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof; and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of
the detention or taking and withholding such property.
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in writing, upon any or all of the issues
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general ver
diet, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in wri
ting, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding shall be filed with the Clerk, and entered upon
the minutes.

Sec. 286. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent On special
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and general verdict,
the Court shall give judgment accordingly.
troimer ° C°n

Sec. 287. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action jury to assess
for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a set-off damages tocerfor the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of tam case8'
the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury must also assess the
amount of the recovery; they may, also, under the direction of
the Court, assess the amount of the recovery when the Court give
judgment for the plaintiff on the answer. If 'a set-off, established
at the trial, exceed the plaintiff's demand so established, judgment
for the defendant must be given for the excess; or, if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judg
ment must be given accordingly.

Sec. 288. [1.] Upon receiving a verdict, the Clerk shall make Entry of the
an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial, fo? n'ew Wafon
the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the minutes d "C'S
judgment rendered thereon, or an order that the cause be reserved 2.388, 4-98.
for argument or further consideration. If a different direction 5"349'
be not given by the Court, the Clerk must enter judgment in con
formity with the verdict. [2.] If an exception be taken, it may
be reduced to writing at the time, or entered in the Judge's min
utes, and afterwards settled as provided by the rules of Court, and
then stated, in writing, in a case, or separately, with so much of
the evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but
need not be sealed or signed, nor need a bill of exceptions be made.
[3.] If the exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case, and
it be afterwards necessary to separate them, the separation may be made under the direction of the Court or a Judge thereof.
[4.] The Judge who tries the cause may, in his discretion, enter
tain a motion, to be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict
and grant a new trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence,
or for excessive damages; but such motions in actions hereafter"
tried, if heard upon the minutes, can only be heard at the same
term at which the trial is had. When such motion is heard and
decided upon the minutes of the Judge, and an appeal is taken
from the decision, a case, or exceptions, must be settled in the
usual form, upon which the argument of the appeal must be had.
Motion for 
Sec. 289. A motion for a new trial, on a case or exceptions, or
caw;, slc
otherwise, and an application for judgment on a special verdict or
Verdict snb- case reserved for argument or further consideration, must, in the
fonVf'theV'ou'rt. first instance, be heard and decided at the same term, except that
5-344, io-8i:s. when exceptions are taken the Judge trying the cause may, at
the trial, direct them to be heard in the first instance at the next
or special term, and the judgment in the meantime suspended;
and in that case they must be there heard in the first instance,
and judgment there given. And when, upon a trial, the case pre
sents only questions of law, the Judge may direct a verdict. •
Exceptions When Taken.
December 19, 1878.
That from and after ^he passage of this Act, exceptions for the
purpose of appeal to the Supreme Court, may be taken to the
rulings of the presiding Judge, in all cases tried in the Circuit
Courts of this State, at any time within ten (10) days after the
rising of the Circuit Court, at which such cases are tried, by
furnishing a copy of such exceptions to the presiding Judge,
and by serving them on the attorney of the respondent within
the time above limited.

Sec. 290. Trial by jury may byywaived by the several parties Trial by jury,
to an issue of fact, in actions on contract, and, with the assent of
the Court, in other actions, in the manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with the
Clerk.
3. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.

Sec. 291. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the Court, its On trial by the
decision shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement
of the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately; and howtobegiven.
upon a trial of an issue of law, the decision shall be made in the 3-551, 4-291 .
same manner, stating the conclusions of law. Such decision shall
be filed with the Clerk within sixty days after the Court at which
the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered
accordingly.

Sec. 292. [1.] For the purposes of an appeal, either party may Exceptions, 1 h°w and when
except to a decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial taken,
within ten days after notice, in writing, of the judgment, in the Motion for
same manner and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury: ntw m '
Provided, however, That where the decision filed under Section two generaUerm. a'
hundred and ninety-one does not authorize a final judgment, but 4.03
directs further proceedings before a referee or otherwise, either
party may move for a new trial at the next term, and for that
purpose may, within ten days after notice of the decision being
filed, except thereto, and make a case or exceptions as above pro
vided in cases of an appeal.
[2.] And either party desiring a review upon the evidence ap
pearing on the trial, either of the questions of fact or of law, may,
at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment, or within
such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the Court, make a case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial by jury, except
that the Judge, in settling the case, must briefly specify the facts
found by him, and his conclusion of law.
Proceedings
for the plaintiff
upon
on judgment
on 
Sec. 293. On a Jjudgment
r an issue of law.
issue at law. the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two
sub divisions of Section two hundred and sixty-nine, upon the
failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons was per
sonally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue
of law, and if taking of an account or the proof of any fact be
necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment, a refer
ence or assessment by jury may be ordered, as in that Section
provided.
Note.—As to time for taking exceptions, see ante page 109.
All issues referable by consent.
When a reference may be compulsorily ordered.
Mode of trial. Effect of report. Review.
Referees, how chosen. Report.

ah issnes re- ^ec. 294. All, or any . of the issues in the action, whether of
ferable by consent.
fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent
of the parties. When refer- 
Sec. 295. Where the parties do not consent, the Court may,
ence maybe
compulsorily upon the application of either, or its own motion, except where the
ordered.
investigation will require the decision of difficult questions of law,
5-206.
direct a reference in the following cases:
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the exami
nation of a long account on either side; in which case the referees
may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report
upon any specific question of fact involved therein; or,
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the Court, before judgment, or for carrying a
judgment or order into effect; or,
8. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

Sec. 296. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same Mode of trial.
mi
Effect of report.
manner, and on similar notice, as a trial by the (Jourt. Iney Decision reviewed
shall have the same power to grant adjournments, and to allow
amendments to any pleadings and to the summons, as the Court, 7-309,6-42,318
upon such trial, upon the same terms and with the like effect.
They shall have the same power to preserve order and to punish M?ann "iiss.)
all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance
of witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them as
for contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or tes
tify, as is possessed by the Court. They must state the facts
found and the conclusions of law separately; and their decision
must be given, and may lie excepted to and reviewed in like man
ner, and with like effect in all respects as in cases of appeal under
Section two hundred and ninety-two; and they may, in like man
ner, settle a case or exceptions. The report of the referees upon
the whole issue shall stand as a decision of the Court, and judg
ment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action
had been tried by the Court. When the reference is to report
the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
When the case shall have been heard and decided upon the
report of the referee and. exceptions, the decision may be reviewed,
on appeal to the Supreme Court.

Sec. 297. In all cases of reference, the parties to whom issues referees—how
are formed in the action (except when the defendant is an infant
or an absentee) may agree in writing upon a person or persons> who may be
not exceeding three, and a reference shall be ordered to him orreeree'
them, and to no other person or persons. And if such parties do Report,
not agree, the Court shall appoint one or more referees, not more
than three, who shall be free from exception. And no person
shall be appointed referee to whom all parties in the action shall
object, except in actions for divorce. And no Judge or Justice
of any Court shall sit as referee in any action pending in the
Court of which he is Judge or Justice, and not already referredi
unless the parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or referees
shall make and deliver a report within sixty days from the time
the action shall be finally submitted; and in default thereof, and
before the report is delivered, either party may serve notice upon
the opposite party that he elects to end the reference ; and there
upon the action shall proceed as though no reference had been
ordered, and the referees shall not in such case be entitled to
any fees.
the code as it is.
Act to Repeal Sections 294, 295, 296, 297 and 436 of the Code
of Procedure, and to Establish the Office of Master in
their Stead.
March 22, 1878.

Sec. 1. That Sections two hundred and ninety-four, two hundred
and ninety-five, two hundred and ninety-six, two hundred and nine
ty-seven and four hundred and thirty-six of the said Code of Proce
dure, relating to trial by Referees, shall no longer have any force
or operation within the County of Charleston.
Two
Masters
byJ the Governor,
to be appointed 
Sec. 2. That two Masters shall be appointed
11
for
Charleston
in
and
for
the
County
of
Charleston,
who
shall
hold their offices
County. respectively during the term of four years, and also, until a suc
cessor in office shall have been duly appointed by the Governor
for the time being, and shall have received his commission and
entered upon the duties of his office; and all vacancies in said
office, which may oocur, shall be filled by the appointment of the
Governor, for the time being, to continue in force for four years,
in the same manner as the first appointment.
Masters to 
Sec. .'!. The said Masters, shall, each, before entering upon the
execute bond.
7
duties of their office, execute a bond as heretofore provided by
the Act of the General Assembly, passed on the eighteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and forty, entitled " An Act to ascertain and define the powers,
duties and liabilities of Masters, Commissioners and Registers in
Amount of Equity, &c," that is to say: each bond in the penal sum of thirty
thousand dollars, and with such sureties, and shall be in such
form, and shall be examined, approved and deposited, as is pro
vided by the said Act of the General Assembly.
Masters to 
Sec. 4. The said Masters shall, before entering upon the duties
take oath
of the office, take and subscribe the oath now required by law, to
be taken and subscribed by the Circuit Judges of the State, in the
manner and form now prescribed by law for the said Judges.
Powers of 
Sec. 5. The said Masters shall each possess the powers, perform
the duties, and be subject to the liabilities prescribed in and by the
Act of the General Assembly hereinbefore mentioned, in relation
to powers, duties and liabilities of Masters and Commissioners in
Equity, passed on the Eighteenth day of December, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty, so far and to the
same extent as the said Act relates to Masters and Commissioners in Equity, and so far as the saine is not inconsistent with other
portions of the Code of Procedure not mentioned in the second
Section of this Act. And the said Masters shall attend the sit- „ To ""end sit
tings of Courts.
tings of the Court of Common Pleas on the hearing of any cause
in which they may have acted officially, make all sales ordered by
the said Court in granting equitable relief, and execute all proper
conveyances, and generally shall execute and perform the orders
of the said Court upon references made to them, or either of them •
conformably to the practice of the said Court, or to the practice
of the Courts of Equity, in this State, before the said Courts were
abolished, and so far as the same is not inconsistent with the Code
of Procedure as amended by this Act: Provided, That no Master
shall practice before any of the Circuit Courts of this State, or in
the Supreme Court, nor shall he have a partner in the practice
of law.

Sec. 6. The said Masters shall charge and receive, for the dis
charge of the various duties of their offices, the fees which were
established by law at the date of the said Act of Assembly, passed
as aforesaid, on the 18th of December, 1840.

Sec. 7. That the terms of this Act shall also apply to the Coun- i7Stat., 104.
ties of Orangeburg and Richland, Edgefield and Oconee: Provided,. 17 Stat., 223.
That there shall be one Master for the said Counties, instead of
two Masters, and that the official bond of the Masters of the said
Counties shall be in the sum of ten thousand dollars.
An Act to Make the Judge of Probate Eligible to the Office
of Master, Providing for a Master for Each of the Counties
of Sumter, Newberry, Kershaw, Greenville, Marion, Lau
rens and Anderson, and Making Provision for Cases now in
the Hands of Referees.
December 24, 1878.
1. That there shall be appointed by the Governor, in and for the
Counties of Sumter, Newberry, Anderson, Kershaw, Greenville,
Marion and Laurens, one Master, whose official bond shall be eight
thousand dollars, and who shall, in all other respects, hold his
office, have the same rights and duties, and receive the same com
pensation as provided for by an Act entitled " An Act to repeal
the two hundred and ninety-fourth, two hundred and ninety-fifth, two hundred and ninety-sixth and four hundred and thirty-sixth
Sections of the Code of Procedure" within the Counties herein
mentioned, so as to abolish the use of Referees in said Counties,
and to establish, in their stead, the office of Master; and that
the terms of said Act, except as herein provided, shall apply to
the County of Sumter.
2. That this Act shall not affect cases under reference to
Referees at the date of its passage, and that the Act herein
amended be further so amended, that it shall not apply to cases
which, at the date of its passage, were under reference to Referees,
appointed by the Courts of Common Pleas, but that as to such
causes, the said Referees shall have authority to discharge their
functions under such orders, and to make final reports in said
causes.
iteeflgibie10 3' Tnat ^e Judge o1 Probate in any County shall not be ineli
gible to the office of Master, provided for in this Act.
4. All Acts, or parts of Acts, inconsistent with this Act, are
hereby repealed.

Sec. 298. 1. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
any of the par- of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several dedefendant sraf- fendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties
firmative relief.
10-181, 465.
on eacn S1de> as between themselves.
2. And it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled.
3. In an action against several defendants, the Court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving
the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judg
ment may be proper.
4. The Court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in favor Complaint may
t j? i
. case ofP unreasonable
^ i neglect
^
,i neglect
be dismissed
for
ofj. one or more defendants,
in
on the
to prospart of the plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or ec"te act,onto proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.
In action brought by or against a married woman, judgment may
be given against her as well for costs as for damages, or both for
such costs and for such damages, in the same manner as against
other persons, to be levied and collected of her separate estate, and
not otherwise.

Sec. 299. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no The relief to
answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his piai?"iflrded t0
complaint; but in any other case the Court may grant him any
relief consistent with the case made by the complaint and embraced
within the issue.

Sec. 300. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may
o! dam.
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of Su^e^arere«
damages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same coverable,
cause of action.

Sec. 301. Tn an action to recover the possession of personal judgment in
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or ery'o" 'personal
for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof, in case a ProPerty- •
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the robbins. Bodproperty have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant JJiijtter* fms]
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a
return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot
be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

Sec. 302. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact found, or judgment—
upon confession, or upon failure to answer, or upon report of how dlrecte(1referees (except where the Clerk is authorized to enter the same, by
the first sub-division of Section two hundred and sixty-nine, and
by Section four hundred and one), shall be entered upon the direc
tion of a Judge, subject to review on appeal in the Supreme Court.

Sec. 303. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court keepleaCjeud g°
a book for the entry of judgment, to be called the judgment-book. ^<i^)tBB°°k' judgment to 
Sec. 304. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book,
be entered in
^e^ Judgment and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination
3-551, 10-296. of the action.
Judgment-roil. 
Sec. 305. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judglo-isi, 296.
ment-roll, the Clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment-roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the
summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service, and
that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of
the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings or copies thereof,
and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of
the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in any
way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
Transcript of A transcript of a final judgment, directing, in whole or in part,
ln<l7iny "o t h e r the payment of money, may be docketed with the Clerk of the
conn y,e ecto . Qourt Q£ Qommon Pieas in any other County, and, when so docket
ed, shall have the same force and effect as a judgment of that
Court.

Sec. 306. Writs of execution for the enforcement of "judgments Writs of execution to be enas now used are modified in conformity to this title, and the party forced.
in whose favor judgment has been heretofore, or shall hereafter be, n-79.
given, and in case of his death, his personal representatives duly Lawrence r.
Gambling.
appointed, may, at any time within five years after the entry ol (Mes.)
judgment, proceed to enforce the same, as prescribed by this title.

Sec. 307. After the lapse
five years
1 of five Jyears from the entryJ of diudg° toAfter
be issued
only
ment,
leave of
. ' an execution can be issued onlyJ byJ leave of the Court,' upon
r by
Court—Leave,
motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be how obtained .
absent or non-resident, or cannot be found to make such service, in
which case such service may be made by publication, or in such
other manner as the Court shall direct. Such leave shall not be
given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other sat
isfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied and due. But the leave shall not be necessary when
execution has been issued on the judgment within the five years,
and returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
When judgment shall have been rendered in a Court of a Trial
Justice, or other inferior Court in a city, and docketed in the office
of the Clerk of the County, the application for leave to issue execu
tion must be to the County Court of the County where the judg
ment was rendered.

Sec. 308. Where a "judgment
requires
the payment
of money,
J ' or ,nowJudgment—
enforced.
the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced
in those respects by execution, as provided in this title. Where it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given,
or the person or officer who is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may
be punished by the Court as for a contempt.
The different 
Sec. 309. There shall be three kinds of execution: One against
kinds of execu°
Honthe property of the judgment debtor; another against his person;
5-139, 6-64.
and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same.
They shall be deemed the process of the Court.
Execution
to
the rproperty
be issued, to 
Sec. 310. When the execution is against
a
r J of the
what Counties, judgment debtor, it may be issued to the Sheriff of any County
where judgment is docketed. When it requires the delivery of
real or personal property, it must be issued to the Sheriff of the
County where the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Ex
ecutions may be issued at the same time to different Counties.
Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold, in the County
where it lies, by the Sheriff of the County; and, thereupon, the
Sheriff must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which convey
ance shall be effectual to pass the rights and interests of the parties
adjudged to be sold; Provided, however, That whenever real estate
comprising one tract, or two or more contiguous tracts of land, ad
judged to be sold by the order of any Court, is situated in two or
more Counties, the Court may, in its order of sale, direct the said
real estate to be sold in one or more tracts, without reference to
County lines, when, in the judgment of the Court, such order would
be to the best interests of all concerned ; such sale to be made at the
court house of the County thereof wherein lies the greater part of
each tract to be sold.
Execution
to
execution mayJ issue against
a married woman, and it shall
issue against a
°
married
woman,
direct
the
levy
and
collection
of
the
amount of the judgment
against
15 Stat., 1!»4.
J
J °
°
lfi stat., 558. her from her separate property, and not otherwise.
NOTE.—By Act February 2, 1878, (16 Stat., 33C) the following was enacted:
"All sales of real or personal property under the orders of the Probate Court
shall be made by the Judge of Probate ; and all sales under the order of the
Court, where title is to be made by the Clerk of the Circuit Court, such sales
shall be made by the Clerk ; and all other judicial sales shall be made by the
Sheriffs, as now provided by law: Provided, Nothing herein contained shall
affect the sales under executions issued out of the Courts of Trial Justices or
those to be made by executors or administrators.

Sec. 311. If the action he one in which the defendant might have Execution to
Tissue against
been arrested, as provided in Section two hundred and two and the person, in
Section two hundred and four, an execution against the person of w
8
the judgment debtor may be issued to any County within the
jurisdiction of the Court, after the return of an execution against
his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. But no execution
shall issue against the person of a judgment debtor, unless an order
of arrest has been served, as in this Act provided, or unless the
complaint contains a statement of facts showing one or more of the
causes of arrest required by Section two hundred and two.
Sec 312. The execution must be directed to the Sheriff, or Form of the
Coroner, when the Sheriff is a party or interested, attested by the
Clerk, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must
intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the County
where the judgment-roll or transcript is filed, the names of the
parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the
amount actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the
County to which the execution is issued, and shall require the
officer, substantially, as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal
property of such debtor; and if sufficient personal property cannot
be found, out of the real property belonging to him.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy the
judgment out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor and commit him to the
jail of the County until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged
according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery or the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and
may at the same time require the officer to satisfy any costs,
damages, or rents or profits recovered by the same judgment, out
of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered,
and the value of the property for which the judgment was recov
ered, to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had,
and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of the real property belonging to him, and shall in that respect be deemed
an execution against property.
Final
ment
a lienjudgon 
Sec. 313. Final .judgments,
°
' hereafter entered in anyJ Court of
real
estate
for
record,
in
this
State,
shall
constitute
a lien upon
ten years.
r the real estate
of the judgment debtor in the County where the same are entered,
for a period of ten years from the date of entry of such judgments;
Manner of and in cases where judgments have been obtained since the first
creating where
w i
t>»
i.
judgment has day of March, A. D. 1870, a like hen may be obtained by the
been obtained
since March i, service of a summons upon the judgment debtor, or, if he be dead,
1870.
upon his heirs, executors or administrators, to show cause,' if any
is stat., 498. he or they may have, why said judgment should not be and
become a lien in accordance with the provisions of this Act; and
if no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, such judgment
shall be and become a lien on all the real property of the judgment
debtor, in the County where entered, for ten years from the date
of the filing of such summons, with proof of service thereof, in the
office of the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas of the County
toJOb^i'made«Ia wuere sucn judgments have been entered; but no judgment shall
lien outside
of constitute a lien on any
judgment debtor outside
County
where
J rproperty
r J of the Jo
entered.
of the County where the same is entered, unless a transcript
thereof is lodged in the office of the Clerk of the Court of Common
Pleas of the County where the property of the judgment debtor
may be situate; and from the date of the filing of such transcript
it shall have the same force and effect as if the judgment had been
originally entered in the County in which said transcript is filed:
Lien, if judg- Provided, however, When any judgment has been obtained and
ment obtained
since March i, execution issued since the first day of March, A. D. 18/0, and the
1870 — when to
date.
said judgment or execution has now a hen by reason of a levy in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Procedure, then the
lien of such judgment or execution shall date from the day upon
Howandwhen which it became a lien under the said Code of Procedure: Prooe^revived after vided, further, That the plaintiff in such judgment may, at any
active 'energy/ time in three years after its active energy has expired, renew the
judgment, with like liens as in the original, for a like period, by
service of a summons on the debtor, as provided by law, requiring
.
him
to show cause, if any
These provisJ he can, at the next term of the Court
ions not to af- for his County, why such judgment should not be revived ; and if
f c c t property
exempt from no good cause be shown to the contrary, then it shall be decreed
attachment,
levy and sale that such judgment is revived according to the force, form and
under the Con.
stitution.
effect of the former recovery: Provided, further, That this Section
shall not be so construed as to make final judgments in any case a
lien on the real property of the judgment debtor exempt from
attachment, levy and sale under the Constitution.

Sec. 314. Stricken out. (15 Stat., 499.)

Sec. 315. Stricken out. (15 Stat., 4 9 9.)
3-547.

Sec. 31(i. Execution may issue upon any judgment or decree Execution may
. , issue upon judgwithm three years from the entry thereof without any revival oiment or decree
the same; when levied on personal property, they shall be a lien years'1
rce
on such property for the period of four months from the date of e(m^n property
such levy; and such levy may be renewed from time to time with for four months.
How to be relike effect, shall be made returnable in the words according to law, newed.
and shall have active energy from the time they shall first be lodged actfr"energy°f
until the regular term of the Court from which they were sued 5-83, 9-293.
which shall follow next after the full completion of five years from
its lodgment, and may be renewed at any time during the con
tinuance of its active energy without costs; but after the expiration
of its active energy as aforesaid, the same may be renewed by the How to be re. oiP a summons on the
.1 judgment
. i
. debtor,
., , ,
i . -heirs
newed
service
his
executors
pirationafter
of exacor administrators, to show cause, if any they may have, why the lvetnerSJsame shall not be renewed; and if no sufficient cause be shown, the
same may be renewed, and so from period to period, as often as the
same may be found necessary, and whenever renewed shall be
subject to the rules herein provided. The Sheriff, Coroner, or Sheriff and
other officer, with whom final process as aforesaid shall be lodged, when and to
1
whom to make
shall, at each regular term of the Court from which the said return of act°
. ings and doings
execution or process was sued out, during the continuance of its upon final pro
active energy, until full execution thereof be returned, make a
return to the office of the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas of
his actings and doings thereunder. If he shall have fully executed,
he shall return the process with the manner of its execution; if he
shall have partially executed, he shall return, on oath, to the Clerk,
a statement in writing, under his hand, of such partial execution,
with the reason of his failure as to the remainder: .if he shall have
wholly failed to make execution, he shall return, on oath, a state
ment in writing, under his hand, of his failure, with the reasons;
and in any event, on the first day of the term at which the active
energy of the process shall cease as herein provided, be shall
return the process, if the same has not been before returned as
fully executed, and the return of the. officer made as aforesaid
shall, for all purposes, have the same legal effect as if the said process had been made returnable to the term succeeding its first
lodgment, and renewed after each subsequent regular term. For
Penalty
for failure or neglect to make anyJ of the returns above mentioned, or
failure
to make
returns a s for anyJ false returns, the Sheriff, or other officer, as aforesaid,
above.
shall be subject to rule, attachment, action, penalty, and all other
consequences provided by law for neglect of duty by executive or
judicial officers.
Existing
laws
byJ the Legislature,
not inconsistent SeC 317 Until otherwise provided
r
&
1 the
tin» to^execu ex'sting provisions of law, not supplied by, or in conflict with, this
Hon, continued chapter, relating to executions and their incidents, the property
until further
.
.
provision
be liable to sale or execution,
the sale thereof, the rpowers and rights
made.
of officers, their duties thereon, and the proceedings to enforce
those duties, and the liability of their sureties, shall apply to the
executions prescribed by this chapter.

Sec. 318. When an execution against property of the judgment
perty7
Pr° debtor, or any one of the several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the Sheriff of the County where he resides, or has a Examination
of the judgment
place of business, or if he do not reside in the State, to the Sheriff debtor, &c.
of the County where a judgment-roll or a transcript of a Justice's
judgment for twenty-five dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, is
filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment
creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an
order from a Judge of the Circuit Court, requiring such judgment
debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such
Judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the
County to which the execution was issued. '2. After the issuing
of an execution against property, and upon proof by affidavit, of
a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge
thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly
refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of a judgment, such
Court or Judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor
to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the
same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the appli
cation of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satis
faction of the judgment as are provided upon the return of an
execution. 3. On an examination under this Section, either party
may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor
may be examined in the same manner as a witness. 4. Instead
of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the
Judge may, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfac
tion, that there is danger of the debtor's leaving the State, or
concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment,
issue a warrant, requiring the Sheriff of any County where such
debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such Judge.
Upon being brought before the Judge, he may be examined on
oath, and if it then appears that there is danger of the debtor's
leaving the State, and that he-has property which he has unjustly
refused to apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an under
taking, with one or more sureties, that he will, from time to time,
attend before the Judge as he shall direct, and that he will not,
during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any portion
of his property not exempt from execution. In default of enter
ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison by
warrant of the Judge, as for contempt. 5. No person shall, on
examination, pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the ground that his examination will tend to
convict him of the commission of a fraud; but his answer shall
not be used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding
or prosecution. Nor shall he be excused from answering any
question, on the ground that he has, before the examination, exe
cuted any conveyance, assignment or transfer, of his property for
any purpose, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.
Any debtor 
Sec. 3 19. After the issuing of execution against property, any
may pay execution against his person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the bherm
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary
to satisfy the execution; and the Sheriff's receipt shall be a suffi
cient discharge for the amount so paid.
Examination 
Sec. 320. After the issuing or return of an execution against
of debtors of
the judgment property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
debtor, or of .
.
those having in tne same judgment, and upon an amdavit that any person or
Fongmg'to the corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
said debtor.
Jointdebtors to nim ln an amount exceeding ten dollars, the Judge may, by an
order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or mem
ber thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and answer
concerning the same. The Judge may also, in his discretion,
require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to the
action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this Section, and in Section three
hundred and eighteen, may be taken upon the return of an execu
tion unsatisfied, issued upon a judgment recovered in an action
against joint debtors, in which some of the defendants have not
been served with the summons by which said action was com
menced, so far as relates to the joint property of such debtors;
and all actions by creditors to obtain satisfaction of judgments
out of the property of joint debtors are maintainable in the like"
manner and to the like effect. These provisions shall apply to all
proceedings and actions now pending, and not actually terminated
by any final judgment or decree.
Witnesses 
Sec. 321. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on
required to testify.
any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon
the trial of an issue.
Compelling Sec 322. The party or witness may be required to attend
''"'es^oattend. before the Judge, or before a referee appointed by the Court or
Judge; if before a referee, the examination shall be taken by the referee, and certified to the Judge. All examinations and answers
before a Judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath,
except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on
the oath of an officer thereof.

Sec. 323. The Judge may order any property of the judgment ^Wha^ prodebtor, not exempt
be
r from execution, in the hands either of himself ordered
applied toto the
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied execntion.
towards the satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earnings
of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty
days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is
made to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly
or partly by his labor.

Sec. 324. The Judge
a receiver of appoint
Judge
may
° mayJ also,1 byJ order,7 appoint
rr
receiver
the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and with J,IJn^ferI>™j lb0'{
the like authority, as if the appointment was made by the Court, §™pefe"y- <)r"
according to Section two hundred and sixty-seven. But before
the appointment of such receiver, the Judge shall ascertain, if
practicable, by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether any
other supplementary proceedings are pending against the judgment
debtor, and if such proceedings are so pending, the plaintiff
therein shall have notice to appear before him, and shall likewise
have notice of all subsequent proceedings in relation to said
receivership. No more than one receiver of the property of a
judgment debtor shall be appointed. The Judge may also, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any interference
therewith.
Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appointment
of a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, the same
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court of Common
Fleas of the County where the judgment roll in the action, or
transcript from Trial Justice's judgment, upon which the proceed
ings are taken, is filed; and the said Clerk shall record the order
in a book to be kept for that purpose in his office, to be called
'• Book of Orders Appointing Receivers of Judgment Debtors,"
and shall note the time of the filing of said order therein. A
certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver
named therein, and he shall be vested with the property and
effects of the judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recording of the order as aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment
debtor shall be subject to the direction and control of the Court
in which the judgment was obtained, or docketed, upon which the
proceedings are founded.
But before he shall be vested with any real property of such
judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall also be filed
and recorded in the office of the Register of Mesne Conveyances
of the County in which any real estate of such judgment debtor,
sought to be affected by such order, is situated, and also in the
office of the Register of Mesne Conveyances of the County in
which such judgment debtor resides.
Proceedings 
Sec. 325. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to
upon claim of
another party or have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
property, or on
denial of indebi- an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such
edncss to judg
ment debtor, interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such
person or corporation by the receiver; but the Judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or
interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to
commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and
execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the
Judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he shall
direct.
Reference by Skc. 326. The Judge may, in his discretion, order a reference
''
to a referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, tc
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion, ap
point such referee in the first order, or at any time.
costs of pro- 
Sec. 327. The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or tc
ceeding
• , i i
any party so examined, whether a party to the action or not, wit
nesses fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not
exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.
of Dorder d" how Sea
^
Person' Part;y or witness, disobey an order of
punished.
the Judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness,
may be punished by the Judge as for a contempt. And in all
cases of commitment under this chapter, the person committed
may, in case of inability to perform the act required, or to endure
the imprisonment, be discharged from imprisonment by the Court
or Judge committing him, or the Court in which the judgment
was rendered, on such terms as may be just.
(Sec.
334.)
herein mentioned, shall be authorized to receive in the several Nemmier v.
Stewart. (Mss.)
cases herein specified shall be as follows:
2. Plaintiffs' attorneys' costs: For rule on Sheriff or other offi- Plaintiffs' atcersof the Court, three dollars; for issuing summons, four dollars; '"iwy 20°188017 Stat 303
for issuing complaint, four dollars; for entering up judgment and
issuing execution, three dollars; where special bail is required one dollar; for every subpcena, writ and ticket, one dollar; for
every renewal of execution, one dollar; for every demurrer or
joinder in demurrer, three dollars; for every motion for a new
trial when granted, five dollars; for every trial of the cause in the
circuit, five dollars; for every commission to examine witnesses or
filing cross interrogations, or for issuing writ of partition, eight
dollars; proceedings before trial on appeal from Trial Justice
Court, three dollars; for trial of the cause, five dollars; when the
amount sued for is under twenty dollars only, two dollars and fifty
cents for trial; from all proceedings in dower, from beginning to
end, twenty dollars; for cases in attachment, in addition to com
mon costs, ten dollars; for the jury in each case tried, one dollar;
for examination of a party or witness before trial, three dollars;
for issuing summons and complaint on the equity side of the Court
and necessary exhibits, twenty dollars; if for the partition of real
estate valued at one thousand dollars or less, only ten dollars to be
charged for the summons, complaint and exhibits; briefs for Cir
cuit Judge, five dollars; special matter and argument on the cir
cuit, five dollars; for the appointment of a guardian or guardian
ad litem for an infant, ten dollars; one attorney representing all
the infants in a cause to charge only ten dollars for the appoint
ment of a guardian ad litem for them; for exceptions to Clerk's or
referee's report, five dollars; for each day attending before Clerk
or referee on reference, five dollars; for making and serving a case
or cases containing exceptions, ten dollars; for procuring an order
of injunction, five dollars; on appeal to the Supreme Court, fifteen
dollars; on argument in Supreme Court, twenty dollars.
Defendants'
of appearattorneys'
costs. 3. Defendants' attorneys'
J ' costs: For giving notice
.
ance when necessary, four dollars; for answer or demurrer, four
dollars; for entering up judgment and issuing execution, three
dollars; for trial of the cause on the circuit, five dollars; to the
jury, one dollar; for motion for new trial, when granted, five dol
lars; for every commission to examine witnesses or filing crossinterrogations, eight dollars; for all proceedings before trial on
appeal from Trial Justice Court, three dollars; for trial of the
cause, five dollars; when the amount sued for is under twenty
dollars, only two dollars and fifty cents to be charged for trial;
for subpcena writ and ticket, one dollar; for answer on the equity
side of the Court and necessary exhibits, twenty dollars; briefs
for Circuit Judge, five dollars; special matter and argument on circuit, five dollars; each day's attendance on reference before
Clerk or referee, five dollars; exceptions to Clerk's or referee's
report, five dollars; for making and serving a case or cases con
taining exceptions, ten dollars; for procuring an order for injunc
tion, five dollars; on appeal to Supreme Court, fifteen dollars; on
argument in Supreme Court, twenty dollars.
4. Clerks of the Courts of Common Fleas and General Sessions:
Clerks of
Courts' costs.
For signing and sealing summons, fifty cents; for filing complaint,
fifty cents; for filing each answer, demurrer or joinder in demur
rer, twenty-five cents; for signing and sealing subpcena writ, fifty
cents; for docketing a cause, one charge only at each term, fifteen
cents; for attending the trial of a cause, whether civil or criminal,
and swearing witnesses, fifty cents; for entering verdict or other
order for final judgment on minutes of the Court, twenty-five cents;
for making assessment on reference; twenty-five cents; for special
order for bail, fifty cents; for filing and entering on the journal
every rule or order for arbitration, twenty-five cents; for filing
affidavits for continuance when ordered by the Judge, twenty-five
cents; for signing, entering and enrolling judgment, seventy-five
cents; for signing and sealing first execution, fifty cents; for
signing and sealing each renewal of execution, twenty-five cents;
for entering satisfaction on judgment, twenty-five cents; for taking
security for costs, entering order therefor, if made, fifty cents; for
recording judgments, one dollar and fifty cents; for recording
decrees of foreclosure, partition and reports, per copy sheets of
ninety words, nine cents; for administering oath other than on
trial of cause, proof of service on Sheriff's return, oath to jurors or
by order of Court, fifteen cents; for taking and filing bonds in
attachments, trover or in other cases, one dollar; for signing and
sealing commission to examine witnesses, seventy-five cents; ex
emplification of proceeding or other office copy, per copy sheet of
ninety words, nine cents; recording plat of land under order of the
Court or copying the same, fifty cents; rule of survey, fifty cents;
each official certificate under seal of Court not herein specified, fifty
cents; issuing writ of attachment for contempt or other special
writ, one dollar; signing and sealing writ of hah. fac. possessionem,
fifty cents; receiving and paying over money officially, two per
cent, if under three hundred dollars; if over that sum, two per
cent, for the first three hundred dollars, and one per cent, for the
balance; every appeal from Trial Justice, all services inclusive, except for entering up judgment and issuing execution therein, one
dollar; on bill nol. pros, before given out, one dollar; on bill
thrown out by grand jury, or found and nol. pros., abated, discon
tinued or struck off, two dollars; on bill found and verdict by
petit jury, three dollars; all orders for bastardy and taking recog
nizance, one dollar; issuing bench warrant, writ of habeas corpus,
scire facias and each execution in sessions, one dollar and fifty cents;
for issuing warrants, taking recognizance or other services in the
sessions as Trial Justice ex officio, same fees as allowed that officer;
for each writ of venire facias, including all services incident to
summoning juries, two dollars; for preparing and issuing certifi
cates for grand and petit jurors and Constables, and furnishing
returns to County Commissioners for each term of the Court of
Common Pleas and General Sessions, five dollars; for filing
petition and signing writ de lunatico inquirendo, one dollar; for
furnishing advertisments in cases of escheat, exclusive of printer's
bill, one dollar; for recording whole proceedings therein, two
dollars; for license to an attorney, all services included, five
dollars; for filing and entering notice of alien's intention to become
a citizen, one dollar; for filing and recording report of alien, one
dollar; for administering oath of intention, one dollar; for filing
and entering application to become a citizen and administering
oath, two dollars; for giving certificate (over seal of office) of
citizenship, one dollar; for taking renunciation of dower or inherit
ance, two dollars; for every search for a paper found, (not to be
charged to the parties or attorneys when for papers) in a case
pending, fifteen cents; for every search necessary for a certificate
that a paper is not to be found in office, twenty-five cents; for
swearing a Trial Justice or Constable in office, taking Constables'
bonds and giving certificates thereof, one dollar; for every probate
in writing, twenty-five cents; for signing and sealing dedimus
poteslatem, one dollar; for official certificate to exemplification of
record, one dollar; for official certificates without the seal, twentyfive cents; each day engaged in holding reference, one dollar;
making up and returning report, but no more than one report in
each case, three dollars; deed of conveyance or mortgage, two
dollars; for official record of estray and filing papers, one dollar;
for recording and copying deeds or other papers, per copy sheets
of ninety words, nine cents; for entering satisfaction on mortgage,
twenty-five cents; for recording or copying plats of, not more than six corners, one dollar; and for every corner over six, ten cents;
for granting charter of incorporation, two dollars; for granting
charter to church, one dollar.
5. Sheriff's costs: For entering every writ, summons, process,
Sheriffs'
COSbfj .
execution or other paper in writ or execution book and making
endorsements thereon, twenty-five cents; for serving every writ,
summons, notice or rule, not otherwise herein specified, besides
mileage, one dollar; mileage from court house to defendant's or
witness' residence or place where found, going, but not returning,
per mile, five cents; commitment and release of prisoner, each fifty
cents; issuing each venire for grand jury, fifteen dollars; serving
each venire for petit jurors, twenty-five dollars; serving subpcena
writ and mileage on each ticket, fifty cents; serving bench or
other warrants, scire facias from the Court of Sessions, or writ of
attachments for contempt, besides mileage, one dollar and fifty
cents; search for person or goods not found and return on the
execution of non est inventus or nulla bona, fifty cents; each execu
tion returned to Clerk's office on schedule, twenty-five cents; levy
ing executions or attachments, besides mileage, one dollar; dieting
prisoners in jail, per day, thirty-five cents; executing convict, in
cluding all charges for burying and other expenses, twenty dollars;
bringing up prisoner under habeas corpus, to be paid by prisoner
if able (if not, by the County), besides mileage and necessary
expenses, one dollar; conveying prisoner from one place to
another, for every mile going and returning, besides all necessary
expenses, six cents; commissions on all moneys collected by him,
if under three hundred dollars, two per cent., if over that sum
two per cent, for the first three hundred dollars and one per cent,
for the balance, and one-half of one per cent, on all sums paid to
plaintiff as agent or attorney on execution lodged with the Sheriff;
execution lodged to bind with order not to levy, fifty cents; for
advertising defendant's property, in addition to printer's bill, one
dollar; drawing and executing a deed of conveyance or taking
mortgage, two dollars; (drawing and executing each bill of sale
when required by purchaser, two dollars.) No Sheriff shall
Sheriffs'
charge more than one bill of sale for property bought at the same
sale by the same party; for executing a writ of habere facias pos
sessionem, besides mileage, one dollar; transferring money, bonds
or other securities for money to party, one-half of one per cent. ;
for selling land under decree of Court, in lieu of commissions and all other charges, except for advertising, two dollars; for serving
notice on each set of managers of election, besides mileage, one
dollar; summoning freeholders to try suggestions of fraud, five
dollars; for every fine paid before levy, fifty cents; for every fine
paid after levy and before sale, one dollar.
£™bateJndgci' 6. Probate Judges: For a citation, fifty cents; for qualifying
executor, administrator or guardian, issuing letters to either and
recording such letters, two dollars and fifty cents; for taking bond
from administrator or guardian and recording same, one dollar; for
issuing warrant of appraisement and oath, fifty cents; for proving
a will in common form and filing and certifying the same, one
dollar: for proving a will in solemn form and filing and certifying
the same, five dollars; for recording will, probate and certificate,
per copy sheet of ninety words, nine cents; for filing and entering
renunciation of executor, fifty cents; for dedimws potestatem to
prove will or qualify as executor, one dollar; for recording each
inventory and appraisement of account of sales, each figure count
ing for a word, per copy sheet of ninety words, nine cents; for re
ceiving, examining and filing the annual or final accounts of each
administrator, executor or guardian, for first year, three dollars;
for each succeeding year, one dollar; for recording said accounts,
per copy sheet df ninety words, nine cents; for hearing and filing
petition for sale of per.-onal estate and order, one dollar; for
hearing and filing petition for guardianship and appointment of
guardian or guardian ad litem, one dollar; for entering a caveat
or withdrawing the same, fifty cents; for hearing every litigated
case, three dollars for each day engaged, not to exceed twelve dol
lars in any one case; for swearing and examining each witness,
fifteen cents; for certifying copy of any paper on file in his office,
fifty cents; for copying such paper, per copy sheet of ninety
words, nine cents; for every rule issued against defaulting witness
or party failing to account, two dollars; for every attachment
issued on the return of such rule, one dollar; for furnishing and
certifying copy of proceedings in case of appeal, three dollars; for
every search, fifteen cents; for every certificate not hereinbefore
specified, twenty-five cents; for hearing petition to sell real estate
in aid of assets and granting order therefor, two dollars; for tak
ing administrator's or executor's bond, in each case, one dollar;
for final discharge of executor, administrator or guardian, two
dollars; for proceedings in dower, inclusive of all charges, where the amount is under two hundred dollars, five dollars; when over
that amount, ten dollars; for proceedings in lunacy, ten dollars:
Provided, where proceedings in lunacy are only had by certificate
of physicians, three dollars; for proceedings and services setting
off homestead, including titles, five dollars: Provided, That in case
the amount of estate in the Probate Court does not exceed two
hundred and fifty dollars, the costs to be taxed on the case shall
not exceed one-half of the amount above allowed. Receiving and
paying over money officially, two per cent., if under three hun
dred dollars; if over that sum, two per cent, for the first three
hundred dollars and one per cent, for the balance.
7. Trial Justices: Oath and warrant in any criminal case, forty Trial Justices
, costs,
cents; each recognizance, forty cents; each commitment and
release, twenty cents; administering and certifying oath in writing,
other than above, thirty cents; issuing writ of habeas corpus, to the
two Trial Justices jointly, one dollar and fifty cents; issuing sum
mons and copy for defendant in civil cases, thirty-five cents; issu
ing summons for witnesses in any civil case, twenty cents; taking
examination of witnesses in writing in any case, twenty-five cents;
for giving judgment in case not defended, twenty cents; for issu
ing execution or renewal, twenty-five cents; report of case and
taking bond to appeal, sixty cents; issuing attachment returnable
to Court or to Trial Justice, including all notices, one dollar; filing
return of garnishee and order thereon, fifteen cents; proceeding
on behalf of landlord or lessor against tenant or lessee, to the
two Trial Justices, five dollars; proceedings on certifying inden
ture of apprentice or assignment, one dollar; for the trial of any
criminal case, inclusive of all costs, except for issuing papers, one
dollar; for every preliminary examination of any criminal case,
inclusive of all costs, except for issuing papers, one dollar; for
every preliminary examination of any criminal case, fifty cents;
proceedings on Coroner's inquest as prescribed by law, eight dol
lars and fifty cents; proceeding on estray of horse or mule, fifty
cents; proceeding on all other estrays, each fifteen cents; taking
and certifying renunciation of dower or inheritance, two dollars;
granting order for special bail, fifty cents; for qualifying each ap
praiser in setting off homestead, besides five cents per mile for all
travel actually necessary, twenty-five cents; issuing summons for
jurors in a criminal case, twenty-one cents.
8. Constables: Summoning witness in a civil case, twenty cents;
Constables'
for summoning freeholders to try question before Trial Justices between landlord and tenant, to be paid by unsuccessful party,
three dollars; for summoning Coroner's jury and witnesses, to be
paid by the County, two dollars; for serving a summons, rule or
notice by a Trial Justice in a civil case, no mileage to be allowed,
fifty cents; for serving attachment on persons absconding or about
to abscond, and making inventory and return, besides commissions
of five per cent, on sale of effects, but no mileage, one dollar; for
selling estray, five per cent, on the proceeds; for levying execution, advertising sale and paying over proceeds, besides com
missions at five per cent, on amount to be collected, but no mile
age, to be paid by the defendant in execution, twenty cents; for
every day in search for stolen goods, to be paid by party com
plaining, one dollar; for serving warrant in any criminal case,
besides five cents a mile for each mile necessarily traveled, one
dollar; for conveying prisoners to County jail, five cents per mile,
going and returning: Provided, That the Constable be reimbursed
for necessary ferriage.
jnryCommis- 9. Jury Commissioners: Three dollars per day for every day's
sioncrs' costs
'
actual service in performing his duties, such number of days not
to exceed the number of days the Court for the County shall be
in session, together with five days to complete the list and draw
the juries, and also five cents per mile for all necessary travel,
going and returning.
Sections re- 10. That Sections 329, 330, 331, 332, 333, 334 and 335, of
pealed.
Isimmons v- Title X,1 Part II,' of the Code of Procedure, in reference to
Stewart. (Mss.) costs of plaintiffs and defendants, be, and the same are hereby,
repealed.
Costs of No- 11. Notaries Public: For taking deposition and swearing wittaries Public.
,
ness, per copy sheet, twenty-five cents; for every protest, two
March 22, 1878. dollars; for duplicate of deposition, protest and certificate, per
IB Stat., 630, copy
rJ sheet of one, hundred. words, ten cents;
, . for each attendance
upon any person for proving a matter or thing, and certifying the
same, fifty cents; for every notarial certificate with seal, fifty cents;
for administering oath on affidavit, twenty-five cents; for taking
renunciation of do>ver or inheritance, two dollars.
Costs of wit- 12. Witnesses in civil cases in Circuit Courts, per day, besides
nesses in Cir.
cuit Courts. mileage, five cents per mile, going and returning, one dollar.
Costs of Ju- 13. Jurors, per day, besides mileage at five cents per mile, going
and returning, one dollar and fifty cents; in Trial Justice Courts,
for each civil case tried, and mileage as above, twenty-five cents, to
be paid by the party demanding the jury.
14 Referee: For every day spent in the business of a referee, costs of rethree dollars; but the parties may agree in writing upon any other
mode of compensation.
15. Coroners: For every inquisition, ten dollars; the Coroner costsofCoroshall be allowed no other cost or charges except recording; for
recording proceedings in each inquisition in his book, per copy
sheet of one hundred words, ten cents; for performing duties of
Sheriff, same fees as are allowed Sheriff for like services.
16. Physician:
For 1postmortem examination,' where death was cian.
.PayofPhysiJ
by violence and no dissection required, five dollars; where dissec
tion is necessary and body not interred, ten dollars; same after
one or more days' interment, thirty dollars; for same when chem
ical analysis is required, a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, with
expenses of analysis and mileage for every mile traveled: Provided,
When the chemical analysis has been made, the physician who
makes it shall furnish to the County Commissioners, with his ac
count, a full statement of analysis: And provided, Every such ac
count must have the certificate of the Coroner or acting Coroner.
17. If anyJ officer herein named shall charge
. Officers
o anyJ other fee or 10g
otherchargfees
fees for any other services than those herein recited, such officer Haoie to fine,
shall be liable to forfeit ten times the amount as improperly
charged, to be recovered by suit in the Court of Common' Pleas, or
attachment, or by sale when the penalty does not exceed twenty
dollars. In any case in which the Clerk of the Court of Common
Pleas, or Trial Justice's Courts, shall receive an execution he shall
attach thereto a bill of each item of costs therein charged, and
shall on application of defendant in execution tax all costs which
accrue to the Sheriff for such services on such execution.
18. Whenever a case mayJ be settled or determined at the mu- determined
, cases may by
be
tual costs of parties,
or
discontinued
or
settled
by
plaintiff,
or
the
consent
of
both
L
parties.
judgment shall be for defendant, or the execution against the de
fendant shall be returned nulla bona, any of the officers aforesaid
shall have power to issue an execution for his costs, or the Clerk
may issue for the whole, directed to the Sheriff, who is authorized
and required to execute such process as in other cases of execution
delivered to him.
19. That all Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent with this Act are
hereby repealed.
Note.—Section 1 1 of the Act of Feb. 20, 1880, 17 Stat, 303, is as follows: That Not to appIy
this Act shall not apply to costs of fees of Constables and Trial Justices in crim- in criminal
inal cases in those Counties where they are entitled by law to annual salaries. interest or 
Sec. 336. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, inport, when ai- terest, from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be
lowed
n.525
finally entered, shall be computed by the Clerk, and added to the
costs of the party entitled thereto.
be°ta?ertedw £ 
Sec. 337- Tne Clerk sta11 insert in tne entl7 of judgment, on the
judgment.
application of the prevailing party, upon five days' notice to the
of interlocutory o^ler> except when the attorneys reside in the same city, village or
costs.
town, and then upon two days' notice, the sum of the allowances
3-5|i^8-288. *9l. for costs, as provided by this Code, the necessary disbursements.
including the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses,
the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking depositions,
the fees of referees, and the expense of printing the papers for any
hearing, when required by a rule of the Court. The disbursements
shall be stated in detail and verified by affidavit. A copy of the
items of the costs and disbursements shall be served, with a notice
of adjustment.
Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlocu
tory proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the
same shall be adjusted by the Judge before whom the same may
be heard, or the Court before which the same may be decided or
pending, or in such other manner as the Judge or Court may direct,
clerk's fees.

Sec. 338 The Clerk shall receive:
see repealing On every trial, from the party bringing it on, two dollars; on
clause Act Mcn.
.
22, '78, (16 Stat., tiling transcript, twenty-five cents;
631). as to SCC r.
.
. ,
. ne
338 and Sections On entering judgment, fifty cents.
f""
He shall receive no other fee for any services whatever, in a civil
action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of ten cents for every
hundred words.
referee's fees.

Sec. 339. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to eacli, for
every day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation.
costs on 
Sec. 34Q When an application
shall be made to a Court or
theOf postponerr
ment of trial referees to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a
sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may
be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement.
moticm'8 °n * ^EC- 3^- Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of
the Court or Judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may be absolute
or directed to abide the event of the action.
infant piafntSf' ^E0, 34^" When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff,
the guardian by whom he appeared in the action shall be responsi
ble therefor, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.
Sec 343. In an action prosecuted or defended bv an executor, costsinaction
.
"
. by or against an
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly executor or adauthorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by trustee of an exj
-i
j.j i j • • l. •
press trust, or a
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; person expressbut such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected of the slamte^o^sme5!
estate, fund, or party represented, unless the Court shall direct the cost8Urlty f°r
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mis
management or bad faith in such action or defence.

Sec. 344. When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction costs or re
in a special proceeding, including appeals from Probate Courts, ion of an infeshall be brought before the Circuit Court for review, such proceed- spwiafproceed1
ing shall, for all purposes of cost, be deemed an action at issue, onlng
a question of law, from the time the same shall be brought into
Court, and costs thereon shall be awarded and collected in such
manner as the Court shall direct, according to the nature of the
case.

Sec. 345. In all civil actions,' prosecuted
in the name of the byCosts
in action
r
the Stare.
State, by an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the State
shall be liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same extent
as private parties. If a private person be joined with the State as
plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the defendant's
costs, which shall not be recovered of the State till after execution
issued therefor against such private party and return unsatisfied.

Sec. 346. In an action prosecuted in the name of the State, for The same,
the recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or claim
for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corporation or
person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall be a charge against
the party for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not
against the State.
Sec 347. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by costs against
assignment after the commencement of the action, or in any other aiTaction mmmanner, become the property of a person not a party to the action, menced
such person shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if
he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attach
ment.

Sec. 348. Upon
the settlement, before Jiudfftnent,
Costs on aset*
h
, of anyj action tlement.
mentioned in Section three hundred and thirty, no greater sum
shall be demanded from the defendant as costs than at the rates
prescribed by that Section.

Sec. 349. Writs of error in civil and criminal actions, as- they
tutedJH s"bsti"have heretofore existed, are abolished; and the only mode of
J0„,reviewing a judgment or order in a civil or criminal action shall
be that prescribed by this title.
Orders made 
Sec. 350. An order, made out of Court, without notice to the
out of Court,
'
1
modiitoi'l"' or adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the
Judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in
the manner in which other motions are made.
who may ap- 
Sec. 351. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases pre
scribed in this title.
deBi»nated ''on ^E(J- 35~- ^e Part>' appealing shall be known as the appellant,
appeal.
amj t}ie adverse party as the respondent. But the title of the
action shall not be changed in consequence of the appeal.
madPpea1' bow 
Sec. 353. (1.) An appeal must be made by the service of a
notice, in writing, on the adverse party, and on the Clerk with
i
whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the
appeal from the same or some specified part thereof. (2.) When
a party shall give, in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment
or order, and shall omit, through mistake, to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the Court
may permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

Sec. 354. If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his Of transmisp
.
slon °f papers
appeal is perfected, cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal y> ^ Appellate
and of the judgment roll, or, if the appeal be from an order or any g^
part thereof, a certified copy of such order, and the papers upon
which the order was granted, to be transmitted to the Appellate clause. Act De
cember 19, 1878.
Court by the (Jlerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed, the 16 stat., ma.
respondent may cause such certified copy to be transmitted by such
Clerk to the Appellate Court, and recover the expenses thereof, as
a disbursement on such appeal, in case the judgment or order
appealed from shall be in whole or in part affirmed; and this pro
vision shall apply to all appeals heretofore taken, where the appeal
has not been dismissed in the manner provided by the rules of the
Appellate Court.

Sec. 355. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court may oraereaflectSig
review any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily ^usdJ[.nAecnt Marcu
affecting the judgment.
?518?tat., 868.

Sec. 356. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the Appel- Post page 443.
late Court mayJ reverse,' affirm or modify . the judgment
or order Judgment on
.
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, aPi;ea>- rem
and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper,
order a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified,
the Appellate Court may make complete restitution of all property
and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.
Sec 357. The appeal to the Supreme Court under sub-division Time for aptwo of Section eleven of this Code, must be taken within sixty aSss!"8
days
notice of the order shall have been &given to the cember
See Act
DeJ after written
.
19, 1878.
party appealing; every other appeal allowed by the second chapter hs stat., 699.
of this title must be taken within three months after the judgment 15 stat.fsoo.
shall be perfected by filing the judgment roll.
No rule or order of any Court or Judge shall require the print- when printing
„
, . „
,
...
, . of briefs, &c,
ing of any brief, report, or other paper connected with appeals, by m a y be disany party to an action or proceeding who makes an affidavit, to be pensed wlth'
filed with the Clerk of the Supreme Court, that he or she is unable
to pay for such printing.
Sec 358. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court in
W,rue"judgment the cases mentioned in Section eleven. When the Circuit Court
subject to opin- snall render judgment upon a verdict taken, subject to the opinion
ion of the Court. of ^he Court, the questions or conclusions of law, together with a
concise statement of the facts upon which they arose, shall be pre
pared by and under the direction of the Court, and shall be filed
with the judgment roll, and be deemed a part thereof, for the
purposes of a review in the Supreme Court.
The provisions of this Section shall apply to any judgment
therein mentioned that has been heretofore rendered, and upon
which an appeal has been brought and is now pending, or upon
which an appeal shall hereafter be brought. When the return
has already been filed with the Clerk of the Supreme Court, such
statement shall be filed with him, and be deemed a part of such
return.

Sec. 359. Stricken out. (15 Stat., 873.)
of^ppearmay 
Sec. 360. A notice of appeal from a judgment directing the
ofa]ud^ent!°n payment of money shall not stay the execution of the judgment unless the presiding Judge before whom the judgment was ob- Plaintiff not
tained shall grant a stay of execution ; but, after notice of appeal, of property' 
• t L ' • ter notice of apthe plainti.fi shall not enforce a sale of property without giving peai without
an undertaking or bond to the defendant, with two good sureties, glvlI,g aecant^in double the appraised value of the property, or double the 15 stat., 501.
amount of the judgment, conditioned to pay all damages which
the defendant may sustain by reason of such sale, in case the be^aUowed8*!?
judgment is reversed. Nor shall the plaintiff in such case be sMurity^topay
allowed to proceed with a sale of defendant's property if the de- estef™o"Lmand
fendant do enter into an undertaking, with good sureties, in double Sjfeut^e ^conthe appraised value of the said property, or the amount of the flrmed
judgment, to pay the judgment, with legal interest, and all costs
and damages which the plaintiff may sustain by reason of the
appeal, or produce the property levied on, and submit to the sale
in case the judgment be confirmed. Whenever it shall be made
satisfactorily to appear to the Court that since the execution
of the undertaking the sureties have become insolvent, the Court
may, by rule or order, require the appellant to execute, file and
serve a new undertaking as above; and in case of neglect to
execute such undertaking within twenty days after the service
of a copy of the rule or order requiring such new undertaking,
the appeal may, on motion to the Court, be dismissed with costs.
Whenever it shall be necessary for a party to any action or
proceeding to give a bond or an undertaking, with surety or sure
ties, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit with the officer or into Court,
as the case may require, money to the amount for which such
bond or undertaking is to be given. The Court in which such
action or proceeding is pending may direct what disposition shall
be made of such money, pending the action of proceeding. In
any case where, by this Section, the money is to be deposited
with an officer, a Judge of the Court, in term or at chambers,
upon the application of either party, may, before such deposit is
made, order it to be deposited in Court instead of with such offi
cer; and a deposit made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the
same effect as if made with such officer.

Sec. 361. If the judgment appealed from direct the assignment if judgment
or delivery of documents or personal property, the execution of docrnnentiF o°r
the judginent shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things re- erty^^us^De
quired to be assigned or delivered be brought into Court, or placed curtty'bc given!
in the custody of such officer or receiver as the Court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appel
lant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the Court, or
a Judge thereof, shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will
obey the order of the Appellate Court upon the appeal
if to execute Skc. 362. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution
conveyance, it
°
must be execu- of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgted and depositu
t
iii
«i
i i
ted.
ment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall
have been executed and deposited with the Clerk with whoin the
judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the Supreme Court,
upon the appeal.
Security in a Skc. 363. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or de
cade where
" °
11
judgment
is to liveryJ of possession
of real property,
deliver real
1
r r J the execution of the same
property, or for shall not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on
a sale of mort,
saged premises, the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that, du
ring the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that, if
the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and oc
cupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the
delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not ex
ceeding a sum to be fixed by a Judge of the Court by which judg
ment was rendered, and which shall be specified in the undertak
ing. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises,
and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the under
taking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency,
stay of pro- Skc. 364. Whenever the defendant executes the bond herein
security' being before prescribed, or the appeal is perfected as prescribed by Sec
tions three hundred and sixty, three hundred and sixty-one, three
hundred and sixty-two, and three hundred and sixty-three, it
stays all further proceedings in the Court below upon the judg
ment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but
the Court below may proceed upon any other matter included in
the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And
the Court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the
security required by Sections three hundred and sixty, three hun
dred and sixty-one and three hundred and sixty-three, when the
appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person
acting in another's right; and may also limit such security to an
amount not less than fifty thousand dollars, in the cases mentioned
in Sections three hundred and sixty-one, three hundred and sixtytwo, three hundred and sixty-three, where it would otherwise, ac
cording to those Sections, exceed that sum.

Sec. 365. The undertakings prescribed by Sections three hun- undertakings
dred and sixty, three hundred and sixty-one, and three hundred instrument °"r
and sixty-three, may be in one instrument or several, at the option heveralof the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence 15 Stat'' 601'
of the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with a notice
of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in Section three
hundred and fifty-nine, and notice thereof given.

Sec. 366. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect, security tobe
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they *us«?yed and '°
are each worth double the amount specified therein. The respond- 15 stat 5M
ent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within
ten days after the notice of the appeal; and unless they or other
sureties justify before a Judge of the Court below, as prescribed by
Sections two hundred and eighteen and two hundred and nineteen,
within ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no
undertaking had been given. The justification shall be upon a
notice of not less than five days.

Sec. .'567. In the cases not provided for in Sections three hunPerishable
property m a y
dred and sixty, three hundred and sixty-one, three hundred and be sold, not
withstanding
sixty-two, three hundred and sixty-three, and three hundred and appeal,
sixty-four, the notice of appeal shall stay proceedings in the Court 15 stat., 501.
below upon the judgment appealed from, except that, where it
directs the sale of perishable property, the Court below may order
the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited
or invested in this State or United States bonds, to abide the
judgment of the Supreme Court.

Sec. 368. The undertaking must be filed with the Clerk with undertaking
°
must be tiled.
whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The
provisions of this chapter as to the security to be given upon
appeals, and as to the stay of proceedings, shall apply to appeals
taken under sub-division three of Section eleven.
To Facilitate and Save Expenses in Appeals.
March, 1875.

(15 Stat., 862.)

1. That upon appeals to the Supreme Court, in case the. attorney when statefor the appellant and respondent shall agree upon a statement of 'constitute^rief!
the case as prepared by them for the hearing of the Supreme Court,
such statement of the case shall be a sufficient brief of the same, and
no return or other paper from the Circuit Court shall be required.
2. That upon the transmission of a certified copy of such agreeto'furMsh itom--ment to the Clerk of tne Appellate Court, within the time now
coms"000"11' of re(luire(i by law, ne snall place said cause on the docket for a hear
ing by said Court.
To Alter and Amend the Law in Relation to Appeals from the
Circuit Courts to the Supreme Court.
December, 1878.
1. That from and after the passage of this Act, exceptions for
How excep- the purpose of appeal to the Supreme Court may be taken to the
ma"fibe taken." rulings of the presiding Judge in all cases tried in the Circuit Courts
of this State at any time within ten (10) days after the rising of
the Circuit Court at which such cases are tried, by furnishing a copy
of such exceptions to the presiding Judge, and by serving them on
the attorney of the respondent within the time above limited.
2. That in every appeal to the Supreme Court from an order, de.Appellant
to
crRe
or Jjudgment,
mayJ be
give notice to
&
' or other matter from which an appeal
rr
opposite party, taken to the Supreme Court, the appellant or his attorney shall,
within ten (10) days after written notice that such order has been
granted, or decree or judgment rendered at chambers, give notice
to the opposite party or his attorney, or, if made, granted or ren
dered during term time, within ten (10) days after the rising of the
Circuit Court, of his intention to appeal; and within thirty (30)
days after such notice, the appellant or his attorney shall prepare a
case or exceptions, or a case with exceptions, and serve them,
unless the Judge before whom the cause was heard last, on ten (10)
days' nctice to the opposite party, upon sufficient and reasonable
cause shown, shall extend the time.
3. That the case shall be placed on the docket of the Supreme
Court at such time as may be fixed by the rules of said Supreme
Court.
4. That whenever the appellant shall fail to perfect his appeal
according to the provisions of either of the foregoing Sections, his
failure to do so shall amount to a waiver of the appeal.
5. That this Act shall take effect on and after the first day of
February, A. D. 1879.
6. That all Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent herewith, are
hereby repealed.

Sec. 369. When a judgment is rendered by a Trial' Justice's
Court, by the County Commissioners, or any other inferior Court or
jurisdiction, save the Probate Court heretofore provided for in this
Code of Procedure, the appeal shall be to the Circuit Court of the
County wherein the judgment was rendered. On such appeal, when Judgment to
-i be reviewed, by
the amount of the claim or claims for which judgment was demand- what Court
ed by either party in his pleadings in the Court below shall exceed
ten dollars, or when, in an action to recover the possession of (Mss.)"' °
personal property, the value of the property as assessed and the
damages recovered shall exceed ten dollars, exclusive of costs, a
new trial shall be had in the Circuit Court in the following appel
late cases:
1. When the judgment was rendered upon an issue of law joined
between the parties.
2. When it was rendered upon an issue of fact joined between
parties, whether the defendant was present at the trial or not:
Provided, however, That the appellant may, in case where the amount
for which judgment is demanded by either party in his pleadings
exceed ten dollars, or where, in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, the value of the property as assessed and the
damages recovered shall exceed ten dollars, exclusive of costs, state
in the notice of appeal that such appeal is taken upon questions of
law only, in which case a new trial shall not be had in the Appellate
Court, but the appeal shall be heard and determined in the same
manner as if- such amount, or said value and damages, were ten dol
lars or under.
Appeal, when Sec 370. The appellant shall, within five days after judgment,
to be tskyii.
7 343 9 83
serve a notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which the appeal
is founded. If the judgment is rendered upon process not person
ally served, and the defendant did not appear, he shall have five
days, after personal notice of the judgment, to serve the notice of
appeal provided for in this and the next Section.
Notice of ap- yEC 371 The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be
peal to be served
11
° s«rial J'"'tict! served on the Trial Justice personally, if living and within the
17 stat., 306. County, or on his Clerk, if there be one, and upon the attorney for
1.3 Hoc.*, 501.
7-343.
the respondent, or on the respondent personally, or by leaving it at
his residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion; or,
in case the respondent is not a resident of such County, or cannot,
after due diligence, be found therein, in the same manner, o11 the
attorney or agent, if any, who is a resident of such County, who
appeared for the respondent on the trial; and if neither the respond
ent, nor such agent or attorney can be found in the County, the
notice may be served on the respondent by leaving it with the Clerk
of the Appellate Court.

Sec. 372. Repealed. (15 Stat, 501.) Nov. 25, 1873.'

Sec. 373. Repealed. (15 Stat, 501.) Nov. 25, 1873.
Sec 374. Repealed. (15 Stat., 501.) Nov. 25, 1873.
Sec 375. Repealed. (15 Stat, 501.) Nov. 25, 1873.
in lieu
of Filing
seiviceof
no- 
Sec. 376. When,7 byJ reason of the death of a Trial Justice, or his
ticeof appeal, absence from the County, or any other cause, the notice of appeal
cannot be served as provided by Section three hundred and seventy,
it may be served by leaving the same with the Clerk of the County.
Sec 377. The Court below shall thereupon, after ten days, and
within thirty days after the service of the notice of appeal, make a
return to the Appellate Court of the testimony, proceedings and
Court. The return Hndreturn,
Jjudgment,
o
> and file the same in the Appellate
rr
how when
made
may be compelled by attachment: Provided, however. That in cases
c0,mK!)ledwhere the amount for which judgment is demanded by either party
in his pleadings in the Court below exceeds ten dollars, or where
the value of the property recovered, as appears from the verdict or
judgment, shall exceed ten dollars, the testimony need not be
returned; but in such case, the Court below shall return the process
by which the action was commenced, with the proof of service
thereof, and the pleadings or copies thereof, the proceedings and
judgment, together with a brief statement of the amount and nature
of the claim or claims litigated by the respective parties, and in all
cases the notice of appeal shall be annexed to the return; but in
cases where the appellant shall, in accordance with the provisions of
Section three hundred and sixty-nine of this Code of Procedure,
state in the notice of appeal that such appeal is taken upon questions
of law only, the Court below shall return to the Appellate Court
the testimony, proceedings and judgment.

Sec. 378. When a Trial Justice, by whom a judgment appealed Tr?'}wr,1m.jg(f bw
from was rendered, shall have gone out of office before a return is °<»t of office,
ordered, he shall, nevertheless, make a return in the same manner,
'and with the like effect, as if he were still in office.
Sec 379. If the return be defective, the Appellate Court may Further re
direct a further or amended return as often as may be necessary,
and may compel a compliance with its order by attachment. And
the Court shall always be deemed open for these purposes.

Sec. 380. If a Trial Justice, whose judgment is appealed from,
shall die, become insane, or remove from the State, the Appellate
Court may examine witnesses on oath, to the facts and circum
stances of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the
facts had been returned by the Trial Justice. If he shall have
removed to another County within the State, the Appellate Court
may compel him to make the return, as if he were still within the
County where the judgment was rendered.

Sec. 381. If a return be made, and the appeal is from a judgment jnstice dewhere a new trial may not be had, as provided by this chapter, it or absent ln?ane
may be brought to a hearing, upon notice by either party of not reJ|,<ra1rills "pon
less than eight days. It shall be placed upon the calendar, and
Dismissing
continue thereon without further notice until finally disposed of. brought on. "0t
But if neither party bring it to a hearing before the end of the Nuw trlalssecond term, the Court shall dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same by special order, for cause shown. If the appeal is from
a judgment where a new trial may be had, it may be brought to a
hearing or trial at any term of the Court at which a petit jury shall
be summoned to attend, at least eight days before the Court, the
party desiring to bring on the appeal shall serve a note of issue on
the Clerk, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter the cause on the
calendar, according to the date of the return.
And the provisions of this chapter for a new trial shall apply as
well to appeals heretofore taken and now pending, as those hereafter
to be brought.
To he heard on 
Sec. 382. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers, and
)erB°n n pa no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of the Court,
judpner.t on 
Sec. 383. Upon hearing the appeal, the Appellate Court shall
'ppea .
give ju(jgment according to the justice of the case, without regard
to technical errors and defects which do not affect the merits. In
giving judgment, the Court may affirm or reverse the judgment of
the Court below, in whole or in part, and as to any or all the
parties, and for errors of law or fact. If the appeal is founded on
an error in fact in the proceedings, not affecting the merits of the
action, and not within the knowledge of the Trial Justice, the
Court may determine the alleged error in fact on affidavits, and
may, in its discretion, inquire into and determine .the same upon
examination of the witnesses. If the defendant failed to appear
before the Trial Justice, and it is shown by the affidavits served
by the appellant, or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been
done, and he satisfactorily excuses his default, the Court may, in
its discretion, set aside or suspend judgment, and order anew trial
before the same or an}' other Trial Justice in the same County, at
such time and place, and on such terms, as the Court may deem
proper. Where a new trial shall be ordered before a Trial Justice,
the parties must appear before him according to the order of the
Court, and the same proceedings must thereupon be had in the
action as on the return of a summons personally served. If the
appeal shall be from a judgment in which a new trial may be had,
as in this chapter provided, the Court shall proceed to a hearing of
the cause, if the issue joined before the Trial Justice was an issue
of law, or to the trial thereof by jury, if such issue was upon a
question of fact.
1. If the issue joined before the Trial Justice was an issue of
law, the Court shall render judgment thereon according to the law
of the case; and if such judgment be against the pleadings of either party, an amendment of such pleading may be allowed on
the same terms, and in like case, as pleadings in actions in the
Circuit Court, and the Court may thereupon require the opposite
party to answer such amended pleading, or join issue thereon, as
the case may require, summarily.
2. If, upon an appeal in an issue of law, the Court should ad
judge the pleading complained of to be valid, it shall, in like man
ner, require the opposite party summarily to answer such pleading
or join issue thereon, as the case may require.
3. Upon an issue of fact being so joined, the Court shall pro
ceed to hear the same trial by a jury in the same manner as issues
joined in the Circuit Court.
4. Every issue of fact so joined or brought upon an appeal
shall be tried in the same manner as in actions commenced in the
Circuit Court.
5. The Court, shall have the same power over its own determi
nations, and the verdict of the jury, and shall render judgment
thereon in the same manner as the Circuit Court in actions pend
ing therein, and may allow either party to amend his pleadings
upon such terms as shall be just in cases where a new trial may
be had, as in this chapter provided ; and in any such appeal on
which a new trial is to be had, either party may, at any time be
fore the trial, serve upon the opposite party an offer, in writing,
to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property,
or to the effect in such offer specified, and with or without costs,
as said offer shall specify. If the party receiving such offer accept
the same, and give notice thereof in writing within ten days, he
may file the return and offer, with an affidavit of service of notice
of acceptance thereof, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judg
ment according to said offer. If the notice of acceptance be not 15 stat., 502.
given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given
in evidence. And, if the party to whom such offer is made fail to
obtain a judgment more favorable to him than that specified in
said offer, then he shall not recover costs, but must pay the other
party's costs from the date of the service of the offer.
6. Either party may move for a new trial in said Court on a
case or exception, or otherwise, and such motion may be made
before or after judgment has been entered; and the provisions of
this Code of Procedure in relation to the proceedings on receiving
the verdict of a jury, exceptions to ihe decisions of the Court, making and settling cases and exceptions, motions for new trials,
and making up the judgment-roll in the Circuit Court, are hereby
made applicable to all appeals brought up for trial, as in this
chapter provided.
Judgment-roll.

Sec. 384. To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be
annexed the return on which it was heard, the notice of appeal,
with any offer, verdict, decision of the Court, exceptions, case,
and all orders and papers in any way involving the merits and
necessarily affecting the judgment, which shall be filed with the
Clerk of the Court, and shall constitute the judgment-roll.
Vo^ ~ how 
Sec. 385. If the judgment
be affirmed, costs shall be awarded
awarded.
J 0
to the respondent. If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to
the appellant. If it be affirmed in part, the costs, or such part as
to the Court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party.

Sec. 386. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be paid
or collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the Appel
late Court shall order the amount paid or collected to be restored .
restitution, with interest from the time of such payment or collection. The
order may be obtained on proof of the facts made at or after the
hearing, upon a previous notice of six days; and if the order shall
be made before the judgment is entered, the amount may be
included in the judgment.
Sean^rewvery8 ^Ec.
'" ^' uPon appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and
costs be awarded to the other, the Appellate Court shall set off the
one against the other, and render judgment for the balance.
The costs on 
Sec. 388. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party, in
appeal.
.. .
judgments rendered on appeal, in all cases, with the following ex
ceptions and limitations: In the notice of appeal, the appellant shall
state in what particular or particulars he claims the judgment should
have been more favorable to him. If he claims that the amount of
judgment is less favorable to him than it should have been, he
shall state what should have been its amount. Within fifteen
days after the service of the notice of appeal, the respondent may
serve upon the appellant and Trial Justice an offer, in writing, toallow the judgment to be corrected in any of the particulars men
tioned in the notice of appeal. The appellant may thereupon, and
wi'.hin five days thereafter, file with the Trial Justice a written ac
ceptance of such offer, who shall thereupon make a minute thereof
in his docket, and correct such judgment accordingly, and the
same, so corrected, shall stand as his judgment, and be enforced accordingly; and any execution which has been issued upon the 15 stat., 502.
judgment appealed from shall be amended by the Trial Justice to
correspond with the amended judgment.
If such offer be not made, and the judgment in the Appellate
Court be more favorable to the appellant than the judgment in
the Court below, or if such offer be made and not accepted, and
the judgment in the Appellate Court be more favorable to the ap
pellant than the offer of the respondent, the appellant shall recover
costs: Provided, however, That the appellant shall not recover costs
unless the judgment appealed from shall be reversed on such ap
peal, or be made more favorable to him, to the amount of at least
ten dollars. If the offer be made, and accepted by the appellant,
the appellant shall recover all his disbursements on appeal, and
all his costs in the Court below. But the appellant shall not recover
costs except as provided in this chapter. The respondent shall be
entitled to recover costs where the appellant is not. Whenever costs
are awarded to the appellant, and when the judgment in the suit is stat., 508
before the Court below was against such appellant, he shall further
be allowed to tax the ccsts incurred by him which he would have
been entitled to recover in case the judgment below has been ren
dered in his favor. If, upon an appeal, a recovery for any debt or
damages be had by one party, and costs be awarded to the other
party, the Court shall set off such costs against such debt or damages,
and render judgment for the balance. The following fees and costs,
and no other, except fees of officers, disbursements and witnesses'
fees, shall be allowed, on appeal, to the party entitled to costs, ae
herein provided, when the new trial is in the Circuit Court: For
proceedings before notice of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent
proceedings before trial, three dollars; for trial of an issue of law,
five dollars; for every trial of an issue of fact, seven dollars; for
argument of a motion for a new trial on a case or a bill of excep
tions, five dollars; in all cases, to either party, for every term, not
exceeding five, at which the appeal is necessarily on the calendar,
and is not tried or is not postponed by the Court, Ave dollars.
In other appeals the costs shall be as follows: To the appellant,
on reversal, seven dollars; to the respondent, on the affirmance,
seven dollars. If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part
and affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to
either party shall be such sum as the Appellate Court may award,
not exceeding five dollars. If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as provided by Section three hundred and eightyTrial Justice, one, no costs shall be allowed to either party. In every appeal,
the Trial Justice before whom the judgment appealed from was
rendered, shall receive one dollar for his return. If the judgment
be reversed for an error of fact in the proceedings, not affecting
15 Stat., 508. the merits, costs shall be in the discretion of the Court. If, in
the notice of appeal, the appellant shall not state in what particu
lar or particulars he claims the judgment should have been more
favorable to him, he shall not be entitled to costs unless the judg

Sec. 389. Parties to a question in difference, which might be Controversy, how submitted subject of civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case con- without action,
taining the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present
a submission of the same to any Court which would have jurisdic
tion if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affida
vit that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith,
to determine the rights of the parties. The Court shall thereupon
hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon, as if
an action were depending.
Sec 390. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book, as Judgment,
in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to notice
of trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment,
shall constitute the judgment-roll.
Sec 391. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
Jndgment,
if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to appeal appealed'from1 in like manner. 
SeC 392. When a Jo
o
action
a joint
contractonmay
be more of several persons
r
JjointlyJ indebted upon
r a contract, by *proHummoned after ceedins
as provided in Section one hundred and fifty-nine, those
judgment.
or
who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint may
be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally
summoned.
if a judgment 
Sec. 393. In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgrcim?ema(iveHS ment, the heirs, devisees or legatees of the judgment debtor, or the
to be summon ^enants of reaj property owned by him and affected by the judg
ment, may, at any time within three years from the time of grant
ing letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate of the
testator or intestate, be summoned to show cause why the judgment
should not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor
in their hands respectively; and the personal representatives of a
deceased judgment debtor may be summoned at any time within
one year after their appointment.
Form of sum- 
Sec. 394. The summons provided in the last two Sections shall
moiis.
be subscribed by the judgment creditor, ins representative or
attorney, shall describe the judgment, and require the person
summoned to show cause within twenty days after the service of
the summons; and shall be served in like manner as the original
summons.
To be accom- 
Sec. 395. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of
panied by amdavit
subscribingo it,> that the Jjudgment
has not been satisfied,
amon ntofdue.the the person
f
o
to his knowledge, or information and belief, and shall specify the
amount due thereon.
Party sum- 
Sec. 396. Upon such summons, any party summoned may anmoncd to an. .
.
......
.
, . ,
swer and de- swer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or
setting up any defence thereto which may have arisen subsequently
to such judgment; and in addition thereto, if the party be pro
ceeded against according to Section three hundred and ninety-two,
he may make any defence which he might have made to the action
if the summons had been served on him at the time when the same
was originally commenced, and such defence had been then inter
posed to such action.
Subsequent Sec 397. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply
pleadings and

proceedings to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply;
same as in ac,
"
. .
tion.
and the issues may be tried and judgment may be given in the
same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution- or the application of the property charged to the payment of the judg
ment may be compelled by attachment, if necessary.

Sec. 398. The answer and reply
Answer
and
r J shall be verified in the like cases reply
to be venand manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and fled as in an acreply in an action.

Sec. 399. A. Jiudgment
byJ confession mayJ be entered, without byOfconfession
judgment
action, either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any
person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or
both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter

Sec. 400. A statement in writing must he made, signed by the statement in
t p
i
-^-ii lon .
tv
"
writing and
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
form thereof.
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered,
and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state con
cisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum
confessed therefor is justly due, or to become due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting
the liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor does
not exceed the same.
Sec 401. The statement may be filed with a County Clerk, who Judgment and
shall endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment-book a judgment
for the amount confessed, with five dollars costs, together with
disbursements. The statement and affidavit, with the judgment
endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment-roll. Executions
may be issued and enforced thereon, in the same manner as upon
judgments in other cases in such Courts. When the debt for
which the judgment is recovered is not all due, or is payable in
installments, and the installments are not all due, the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such install
ments as have become due, and shall be in the usual form, but
shall have endorsed thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the
same, a direction to the Sheriff to collect the amount due on such
judgment, with interest and costs, which amount shall be stated,
with interest thereon, and the costs of said judgment. Notwith
standing the issue and collection of such execution, the judgment
shall remain as security for the installments thereafter to become
due; and whenever any further installments become due, execution
may, in like manner, be issued for the collection and enforcement
of the same.

Sec. 402. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or
verdict, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow judg
ment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the
effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof in writing within ten days, he may file
the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the Clerk must thereupon enter judgment accord
ingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the
plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot
recover costs, but must pay the defendant's costs from the time of
the offer; and in case the defendant shall set up a counter claim
in his answer to an amount greater than the plaintiff's claim, or
sufficient to reduce the plaintiff's recovery below fifty dollars, then
the plaintiff may serve upon the defendant an offer in writing to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the amount specified,
or to allow said counter claim to the amount specified, with costs.
If the defendant accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten days, he may enter judgment as above for the
amount specified, if the offer entitled him to judgment, or the
amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him in the trial of
the action. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to
be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if
the defendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment, or to
establish his counter claim for a greater amount than is specified in
said offer, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the plaintiff's
costs from the time of the offer.

Sec. 403. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, 0fleJentoanfiq'uiV
with his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, that ^^j^"^868
if he fail in his defence, the damages be assessed at a specified
sum; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing,
with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict,
the damages shall be assessed accordingly.

Sec. 404. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove Effect of ac•
'c-it
Tin
•
ccptance or rehis damages as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted fusai of offer,
to give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favor
shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant
shall recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary
preparation or defence in respect to the question of damages.
Such expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

Sec. 405. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attor- inspection and
copy of books,
ney. at anv time before the trial, any paper material to the action, papers, how obtained.
and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the
adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission, within
four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper
be afterwards put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and
the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such expense,
to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing
the admission, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the Court that
there were good reasons for the refusal. The Court before which
an action is pending, or a Judge or Justice thereof, may, in their
discretion, and upon due notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permis
sion to take a copy, of any books, papers and documents in his
possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or the defence therein. If compliance with
the order be refused, the Court, on motion, may exclude the paper
from being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or
both.

Sec. 406. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the
Action fordis- prosecution or defence of another action, shall be allowed, nor
oath'aboiished. shall any examination of a party be had, on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

Sec. 407. A party to an action may be examined as a witness,
A
party
may
at
the instance of the adverse Aparty, or of any one of several
examine his adversary as a wit- adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the
same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any
other witness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or
upon commission.

Sec. 408. The examination, instead of being had at the trial,, as
Such examina- provided in the last Section, mav be had at any time before the
tion also allow.
T,
»,
ed before trial: trial, at the option oi the party claiming it, before a Judge oi the
proceedings
therefor
Court, on a previous notice to the party to be examined, and any
other adverse party, of at least five days, unless, for good cause shown, the Judge order otherwise. But the party to be examined
shall not be compelled to attend in any other County than that of
his residence, or where he may be served with a summons for his
attendance.

Sec. 409. The party to be examined, as in the last Section pro- Party, how
,
'
compelled to atvided. may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a witness tend,
who is to be examined conditionally; and the examination shall
be taken and filed by the Judge in like manner, and may be read
by either party on the trial.

Sec. 410. The examination of the party,
Testimony
of
r ■" thus taken, mayJ be party
may be verebutted by adverse testimony.
butted.
Sec 411. If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last Effect of refour Sections provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and
his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out.
Sec 412. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this Testimony by
chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to "ponSve'to the
the same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he testify be rebutted1 by
to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him by caiMng WmP.arty
the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his answers
thereto, or discharge when his answers would charge himself, such
adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in
respect to such new matter, subject to the same rules of examina
tion as other witnesses, and shall be so received.

Sec. 413. A person for whose immediate benefit the action, is Persons for
whom action is
prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be brought or de. fended may be
examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject to the examined,
same rules of examination, as if he were named as a party.
Sec 414. A party maybe examined on behalf of his co-plaintiff, Examination
or of a co-defendant, as to any matter in which he is not jointly co-defendant. °r
interested or liable with such co-plaintiff, or co-defendant, and as
to which a separate and not joint verdict or judgment can be ren- 9-398
dered. And he may be compelled to attend in the same manner
as at the instance of an adverse party ; but the examination thus
taken shall not be used in the behalf of the party examined. And
whenever, in the< case mentioned in Sections four hundred and
seven and four hundred and eight, one of the several plaintiffs or
defendants who are joint contractors, or are united in interest, is
examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintiffs or
defendants may offer himself as a witness to the same cause or
action or defence, and shall be so received.

Sec. 414. (a) No person offered as a witness shall be excluded
to exclude a
witnewH.
by reason of his interest in the event of the action.
' "JS'

Sec. 415. A party to an action or special proceeding in any and
Hons and^epe^ al' Courts, and before any and all officers and persons acting judimay'be^xamm- cially, may be examined as a witness on his own behalf, or in beon th8ei"ownSbeS na^ of any other party, conditionally, on commission and upon
certain'cSs tne tr'a' or hearing in the case, in the same manner and subject to
3-425 512
tae same rules of examination as any other witness : Provided,
6-44 81
however, That no party to the action or proceeding, nor any per7-165 «-279 398 son
^as a leSa^ or equitable interest which may be affected by
Wilson v
evel)t of the action or proceeding, nor any person who, prerichey. (M8s.) vious to such examination, lias had such an interest, however the
11-123same may have been transferred to or come to the party to the
u-549.
action or proceeding, nor any assignor of anything in controversy
in the action, shall be examined in regard to any transaction or
communication between such witness and a person, at the time of
such examination, deceased, insane or lunatic, as a witness against
a party then prosecuting or defending the action as executor, ad
ministrator, heir-at-law, next-of-kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, or
survivor of such deceased person, or as assignee or committee of
such insane person or lunatic, when such examination or any
judgment or determination in such action or proceeding, can in
any manner affect the interest of such witness or the interest pre
viously owned or represented by him. But when such executor,
administrator, heir-at-law, next-of-kin, assignee, legatee, devisee,
survivor or committee, shall be examined on his own behalf in re
gard to such transaction or communication, or the testimony of
such deceased or insane person or lunatic in regard to such trans
action or communication (however the same may have been per
petuated or made competent), shall be given in evidence on the
trial or hearing in behalf of such executor, administrator, heir-atlaw, next-of-kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee, then all other persons not otherwise rendered incompetent, shall
be made competent witnesses in relation to such transaction or
communication on said trial or hearing. Nothing contained in
Section eight of this Code of Procedure shall be held or con
strued to affect or restrain the operation of this Section.
1. In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding in ^J^jJJlJJJied
any Court, or before any person having by law or consent of par- to testify,
ties, authority to examine witnesses or hear evidence, the husband
or wife of any party thereto, or of any person in whose behalf any
such suit, action or proceeding is brought, prosecuted, opposed or
defended, shall, except as hereinafter stated, be competent and
compellable to give evidence, the same as any other witness, on
behalf of any party to such suit, action or proceeding.
2. Nothing herein contained shall render any husband or wife
competent or compellable to give evidence for or against the other
in any criminal action or proceeding (except to prove the fact of
marriage in case of bigamy), or in any action or proceeding insti
tuted in consequence of adultery, or in any action or proceeding
for divorce on account of adultery (except to prove the fact of
marriage), or in any action or proceeding for or on account of
criminal conversation.
3. No husband or wife shall be compellable to disclose any con
fidential communication made by one to the other, during their
marriage.
To Make Survivors of Parties to a Transaction Impeached for
Fraud Competent and Compellable to Testify in Certain
Cases.
February, 1876. (16 Stat. 39.)
That in any proceeding in any of the Courts of this State in Survivors to
-in-i-iicj.
Ta transaction
which any transaction shall be impeached lor fraud by a creditor impeached for 
.fraud compeor creditors ot either party to such transaction, or by any other tent and comperson interested in establishing such fraud, the survivor or sur- ttfy^ 't
vivors of the parties to such alleged fraud, when one or more of
said parties shall be dead, shall be competent and compellable to
testify in behalf of such creditor or creditors, or other person in
terested in establishing such fraud, any law, rule or usage to the
contrary notwithstanding : Provided, That nothing herein shall
render such survivor or survivors competent to testify in relation
to such transaction in their own behalf in any proceeding instituted by him or them : Provided, . further. That nothing herein shall
render any person incompetent as a witness who is now compe
tent under the laws and usages of this State.

Sec. 416. Every direction of a Court or Judge, made or entered
:
k''
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
5-349, 6-476.
,
order.
Of motion, 
Sec. 417. (1.) An application for an order is a motion,
made. Deflni- (2.) Motions may be made to a Judge or Justice out of Court,
tion
, a new trial
. , on the
. merits.
tion. of a mo- except for
Cureton v. (3.) Orders made out of Court, without notice, may be made by
Dargan. (Msb.) ^ Ju(jge Qf tae Court, in any part of the State.
(4.) Motions upon notice must be made within the Circuit in
which the action is triable, or, in the absence or inability of the
Judge of the Circuit, may be made before the Judge of a Circuit
adjoining that in which it is triable(5.) A motion to modify or vacate a provisional remedy, and
an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall have
preference over all other motions,
stay of pro- (6) No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty
ceedings
days shall be granted by a J udge out of Court, except upon pre
vious notice to the adverse party.
Compelling (7.) When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any
partils to tes qouj,j. Qf iecQT^ ancj ft snan foe necessary for him to have the affi
davit of any person who shall have refused to make the same,
such Court may, by order, appoint a referee to take the affidavit or deposition of such person. Such person may be subpcenaed
and compelled to attend and make an affidavit before such referee,
the same as before a referee to whom it is referred to try an issue.
And the fees of such referee for such service shall be three dol
lars per day.
(8.)
Decision on
v ' Whenever a motion shall be made in any. cause or pro- motion.
ceeding in any of the Courts in this State, to obtain an injunction
order, order of arrest, or warrant of attachment, granted in any
such case or proceeding, it shall be the duty of the Judge, Trial
Justice, or other officer, before whom such motion is made, to
render and make known his decision on such motion within twenty
days after the day upon which such motion shall or may be sub
mitted to him for his decision.

Sec. 418. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be Notice of a
' .
motion.
served four days before the time appointed for the hearing ; but
the Court or Judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a
shorter time.

Sec. 419. When notice of a motion is given, or an order to in absence,
ii &c-> °* Judge at
show cause is returnable before a Judge out oi Court, and at the chambers, motime fixed for the motion he is absent or unable to hear it, the transferred by
same may be transferred, by his order, to some other Judge, be- judge" "n
tore whom the motion, in case of his absence or inability, might 6-476.
originally have been made.

Sec. 420. The time within which any proceeding in an action timenlfOTgpro?
must be had, after its commencement,' except
r the time within ceedings
action. in an
which an appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affida
vit showing grounds therefor, by a Judge of the Circuit Court.
The affidavit, or a copy thereof, must be served with a copy of the
order, or the order may be disregarded.

Sec. 421. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the Affidavits deaction, but an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective tfedJVvafid.entI
title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it
were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceed
ing in which it is made.

Sec. 422. The time within which an act is to lie done, as herein
'put* .
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and in
cluding the last.
If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

Sec. -423. Notice shall be in writing; and notices and other
how served. papers may \,e served on the party or attorney, in the manner
prescribed in the next three Sections, where not otherwise pro
vided by this Code of Procedure,
service, how Sec 424. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the
party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made ; or
it may be as follows :
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made, during his absence
from his office, by leaving it with the clerk therein, or with a per
son having charge thereof ; or, when there is no person in the
office, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the inorning and
nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or, if it
be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leaving it at
the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age and dis
cretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his
residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in
the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

Sec. 425. Service by mail may be made where the person mak- n,ailService by
ing the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside
in different places, between which there is a regular communica
tion by mail.
Sec-. 426. In case of service by mail, the paper must be depos
ited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid
Sec. 427. When the service is byJ mail,
it shall be double the when
Double
servedtime
by
time required in cases of personal service, except service of notice mail.
of trial, which may be made sixteen days before the day of trial, snuivan u
including the day of service.
Speights. (Mss.)
Sec 428. Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a Court of notice of
or Judge, when personally served, shall be given at least four days when personaily served
before the time appointed therefor.

Sec. 429. When a defendant shall not have demurred or an- when papers
need not be
swered, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in served^ on de
an action need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for
want of a bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney, if no
tice of appearance in the action has been given.

Sec. 4.'!0. Where a plaintiff
or a defendant who has demurred pers
Service
paA
whereofparor answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the State, ties reside out
and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by
mail, if his residence be known ; if not known, on the Clerk, for
the party.

Sec. 431. The summons and the several pleadings in an action Summons and
- Pleadings to be
shall be filed with the Clerk within ten days after the service filed,
thereof, respectively; or the adverse party, on proof of the omis
sion, shall be entitled, without notice, to an order from a Judge
that the same be filed within a time to be specified in the order, or
be deemed abandoned.
Sec 432. Where a party shall have an attorney in the action, Service on atthe service of papers shall be made upon the attorney, instead of
the party.
Sec 433. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the When this
.
chapter does
service of a summons or other proccss, or of any paper to bring a not apply,
party into contempt.

Sec. 434. Whenever, pursuant to this Code, the Sheriff may be
iff and Coroner
.
in
serving proor required
to serve or execute anyJ summons,' order or Jo
iudement, or
executing
^
cess, and how to do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as
upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all respects
for neglect of duty; and if the Sheriff be a party, the Coroner shall
be bound to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute
process where the Sheriff is a party ; and all the provisions of this
Code of Procedure relating to Sheriffs, shall apply to Coroners
where the Sheriff is a party.

Sec. 435. No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted
to receive pro.
perty until Be- to receive property of the infant until he shall have given sufficient
curity given.
security, approved by a Probate Judge, to account for and apply
the same under the direction of the Court.

Sec. 436. Every referee appointed pursuant to this Code of Pro
cedure, shall have power to administer oaths in any proceedings
before him, and shall have generally the powers now vested in a
referee by law.
Section 436 repealed by Act of Assembly, 17 Stat., 302, as to
the Counties of Charleston, Richland, Orangeburg, Oconee, Sumter,
Newberry, Kershaw, Greenville. Marion, Laurens and Anderson.
(See Section 394 of Code.)

Sec. 437. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by ^P*gej» '"how
any person, the Court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and supplied,
used instead of the original.

Sec. 438. The various undertakings
to be given
byJ this takings
where nnder° required
^
°
to be
Code of Procedure must be filed by the Clerk of the Court, unless filed,
the Court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof,
except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter on the
claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after the justification
of the sureties, be delivered by the Sheriffs to the parties respect
ively for whose benefit they are taken.

Sec. 439. Upon
Judgment
on
r anyJ bond and warrant of attorney,
J ' executed and .bond
and wardelivered before the first day of January, 1870, judgment may be ^ecufed'before
entered in the manner provided by Sections three hundred and January i, iwo.
ninety-nine, four hundred, four hundred and one, upon the plain
tiff's filing such bond and warrant of attorney, and the statement,
signed and verified by himself, in the form prescribed by Section
three hundred and ninety-nine.

Sec. 440. The time for publication of legal notices shall be com- The time for
puted so as to exclude the first day of publication, and include the notices,'10 h o w
day on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen, computed,
or which completes the full period required for publication.

Sec. 441. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code or other Laws of other
,
11
in
m
<•
States and Oovwritten law enacted by any other btate or territory, or foreign emments, how
Government, purporting or proved to have been published by the
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence
of the existing law in the Courts and judicial tribunals of such
State, Territory or Government, shall be admitted by the Courts
and officers of this State, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or common law of any other State or
Territory, or foreign Government, may be proved as facts by parol
evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their
Courts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

Sec. 442. An action against a corporation created by or under
the laws of any other State, government, or country, may be
brought in the Circuit Court.
1 . By any resident of this State, for any cause of action.
2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this State, when the cause of
action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be
situated, within this State.
Sec 443. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and and^uo^varrari8
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are aJj^ija'p te'r
abolished ; and the remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms substituted,
may be obtained by civil actions under the provisions of this chap- j^8"885' 401'
tor. But any proceeding heretofore commenced, or judgment state wilder
rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected by such abolition.

Sec. 444. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, b^"'h" ™y£t
in the name of the State, whenever the Legislature shall so di- tomey - General
to vacate a charrect, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annul- te/< by direction
01 til6 Jjjl8l11ling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate ex-tul'e,
istence, on the ground that such act or renewal was procured upon 5-8.
some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by
the person incorporated, or by some of them, or with their knowl
edge and consent.

Sec. 445. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General,
in the name of the State, on leave granted by the Supreme Court
to an- or a Justice thereof,' or a Circuit Judge,
of vacan uAction
1 a corpora& ' for the purpose
r r
tion,
when
and
ting
the
charter
or
annulling
the
existence
of
a
corporation,
other
now may be
or
brought
by
Atthan
municipal,
whenever
such
corporation
shall—
torney-General,
r
by
leaveCourt.
of sn- 1. Offend against
any' of the provisions
of this Code of Procedure,
preme
°
r
or the Acts creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation
shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises
by failure to exercise its powers; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and
franchises; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not con
ferred upon it by law.
And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, whenever
he shall have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions
can be established by proof, to apply for leave, and upon leave
granted to bring the action, in every case of public interest, and
also in every other case in which satisfactory security shall be
given to indemnify the State against the costs and expenses to be
incurred thereby.
Leave, how 
Sec. 446. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the
< .i .t.im. a.
app1ication of tne Attorney-General; and the Court or Judge may,
at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to the
corporation or to its officers, previous to granting such leave, and
may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
Action upon 
Sec. 447, An action may be brought by the Attorney- General
information or
.
complaint.
in the name of the State, upon his own information, or upon the
complaint of any private party, or by a private party interested,
on leave granted by a Circuit Judge, against the parties offending,
in the following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any fran
chise within this State, or any office in a corporation created by
the authority of this State; or,
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done or
suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a for
feiture of his office; or,
3. When any association or number of persons shall act within
this State as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

Sec. 448. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, an^cj^°'
in the name of the State, for the purpose of vacating or annulling brought to vacatis letters pa'
letters patent granted by the people of this State, in the following tentcases :
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or conceal
ment of a material fact, made by the person to whom the same
were issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge; or,
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact; or,
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee, or
those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in viola
tion of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.

Sec. 449. When an action shall be brought
& byJ the Attorney-,
J toFeUtor,when
be joined as
General, by virtue of this chapter, on the complaint of any private plaintiff,
party, or by a person having an interest in the question, the name
of such person shall be joined with the State as plaintiff, and in
every such case the Attorney-General or Circuit Judge, as the case
may be, may require, as a condition precedent to bringing such
action, that satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the
State against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby; and
in every case brought by the Attorney-General where such security
is given, the measure of compensation to be paid by such person
or persons to the Attorney-General shall be left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties.
Complaint and

Sec. 4d0. When such an action shall be brought against a per- arrest of defendant in an
son for usurping an office, the Attorney-General, or private party action forusnrpbringing the same, in addition to the statement of the cause of mg *" ce'
action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defend
ant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and
by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by
a Judge of the Circuit or Justice of the Supreme Court for the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon
he shall be arrested and held to bail, in the manner, and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in
other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

Sec. 451. In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon
the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party
so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant,
as justice shall require.
Judgment in 
Sec. 452. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the
such actions.
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such
person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and
executing such official bond as may be required by law, to take
upon himself the execution of the office; and it shall be his duty,
immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action
all the books and papers in his custody, or within his power,
belonging to the office from which he shall have been excluded.
Proceeding Sec 453. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver
against defendant, or refusal over such hooks or papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be
to deliver books
or papers.
guilty of a misdemeanor, and the following proceedings shall be
had, to compel delivery of such books and papers:
1. Whenever any person shall be removed from office, or the
term for which he shall have been elected or appointed shall ex
pire, he shall, on demand, deliver over to his successor all the books
and papers in his custody, as such officer, or in any way appertain
ing to his office. Every person violating this provision shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
2. Ifany person shall refuse or neglect to deliver over to his
successor any books or papers as required in the preceding Section,
such successor may make complaint thereoE to any Judge of the
Circuit Court, or Justice of the Supreme Court, where the person
so refusing shall reside, and if such officer be satisfied by the oath
of the complainant, and such other testimony as shall be offered,
that any such books or papers are withheld, he shall grant an
order directing the person so refusing to show cause before him,
within some short, reasonable time, why he should not be com
pelled to deliver the same.
3. At the time so appointed, or at any other time to which the
matter may be adjourned, upon due proof being made of the ser
vice of the said order, such officer shall proceed to inquire, into
the circumstances. If the person charged with withholding such
books or papers shall make affidavit before such officer that he has
truly delivered over to his successor all such books and papers in
his custody, or appertaining to his office, within his knowledge, all
further proceedings before such officer shall cease, and the person
complained against shall be discharged.
4. If the person complained against shall not make such oath, and
it shall appear that any such books or papers are withheld, the offi
cer before whom such proceeding shall be had shall, by warrant,
commit the person so withholding to the jail of the County, there
to remain until he shall deliver such books and papers, or be other
wise discharged according to law.
5. In the case stated in the last Section, if required by the com
plainant, such officer shall also issue his warrant, directed to any
Sheriff or Constable, commanding them in the day time to search
such places as shall be designated in such warrant for such books
and papers as belonged to the officer so removed, or whose term of
office expired, in his official capacity, and which appertained to such
office, and seize and bring them before the officer issuing the warrant.
6. Upon any books and papers being brought before such offi
cer, by virtue of such warrant, he shall inquire and examine
whether the same appertained to the office from which the person
so refusing to deliver was removed, or of which the term expired,
and he shall cause the same to be delivered to the complainant.
7. If any person appointed or elected to any office should die,
or his office shall in any way become vacant, and any books or
papers belonging or appertaining to such office shall come to the
hands of any person, the successor to such office may, in like man
ner as hereinbefore prescribed, demand such books or papers from
the person having the same in his possession; and on the same
being withhold, an order may be obtained, and the person charged
may, in like manner, make oath of the delivery of all such books
and papers that ever came to his possession; and in case of omis
sion to make such oath and to deliver up the books and papers so
demanded, such person may be committed to jail, and a search
warrant may be issued, and the property seized by virtue thereof
may be delivered to the complainant, as hereinbefore prescribed.

Sec. 454. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the per- Damages—
how recovered.
son so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may re
cover by action the damages which he shall have sustained by rea
son of the usurpation by the defendant of the office from which
such defendant has been excluded.

Sec. 455. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same agamepta seVeral
office or franchise, one action maybe brought against all such fn|8°nf8f ic'e"or
persons, in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchlaefranchise.
Sec 455 When a defendant,' whether a natural person
or a
usurping
r
nVwautohllbu corPoratiorl against whom such action shall have been brought,
awarded.
shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlaw
fully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege, judg
ment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from
such office, franchise, or privilege, and also that the plaintiff re
cover costs against such defendant. The Court may also, in its
discretion, fine such defendant it sum not exceeding two thousand
dollars, which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the Treasury
of the State.
be adjudged
that a corporation
0 fJudgment
forfeiture 
Sec. 457 if it shall
J 5
. against
against
a
corpowhich
an
action
shall
have
been
brought
pursuant
to
this
chapter.
ration.
r» 1
1
has, by neglect, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights,
privileges and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the
corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges and
franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved,
costs against
be rendered in such action against
a
a corporation
or SeC 453 If Jjudgment
0
0
Fn™tobeCBuc™* corPorationi or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the
Hhw to bo co1- Court may cause the costs thereon to be collected by execution
against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment
or process against the directors or other officers of such corporation.
restraininganila Sec.< 459. When such 10
judgment shall be rendered against
a corcorporation
o
appointment of poration, the Court shall have power to restrain the corporation, to
receiver appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account, and make
distribution thereof among its creditors; and it shall be the duty of
the Attorney-General, immediately after the rendition of such judg
ment, to institute proceedings for that purpose.
'nd'menV roil' 
Sec. 4<^- Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corpoagainst.
corporation, where
to ration, or for the vacatingo or annullingo of letters patent,
' it shall be
be filed.
the duty of the Attorney-General to cause a copy of the judgmentroll to be forthwith filed in the office of the Secretary of State,
men^'reiatiiigto .">ec. 461 . Such Secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to
letters patent. letters patent, make an entry in the records of the office of the Sec
retary of State, of the substance and effect of such judgment, and
of the time when the record thereof was docketed; and the real
property granted by such letters patent may thereafter be disposed
of in the same manner as if such letters patent had never been
issued.
rorf^ei'ture'of 
Sec. 462. Whenever, by the provision of law, any property, real
§ta£?.rty t0 the or personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any officer for their use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the
grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer in
the Circuit Court.

Sec. 463. Writ of error in all cases abolished. .Appeal substi
tuted.
\
464. Execution, when issuable on a judgment docketed be
fore July 1st, 1870.
465. Application of this Code of Procedure to actions pend
ing.
Sec 463. No writ of error shall be hereafter issued in any case Writs of error
„ in all cases abol
whatever. Wherever a right now exists to have a review of aished.
judgment rendered, or order or decree made, before the first day
of January, 1871, such review can only be had upon an appeal tuteS!t* 8UbHt1'
taken in the manner provided by this Code; but all appeals or
writs of error heretofore taken from such judgments, orders or de-3"828' 41 507
crees, which are still pending in an Appellate Court, and not dis
missed, shall be valid and effectual. But this Section shall not ex
tend the right of review to any case or question to which it does
not now extend, nor the time for appealing.
Sec 464. An execution may be- issued, without leave of the w nonissuable
Court, upon a judgment docketed before the first day of July, 1870, aSctcted "jifiy'
or now or hereafter to be rendered in an action pending on that 187°day, at any time within five years after the rendering of the judg
ment.

Sec. 465. The provisions
of this Code of Procedure apply
Application
of
r
rr J to fu- .this
Act to acture proceedings in actions or suits heretofore commenced and now tions pending,
pending
f
6 as follows:
3-410, 421.
1. If there have been no pleading therein to the pleadings and
all subsequent proceedings.
2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other question
of fact to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings.

Sec. 4(56. The words "real property" and "real estate," as used
" real proper_
.
.
ty."
in this Code of Procedure, are co-extensive with lands, tenements,
and hereditaments.
" p™umaI°pro- ^KC'
words "personal property," as used in this Code
perty."
of Procedure, include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
Definition of 
Sec. 468. The word " property," as used in this Code of Proce" property
^
dure, includes property, real and personal.
Definition of .Rec 469. The word "Clerk," as used in this Code of Procedure,
" Clerk. '
....
signifies the Clerk of the Court where the action is pending, and.
in the Supreme Court, the Clerk of the County mentioned in the
title of the complaint, or in another County to which the Court
may have changed the place of trial, unless otherwise specified.
rules of con- 
Sec. 470. The rule of common law. that statutes in derogastrnction.
.
tion of that law are to be strictly construed, has no application to
this Code of Procedure.
ah
statutory
inconsistent with this Code of
provisions in- <-;EC 471 . All statutory* provisions
L
consistent with Procedure are repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute
this Act repeal
ed
or law which may have been repealed or abolished by the provi
sions hereby repealed, And all rights of action given or secured
by existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner provided by
this Code of Procedure. If a case shall arise in which an action
for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this Code of Proce
dure, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far as may
be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

Sec. 472. The present
rules and practice
of the Courts in civil rules
, AUandpresent
r
r
pracactions, inconsistent with this Code of Procedure,' are abrogated;
°
' sistent with this
but when consistent with this Code of Procedure, they shall con- A<=t abrogated,
tinue in force, subject to the power of the respective Courts to
relax, modify, or alter the same.

Sec. 473. The Justices of the Supreme Court and -the Judges The Justices
n
•
' on(* Judges to
of the Circuit Courts shall meet in general session on the first meet and make
Tuesday in November, 1870, at the Capitol in Columbia, and in"
every two years thereafter. A majority of said Justices and
Judges shall constitute a quorum. At such session they shall re
vise the general rules of the Circuit Court, make amendments
thereto, and such further rules not inconsistent with this Code of
Procedure as may be necessary to carry it fully into effect.
Sec 474, The Justices of the Supreme Court shall, from time Justices of
k
^,Qe Supreme
to time, make such rules for the orderly conduct of business in Court to make
said Court as they may deem proper, not inconsistent with this 10-48'.
Code of Procedure.

Sec. 475. Until the Legislature shall otherwise provide, the
second part of this Code of Procedure shall not affect proceedings
by mandamus or prohibition.
