§ 5027 Comp. Laws; Sec. 5415 Rev.
Codes N. D. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and con
troverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.

§ 5028 Comp. Laws; $ 5416 Rev. Codes
N. D. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the com
plaint, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.

§ 5029 Comp. Laws; $ 5417 Rev. Codes
N. D. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; or,
- 2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the
reply; or,
3. Upon new natter in the reply, except an issue of law
is joined thereon.

§ 5030 Comp. Laws; $ 5418
Rev. Codes N. D. Issues both of law and of fact may arise
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In
such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless the
court otherwise direct.

§ 5031 Comp. Laws; $ 5419 Rev. Codes
N. D. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between.
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

§ 5032 Comp. Laws. An issue
of law must be tried by the court or by the judge. An issue of
fact for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or per
sonal property, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be
waived as provided in section 5065. Every other issue is triable
by the court which, however, may order the whole issue or
any specific question of fact involved therein, to be tried by a
jury, or may refer it as provided in sections 5071 and 5072.

§ 5420 Rev. Codes N. D. An issue of law must be
tried by the court or by the judge. An issue of fact in an ac
tion for the recovery of money only or of specific real or per
sonal property must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
waived as provided in section 5449, or a reference is ordered as
provided in sections 5455 and 5456. Every other issue is tria
ble by the court, which, however, may order the whole issue
or any specific fact involved therein to be tried by a jury or by
a referee as provided in sections 5455 and 5456. 

§ 5033 Comp. Laws; $ 5421
Rev. Codes. All issues of fact, triable by a jury or by the
court, must be tried before a single judge. Issues of fact must
be tried at a regular term of the circuit court, when the trial is
by jury, otherwise at a regular or special term as the court may
by its rules prescribe. Issues at law must be tried at a regular
or special term of the circuit court, or by the court in vacation,
or judge at chambers. If by the court in vacation, or judge at
chambers, the same may be heard, tried and determined in any
county of the circuit within which the action is brought, and
judgment thereon entered in the proper county, upon the giv
ing by either or any party of the notice prescribed by sec. 5034;
but in such case no note of issue need be filed, and any judg
ment, final decision or actual determination, made upon such
trial and hearing, may be appealed from in the same manner
and subject to the same rules and provisions as in cases of
other appeals from actual determinations and final decisions of
any regular or special terms of the circuit courts of this state.

§ 5034 Comp.
Laws; $5421 Rev. Codes N. D. At any time after issue, and at
least ten days before the court, either party may give notice of
trial. The party giving the notice shall furnish the clerk, at
least eight days before the court, with a note of the issue, con
taining the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and
the time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the
date of the issue. There need be but one notice of trial, and
one note of issue from either party, and the action must then
remain on the calendar until disposed of, and when called may
be brought to trial by the party giving the notice. The issues
on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following order, un
less, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch of business,
the court shall otherwise direct:
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law. 

§ 5035 Comp.
Laws; $ 5423 Rev. Codes N. D. Either party, when the case is
reached upon the calendar, and in the absence of the adverse
party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may
proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or
a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require. A separate
trial between a plaintiff and any of the several defendants may
be allowed by the court, whenever, in its opinion, justice will
be promoted.

§ 5036 Comp. Laws; $ 5424
Rev. Codes N. D. When the issue shall be brought to trial by
the plaintiff, he shall furnish the court with a copy of the sum
mons and pleadings, with the offer of the defendant, if any
shall have been made. When the issue shall be brought to
trial by the defendant, and the plaintiff shall neglect or refuse
to furnish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings
and the offer of the defendant, the same may be furnished by
the defendant.

§ 5425 Rev. Codes
N. D. At the opening of the court the clerk must prepare sep
arate ballots containing the names of the persons returned as
jurors, which must be folded as nearly alike as possible, and
so that the names cannot be seen, and must deposit them in the
trial jury box.
§ 5038 Comp. Laws; $ 5426 Rev.
Codes N. D. When the action is called for trial by jury, the
clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the court the ballots
containing the names of the jurors summoned, until the jury
is completed or the ballots are exhausted.
§ 5039 Comp. Laws;
§ 5427 Rev. Codes N. D. Either party may challenge the jurors,
but where there are several parties on either side, they must
join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenges are
to individual jurors, and are either peremptory or for cause.
Each party is entitled to three peremptory challenges. If no
peremptory challenges are taken until the panel is full, they
must be taken by the parties alternately, commencing with the
plaintiff. 

§ 5040 Comp. Laws; $5428 Rev.
Codes N. D. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more
of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by the
political code to render a person competent as a juror.
2. Consanguinity or affinity, within the fourth degree, to
either party.
. Standing in the relation of guardian or ward, master
and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to
either party, or being a member of the family of either party,
or being a partner in business with either party, or surety on
any bond or obligation for either party.
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a prev
ious trial between the same parties for the same cause of action.
5. Interest or the part of the juror in the event of the ac
tion, or in the main question involved in the action, except his
interest as a member or citizen of a municipal corporation.
6. Having an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits
of the action, founded upon knowledge of its material facts, or
some of them.
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing
enmity against, or bias to or against, either party.
8. That he does not understand the English language as
used in the courts. 

§ 5041 Comp. Laws; $ 5429
Rev. Codes N. D. Challenges for cause must be tried by the
court. The juror challenged and any other person may be ex
amined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.

§ 5046 Comp. Laws; $ 5430 Rev. Codes.
N. D. As soon as the jury is completed, the following oath must
be administered to the jurors:
“You, and each of you, do solemnly swear, that you will
well and truly try the matters in issue between , the plain
tiff, and , defendant, and a true verdict rendered accord
ing to the evidence. So help you, God.”
If any person be conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, he shall be allowed to make affirmation, substituting for
the words “So help you God,” at the end of the oath, the fol
lowing: “This you do affirm under the pains and penalties of
perjury.”

§ 5047 Comp. Laws; $5431 Rev. Codes
N. D. When the jury has been sworn, the trial must proceed
in the following order, unless the judge, for special reasons
otherwise directs:
1. The plaintiff, after stating the issue and his case, must
produce the evidence on his part.
2. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer
evidence in support thereof.
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evi
dence only, unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of
justice, permit them to offer evidence upon their original case.
4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is sub
mitted to the jury on either side or on both sides without argu
ment, the plaintiff must commence and may conclude the argu
ment.
5. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear
by different counsel, the court must determine their relative
order in the evidence and argument.
6. The court may then charge the jury.

§ 5048 Comp.
Laws. The court, in charging the jury, shall only instruct as
to the law of the case; and no judge shall instruct the petit
jury in any case, civil or criminal, unless such instructions are
reduced to writing; and when instructions are asked which the
judge cannot give, he shall write on the margin thereof the
word “refused,” and such as he approves he shall write on the
margin thereof the word “given”; and he shall in no case, af
ter instructions are given, qualify, modify, or in any manner
explain the same to the jury, otherwise than in writing; and
all instructions asked for by counsel shall be given or refused
by the judge, without modification or change, unless such mod
ification or change shall be consented to by the counsel asking
the same.

§ 5432 Rev. Codes N. D. The court in charging a
jury shall only instruct as to the law of the case; and no court
shall instruct the jury in any civil case, unless such instruc
tions are first reduced to writing. Either party may request
instructions to the jury. Each instruction so requested must
be written on a separate sheet and may be given or refused by
the court, and the court shall write on the margin of such re
quested instruction given by him the word, “given,” and on the
margin of those which he does not give he shall write the
word, “refused,” and all instructions asked for by the counsel
shall be given or refused by the court without modification or
change, unless modified or changed by consent of counsel ask
ing the same. The court may in its discretion submit the writ
ten instructions, which it proposes to give to the jury, to coun
sel in the case for examination, and require such counsel af
ter a reasonable examination thereof to designate such parts
thereof as he may deem objectionable, and such counsel must
thereupon designate such parts of such instructions as he may
deem improper, and thereafter only such parts so designated
shall be excepted to by the counsel so designating the same.

§ 5049 Comp.
Laws. All instructions given by the judge shall be read to the
jury in the following order:
1. Defendant's instructions by defendant's counsel.
2. Plaintiff's instructions by plaintiff's counsel.
3. Instructions given by the judge, of his own motion, if
any, by the judge giving the same; and all instructions so
given and read shall be taken by the jury in their retirement,
and returned into court with their verdict. Exceptions to the
giving or refusing any instrnction, or to its modification or
change, may be taken at any time before the entry of final judg
ment in the case.
§ 5433 Rev. Codes N. D. All instructions given to
the jury must be read to them by the court without disclosing
to them whether such instructions were requested or not and
must be signed by the judge and delivered to the jury and shall
be taken by the jury in their retirement and returned with
their verdict into court, and upon the close of the trial all in
structions given or refused must be filed with the clerk and
either party may within twenty days from the date of such fil
ing file with the clerk exceptions to any such instructions or
refusals to instruct and the same shall thereupon be deemed
duly excepted to; provided, that with the consent of both par
ties entered in the minutes the court may instruct the jury
orally, in which case said oral instructions shall be taken down
by the official stenographer and written out at length and the
shorthand notes thereof together with such instructions so
written out shall be filed in the case with the clerk, and either
party may except to any of such instructions within twenty
days after the date of such filing as heinbefore provided; pro
vided, that the official stenographer shall receive for writing
out such instructions the same fees as for making transcripts;
and provided, further, that when oral instructions are given,
the jury shall not take the charge in their retirement, unless so
ordered by the court. 

§ 5434 Rev.
Codes N. D. When, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject
of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occur
red, it may order them to be conducted in a body, under the
charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them
by some person appointed by the court for that purpose.
While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the person
so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected
with the trial.
§ 5435 Rev.
Codes N. D. If the jury are permitted to separate, either dur
ing the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, they shall
be admonished by the court that is their duty not to converse
with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by any other person
on any subject of the trial, and it is their duty not to form or
express an opinion thereon until the case is finally submitted
to them.
§ 5436
Rev. Codes N. D. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
may take with them all papers which have been received as
evidence in the cause, except depositions or copies of such
papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken
from the person having them in possession; and they may also
take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on
the trial taken by themselves, or any of them, but none taken
by any other person.

§ 5437 Rev. Codes N. D. When the case is finally submitted to
the jury they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If
they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient
place, under charge of an officer, until they agree upon a ver
dict or are discharged by the court, Unless by order of the
court, the officer having them under his charge must not suffer
any communication to be made to them, or make any himself,
except to ask them if they have agreed upon a verdict; and he
must not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed
upon.

§ 5438 Rev. Codes N. D. After the jury have retired for de
liberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any
point of law arising in the case, they may require the officer to
conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into
court, the information required must be given in the presence
of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel. 
§ 5439
Rev. Codes N. D. If, after the impaneling of a jury, and be.
fore a verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to per
form his duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In
that case the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or an
other jury may be sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the jury
may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards impan
eled.
Sec. 5056 Comp. Laws;
Sec. 5440 Rev. Codes N. D. In all cases where the jury are
discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of
accident or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or
after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again
tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court may di
rect.


§ 5441 Rev. Codes N. D. While the jury are absent, the court
may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business;
but it is nevertheless open for every purpose connected with
the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or
the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury to bring
in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the court, in case of an
agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day. A fin
al adjournment of the court for the term discharges the jury.

§ 5442 Rev. Codes N. D. When the jury have agreed
upon their verdict, they must be conducted into court, their
names called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their
foreman. The verdict must be in writing, signed by the fore
an, and must be read by the clerk to the jury, and the in
quiry made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees,
they must be sent out again; but if no disagreement be ex
pressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the
verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the case.
Either party may require the jury to be polled, which is done
by the court or clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict. If
any one answer in the negative, the jury must again be sent
Out.

Sec. 1. In all
civil actions cognizable by a justice of the peace, except actions
for the forcible entry and detainer or detainer of real property,
tried in the circuit or county court, the verdict may be rendered
by three-fourths of the jury in the manner provided in section
2 of this act.

Sec. 2.
When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they must be
conducted into court, their names called by the clerk and the
verdict rendered by their foreman. The verdict must be in
writing, signed by the foreman, and must be read by the clerk
to the jury and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If
four or more of the jury disagree they must be sent out again.
If nine of the jury agree to the verdict, it shall be the verdict
of the jury and so recorded, and if neither party requires the
jury to be polled the verdict is complete and the jury dis.
charged from the case. Either party may require the jury to
be polled, which is done by the court or clerk asking each jur
or if it is his verdict. If more than three answer in the nega
tive the jury must be sent out.
Sec. 3. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed.

§ 5443 Rev. Codes N. D. When the verdict is announced, if it be
informal or insufficient in not covering the issue submitted, it
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or
the jury may be again sent out.

§ 5060 Comp.
Laws; $ 5444 Rev. Codes N. D. The verdict of a jury is either
general or special:
1. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintiff or defendant; and,
2. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the
facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.
The special verdict must present the conclusions of fact as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and these conclusions of fact must be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the court but to draw from them
conclusions of law.
§ 5061 Comp. Laws; In an action for the recovery of money only,
or specific real property, the jury in their discretion, may render
a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or
any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of
fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special verdict or finding must be filed with the
clerk, and entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding
of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
controls the latter, and the court must give judgment accord
ingly.

§ 5445 Rev. Codes, N. D. The court in its dis
cretion may, and when either party at or before the close of
the testimony and before any argument to the jury is made or
waived shall so request, shall direct the jury to find a special
verdict. Such verdict shall be prepared by the court in the
form of questions in writing, which shall be confined to matters
involving the merits of the case and shall admit of direct an
swer and the jury shall make their answer thereto in writing.
The court may also direct the jury, if they render a general
verdict, to find in writing upon any particular questions of fact,
to be stated as aforesaid. In every action for the recovery of
oney only, or of specific real property, the jury may in their
discretion, when not otherwise directed by the court, render a
general or special verdict. The special verdict or finding must
be filed with the clerk and entered upon the minutes. When the
special findings of fact are inconsistent with the general verdict,
the former controls the latter and the court must give judg
ment accordingly. 

§ 5446, Rev. Codes, N. D. When a verdict is found for the
plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money, or for the de
fendant when a counter-claim for the recovery of money is
established, exceeding the amount of plaintiff's claim as estab
lished, the jury must also find the amount of the recovery; and,
they may also, under the direction of the court, assess the
amount of the recovery, when the court gives judgment for the
plaintiff on the answer.
§ 5063 Comp. Laws. In
an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the
property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the defend
ant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or, if being in favor of the
defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof,
must find the value of the property, and, if so instructed, the
value of specific portions thereof, and may at the same time as
sess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or an
swer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of
the taking or detention of such property.
§ 5447 Rev. Codes N. D.
In an action for the recovery of specific personal property the
jury must find by their verdict the facts as the case may be as
follows:
1. In case they find against the defendant and the property
has not been delivered to the plaintiff, they must find the value
of the property, or of the plaintiff's interest therein, if less
than its full value, at the time of the taking, and that the plain
tiff is entitled to a delivery of the property, and they must also
assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint, which
the plaintiff has sustained by reason of the taking and deten
tion of such property; or,
2. In case they find against the defendant and the pro
perty has been delivered to the plaintiff, they must find that
the plaintiff is entitled to the property and they must also as
sess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint, which
the plaintiff has sustained by reason of the taking and deten
tion of such property.
3. In case they find against the plaintiff and the property
has been delivered to him, and the defendant in his answer
claims a return of the property, they must . find the value
thereof, or of the defendant’s interest therein, if less than its
full value, at the time of the taking, and they must also assess
the damages, if any are claimed in the answer, which the de
fendant has sustained by reason of the taking and detention of
such property; or,
4. ln case they find against the plaintiff and the property
has been retained by the defendant, they must find that the de
fendant is entitled to such property.
5. In case the jury finds that each party is entitled to
specific portions of the property in controversy and such por.
tion has been delivered to the opposite party and a return is
claimed in the complaint or answer, they must find the value of
such portion, or of the party's interest therein, if less than its
full value, at the time of the taking, and also assess the dam
ages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, in favor of
the plaintiff or defendant as hereinbefore provided as to the
portion to which they find the plaintiff or defendant entitled.
Whenever the jury are so instructed, they must find the
value of specific portions of the property in controversy or of
the interest of either party therein, if less than its full value,
at the time of the taking, and shall also assess the damages, if
any are claimed by the party in whose favor they find sustained
by reason of the taking and detention of such property.
§ 5448 Rev.
Codes N. D. Upon receiving a verdict an entry must be made
by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the time of
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and setting out the
verdict at length; and where a special verdict is found, either
the judgment rendered thereon, or, if the case be reserved for
argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.
§ 5065 Comp. Laws; $ 5449 Rev.
Codes N. D. Trial by jury may be waived by the several par
ties to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract, or for the
recovery of specific real or personal property, with or without
damages, and with the assent of the court in other actions, in
manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the clerk.
3. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
§ 5066 Comp. Laws. Upon the
trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision must be
given in writing and filed with the clerk within thirty days af
ter the cause is submitted for decision, and upon a trial of a
question of law the decision must be given by the court at the
time the question is submitted for decision or within fifteen
days thereafter, and no judgment shall be rendered or entered
until after the filing of such decision. 
§ 5449 Rev. Codes N. D. All motions or applica
tions in any action, special proceeding or other matter in
the district court must be decided and such decision reduced to
writing and filed with the clerk within thirty days after the
same shall have been submitted to the court for decision, unless
prevented by the sickness of the judge whose duty it is to de
cide the same or by other unavoidable casualty, and upon the
trial of any question or issue of fact by the court its decision
thereon and conclusions of law upon such decision, and direc
tion for entry of judgment in accordance with such conclusions
must be given in writing and filed with the clerk within sixty
days after the cause has been submitted for decision, unless
such is prevented for the reason hereinbefore stated, and judg
ment shall be entered by the clerk in accordance with such di
rection upon the application of the party entitled thereto and
the filing of such decision and conclusions of law. Each judge
of the district court shall not less than five nor more than
fifteen days before each quarterly installment of his salary be.
come due file in the Office of the auditor of the state a certificate
under his hand stating in effect that no motion, application or
question or issue of fact submitted to him remains undecided
contrary to the provisions of this section. And in case any
such decision has been prevented by any of the causes enumer
ated in this section, such certificates shall state the facts con
stituting the cause of such prevention, and the state auditor is
hereby directed not to sign or issue any warrant for the pay
ment of any quarterly installment of salary to any judge of the
district court until after such judge shall have filed such cer
tificate as herein provided. 

§ 5067 Comp. Laws; $5451 Rev.
Codes N. D. In giving the decision the facts found and the
conclusions must be separately stated. Judgment upon the
decision must be entered accordingly.
§ 5068 Comp. Laws; $5452 Rev.
Codes N. D. Findings of fact may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk.

§ 5069 Comp. Laws; $ 5453
Rev. Codes N. D. At the time the cause is submitted the judge
may direct either or both parties to prepare findings of facts
unless they have been waived, and when so directed the party
must within two days prepare and serve upon his adversary,
and submit to the judge such findings, and may, within two
days thereafter, briefly suggest in writing to the judge why he
desires findings upon the points included within the findings
prepared by himself, or why he objects to findings upon the
points included within the findings prepared by his adversary.
The judge may adopt, modify, or reject the findings so submit
ted. If, at the time of the submission of the cause, the judge
does not direct the preparation of findings, or those prepared
are rejected, then he must himself prepare the findings.

§ 5070 Comp. Laws; $ 5454
Rev. Codes N. D. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an is
sue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the
first two subdivisions of section 5025, upon the failure of the de
fendant to answer. If judgment be for the defendant upon an is
sue of law, and the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact
be necessary, to enable the court to complete the judgment, a
reference may be ordered as in that section provided.

§ 5071 Comp. Laws. A refer
ence may be ordered upon the agreement of the parties filed
with the clerk or entered in the minutes.
1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding,
whether of fact or law, and to report a finding and judgment
thereOn.
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to de
termine an action or proceeding.
3. In all other cases provided for reference by law. 
§ 5455 Rev. Codes N. D. All or any of the issues
in an action whether of fact or law or both may be referred by
the court or judge thereof upon the written consent of the par
ties. The fees of referees shall be fixed by the court and shall
in no case exceed ten dollars per day except upon the written
consent of both parties to the reference. 

§ 5072 Comp. Laws, Sec. 5456 Rev.
Codes N. D. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either party, or of its own motion di
rect a reference in the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examin
ation of a long account on either side; in which case the refer
ees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or re
port upon any specific question of fact involved therein.
. When the taking of an account is necessary for the in
formation of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judg
ment or Order into effect.
3. When it is necessary for the information of the court
in a special proceeding. 

§ 5073 Comp. Laws; Sec. 5457 Rev.
Codes N. D. A reference may be ordered to any person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If
the parties do not agree the court or judge must appoint one or
more referees, not exceeding three, who reside within the judi
cial circuit in which the action or proceeding is triable and
against whom there is no legal objection 
§ 5074 Comp. Laws; sec. 5458
Rev. Codes N. D. Either party may object to the appointment
of any person as referee for the same cause for which chal
lenges for cause may be taken to a petit juror in the trial of a
civil action.

§ 5075 Comp. Laws; sec. 5459
Rev. Codes N. D. The objections taken to the appointment of
any person as referee must be heard and disposed of by the
court or judge thereof. Affidavits may be read and witnesses
examined as to such objections. 
§ 4, Chap. 100, Laws 1891 S. D.
The referees before proceeding to hear the testimony must be
sworn to well and truly try the issues, or to determine the ques
tions referred and to make a just and true report according to
their best knowledge and understanding.
§ 5461 Rev. Codes N. D. The referees before pro
ceeding to hear any testimony must be sworn well and truly to
hear and determine the facts referred to them and true findings
render according to the evidence, and they have power to ad
minister oaths to all witnesses produced before them. 

§ 5, Chap. 100,
Laws 1891, S. D. The trial by referee of an issue of fact, or of
an issue of law must be brought upon at least eight days writ
ten notice, and conducted in like manner, and the papers to be
furnished thereupon are the same, and are furnished in like
manner, as where the trial is by the court without a jury. The
referee exercises upon such a trial the same power as the court
to administer oaths, to grant adjournments, to preserve order
and punish the violation thereof. Upon the trial of an issue of
fact the referee exercises also the same power as the court to allow
amendments to the summons or to the pleadings; to compel the
attendance of a witness by attachment; and to punish a witness
for a contempt of court, for non-attendance, or refusal to be
sworn, or to testify. Upon the trial of an issue of law the ref
eree exercises the same power as the court to permit a party in
fault to plead anew or amend; to direct the action to be divided
into two or more actions; to award costs, and otherwise to dis
pose of any question arising upon the decision of the issue re
ferred to him. The powers conferred by this section are exer
cised in like manner, and upon like terms, as similar powers
are exercised by the court upon a trial.

§ 5460, Rev.
Codes, N. D. The trial by referee shall be conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. Upon such trial the ref
eree shall have the same power to grant adjournments and al
low amendments to any pleading as the court would have and
upon the same terms and with like effect. He shall also have
the same power to preserve order and punish all violations
thereof upon such trial and compel the attendance of witnesses
before him and to punish them as for a contempt for non-atten
dance or refusal to be sworn or testify as is possessed by the
court. He shall give to the parties or their attorneys at least
eight days notice of the time and place of trial. He must state
the facts found and conclusions of law separately and report
his findings together with all of the evidence taken by him and
all exceptions taken on the hearing to the district court and the
district court may review such report and on motion enter judg
ment thereon, or set aside, alter or modify the same and enter
judgment upon the same so altered or modified, and may re
quire the referee to amend his report when necessary. The
judgment so entered by the district court may be appealed from
to the supreme court in like manner as from judgments in other
cases. 
§ 5466 Rev. Codes
N. D. In any trial by a referee either party may take excep
tions in the same manner as on trials by the court and the ref
eree shall note in his minutes any exceptions so taken as they
are taken. The prevailing party shall serve upon the other a
copy of the referee's findings of fact and conclusions of law
after the same shall have been filed with a notice of the time
and place of such filing, and either party may except to any
finding of fact or conclusion of law by a referee by filing writ
ten exceptions with the clerk at any time before the expiration
of twenty days after service of such copy and notice. All such
exceptions may be incorporated with the statement of the case
which may be thereafter settled. When the referee's findings
of fact or conclusions of law are set aside or modified by the
court, no exceptions shall be necessary to enable a full review
of such orders upon appeal. 

§ 6, Chap. 100, Laws
1891, S. D. Where the reference is to more than One referee
all must meet together and hear all the allegations and proofs
of the parties; but a majority may appoint a time and place for
the trial, decide any question which arises upon the trial, sign
a report or settle a case. Either of them may administer an
oath to a witness, and a majority of those present at a time and
place appointed for the trial may adjourn the trial to a future
day.
§ 8, Chap. 100, Laws
1891, S. D. The report upon the trial of the whole issue must
contain a statement of all the exceptions taken during the trial,
the rulings of the referee thereon and a sufficient statement of
the facts or so much of the evidence as is material to fairly
present the question raised by the exceptions. It must also
state, separately, the findings of fact and conclusions of law
upon the issues raised, which may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner as if made by the court, and such findings and
conclusions shall have the same effect as though made by the
court upon the trial of questions of fact.

§ 7, Chap. 100, Laws 1891, S. D. The
referees must make and file with the clerk of the court their re
port within twenty days after the case is finally submitted.
But the time may be extended by the consent of the parties or
by order of the court or judge. 

§ 9, Chap. 100, Laws 1891,
S. D. If the report is accepted by the court, judgment may be
entered thereon after the expiration of eight days after written
notice of the filing of the report served by either party on the
adverse party.

§ 10, Chap. 100 Laws
1891, S. D. A new trial may be had or an appeal taken to the
supreme court in like manner as in other cases, and the report
of the referee may be incorporated in the bill of exceptions. In
case a new trial is granted, or if the report is not accepted, the
parties may again refer the cause, or the same shall stand open
for trial as though it had not been referred. And the party
finally recovering shall be entitled to the costs of the former
reference.

§ 11, Chap. 100, Laws 1891,
S. D. The referees may appoint a stenographer whose qualifi
cations and duties shall be the same as those required by law
in case of the short-hand reporter of the court. The fees and
necessary expense of the referees and the compensation of the
stenographer shall be fixed by the court, after the filing of the
report, and shall be audited and paid by the county or subdi
vision wherein the court is held which made the reference.
Provided, That the fees and charges of the stenographer for
making a transcript of the evidence in such cases shall not be a
charge against or paid by the county, but when ordered by the
referees shall be paid by the parties to the action. 

§ 5079 Comp. Laws; sec. 5462 Rev.
Codes N. D. An exception is an objection upon a matter of law
to a decision made, either before or after judgment by a court,
or judge, in an action or proceeding. The exception must be
taken at the time the decision is made, except as provided in section 5080, 

§ 5080 Comp. Laws; $
5463, Rev. Codes N. D. The verdict of the jury, the
final decision in an action or proceeding, an interlocu
tory order or decision finally determining the rights of the par
ties, or some of them, an order granting or refusing a new trial,
an order sustaining or overruling a demurrer, allowing or re
fusing to allow an amendment to a pleading, striking out a
pleading or a portion thereof, refusing a continuance, an order
made upon ex parte application, and an order or decision made
in the absence of a party, are deemed to have been excepted to,

§ 5081 Comp. Laws. No particular form of
exception is required, but when the exception is to the verdict
or decision, upon the ground of the insufficiency of the evi
dence to justify it, the objection must specify the particulars in
which such evidence is alleged to be insufficient; but the speci
fication of such particulars as provided in section 5090 shall be
sufficient. The objection must be stated, with so much of the
evidence or other matter as is necessary to explain it, and no
more. Only the substance of the reporter's notes of the evi
dence shall be stated. Documents on file in the action or pro
ceeding may be copied, or the substance thereof stated, or a
reference thereto sufficient to identify them may be made.

§ 5464 Rev. Codes N. D.
A statement of the evidence or a part thereof settled by the
court for the purpose of reviewing either errors of law or the
sufficiency of the evidence or both is designated in this code a
statement of the case. 
§ 5082 Comp. Laws; $
5465, Rev. Codes N. D. A bill containing the exceptions to
any ruling may be presented to the judge at the time the ruling
is made, or the exception may be entered on the judge's min
utes, and afterwards settled. The bill must be conformable to
the truth, or be at the time corrected until it be so, and signed
by the judge and filed with the clerk.

§ 5083,
Comp. Laws. When a party desires to have exceptions taken
at a trial settled in a bill of exceptions, he may, within thirty
days after the entry of judgment, if the action were tried with
a jury, or after receiving notice of the entry of judgment, if
the action were tried without a jury, or such further time as
the court in which the action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may allow, prepare the draft of a bill and serve the same, or a
copy thereof, upon the adverse party. Such draft must con
tain all the exceptions taken, upon which the party relies.
Within twenty days after such service the adverse party may
propose amendments thereto and serve the same, or a copy
thereof, upon the other party. The proposed bill and amend
ments must, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the
party seeking the settlement of the bill to the judge who tried
or heard the case, upon five days’ notice to the adverse party,
or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the judge. When
received by the clerk, he must immediately deliver them to the
judge, if he be in the county; if he be absent from the county

and either party desire the papers to be forwarded to the judge,
the clerk must, upon notice in writing of such party, immed.
iately forward them by mail or other safe channel; if not thus
forwarded, the clerk must deliver them to the judge immediate
ly after his return to the county. When received from the
clerk, the judge must designate the time at which he will settle
the bill, and the clerk must immediately notify the parties of
such designation. At the time designated the judge must set
tle the bill, if no amendments are served, or if served are al
lowed, the proposed bill may be presented with the amend
ments, if any, to the judge for settlement, without notice to
the adverse party. It is the duty of the judge, in settling the
bill, to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, so
that the exceptions may be presented as briefly as possible.
When settled the bill must be signed by the judge, with his
certificate to the effect that the same is allowed, and shall then
be filed with the clerk. 

§ 5467 Rev. Codes N.
D. When a party desires to have a statement of the case set
tled, he may within thirty days after receiving notice of the
entry of judgment or such further time as the court may allow
prepare the draft of a statement and serve the same upon the
adverse party. Such draft must contain all the exceptions
upon which the party relies, but no particular form of excep
tion is required. The objection must be stated with so much
of the evidence or other matter as is necessary to explain it and
no more. Only the substance of the reporter’s notes of the
evidence shall be stated. Documents on file in the action or
proceeding may be copied or the substance thereof stated.
There shall be incorporated in every such statement a specifi
cation of the particulars in which the evidence is alleged to be
insufficient to justify the verdict or other decision and of the
errors of law upon which the party settling the same intends
to rely. If no specification is made the statement shall be dis
regarded on motion for a new trial and on appeal. Within
twenty days after the service of the draft of a statement the
adverse party may propose amendments to the same and serve
such amendments upon the other party. The proposed state
ment and amendment must within twenty days thereafter be
presented by the party seeking the settlement thereof to the
judge who tried or heard the case upon five days’ notice to the
adverse party. At the time designated the judge must settle
the statement. If no amendments are served, or if served, are
allowed, the proposed statement may be presented with the
amendments, if any, to the judge for settlement without notice
to the adverse party. If the judge is absent from the district
at the time when the proposed statement should be presented
to him for settlement, the time of such absence shall not be
deemed any portion of the time herein limited for the settle
ment thereof. It is the duty of the judge in settling the state
ment to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter and to
make the statement truly represent the case, notwithstanding
the assent of the parties to such matter. When settled the
statement must be signed by the judge with his certificate to
the effect that the same is allowed and shall then be filed with
the clerk. 

§ 5084, Comp. Laws, §
5468, Rev. Codes, N. D. Exceptions to any decision made after
judgment, may be presented to the judge at the time of such
decision, and may be settled or noted as provided in section
5082, and a bill thereof may be presented and settled after
wards, as provided in section 5083, and within like periods after
entry of the order, upon appeal from which such decision is re
viewable.

§ 5469 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judge in any case refuse to
allow an exception in accordance with the facts, the party de
siring the bill settled may apply by petition to the supreme
court to prove the same. The application may be made in the
mode and manner, and under such regulations, as that court
may prescribe, and the bill, when proven, must be certified by
a justice thereof as correct, and filed with the clerk of the
court in which the action was tried, and when so filed it has
the same force and effect as if settled by the judge who tried
the cause.
§ 5086 Comp. Laws;
§ 5470, Rev. Codes N. D. A judge may settle and sign a
a bill of exceptions after, as well as before he ceases to be such
judge. If such judge, before the bill of exceptions is settled,
dies, is removed from office, becomes disqualified, is absent
from the state, or refuses to settle the bill of exceptions, or if
no mode is provided by law for the settlement of the same, it
shall be settled and certified in such manner as the supreme
court may by its order or rules direct. Judges of the district
court and the supreme court shall respectively possess the same
power in settling and certifying statements as is by this sec
tion conferred upon them in settling and certifying bills of ex
ceptions. 

§ 5087, Comp. Laws; $ 5471, Rev.
Codes N. D. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury or court,
or by referees.
§ 5088, Comp. Laws; $ 5472, Rev. Codes N.
D. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and
a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes, materially affecting the sub
stantial rights of such party: -
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or
adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion,
by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more
of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or spe
cial verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them
by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such
misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the
jurors. -
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against.
4. Newly discovered evidence, material to the party mak
ing the application, which he could not, with reasonable dili
gence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given un
der the influence of passion or prejudice.
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, or that it is against law.
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.

§ 5090, Comp. Laws; $ 5474.
Rev. Codes, N. D. The party intending to move for a new trial
must, within twenty days after the verdict of the jury, if the
action were tried by jury, or after notice of the decision of the
court, if the action were tried without a jury, serve upol
adverse party a notice of his intention, designating the s
tory grounds upon which the motion will be made and wh
the same will be made upon affidavits, or the minutes C
court, or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case.
Subdivision 1. If the motion is to be made upon affid:
the moving party must, within twenty days after serving
notice, or such further time as the court in which the acti
pending, or a judge thereof may allow, serve a copy of
affidavits upon the adverse party, who shall have ten da
serve counter affidavits, a copy of which must be served
the moving party. Motions for new trial on the grou
newly discovered evidence may be made at any time befor
close of the term next succeeding that at which the trial
had.
Subdivision 2. If the motion is to be made upon a b
exceptions, and no bill has already been settled as here
fore provided, the moving party shall have the same time
service of the notice to prepare and obtain a settlement of
of exceptions as is provided after the entry of judgmen
after receiving notice of such entry, by section 5083, an
bill shall be prepared and settled in a similar manner. If
of exceptions has been already settled and filed, when th
tice of motion is given, such bill shall be used on the mo
When the notice designates as the grounds of the motion e
in law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the mo
party, such bill of exceptions shall specify the particular e
upon which the party will rely.
Subdivision 3. If the motion is to be made upon a
ment of the case, the moving party must, within twenty
after service of the notice, or such further time as the cou
which the action is pending, or the judge thereof, may a
prepare a draft of the statement and serve the same, or a
thereof, on the adverse party. If such proposed stateme
not agreed to by the adverse party, he must within twenty
thereafter prepare amendments thereto and serve the san
a copy thereof, upon the moving party. If the amendmer
adopted the statement shall be amended accordingly, and then
presented to the judge who tried or heard the cause, for settle
ment, or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the judge.
If not adopted, the proposed statement and amendments shall
within ten days thereafter be presented by the moving party to
the judge, upon five days notice to the adverse party, or deliv
ered to the clerk of the court for the judge; and thereupon the
same proceedings for the settlement of the statement shall be
taken by the parties, and clerk, and judge, as are required for
the settlement of bills of exception by section 5083. If no
amendments are served within the time designated, or, if serv
ed, are allowed, the proposed statement and amendments, if
any, may be presented to the judge for settlement, without no
tice to the adverse party. When the notice of intention desig.
nates as the ground of the motion the insufficiency of the evi
dence to justify the verdict or other decision, the statement
shall specify the particulars in which such evidence is alleged
to be insufficient. When the notice designates as the ground
of the motion errors in law occurring at the trial and excepted
to by the moving party, the statement shall specify the partic
ular errors upon which the party will rely. If no such specifi
cations be made, the statement shall be disregarded on the
hearing of the motion. It is the duty of the judge in settling
the statement, to strike Out of it all redundant and useless mat
ter, and to make the statement truly represent the case, not
withstanding the assent of the parties to such redundant or
useless matter, or to any inaccurate statement. When settled,
the statement shall be signed by the judge, with his certificate
to the effect that the same is allowed, and shall then be filed
with the clerk.
Subdivision 4. When the motion is to be made upon the
minutes of the court, and the ground of the motion is the in
suffièiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decis
ion, the notice of intention must specify the particulars in which
the evidence is alleged to be insufficient; and, if the ground of
the motion be errors in law occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the moving party, the notice of intention must s]
the particular errors upon which the party will rely.
notice do not contain the specifications here indicated,
the motion is made on the minutes of the court, the n
must be denied. 

§ 5091, Comp.
Laws; $ 5475, Rev. Codes, N. D. The verdict of a jury may
also be vacated, and a new trial granted by the court in which
the action is pending, on its own motion, without the applica
tion of either of the parties, when there has been such plain
disregard by the jury of the instructions of the court, or the
evidence in the case, as to satisfy the court that the verdict
was rendered under a misapprehension of such instructions, or
under the influence of passion or prejudice.
§ 5476 Rev. Codes, N. D. The application
for a new trial shall be heard at the earliest practicable period
after service of notice of intention, if the motion is to be heard
upon the minutes of the court, and in other cases, after the affi
davits are served or the bill of exceptions or statement, as the
case may be, is filed, and may be brought to a hearing in Open
court or before the judge at chambers, in any county in the dis
trict in which the action was tried, by either party, upon notice
of eight days to the adverse party, specifying the time and
place of hearing. On such hearing reference may be had in all
cases to the pleadings and Orders of the court on file, and when
the motion is made on the minutes, reference may also be had
to any depositions, documentary evidence and stenographic
report of the testimony on file. 

Sec. 5093, Comp. Laws; $ 5477, Rev. Codes, N. D. The
court or judge may, upon good cause shown, in furtherance of
justice, extend the time within which any of the acts mentioned
in sections 5083 and 5090 may be done, or may, after the time
limited therefor has expired, fix another time within which any
of such acts may be done. 

§ 5094, Comp. Laws. A bill of exceptions or statement of the
case used upon the hearing of a motion for a new trial, or a
bill of exceptions prepared as provided in section 5083, or a
statement of the case, prepared after judgment in the manner
provided in section 5090, and within the same time after judg
ment as is allowed for the preparation of a bill of exceptions,
may be used on appeal from the final judgment; such statement
shall only contain the grounds argued before the court for a
new trial, and so much of the evidence or other matter as may
be necessary to explain them, and it shall be the duty of the
judge to exclude all other evidence or matter from the state
ment. 

§ 5478 Rev. Codes N. D. A statement of the case
settled as provided in section 5467, whether the same is used
upon a motion for a new trial or not, may be used on appeal
from the final judgment. 

§ 5213
Comp. Laws. Appeals to the supreme court may be taken from
the circuit courts when no other court of appeal is provided by
law. 

§ 5603 Rev. Codes N. D. A
judgment or order in a civil action or in a special proceeding in
any of the district courts may be removed to the supreme court
by appeal as provided in this chapter and not otherwise. 

§ 5214 Comp. Laws. No writ of error shall be necesary to
bring up any judgment for review before the supreme court,
but any judgment or any order defined in section 5236 may be
reviewed upon an appeal by the party aggrieved. The party
appealing is called the appellant; the other, the respondent.

§ 5604 Rev. Codes N. D. The
party appealing is known as the appellant and the adverse
party as the respondent, but the title of the action is not to be
changed in consequence of the appeal. 
§ 5216 Comp. Laws. The
appeal to the supreme court must be taken within sixty days
after written notice of the order shall have been given to the
party appealing; every other appeal allowed must be taken
within two years after the judgment shall be perfected, by fil
ing the judgment roll.

§ 5605 Rev. Codes N. D.
An appeal from a judgment may be taken within one year after
the entry thereof by default, or after written notice of the entry
thereof in case the party against whom it is entered has
appeared in the action, and from an order within sixty after
written notice of the same shall have been given to the party
appealing; provided, that in all actions heretofore or hereafter
tried, when the appeal from an order is based upon errors
assigned or set out in a statement of the case submitted to the
COurt Or judge thereof for settlement within sixty days after
the service of such written notice and at least eight days prior
to the expiration of such time and such court or judge neglects
to settle such statement within the said sixty days, the party
appealing shall have thirty days after such statement shall
have been settled in which to take an appeal. 

§ 5217 Comp. Laws. Upon an appeal being per
fected, the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken
shall, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to
the supreme court, if the appeal is from a judgment, the judg
ment roll; if the appeal is from an order, he shall transmit the
order appealed from, and the original papers used by each
party on the application for the order appealed from. The
court may, however, in each case, direct copies to be sent in
lieu of the originals. The clerk shall also, in all cases, trans
mit to the supreme court the notice of appeal and undertaking
given thereon; and he shall annex to the papers so transmitted
a certificate, under his hand and the seal of the court from
from which the appeal is taken, certifying that they are trans
mitted to the supreme court pursuant to such appeal. No fur
ther certificate or attestation shall be necessary. 

§ 5607 Rev. Codes N. D. Upon an appeal being per
fected the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken
shall at the expense of the appellant forthwith transmit to the
supreme court, if the appeal is from a judgment, the judgment
roll; if the appeal is from an order, he shall transmit the order
appealed from and the original papers used by each party on
the application for such order. The court may, however, in
case of either judgment or order upon motion of either party
after notice to the adverse party for good cause shown, direct
copies to be transmitted instead of the originals. The clerk
shall also in all cases transmit to the supreme court the origin
al notice of appeal and the undertaking given thereon; and
he shall annex to the papers so transmitted a certificate under
his hand and the seal of the court from which the appeal is
taken, certifying that they are the original papers or copies as
the case may be, and that they are transmitted to the supreme
court pursuant to such appeal. No further certificate or attes
tation shall be necessary; provided, that if the appellant does
not within thirty days after his appeal is perfected cause a
proper record in the case to be transmitted to the supreme
court by the clerk of the district court, the respondent may
cause such record to be transmitted by the clerk of the district
court to the clerk of the supreme court; and in such case the
respondent may recover the expense thereof as costs on such
appeal in case the judgment or order appealed from is in whole
or in part affirmed. 

§ 5218 Comp.
Laws; $ 5608 Rev. Codes N. D. When the appellant is re
quired, under any provision of this act, to give an undertaking,
he may in lieu thereof deposit with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment or order appealed from is entered (who
shall give a receipt therefor), a sum of money equal to the
amount for which such undertaking is required to be given,
and in lieu of the service of such undertaking, serve a notice of
the making of such deposit. Such deposit and notice shall
have the same effect as the service of the required undertaking,
and be held to answer the event of the appeal upon the terms
prescribed for the undertaking, in lieu of which the same is
deposited. Any such undertaking and deposit may be waived
in writing by the respondent for whose benefit the same is re
quired to be made, and such waiver shall have the same effect
as the giving of the undertaking would have had. 

§ 5609 Rev. Codes N. D. To render an appeal effect
ual for any purpose, an undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant by at least two sureties, to the effect that
the appellant will pay all costs and damages which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred
and fifty dollars; Provided, that no bond shall in any action or
proceeding be required of the State of South Dakota, or any
county, incorporated town or city thereof, on any appeal to any
court of the State of South Dakota, when the state, or any
county, incorporated town or city shall be the party directly
interested therein. 

§ 5610 Rev, Codes N. D. "If the appeal be
from a judgment directing the payment of money it shall not
stay the execution of the judgment unless an undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties,
to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part
thereof, be affirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed
to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to
which the judgment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only in
part, and all damages which shall be awarded against the ap
pellant on appeal. 
§ 5221 Comp. Laws; $ 6511 Rev. Codes N. D. If
the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery
of documents or personal property, the execution of the judg
ment shall not be delayed by the appeal, unless the things re
quired to be assigned or delivered be brought into the court or
placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court
or presiding judge thereof shall appoint, or unless an under
taking be entered on the part of the appellant, by at least two
sureties, in such sum as the court or presiding judge thereof
shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order .
of the appellate court on the appeal. 

§ 5222, Comp.
Laws; $ 5612 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judgment appealed from
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument the
execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal,
unless the instrument shall have been executed and deposited
with the clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court. 

§ 5223 Comp. Laws; $
5613 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judgment appealed from direct
the sale or delivery of possession of real property (except in
actions for foreclosure of mortgage), the execution of the same
shall not be stayed unless an undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum as
the court or presiding judge thereof shall direct, to the effect
that during the possession of such property by the appellant,
he will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of
the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the
judgment. 

§ 5614 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judgment appealed from
direct the sale of mortgaged premises, the execution thereof
shall not be stayed by the appeal, unless an undertaking be ex
ecuted on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties,
conditioned for the payment of any deficiency which may arise
on such sale, not exceeding such sum as shall be fixed by the
court or presiding judge thereof, to be specified in the under
taking, and all costs and damages which may be awarded to
the respondent on such appeal. 
§ 5615 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judgment appealed
from direct the abatement, or restraint of the continuance of a
nuisance, either public or private, the execution of the judg
ment shall not be stayed by the appeal unless an undertaking
be entered on the part of the appellant, by at least two sure
ties, in such sum as the court, or presiding judge thereof, shall
direct, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages
which the opposite party may sustain by the continuance of
such nuisance, 
§ 5616 Rev. Codes N. D. If the judgment ap
pealed from direct the doing of any particular act or thing, and
no express provision is made by the statute in regard to the
undertaking to be given on appeal therefrom, the execution
thereof shall not be stayed by the appeal therefrom unless an un
dertaking be entered on the part of the appellant, in such sum
as the court, or presiding judge thereof, shall direct, and by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all
damages which the opposite party may have sustained by not
doing the particular act or thing directed to be done by the
judgment appealed from, and to such further effect as such
court or judge shall in discretion direct. 

§ 52.27 Comp. Laws; $ 5617 Rev. Codes N. D. When
the appeal is from an order the execution or performance there
of shall not be delayed, except upon compliance, as the court
or presiding judge thereof shall direct, and when so required,
an undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties in such sums and to such effect as the
court or presiding judge thereof shall direct; such effect shall
be directed in accordance with the nature of the order ap:
pealed from, corresponding to the foregoing provisions
in respect to appeals from judgments, where applicable,
and such provision shall be made in all cases as shall properly
protect the respondent, and no appeal from an intermediate or
der before judgment shall stay proceedings, unless the court or
presiding judge thereof shall, in his discretion, so specially
order. 

§ 5228, Comp. Laws;
§ 5618 Rev. Codes N. D. When a party shall give immediate
notice of appeal from an order vacating or modifying a writ of
attachment, or from an order denying, dissolving, or modify
ing an injunction, he may within three days thereafter serve
an undertaking executed on his part by at least two sureties in
such sum as the court or presiding judge thereof shall direct,
to the effect that if the order appealed from or any part thereof
be affirmed the appellant will pay all costs and damages which
may be awarded against him on appeal, and all which the ad
verse party may sustain by reason of the continuance of the at
tachment, or the granting or continuance of the injunction, as
the case may be. Upon the giving of such undertaking such
court or judge shall order the attachment to be continued, and
in his discretion, may order the injunction asked to be allowed,
or that before granted to be continued until the decision of the
appeal, unless the respondent shall, at any time pending the ap
peal, give an undertaking, with sufficient surety in a sum to be
fixed by the court or presiding judge, to abide and perform
any final judgment that shall be rendered in favor of the appel
lant in the action, but may at any time subsequently vacate
such order if the appeal be not diligently prosecuted. 

§ 5229 Comp. Laws. When the
state or any state officer, or state board, in a purely official ca
pacity or any municipal corporation or its officers in a purely
official capacity, within the state, shall take an appeal, the case
appealed shall be placed on the supreme court calendarim
mediately following the criminal cases, and shall have preced
ence over all other business before the court, except criminal
business, and shall be heard and determined next in order.
Service of the notice of appeal shall perfect the appeal and stay
the execution or performance of the judgment or order ap
pealed from and no undertaking need be given. But the su
preme court may, on motion, require surety to be given in such
form and manner as it shall in its discretion prescribe as a con
dition of the further prosecution of the appeal. 

§ 5619 Rev. Codes N. D. When the state or any
state officer or state board, in a purely official capacity, or any mu
nicipal corporation within the state, shall take an appeal, ser
vice of the notice of appeal shall perfect the appeal and stay
the execution or performance of the judgment or order ap
pealed from, and no undertaking need be given. But the su
preme court may on motion require surety to be given, in such
form and manner as it shall in its discretion prescribe, as a
condition of the further prosecution of the appeal. 

§ 5620 Rev. Codes N. D. The supreme
court, upon satisfactory proof that any of the sureties to an un
dertaking given under this act has become insolvent, or that
his circumstances have become so precarious that there is rea
son to apprehend that the undertaking is insufficient security,
may in its discretion require the appellant to file and serve a
new undertaking, with such sureties and in such time as shall
be prescribed, and that in default thereof the appeal shall be
dismissed or the stay of proceedings vacated, and the execu
tion or performance of the judgment or order be allowed to be
enforced without further delay. 

§ 5231 Comp. Laws; $
5621 Rev. Codes N. D. The undertaking required by this act
may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appel
lant; the original must be filed with the notice of the appeal,
and a copy showing the residence of the sureties must be served
with the notice of appeal. When the sum or effect of any under
taking is required under the foregoing provisions to be fixed by
the court or judge, at least twenty-four hours’ notice of the ap
plication therefor shall be given the adverse party. When the
court, or the judge thereof, from which the appeal is taken, or
desired to be taken, shall neglect or refuse to make any order
or direction not wholly discretionary, necessary to enable the
appellant to stay proceedings upon an appeal, the Supreme
court, or one of the justices thereof, shall make such order or
direction. 

§ 56.22 Rev. Codes N. D. An undertaking
upon an appeal shall be of no effect unless it be accompanied
by the affidavit of the sureties, in which each surety shall state
that he is worth a certain sum mentioned in such affidavit, Over
and above all his debts and liabilities, in property within this
state not by law exempt from execution, and which sum so
sworn to by such sureties shall, in the aggregate, be double
the amount specified in said undertaking. The respondent
may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties within
ten days after such notice of the appeal, and unless they or
other sureties justify in the same manner as upon bail on ar
rest within ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as
if no undertaking had been given. The justification shall be
upon a notice of not less than five days. 

§ 5623 Rev. Codes N. D. When
ever an appeal shall have been perfected and the proper under
taking given, or other act done prescribed by this act to stay
the execution or performance of the judgment or order ap
pealed from, all further proceedings thereon shall be thereby
stayed accordingly, except that the court below may proceed
upon any other matter included in the action, not affected by
the judgment or order appealed from and except that the court or
presiding judge thereof may order perishable property, held
under the judgment or order appealed from, to be sold, and the
proceeds paid into the court to abide the event. 

§ 5234 Comp. Laws; $ 5624
Rev. Codes N. D. When the amount of damages to be paid by
the appellant on affirmance of the judgment or order appealed
from, pursuant to any undertaking, is not fixed by the judg
ment or decision of the supreme court on the appeal, the dis
trict court may, after the remittitur of the record from the su
preme court is filed, order a reference to ascertain such dam
ages, the expense of which shall be included and recoverable
with such damages. In all cases a neglect for the space of
thirty days after the affirmance on appeal of a judgment direct
ing the payment of money, to pay the amount directed to be
paid on such affirmance, shall be deemed a breach of the un
dertaking on such appeal. A neglect for a space of thirty days
after the confirmation of the report of a referee, to whom a ref
erence has been ordered for the purpose of ascertaining the
damages to be paid, on the affirmance of any other judgment or
order appealed from, to pay the amount of damages so ascer
tained and the costs of such reference, shall be deemed a breach
of the undertaking on such appeal. The dismissal of an appeal
or writ of error by the appellant or plaintiff in error, or by the
court for want of prosecution, unless the court shall, at the time,
otherwise expressly order, shall render the sureties upon any
undertaking or bond, given under this act, liable in the same
manner and to the same extent as if the judgment or order ap
pealed from, or the judgment brought up on error had been
affirmed. 

§ 5235 Comp. Laws; $ 5625 Rev. Codes N. D. When a
party shall in good faith give notice of appeal, and shall
omit, through mistake or accident, to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal or make it effectual, or to stay
proceedings, the court from which the appeal is taken, or the
presiding judge thereof, may permit an amendment, or the
proper act to be done on such terms as may be just. 

§ 5236 Comp.
Laws; $ 56.26 Rev. Codes N. D. The following orders,
when made by the court, may be carried to the supreme court:
1. An order affecting a substantial right, made in any ac
tion, when such order in effect determines the action and pre
vents a judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
2. A final order affecting a substantial right, made in spe
cial proceedings, or upon a summary application in an action
for judgment.
3. When an order grants, refuses, continues or modifies a
provisional remedy, or grants, refuses, modifies or dissolves an
injunction; when it sets aside or dismisses a writ of attachment
for irregularity; when it grants or refuses a new trial; or when
it sustains or overrules a demurrer.
4. When it involves the merits of an action or some part
thereof; when it orders judgment on application therefor, on
account of the frivolousness of a demurrer, answer or reply, or
strikes off such demurrer, answer or reply on account of the
frivolousness thereof.
5. From orders made by the district (circuit) court, va
cating or refusing to set aside orders made at chambers, where,
by the provisions of this act, an appeal might have been taken,
in case the order so made at chambers had been granted or de
nied by the district (circuit) court in the first instance. For
the purposes of an appeal from an order, either party may re
quire the order to be entered by the clerk of record, and it shall
be entered accordingly. 

§ 5237, Comp. Laws.
Upon an appeal from a judgment, as well as upon a writ of er
ror, the supreme court may review any intermediate order or
determination of the court below which involves the merits and
necessarily affects the judgment, appearing upon the record
transmitted or returned from the circuit court, whether the
same were excepted to or not; nor shall it be necessary in any
case to take any exception or settle any bill of exceptions to
enable the supreme court to review any alleged error which
would, without a bill of exceptions, appear upon the face of the
record. Any questions of fact or of law, decided upon trials
by the court or by referee, may be reviewed when exceptions
to the findings of fact have been duly taken by either party and
returned. 

§ 5627 Rev. Codes N. D. Upon an appeal from a judgment the
supreme court may review any intermediate order or determin
ation of the court below, which involves the merits and neces
sarily affects the judgment, appearing upon the record trans
mitted or returned from the district court, whether the same is
excepted to or not; nor shall it be necessary in any case to take
any exceptions or settle a statement of the case to enable the
supreme court to review any alleged error which would with
out a statement appear upon the face of the record. Any ques
tion of fact or law decided upon trials by the court or by a ref.
eree and appearing upon the record properly excepted to in a
case in which an exception is necessary may be reviewed by
the supreme court, whether a motion for a new trial was or was
not made in the court below, but questions of fact shall not be
reviewed in the supreme court in cases tried before a jury, un
less a motion for a new trial is first made in the court below.

§ 5238 Comp. Laws; $5628 Rev. Codes
N. D. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, or upon a
writ of error, the supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify
the judgment or order, and as to any or all of the parties; and
may, if necessary, or proper, order a new trial; and if the ap
peal is from a part of the judgment or order, may reverse, af
firm or modify as to the part appealed from. In all cases the
supreme court shall remit its judgment or decision to the court
from which the appeal or writ of error was taken, to be en
forced accordingly; and if from a judgment, final judgment
shall thereupon be entered in the court below in accordance
therewith, except where otherwise ordered. The clerk of the
supreme court shall remit to such court the papers transmitted
to the supreme court on the appeal or writ of error, together
with the judgment or decision of the supreme court thereon,
within sixty days after the same shall have been made, unless
the supreme court, on application of either of the parties,
shall direct them to be retained for the purpose of enabling
such parties to move for a rehearing. In case such motion for
a rehearing is denied, the papers shall be remitted within
twenty days after such denial. The clerk of the supreme court
shall in all cases, except when the order or judgment is affirmed,
also transmit with the papers so returned by him a certified
copy of the opinion of the supreme court, and his fees for such
copy shall be taxed and allowed with his other fees in the case,

§ 5239 Comp. Laws; $ 5629 Rev. Codes N. D. In
every case in error, or on appeal, in which the supreme court
shall order a new trial, or further proceedings in the court be
low, the record shall be transmitted to such court, and pro
ceedings had therein within one year from the date of such or
der in the supreme court, or in default thereof, the action shall
be dismissed, unless upon good cause shown, the court shall
otherwise order. 

§ 5630 Rev. Codes
N. D. In all actions tried by the district court without a jury
in which an issue of fact has been joined all the evidence of
fered on the trial shall be received. All testimony which eith
er party desires to offer, or any part thereof, may at his option
be taken by deposition. In any trial under the provisions of
this section either party may have his objection to any evidence
noted as the evidence is offered. Any objection so made may
be preserved in the statement of the case herein provided for
and reviewed in the supreme court upon appeal; but if no ob
jection is made to the introduction of testimony offered on the
trial, no objection to its consideration can be urged upon its re
view upon appeal in the supreme court. For the purpose of
reviewing upon appeal questions as to the sufficiency of the ev
idence to sustain the findings of fact in any action tried under
the provisions of this section a statement of the case may be
prepared and settled within the time and in the manner pro
vided in article 8 of chapter 10 of this code, which statement
shall contain in a narrative form without unnecessary repeti
tion all the evidence offered at the trial. The supreme court
shall try the case anew and render final judgment therein ac
cording to the justice of the case. 

§ 5631 Rev. Codes N. D. In civil ac
tions appealed to the supreme court in which the amount of the
judgment appealed from, exclusive of costs, does not exceed
two hundred dollars no printed abstracts or briefs shall be re
quired of either party; but in case printed copies of the same
are not furnished three typewritten copies thereof shall be filed
with the clerk of the supreme court at such time as may be re
quired by law or the rules of such court. 

§ 5632 Rev,
Codes N. D. Unless continued for cause all civil cases ap
pealed to the supreme court shall be heard at the next succeed
ing term of court in either of the cases following.
1. When the appeal is taken sixty days before the first
day of the term.
2. When by either party a printed abstract and a printed
brief are served twenty-five days before the first day of the
term

§ 4819, Comp. Laws. The
jurisdiction of the supreme court is of two kinds.
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate.

§ 4820 Comp. Laws. Its original
jurisdiction extends to all writs which by law may issue from
this court, and to all writs necessary to the exercise of its ap
pellate jurisdiction. 

§ 5165 Rev. Codes N. D. The supreme court shall have and
exercise appellate jurisdiction only, except when otherwise
specially provided by law or the constitution. The supreme
court has power in the exercise of its original jurisdiction to is
sue writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, quo warranto, certior
ari and injunction; and in the exercise of its appellate jurisdic
tion and in its superintending control over inferior courts it
may issue such original and remedial writs as are necessary to
the proper exercise of such jurisdiction; provided, that said
court shall exercise the said original jurisdiction only in habeas
corpus cases and in such cases of strictly public concern as in
volve questions affecting the sovereign rights of the state or its
franchises or privilege. 

§ 4821 Comp. Laws. The supreme court shall annu
ally hold two terms of such court at the seat of government on
the first Tuesdays of April and October, and at no other place.
The court may provide what causes shall have a preference on
the calendar, and regulate the practice and proceedings therein
by general rules not inconsistent with the constitution of the
state of South Dakota and statutes of this state. On a second
and each subsequent appeal to the supreme court, or when an
appeal has once been dismissed for defect or irregularity, the
cause shall be placed upon the calendar as of the time of filing
the first appeal; and whenever, in any action or proceeding in
which the state of South Dakota, or any state officer, or any
board of state officers, is or are sole plaintiff or defendant, an
appeal has been or shall be brought from any judgment or or
der for or against him or them, in any court, such appeal shall
have a preference in the supreme court, and may be moved by
either party out of the order on the calendar. 

Sec. 377 Rev. Codes N. D. There shall be
two general terms of the supreme court held each year at the
seat of government, as follows: One on the first Tuesday in
April and one the first Tuesday of October of each year. 

§ 378, Rev.
Codes N. D. Whenever from any cause it appears to a major
ity of the judges of said court that the public interests demand
that a special term of said court be held, the majority of the
said judges have authority to appoint a special term of the su
preme court to be held at the seat of government, giving twen
ty day’s previous notice thereof by advertisement published in
a newspaper at the seat of government of the state. 

§ 5172 Rev. Codes N. D. On a second and each subsequent ap
peal to the supreme court or when an appeal has once been dis
missed for defect or irregularity, the cause shall be placed
upon the calendar as of the time of filing the first appeal; and
whenever in any action or proceeding in which the State of
North Dakota, or any state officer or any board of state officers
is or are sole plaintiff or defendant, an appeal has been or shall
be brought from any judgment or order for or against him or
them in any court, such appeal shall have a preference in the
supreme court and may be moved by either party out of the
order on the calendar. 

§ 5170 Rev. Codes N. D. If any two judges of said court
shall not attend on the first or on any other day of the
term, the clerk shall enter such fact on record, and the judge
present shall adjourn the court to the next day and so on from
day to day for six days, if neither of the absent judges appear;
at the end of which period said court shall be adjourned, and
all matters pending therein shall stand continued until the next
regular or special term. If none of the judges appear, the
clerk of said court may adjourn from day to day as provided
in this section. 

§ 5171 Rev. Codes N. D. Whenever there is no general
term of said court at the time fixed therefor by law for any
cause, or whenever there is a continuance of the term of said
court or a change in the time of holding any term by act of the
legislative assembly, all causes then upon the calendar of said
court, all writs, recognizances, appeals and proceedings com
menced, taken or made returnable to said court at said term
shall stand over to and be heard at the next general term with
like effect as if no such failure, continuance or change had
occurred. 
§ 5168 Rev. Codes N. D. Said court is vested with
full power and authority necessary for carrying into com
plete execution all its judgments, decrees and determina
tions in the matters aforesaid and for the exercise of its
jurisdiction as the supreme judicial tribunal of the state; and
shall by order made at general or special term from time to
time make and prescribe such general rules and regulations for
the conduct and hearing of causes in said court, not inconsis
tent with the statute law of the state, as it may deem proper;
and the said court shall by order prescribe the manner of pub
lication at the expense of the state of such rules and regula
tions; and the same shall not be in force until thirty days after
the publication thereof. 

§ 4822 Comp. Laws. The concurrence of two judges is
necessary to pronounce a judgment. If two do not concur the
cause must be reheard. But no more than two rehearings shall
be had; and if on the second hearing two judges do not concur,
the judgment shall be affirmed. 
§ 5173 Rev. Codes N. D. The concurrence of a
majority of the judges is necessary to pronounce judgment.
If a majority does not concur the case must be reheard. But
no more than two rehearings shall be had; and if on the sec
Ond rehearing a majority of the judges does not concur, the
judgment shall be affirmed. 

§ 4823 Comp. Laws; $ 5174 Rev. Codes N. D. The supreme
court may be held in other buildings than those designated by
law as places for holding courts, and at a different place in the
same city from that at which it is appointed to be held. Any
one or more of the justices may adjourn the court with the
like effect as if all were present, and may announce and have
placed on file the opinion of the court. 

§ 5166 Rev. Codes N. D. The
supreme court shall be always open for the issue and return
of all writs and process which it may lawfully issue and for the
hearing and determination of the same, subject to such regula
tions and conditions as the court may prescribe. And any
judge of said court may order the issuance of any such writ or
process, and prescribe the time and manner of service and the
time and place of return of the same; provided, that in cases of
habeas corpus the judge of the supreme court who issues or
causes the writ to issue may, at his discretion, direct that the
writ shall be made returnable and heard and determined, either
before the supreme court or any judge thereof, or before any
district court of the state or any judge of any district court of
the state; provided, further, that any district court or judge
thereof before whom any writ is made returnable as prescribed
in this section is hereby vested with full power and authority
necessary for carrying into complete execution all of its judg
ments, decrees and determinations, subject to appeal as pro
vided by law. 
§ 5169 Rev. Codes N. D. The said courtshall in all cases decided
by it give its decision in writing, which shall be filed with the
clerk of said court with the other papers in the case. Decis
ions in cases heard at a general or special term and all orders
affecting the same may be filed in vacation, and judgment en
tered thereon in pursuance of the finding and order of the court
with the same effect as upon decisions made and filed in term.
Said court at the time of announcing its decisions in any action
determined by said court shall file with the clerk thereof a syl
labus of the decision in such action, so prepared as to embody
as briefly as practicable the principles settled in and by such
decision. 
§ 5167
Rev. Codes N. D. Whenever an issue of fact shall be joined or
assessment of damages by a jury be necessary in any action
or proceeding commenced in the supreme court the court may,
in its discretion, send the same to some district court, and it
shall be there determined in the same manner as other issues
of fact are tried or assessments made and return be made
thereof as directed by the supreme court. In such cases the
supreme court may order a special verdict to be found and re
turned. 

Sec. 1. That there shall
be in each of the counties of this state, now organized, or
which may hereafter be created and organized, a court of rec
ord to be styled the County Court of . . . . . . . . . County; and
said court shall have a seal.

Sec. 4.
Said court shall have common law jurisdiction, as provided
herein, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to
the naturalization of citizens, pursuant to the laws of congress
relating thereto, and in all such other cases as are now or may
hereafter be provided by law. 

Sec. 5. They shall have original jur isdiction in the probate of wills; the administration and set tlement of estates of deceased persons; the guardianship of minors, insane or incompetent persons and idiots, and in pro ceedings by executors, administrators and guardians for the sale of real estate for the purposes authorized by law, and all the power and jurisdiction conferred by law upon the late probate court and the judge thereof, with power to prescribe rules governing the proceedings in probate matters to con form to the provisions of the laws of this state relating to the organization of the county court.

Sec. 6. They shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit courts in all that class of cases wherein justices of the peace, have now, or may hereafter have jurisdiction, the amount thereof being limited accord ing to the population of the counties as follows: In counties where the population is ten thousand or more, they shall have jurisdiction in such cases when the debt, damage, claim or value of the property involved, shall not exceed one thousand dollars, and in all other counties where the debt, damage, claim or value of the property involved, shall not exceed five hundred dollars; Provided, however, they shall not have juris diction in actions for forcible entry and detainer. The popu lation aforesaid shall be determined as hereinafter provided in the matter of fixing the salaries of county judges.

Sec. 7.
They shall have concurrent jurisdiction in all criminal offenses
and misdemeanors where the punishment is not imprisonment
in the penitentiary or death, or where the judgment may be a
removal from, or forfeiture of, office. They have also power
to remit fines, forfeitures and recognizances and to accept and
approve the same as provided for by law. .

Sec. 8. They shall have the
power and authority to issue all writs necessary to carry into
effect their judgments, decrees and orders.

Sec. 9. They shall have jurisdiction
concurrent with the circuit courts in appeals from all final
judgments of justices of the peace or police magistrates for cit
ies or towns, and the proceedings on such appeal shall be the
same as now provided for appeals from judgments of justices
of the peace to the circuit court.

Sec. 10. They shall have jurisdiction to grant new
trials, affirm, modify or set aside judgments in actions tried in
such courts upon a bill of exceptions or case made.

Sec. 11. An appeal may be
taken to the circuit court from a judgment, decree or order of
the county court in all those cases enumerated in section 312 of
the Probate Code and the procedure upon such appeals shall
be the same as is provided for in article 2, of the Probate Code;
Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent an appeal being taken to the Supreme Court from the
decisions of the circuit court in such cases upon questions of
law alone.
Sec. 12. Appeals from, and writs of er
ror to the county court shall be allowed to the supreme court
from all judgments, orders and decrees of said county court, ex
cept in cases enumerated in section 11, hereof, and shall be
governed by the law of appeals as provided in the code of
Civil Procedure applicable to appeals from the circuit courts
in like cases
Sec 13. The
process, pleadings, practice and modes of procedure in the
county courts shall be the same as provided for in the circuit
courts of this state by the Code of Civil Procedure, or as may
hereafter be provided for by law, and the process, orders, judg
ments and decrees of such county courts shall have the same
forms, force, lien and effect as in the circuit court, and the
clerks of said county courts shall charge and collect like fees
in the county courts as in the circuit courts for similar ser
vices.

Sec. 14. All Offenses Of which the
county court shall have jurisdiction shall be prosecuted by in
formation of the state's attorney or attorney general, and every
information shall set forth the offense with reasonable cer
tainty, substantially as required in an indictment, and may be
filed either in term time or in vacation, and the proceedings
thereon shall be the same as near as may be, as upon indict
ment in the circuit court, except as herein otherwise provided.
Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the jurisdiction
of justices of the peace.

Sec. 15. The court in term time or the judge in vacation, shall fix
the amount of bail to be required of the accused, and the clerk
shall endorse the same upon the warrant, except that when the
warrant is issued in term time, the same may be made return
able forth with when it shall not be necessary to fix the amount
of bail until the accused is brought into court.

Sec. 16. The court may receive the plea of
guilty and pass judgment, or, if the accused will waive a jury
and be tried by the court without a jury, the court may, upon
notice being first given to the state’s attorney, try the cause
and pass judgment as well at a probate as a law term of said
COurt. 

Sec. 17. Whenever the county judge of any county is a party to or personally interested in any pro ceeding in any probate matter therein or connected by blood or affinity to any person so interested nearer than the fourth degree, or when he is named as a legatee or devisee, or execu tor or trustee in a will or is a witness thereto, such fact or facts shall be entered upon the records of such court and cer tified to the circuit court of such county; Provided, That in case the judge is interested only as a creditor, no change need be made except in relation to his claim. 

Sec. 18. Upon the filing of a copy of such certificate in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court, such circuit court shall have full and complete jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to such estate and may make all orders and take all proceedings therein, which might have been made or taken in the county court, if the judge thereof had not been interested or a party as aforesaid.

Sec. 19. In all cases transferred to the circuit court under the two preceding sections, the clerk of such court shall have the same authority to grant citations, and letters testa mentary and of administration in vacation as is given to clerks of the county courts and such authority shall be exercised by him as clerk of the circuit court.

Sec. 20. In any civil or criminal cause of which this court has jurisdiction, whenever at any time before the case is called for trial it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court by affidavit,or if the court should so order, upon!other testimony, that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in such court by reason of the bias or prejudice of the judge for [otherwise, the
court shall call the judge of the county court of any adjoining
county to try such cause. 

Sec. 21. Un
less the court shall otherwise order, the jury for the law terms
of the county court shall be drawn and summoned in the man
ner as is now or may hereafter be provided by law for the
drawing and summoning juries for the terms of the circuit
court. Where a jury is not summoned as above provided, it
shall be the duty of said court on the first day of each term
thereof to ascertain whether a jury shall be required; if a jury
shall be demanded by either party to any suit pending, or by
any defendant, or the state's attorney, in any criminal action,
the court shall thereupon set such case or cases for trial, and
direct the clerk of said court to issue a venire for twelve com
petent jurors, and deliver the same to the sheriff, who shall
summon such jurors from the body of the county to be and ap
pear before said court at the term set for the return of said
venire; and if by reason of non attendance, challenge or other
wise, said jury shall not be full, the panel shall be filled by
talesmen. Said court shall have the same power to compel the
attendance of jurors and witnesses as has the circuit court and
shall be governed by the same rules in empaneling the jury,
and the court may retain such jury for all the jury trials of said
term; Provided, that there shall be taxed as a part of the costs
of each civil case tried by a jury, the sum of ten doilars as a
jury fee, which shall be paid into the county treasury and
placed to the credit of the general fund of the county. The
per diem and mileage of said jurors shall be the same as they
are for similar services in the circuit court, to be paid out of
the county treasury upon the certificate of the county clerk or
county auditor; Provided, that in case the sheriff, coroner or
bailiff be interested in any jury cases pending, or in case any
party interested or any attorney may object to any sheriff, cor
oner or bailiff selecting the jury, if the court shall think such
objection reasonable, the court shall appoint an impartial bail
iff to summon such jury. 

Sec. 22. The terms of the county court for
all matters relating to probate jurisdiction shall be held as pro
vided for in section 90, of chapter 21, of the political code; and
for the transaction of all other business within their jurisdic
tion the county courts shall annually hold two terms of court
at the county seat of their respective counties, in the court
house, or in such rooms as the county may provide, on the first
Tuesdays in January and July: Provided, that if in any county
the terms of the circuit court are fixed for such months,
or a term of the circuit court is being held in any county at
the time fixed for a term of the county court, or if for any
reason a terrh of the county court cannot be held at the time
fixed herein, then the county judge shall call a term of the
county court within three months after the adjournment of the
term of the circuit court; and said courts shall always be open
within said counties for the purpose of hearing and determin
ing all matters pertaining to probate jurisdiction, all actions,
special proceedings, motions and applications, of whatever kind
or character, and whether of a civil or criminal nature, arising
under the laws of the state, and of which the county courts
have jurisdiction, original or appellate.

§ 6588 Rev. Codes N. D. The general provis
ions of law which may at any time be in force relating to the
district courts, and to civil and criminal proceedings therein
shall relate also to the county courts having increased jurisdic
tion and the rules of practice of district courts shall be in
force in said county courts, unless inapplicable and except as
herein otherwise provided. 

§ 6589 Rev. Codes N.
D. The regular term of the county court shall be held at the
county seat, commencing at 9 o'clock a. m. on the first Tues
day of each calendar month for the trial of such civil and
criminal actions as may be brought before such court. 
§ 6590 Rev.
Codes N. D. The county judge shall, on the first day of each
term, or as soon thereafter as may be, prepare a calendar of
the causes standing for trial at such term, placing the causes
upon such calendar in the order in which the same are num
bered on the docket and setting the causes for trial upon con
venient days during such term; provided, that no cause shall
be set for trial upon the first day of said term without the con
sent of all parties thereto. 
§ 6591 Rev. Codes N. D. In all actions brought
under the provisions of this chapter an appeal may be taken
to the district court of the county or to the supreme court, and
if the appeal is to the district court it shall be taken in the
same manner as appeals from justice’s court and if the appeal
is to the supreme court it shall be taken in the same manner
nd pursuant to the same rules as appeals from the district
court; provided, that in civil actions when the amount in con
troversy, exclusive of costs, is less than two hundred and fifty
dollars an appeal to the district court only shall lie; and pro
vided, further, that an appeal to the district court shall not be
effectual for any purpose unless an undertaking is filed with
two or more sureties in a sum equal to the amount in contro
versy or to the value of the specific property in controversy
plus one hundred dollars. 

§ 6592 Rev. Codes
N. D. Such county courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with the district courts in appeals from all final judgments of
justices of the peace, police, city or township justices, and the
proceedings on such appeals shall be the same as now or may
hereafter be provided for appeals from judgments of justices
of the peace to district courts. 

§ 6593 Rev. Codes N. D. In any civil or criminal cause of
which this court has jurisdiction, whenever at any time before
said cause is called for trial it shall appear to the court by affi
davit, or if the court shall so order upon other testimony, that
a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in such court by reason
of the bias or prejudice of the judge or otherwise, the court
shall direct said cause and all papers and documents connected
therewith to be certified to the district court of the county
wherein said county court is held; and such papers shall be de
livered to the clerk of the district court at least one day before
the first day of the next term thereof and shall be placed upon
the trial calendar and stand for trial the same as cases orig
inally commenced in the district court. 

§ 6594 Rev. Codes N. D. Juries in the county court shall be se
lected by the county judge and summoned in the same manner
as is now provided by law for selecting juries before justices of
the peace; provided, that each party shall be entitled to the
same number of challenges as is now or may hereafter be al
lowed in the district court in like actions. 

§ 6595 Rev.
Codes N. D. The county court shall have authority to grant
new trials, affirm, modify or set aside judgments in actions
tried in such court upon a statement of the case prepared and
settled in the manner provided in the code of civil procedure.

§ 6596 Rev. Codes N. D. The several county courts shall have
power to issue all summons, citations, subpoenas, executions,
warrants and process authorized by law which may be neces
sary to carry into effect any order, judgment or decree thereof,
to compel the attendance of witnesses or to carry into execu
tion the powers with which they are vested. 

§ 6598 Rev. Codes N. D. When for any cause the county judge
fails to attend at the commencement of any regular term or at
the time to which any cause is assigned for trial or at the time
to which any cause may be continued, the parties shall not be
obliged to wait more than one hour, and if he does not attend
within the hour and no other disposition of the case is made by
such judge, the parties in attendance shall be required to at
tend at 9 o'clock a. m. of the following day and if such judge
shall not attend at that time the cause shall stand continued
until the first day of the next regular term. 
§ 6601 Rev. Codes N. D. Concurrent juris
diction, power and authority with the district court is hereby
conferred and imposed upon county courts having increased
jurisdiction of all criminal offenses of which the district court
of said county has jurisdiction, below the grade of felony, and
of any person accused thereof, and to hear, try, determine,
pronounce judgment and sentence and take and have all neces
sary proceedings concerning or relating thereto as provided by
law. The necessary jurisdiction, power and authority is here
by conferred and imposed upon the county court. 
§ 6602 Rev. Codes N. D.
In any criminal action or proceeding for any criminal offense
of which the county court has jurisdiction, any justice of the
peace or other examining magistrate having jurisdiction must
admit to bail, bind over or commit for trial the accused to the
county court of such county and the information shall be filed
in such county court. If any person accused of a criminal of
fense is so bailed, bound over or committed for trial to the
county court for a crime for which such court has not jurisdic
tion, such proceeding shall not abate and such county court
shall not lose jurisdiction of such person and proceeding, but
shall certify the same to the district court of such county, and
such proceeding shall thereupon be tried in the district court
with the same force and effect as if such action or proceedings
had been originally commenced therein. If any examining
magistrate shall at any time bind over a defendant to the dis
trict court for an offense of which the county court has jurisdic
tion or if it shall appear by evidence or otherwise at any time
to the judge of the district court that the offense with which
the defendant is or should be charged is triable in the county
court, the judge of the district court may certify such cause
and all proceedings relative to any person accused of such of
fense to the county court of such county for trial, determina
tion and adjudication, and thereupon the same and all the pa
pers and files therein shall be transferred by the clerk of the
district court to the county court without any further order or
certificate and such cause shall thereupon be tried in the county
court with the same force and effect as if such cause had orig
inally been commenced therein. 

§ 6603 Rev. Codes N. D. In civil actions when the
value in controversy or sum demanded exceeds fifty dollars,
either party may demand a jury trial, but such demand shall be
made on or before the first day of the term upon the calendar
of which said cause appears. In criminal actions when the de
fendant is arraigned he shall be informed by the court of his
right to trial by jury and if he waives his right to a jury trial,
an entry to that effect shall be made in the court minutes. 

§ 6605 Rev.
Codes N. D. The court may receive the plea of guilty and
pass judgment in term time or vacation; if the accused waives
a jury he may be tried by the court without a jury in term time
upon notice being first given to the state’s attorney. 

§ 6606 Rev.
Codes N. D. No preliminary examination shall be necessary
before trial in criminal actions in the county court. 

§ 6607 Rev. Codes N. D. In all criminal cases triable
in the county court when it is satisfactorily shown to the court
that the defendant has no means and is unable to employ coun
sel, the court shall in such cases assign counsel for the defense
and allow and direct to be paid by the county in which said
court is held a reasonable and just compensation to the attorney
or attorneys assigned for such services as they may render;
provided, however, that such compensation shall not exceed
twenty-five dollars in any one case. 

§ 6611 Rev.
Codes N. D. When the time to answer does not expire at least
ten days before the first day of the next term of court, the cause
shall stand for trial at the next succeeding term thereafter
without further notice to defendant. 

§ 6617 Rev. Codes N.D. The judge of any county court
having civil or criminal jurisdiction is authorized in his discre
tion to appoint a court stenographer of such court. Such ste
nographer shall qualify in the same manner and his duties and
compensation shall be the same as the court stenographer of a
district court; such compensation shall be paid in the same
manner as that of the court stenographer of the district court;
provided, that such court stenographer shall not be appointed
in any county having less than eight thousand inhabitants, un
less the board of county commissioners shall first authorize
such appointment. 

§ 5962 Comp. Laws. An appeal may be
taken to the circuit court from a judgment, decree or order of
the probate court: -
1. Granting, or refusing, or revoking letters testamen
tary or of administration, or of guardianship.
2. Admitting, or refusing to admit, a will to probate.
3. Against or in favor of the validity of a will or revoking
the probate thereof.
4. Against or in favor of setting apart property, or mak
ing an allowance for a widow or child.
5. Against or in favor of directing the petition, sale or
conveyance of real property.
6. Settling an account of an executor, or administrator
or guardian.
7. Refusing, allowing or directing the distribution or
partition of an estate, or any part thereof, or the payment of a
debt, claim, legacy or distributive share; or,
8. From any other judgment, decree or order of the pro
bate court, or of the judge thereof affecting a substantial right.

Sec. 5963, Comp. Laws. Any party
aggrieved may appeal as aforesaid, except where the decree or
order of which he complains, was rendered or made upon
his default. 

§ 5964
Comp. Laws. A person interested in the estate or fund affect
ed by the decree or order, who was not a party to the special
proceeding in which it was made, but who was entitled by law
to be heard therein, upon his application, or who has acquired,
since the decree or order was made, a right or interest which
would have entitled him to be heard, if it had been previously
acquired, may also appeal as prescribed in this article. The
facts which entitle such a person to appeal, must be shown by
an affidavit which must be filed with the notice of appeal.


§ 5965 Comp. Laws. An
appeal by a party, or by a person interested who was present
at the hearing, must be taken within 10 days, and an appeal
by a person interested, who was not a party and not present at
the hearing, within thirty days from the date of the judgment,
decree, or order appealed from. 

§ 5966 Comp. Laws. The appeal must be made:
1. By filing a written notice thereof with the judge of the
probate court, stating the judgment, decree, or order appealed
from, or some specific part thereof, and whether the appeal is
on a question of law, or of fact, or of both, and, if of law alone,
the particular grounds upon which the party intends to rely on
his appeal; and, -
2. By executing and filing within the time limited in the
preceding section, such bond as is required in the following sections. It shall not be necessary to notify or summon the
appellee or respondent to appear in the circuit court, but such
respondent shall be taken and held to have notice of such ap
peal in the same manner as he had notice of the pendency of
the proceedings in the probate court. 

§ 5967 Comp. Laws. The
appeal bond shall be in such sum as the judge of the probate
court shall require and deem sufficient, with at least two suffi
cient sureties to be approved by the judge, conditioned that the
appellant will prosecute his appeal with due diligence to a de
termination, and will abide, fulfill and perform whatever judg
ment, decree or order may be rendered against him in that pro
ceeding by the circuit court, and that he will pay all damages
which the opposite party may sustain by reason of such ap
peal, together with all costs that may be adjudged against him.

§ 5968 Comp. Laws. If the
judgment, decree or order appealed from be for, or direct, the
payment of money, or the delivery of any property, or grant
leave to issue an execution, the appeal shall not stay the exe
cution thereof, unless the appeal bond be furthermore condi
tioned to the effect that if the judgment, decree or order, or
any part thereof be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, the
appellant shall pay the sum so directed to be paid or levied, or,
as the case may require, shall deliver the property so directed
to be delivered, or the part thereof as to which the judgment,
decree or order shall be affirmed. 
§ 5969 Comp. Laws. An appeal from any judg
ment, decree or order directing the commitment of any person,
does not stay the execution thereof, unless the appeal bond be
also to the effect that if the judgment, decree or order ap
pealed from be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, the appel.
lant shall, within twenty days after such affirmance or dismis
sal, surrender himself in obedience to the judgment, decree or
order, to the custody of the sheriff to whom he was committed.
If the condition of such bond be violated, it may be prosecuted
in the same manner and with the same effect as an administra
tor’s official bond; and the proceeds of the action must be paid
or distributed, as directed by the probate court, to or among
the persons aggrieved, to the extent of the pecuniary injuries
sustained by them, and the balance, if any, must be paid into
the county treasury. 

§ 5970, Comp. Laws. The sureties in every appeal bond must
justify in the manner required in article 6 of chapter 3, of this
code; and the respondent may apply to the appellate court or
the judge thereof, upon notice, for an order requiring the ap
pellant to increase the sum fixed by the judge of the probate
court, or to give additional security; and if the applicant make
default in giving a new bond, pursuant to an order to increase
the same, or to give additional security, the appeal may be dis
missed. 

§ 5971 Comp. Laws. Every appeal bond must be to
the state of South Dakota; must contain the name and resi
dence of each of the sureties thereto, and must be filed in the
probate court. The judge of the probate court may, at any
time, in his discretion, make an order authorizing any person
aggrieved to bring an action on the bond, in his own name or
in the name of the state. When it is brought in the name of
the state, the damages collected must be paid over to the pro
bate court, and therein distributed as justice may require.

§ 5972 Comp. Laws. An appeal from a
decree or order admitting a will to probate, or granting letters
testamentary, or letters of administration, does not stay the
issuing of letters where, in the opinion of the probate judge,
manifested by an entry upon the minutes of the court, the pres
ervation of the estate requires that such letters should issue.
But the letters so issued do not confer power to sell real prop.
erty by virtue of any provision in the will, or to pay or satisfy
legacies or to distribute the property of the decedent among
the next of kin, until the final determination of the appeal.

§ 5973 Comp. Laws. An appeal from a decree or order
revoking probate of a will, letters testamentary, letters of ad
ministration or letters of guardianship, or from a decree or or
der suspending or removing an executor, administrator or
guardian, or removing or suspending a testamentary trustee
or a person appointed by the probate court, or appointing an
appraiser of personal property, does not stay the execution of
the decree or order appealed from. 

§ 5974 Comp. Laws. The judge of the
probate court must, within ten days from the filing of the no
tice of appeal and the giving of the required bond, cause a cer
tified copy thereof and of the judgment, decree or order, or
specific part thereof appealed from, and the minutes, records,
papers and proceedings in the case, to be transmitted to the
clerk of the circuit court of the county or judicial subdivision,
to be filed in his office; and the appeal may be heard and de
termined at any day thereafter by said court, at any general,
special or adjourned term; and if the appellant make no ap
pearance when the case is called for tria', or otherwise fail to
prosecute his appeal, the respondent may, on motion, have the
appeal dismissed, or may open the record and move for an af
firmance. 
§ 5975 Comp. Laws. The plaintiff in the
probate court shall be the plaintiff in the circuit court, and
when the appeal is on questions of law alone the appellant
court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment, decree or
order, or the part thereof appealed from, and every interme
diate order which it is authorized by law to review, in any re
spect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of
the parties, and it may order a new hearing. Upon such ap
peal, so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the grounds, and no more, may be certified into the appellate
court. 

§ 5976 Comp.
Laws. When the appeal is on questions of fact, or on ques
tions of both law and fact, the trial in the circuit court must
be de novo, and shall be conducted in the same manner as if
the case and proceedings had lawfully originated in that court;
and such appellate court has the same power to decide the
questions of fact which the probate court or judge had, and it
may, in its discretion, as in suits in chancery, and with like ef
fect, make an order for the trial by a jury of any or all the ma
terial questions of fact arising upon the issues between the par
ties, and such an order must state distinctly and plainly the
questions of fact to be tried. 

§ 5977 Comp. Laws. If the judge of the probate courtne
glect or refuse to make or transmit such certified copies as are
hereinbefore required to be transmitted to the clerk fo the circuit
court in cases of appeal, he may be compelled by the circuit
court by an order entered, upon motion, to do so; and he may
be fined, as for contempt, for any such neglect or refusal. A
certified copy of such order may be served upon the probate
judge by the party or his attorney. 

§ 5978
Comp. Laws. The dismissal of an appeal by the circuit
court is in effect an affirmance of the judgment, decree or order
appealed from; and when an appellant shall have given, in
good faith, notice of appeal, but omits, through mistake, to do
any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay pro
ceedings, the appellate court may permit an amendment, on
such terms as may be just. 

§ 5979 Comp. Laws. Such appellate court may award
to the successful party the costs of the appeal; or it may direct
that such costs abide the event of a new hearing, Or Of the sub
sequent proceedings in the probate court. In either case the
costs may be made payable out of the estate or fund, or per
sonally by the unsuccessful party, as directed by the appellate
court; Qr, if no such direction be given, as directed by the pro
bate court. 

§ 5980 Comp. Laws. When a judgment, decree or order, from
which an appeal has been taken, is wholly or partly affirmed,
or is modified by the judgment rendered by the circuit court
upon such appeal, it must be enforced, to the extent author
ized by the latter judgment, by the probate court, in like man
mer as if no appeal therefrom had been taken; and the circuit
court must direct the proceedings to be remitted for that pur
pose to the probate court, or to the judge thereof. 

§ 5981 Comp. Laws. When an executor or administrator who
has given an official bond appeals from a judgment, decree or
order of the probate court or judge, made in the proceedings
had upon the estate of which he is administrator or executor,
his said bond stands in the place of an appeal bond, and the
sureties therein are liable as on such appeal bond. 

§ 5982 Comp. Laws. When the order or decree appointing an
executor, or administrator, or guardian, is reversed on appeal
for error, and not for want of jurisdiction of the court, all law
ful acts in administration upon the estate, performed by such
executor, or administrator or guardian, if he have qualified,
are as valid as if such order or decree had been affirmed.

§ 6227 Rev. Codes N. D. When a respondent
fails to appear at the time specified in a citation the court must
ascertain from the proofs of service, whether he has been duly
cited to appear; and unless the service is deemed sufficient a
new citation must be issued to such party or parties and the
hearing must be postponed until the time therein specified.

§ 6228 Rev. Codes N. D. After issue is
joined by the pleadings either party is entitled to a postpone
ment for a reasonable time to procure the attendance or depo
sition of a witness or otherwise prepare for the trial. A rea
sonable postponement may also be granted at any time to al
low a party to plead, or for any other meritorious cause. A
postponement may also be ordered because the judge is sick or
otherwise engaged, or because he desires time in which to pre
pare his decision. 

§ 9229 Rev. Codes N. D. A postponement may
be ordered without a written application and an adjournment
of the court from time to time in the progress of a hearing
operates as a postponement without a formal order. Every
postponement must be to a day certain; but an indefinite post
ponement or a failure to resume the hearing at the appointed
time by reason of the absence of the judge or for other cause
does not invalidate or otherwise affect any act previously done,
but operates only as a postponement of the hearing until
further notice. 

§ 6230 Rev. Codes N. D. After the respondents have had an op
portunity to plead the court must try the issues, hear the alle
gations and proofs of the respective parties, and make such
decision upon the facts thereby found as justice and equity re
quires. Every issue prescribed by section 6226 of this chap
ter must be tried upon the testimony of witnesses sworn and
examined in open court or taken in the form of deposition ac
cording to the rules of evidence applicable in a civil action ex
cept when the same are modified by the following provisions of
this article. 

§ 6231 Rev. Codes N. D. The court may examine the parties
and other witnesses and inquire into all the facts and circum
stances as to any material fact, although no issue is joined
thereon; and may also in its discretion refuse to hear the depo
sition of any witness residing within the state, who is compe
tent and able to appear and give testimony in person, unless
satisfied that the necessary expense or inconvenience of pro
curing his attendance ought not to be incurred. 

§ 6232
Rev. Codes N. D. When it is satisfactorily shown by affidavit
that a material witness within the county is so aged, sick or in.
firm that his attendance cannot be compelled without endanger
ing his life or health and there is no good reason to suppose
that he will be able to attend within a reasonable time to which
the hearing may be postponed, the judge shall proceed to the
place where the witness is and there take his testimony as in
open court; but if the party so requests, the testimouy of such
witness must be taken in the form of a deposition. 

§ 6226 Rev. Codes N.
D. An issue arising upon each of the following allegations of
a pleading:
1. Upon each averment in the petition of the execution of
a will, or of the death of any person when necessary to juris
diction, or of any fact alleged as cause for setting aside a de
cree or order of the court, although not controverted by an
SWer.
2. Upon every other material allegation of a petition
which is controverted by answer.
3. Upon every fact alleged in the answer except an ad
mission of a fact alleged in the petition. 

§ 6254 Rev.
Codes N. D. Any party or other person specified in the next section who deems himself aggrieved may appeal, as pre
scribed in this article, from a decree or from any order affect
ing a substantial right made by a county court to the district
court of the same county. 

§ 6255 Rev.
Codes N. D. Each person who was a party to the proceeding
in the county court and each other person, who has or claims
in the subject matter of the decree or order, a right or interest
which is affected by an appeal must be made a party to the
appeal. 

§ 6256
Rev. Codes N. D. To affect an appeal the appellant must
cause a notice of the appeal to be served on each of the other
parties and file such notice with the proofs of service, and an
undertaking for appeal in the county court within thirty days
from and after the date of the order or decree; but when the
party taking an appeal files such notice and announces the fil
ing orally in open court at the time when the decision is given
no other or further service of the notice is necessary. 

§ 6257
Rev. Codes N. D. An appeal from an order which directs
the payment of a fine as a punishment for a contempt is not ef
fected, unless the amount of the fine is also deposited with the
county judge within the prescribed time to abide the order of
the appellate court. 

§ 6258 Rev. Codes N. D. An executor, administra
tor or guardian may appeal without filing an undertaking from
a decree or order made in any proceding in a case in which he
has given an official bond; and when he appeals in that man
ner the bond stands in place of such undertaking. A special
guardian may appeal without filing an undertaking although
he has not given bond, but the appeal will not operate as a
stay unless taken from an order which grants or refuses
a transfer of the case. 

§ 6259 Rev. Codes N. D. When the appellant season.
ably and in good faith serves a notice of appeal on some of the
parties, but through mistake or excusable neglect fails to ob.
tain service on all, or in like manner omits to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal or effect a stay, the county
court upon proofs of the facts by affidavit may, in its discre
tion, extend the time for perfecting the service or other act
and permit an amendment accordingly upon such terms as jus
tice requires. 

§ 6260 Rev. Codes N. D. A party specified in section
6255, who was not served with notice by reason of the fact that
his interest or claim did not appear upon the records of the
county court at the time when the appeal was taken, is deemed
to have been duly served from the time when he appears in the
district court for any purposd connected with the appeal, or he
may be brought in by order of the district court on such notice
as the court shall prescribe. 

§ 6261 Rev. Codes N. D. For the purpose of
taking an appeal on questions of law alone, the notice must con
tain a statement to that effect, and specify the errors in law
which the appellant intends to rely on as grounds of the ap
peal and the time and place at which the appeal will be
brought on for trial. Every other notice of appeal is sufficient
which designates the party who appeals and the order or de
cree from which the appeal is taken and the intermediate ord
ers if any upon which the appellant desires a review. And ev
ery appeal must be held to have been taken upon the facts and
matter in law generally, unless the notice clearly indicates an
intention to appeal on questions of law alone, but the appel
lant may by his notice restrict the appeal to any specific direc
tion or award contained in a decree, if the issue upon which
the same depends can be separately tried and determined with
out prejudice to any other part of the decree. 

§ 6262 Rev. Codes N. D. A
specification of errors may contain a reference to each particu
lar error appearing of record in the decree or order in the pro
ceedings on which it is founded to which the appellant ob
jects without giving any reason for the objection and no other
form of exception is necessary. 
§ 6263 Rev.
Codes N. D. An undertaking on appeal must be executed in
favor of the appellees in such sum as the county court shall
prescribe by the appellant or his agent or attorney in his name
and sufficient sureties approved by the judge, to the effect that
the subscribers will pay to the parties entitled thereto all costs
of the appeal that shall be awarded against the appellant by
direction of the district court not exceeding the sum therein
stated. But the execution or enforcement of the decree or ord
er appealed from shall not be stayed, unless the instrument
contains a further undertaking to the effect that the subscribers
will also pay all damages which the appellees or any of them
shall sustain by reason of the appeal or a separate undertaking
to that effect executed and filed in like manner. 
§ 6264 Rev. Codes. The sum
prescribed in an undertaking for costs must not be less than
one hundred dollars. The sum prescribed in an undertaking
for damages shall be such further sum as the judge deems suf
ficient, and to aid him in determining the same or the suffi.
ciency of the sureties, the judge may examine the sureties and
other witnesses under oath. After an appeal is perfected the
district court may by order require the appellant to give a new
undertaking in a larger sum or with other sureties when the
sum specified in the original undertaking is deemed insuffi.
cient or a surety is found to be insolvent, has removed from
the state or is of doubtful financial responsibility, and unless
the order is complied with the appeal may be dismissed or the
stay dissolved as the case requires. 

§ 6265 Rev. Codes N. D. The prescribed undertaking for the
payment of damages creates an obligation on the part of the
principal and sureties executing the same to compensate each
of the appellees for all pecuniary loss and injury which he
shall sustain in consequence of the appeal respecting each and
every right or claim which was determined or enforced in his
favor by the decree or order from which the appeal is taken so
far as the same shall be affirmed or otherwise sustained by the
appellate court. When the decree or order directs the appel
lant or another party to pay or deliver money or other pro
perty, or to perform any other act to which the stay applied,
all loss and injury sustained by an appellee in consequence of
its detention from the time when the direction was given, or
by reason of any failure on the part of the appellant or such
other party to pay or deliver the same in accordance with the
decision or direction of the appellate court, and in as good con
dition as at the time when he was directed to do so by the
county court, is deemed to be sustained in consequence of the
appeal. When the order directs the commitment of the appel
ant or another person for disobeying any order except for the
payment of a fine, all loss and injury resulting from his dis
obedience is likewise deemed to have been suffered in conse
quence of the appeal. The obligation matures at the time of
the decision in the appellate court, but no action can be main
tained thereon until ten days thereafter. 

§ 6266
Rev. Codes N. D. Except when there is an express provis
ion to the contrary in this article, a perfected appeal stays the
execution or enforcement of the decree or order appealed from
until there has been a determination of the appeal or a dissolu
tion of the stay in the district court; and an appeal from an
order granting or refusing a transfer of the case likewise stays
all further proceedings in that case. In other respects the de
cree or order of the county court remains unaffected until re
versed or modified by direction of the appellate court. 

§ 6267 Rev. Codes N. D.
An appeal from a decree or order admitting a will to probate
or granting letters testamentary, or letters of administration,
does not stay the issuing of letters when, in the opinion of the
county judge manifested by an entry upon the journal, the
preservation of the estate requires that such letters should is
sue. But the letters so issued do not confer power to sell real
property by virtue of any provision in a will or to pay or satis
fy, legacies, or to distribute the property of the decedent until
the determination of the appeal. 

§ 6268 Rev. Codes N. D. An
appeal does not stay the execution or enforcement of a decree or
order which appoints a special administrator or revokes the
probate of a will or suspends or removes an executor, adminis
trator or guardian, or revokes his appointment. 

§6269 Rev. Codes. When an appeal is perfected, the
county judge must make and certify to the district court a com
plete transcript of the papers and other records upon which
the appeal is taken or so much thereof as may be material to.
gether with the notice of appeal and proof of service, the un
dertaking and other matters of record relating to the appeal;
and unless such transcript is delivered to the clerk within ten
days, the district court may on motion of any party interested
require and compel him to make and certify the same and may
in like imanner require him to amend the transcript as often as
may be necessary or to certify and send up a will or other writ
ten instrument in its original form. When all the proofs upon
which the court acted appear in the transcript the certificate
shall so state. 

§6270 Rev. Codes N. D. Upon the de
livery of such transcript and payment of the clerk's fees, the
appeal must be docketed in the district court and placed on the
calendar of causes for trial according to the date on which it
was perfected and without a notice of trial or note of issue at
the next term convening, not less than ten days after the tak
ing of the appeal, and must be disposed of accordingly during
the term, unless sooner disposed of in pursuance of the pro
visions of the next section. 

§ 6271 Rev. Codes N. D. When the appeal is taken
upon questions of law alone, the time and place of hearing
specified in the notice of appeal may be any time and place at
which an issue of law may be tried in the district court, and a
hearing may be had accordingly; provided, however, that such
time shall not be less than ten days after the service of the no
tice, nor later than the first day of the term specified in the
preceding section. Upon a failure to obtain a hearing a new no
tice of the time and place of hearing may be given as often as may
be necessary, and the appeal may, notwithstanding any such no
tice, be brought to a hearing at any time by an appellee upon a
like notice served on the appellant or his attorney of record in
the county court. 

§ 6272 Rev. Codes
N. D. If the transcript is not certified to the district court on
or before the second day of the term designated in section 6270
and the appellant does not make application for an order re
quiring the same to be certified forthwith or if the appeal has
not been sooner disposed of and the appellant fails to do any
act necessary in order to have the same docketed and brought
upon the calendar on or before the second day of such term,
any appellee may have the same so entered by order of the
court upon the production of a certified copy of the decree or
order appealed from and the notice of appeal and thereupon
the appeal shall be summarily dismissed with ten dollars costs
to such appellee, unless the appellant satisfactorily excuses his
default and forthwith pays such costs. 

§ 6273 Rev. Codes
N. D. A dismissal of an appeal by order of the district court
in pursuance of any provision of this article is in effect an affir
mance of the decree or order appealed from. 

§ 6274 Rev. Codes N. D. At a
hearing in the district court on an appeal taken upon questions
of law alone the decree or order of the county court shall be
reviewed only so far as may be necessary and with a view to
correct errors appearing upon the record which injuriously af
fect a right or claim of the appellant and are specified in the
notice of appeal; but when a specification relates to a discre
tionary award or direction given upon facts shown by the rec
ord, the district court has the same discretion that the county
court had. Each specification may be overruled or sustained
according as the right of the matter appears and the court
shall give its decision accordingly, affirming or reversing the
decree or order appealed from or reversing in part and affirm
ing as to the remainder, with such directions as may be neces
sary or proper respecting the decree or order to be entered in
the county court. 

§ 6275 Rev. Codes N. D.
When an appeal is taken generally, all the issues must be tried
and determined anew in the district court and the court must
hear the allegations and proofs of the parties and determine
all questions of law and fact arising thereon according to the
mode of trying similar issues originating in that court, except
that an issue involved in the probate of a will and issues aris
ing upon a petition for the allowance of a claim or demand for
money only must be tried according to the mode of trying is
sues to a jury if a jury is demanded. When the appeal is tak
en from a decree or final order, the court may before trying
the issues review any intermediate order specified in the notice
of appeal, which materially affected the issues and vacate the
same or otherwise make such order as the county court ought
to have made. And upon every appeal taken generally the
court has the same power that the county court had to permit
or direct a pleading to be filed or otherwise amend the issues
and try the same accordingly, but in other respects, when the
proofs on which the county court acted were submitted in the
form of affidavits or otherwise appear of record, the appeal
must be determined upon the certified transcript. 

§ 6276 Rev. Codes N. D. A decision of the district court upon
the facts must designate the issues tried and contain the ma
terial facts found by the court, or the substance of the ver
dict returned by the jury, as the case may be, and the direction
of the court thereon affirming the decree or order from which
the appeal was taken generally, or reversing the same or a dis
tinct part thereof as justice requires and as to any or all of the
parties, with specific directions respecting the decree or order
to be entered in the county court. 

§ 6277
Rev. Codes N. D. The reversal of a decree or order of the
county court for any cause except for want of jurisdiction does
not affect the validity of any act otherwise lawfully done in
pursuance of the order or decree, and in the course of the ad
ministration by an executor, administrator or guardian while
the appeal is pending. 

§ 6278 Rev. Codes
N. D. The costs of an appeal shall be settled and determined
by the district court agreeably to the provisions of section 6240
of this chapter except that like fees and disbursements may be
allowed as in other cases in that court. The amount of costs
so allowed shall be stated in the order or decision which de
termines the appeal, with a direction specifying the party in
whose favor and the party against whom the same shall be
awarded by the county court. If the appellant is required to
pay costs, the amount thereof shall be awarded by the county
court jointly against him and the sureties on his undertaking
as prescribed in the next section without an express direction
to that effect. 

§ 6079 Rev. Codes N.
D. Each Order Or decision of the district court which
dismisses or determines an appeal and each preliminary
order which affects the merits must be given in writing
and filed with the clerk and by him entered of record,
after which the clerk shall attach thereto the original of
each paper filed by the parties in the district court
and each paper certified to that court in the original form and
certify and transmit the same without delay to the county court
there to become part of the record; but when a stay is grant
ed or effected in the district court, they shall not be transmit
ted until the stay has expired. Each order or decision so
transmitted shall be immediately entered in the journal and a
decree or order as the case requires shall likewise be entered
by the county court in conformity to the directions of the ap
pellate court and be enforced in the same manner as other de
crees or orders of the county court. 

§ 6084 Comp.
Laws. Unless postponed as provided in this article, or unless
transferred to another court, the trial of the action must com
mence at the expiration of one hour from the time specified in
the summons for the appearance of defendant, and the trial
must be continued without adjournment for more than twenty
four hours at any one time, until all the issues therein are dis
posed of.

§ 6085 Comp. Laws. The court may, of its own mo
tion, postpone the trial:
1. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time specified in
the summons, or by an order of the court for the trial, the
court is engaged in the trial of another action.
For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment of the
pleadings, or the allowance of time to make such amendment,
or to plead, a postponement is rendered necessary.
3. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon is
sues of fact, and a jury has been demanded.

§ 6086 Comp Laws. The court
may, by consent of the parties, given in writing or in open
court, postpone the trial to a time agreed upon by the parties.

§ 6087 Comp. Laws. The trial
may be postponed upon the application of either party, for a
period not exceeding sixty days:
1. The party making the application must prove, by his
own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material
testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial,
and must show in what respect the testimony expected is ma
terial, and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has
been unable to do so.
The party making the application must, if required by the
adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party, who is in attendance, may be then taken
by deposition before the justice, and that the testimony so tak
en may be read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject
to the same objections as if the witness was produced; but the
court may require the party making the application to state,
upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if
the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the
trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not
be postponed.
3. If the trial be postponed the deposition of witnesses re
siding out of the county or state may be taken either upon com
mission issued by the justice, or upon notice to take deposi
tions in the same manner as is provided by the code of civil
procedure; and such depositions shall, when completed, be di
rected to the justice, and be published by the justice in the
same manner as depositions are published by the clerk of the
circuit court. 

§ 6088 Comp. Laws. No adjournment must, unless
by consent, be granted for a period longer than ten days, upon
the application of either party, except upon condition that such
party file an undertaking, in an amount fixed by the justice,
with two sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect
that they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any
judgment which may be recovered against the party applying,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
§ 6077 . Comp. Laws. The
time for appearance and pleading must not be less than two nor
more than four days from the time the summons is served on
the defendant, and no adjournment or continuances shall be
made for more than five days, unless the defendant applying
therefor shall give an undertaking to the plaintiff with good
and sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice, conditioned
for the payment of the rent that may accrue, together with the
costs, if judgment be rendered against the defendant,

§ 6140 Comp. Laws. In case of the sickness or other
disability, or necessary absence of a justice, on a return of a
summons, or at the time appointed for a trial, another justice
of the same township or county, may, at his request, attend in
his behalf, and thereupon is vested with the power, for the
time being, of the justice before whom the summons was re
turnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings
before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be made
in the docket of the justice before whom the summons was re
turnable. If the case is adjourned, the justice before whom
the summóns was returnable, may resume jurisdiction.
§ 6144 Comp. Laws. Jus
tices' courts being courts of peculiar and limited Jurisdiction,
only those provisions of the code of civil procedure which are
in their nature applicable to the organization, powers, and
course of proceedings in justice's courts or which have been
made applicable by special provisions in this chapter, are ap
plicable to justices' courts and the proceedings therein.
§ 6045 Comp. Laws. The court may at any time before the trial,
on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:
1. Where it appears to the satisfaction of the justice be
fore whom the action is pending, by affidavit of either party,
that such justice is a material witness for either party.
2. Where either party makes and files an affidavit, that
he believes he cannot have a fair and impartial trial, before
such justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the
justice.
3. When from any cause the justice is disqualified from
acting.
4. When the justice is sick or unable to act. 

§ 6046 Comp. Laws. The place of trial can
not be changed on motion of the same party more than once.
When the court orders the place of trial to be changed, the
action must be transferred for trial to a justice's court the par
ties may agree upon; and if they do not so agree, then to the
next nearest justice's court in the same county. 

§ 6047 Comp. Laws. After an order has been
made transferring the action for trial to another court the fol
lowing proceedings must be had:
1. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately
transmit to the justice of the court to which it is transferred,
on payment by the party applying of one dollar for the trans
cript, all the papers in the action, together with a certified
transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein.
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers the justice of
the court to which the case is transferred must issue a
notice stating when and where the trial will take place, which
notice must be served upon the parties at least one day before
the time fixed for trial, unless such notice be waived by consent
of parties and such consent be entered on the docket of the jus
tice. 

§ 6048 Comp.
Laws. From the time the order changing the place of trial
is made, the court to which the action is thereby transferred,
has the same jurisdiction over it as though it had been com
menced in such court. 

§ 6089 Comp. Laws. Issues arise upon
the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained
by the one party and is controverted by the other. They are
of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.

§ 6090 Comp. Laws. An issue of law
arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof. 

§ 6091 Comp. Laws. An issue of fact
arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, contro
verted by the answer; and,
2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of law
is joined thereon.

§ 6092 Comp. Laws. An
issue of law must be tried by the court.
§ 6093 Comp, Laws.
An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury is
waived, in which case it must be tried by the court.

§ 6094 Comp. Laws. A
jury may be waived:
1. By consent of parties, entered in the docket.
2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury before
the commencement of the trial of an issue of fact.
3. By the failure of either party to appear at the time
fixed for the trial of an issue of fact.

§ 6095 Comp Laws.
If either party fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the
trial may proceed, at the request of the adverse party.

§ 6096 Comp. Laws. When the value in controversy
or sum demanded exceeds twenty dollars, either party may de
mand a jury, and upon such demand the justice shall write down
the names of twelve persons, residents of the county, and hav
ing the qualifications of jurors in the circuit court, from which
list of names each party, the plaintiff beginning, may strike
out three names alternately, and in case of the absence of
either party, or of his refusal to strike out, the justice shall
strike out of such list such names, and the justice shall upon
the deposit of the jury fee for one day’s service, by the party
demanding the jury, at once issue his venire directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to sum
mon the six persons whose names remain upon the list as jury
mer' 

§ 6097 Comp. Laws. Challenges shall be allowed in
the same manner, and for the same causes, as in the circuit
courts in civil actions; and in case the number shall be reduced
below six, by such challenges, or in case any jurors summoned
shall fail to attend, the justice shall direct the sheriff or any
constable to summon and return forthwith a sufficient number
of talesmen, having the qualifications of jurors, to com
plete the panel. All challenges must be tried in a summary
manner by the justice, who may examine the juror challenged,
or other witnesses, under oath. 

§ 6099 Comp. Laws. The justice shall
administer to the jurors the same oath as is prescribed for jur
ors in civil actions in the circuit court.

§ 6100 Comp. Laws. When the cause of action or
counterclaim arises upon an account or instrument for the pay
ment of money only, the court, at any time before the trial,
may, by an order under his hand, require the original to be ex
hibited to the inspection of, and a copy to be furnished to the
adverse party, at such time as may be fixed in the order; or, if
such order is not obeyed, the account or instrument cannot be
given in evidence.
§ 6101 Comp. Laws. If the plaintiff annex to his com
plaint, or file with the justice at the time of issuing the sum
mons, the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of ex
change, or other written obligation for the payment of money,
upon which the action is brought, the defendant is deemed to
admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indors
ers or assignors thereof, unless he specifically deny the same
in his answer, and verify the answer by his oath.

§ 6078 Comp. Laws. If the finding of the court or the verdict of
a jury be in favor of the plaintiff, the judgment shall be for the
delivery of the possession to the plaintiff, and for rents and
profits or damages, where the same are claimed in the com
plaint, and for costs. 

§ 6129 Comp. Laws. Any party dissatis
fied with a judgment rendered in a civil action in a justice's
court, may appeal therefrom to the circuit court of the county
or subdivision at any time within thirty days after the rendi
tion of the judgment. The appeal is taken by serving a copy
of the notice of appeal on the adverse party or his attorney, and
by filing the notice of appeal with the justice. The notice must
state whether the appeal is taken from the whole or a part of the
judgment; and if from a part, what part, and whether the ap
peal is taken on questions of law or fact, or both. 

§ 6130 Comp.
Laws. When a party appeals to the circuit court on questions
of law alone, or desiring a review therein, upon the evidence
appearing on the trial below, either of questions of fact or law,
he must, within ten days from the rendition of judgment, pre
pare a statement of the case and file the same with the justice.
The statement must contain the grounds upon which the party
intends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as
may be necessary to explain the grounds, and no more. Within
ten days after he receives notice that the statement is filed, the
adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same, may file amend
ments. The proposed statement and amendments must be set
tled by the justice, and if no amendments be filed the original
statement stands as adopted. The statement thus adopted or
as settled by the justice, with a copy of the docket of the jus
tice, and all motions filed with him by the parties during the
trial and the notice of appeal, may be used on the hearing of
the appeal before the circuit court. 
§ 6131 Comp. Laws. When a party appeals to the circuit court
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact, and
demands in his notice of appeal a new trial in the circuit court,
no statement must be made, but the action must be tried anew
in that court. 
§ 6132.
Comp. Laws. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on
payment of one dollar for the return of the justice, and filing
an undertaking as required in the next section, and after set
tlement or adoption of statement, if any, the justice must with
in five days transmit to the clerk of the circuit, if the appeal be
on questions of fact or both law and fact, and a new trial in the
circuit court be demanded in the notice of appeal, a certified
copy of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other
papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and the under
taking filed; in all other cases a certified copy of his docket,
the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice of appeal
and the undertaking filed; and the justice may be compelled by
the circuit court, by an order entered, upon motion, to transmit
such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to trans
mit the same. A certified copy of such order may be served
on the justice by the party or his attorney. In the circuit court
either party may have the benefit of all legal objections made
in the justice’s court. 

§ 6133 Comp. Laws. An appeal from a justice's court is not
effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with
two or more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for
the payment of the costs on the appeal; or, if a stay of pro
ceedings be claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the
judgment, including costs, when the judgment is for the pay
ment of money; or twice the value of the property, including
costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of specific per
sonal property, and must be conditioned, when the action is
for the recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the
amount of the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the ap
peal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judg
ment and all costs that may be recovered against him in the
action in the circuit court. When the action is for the recov
ery of specific personal property the undertaking must be con
ditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and costs
appealed from, and obey the order of the court made therein,
if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and
costs that may be recovered against him in said action in the
circuit court, and will obey any order made by the court there
in. A deposit of the amount of the judgment, including all
costs appealed from, or of the value of the property, including
all costs in actions for the recovery of specific personal prop
erty, with the justice, is equivalent to the filing of the under
taking, and in such cases the justice must transmit the money
to the clerk of the circuit court, to be by him paid out on the
order of the court. The adverse party may except to the suffi
ciency of the sureties within five days after the filing of the
undertaking, and unless they or other sureties justify before
the justice before whom the appeal is taken, within five days
thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party, to the amounts
stated in their affidavits, the appeal must be regarded as if no
such undertaking had been given.

§ 6134 Comp. Laws. In Judgments for
the delivery of possession in actions of forcible entry and de
tainer, or detainer only, the execution of the same cannot be
stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of
the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that dur
ing the possession of such property by the appellant he will
not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and
that if the judgment be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, he
will pay all rents for the use and occupation of the property,
and all damages from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of the possession thereof. 

§ 6135 Comp. Laws. If an execution be issued, on the filing of
the undertaking staying proceedings the justice must, by order,
direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such
officer must, upon payment of his fees for services rendered on
the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon,
and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together with all
moneys collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not
paid, the officer may retain so much of the property or pro
ceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the same.

§ 6136 Comp.
Laws. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the case,
the circuit court may review all orders affecting the judgment
appealed from, and may set aside, affirm or modify the judg
ment, or any or all the proceedings subsequent to and depend
ent upon such judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, ord
er a new trial. When the action is tried anew, upon appeal,
the trial must be conducted in all respects as trials in the cir
cuit court. The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure as
to changing the place of trial, and all the provisions as to trials
n the circuit court, are applicable to trials on appeal in that
court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary
delay in bringing it to a hearing, the circuit court, after notice,
may order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments rendered in
the circuit court on appeal have the same force and effect and may
be enforced in the circuit court in the same manner, as judgments
in actions commenced therein, except that when a new trial is
granted the case must be remanded, and the new trial shall be
had in the justice’s court. No notice of trial and note of issue
shall be required to be served or filed in order to bring the
cause appealed upon the trial calendar in the circuit court, but
said appeal shall be filed by the clerk, on payment of his costs,
and entered upon the calendar, and shall stand for trial as soon
as the same is reached in the regular call of the calendar there
after. If not so filed within fifteen days from the time such ap
peal was perfected, then the same shall be dismissed by the
order of the court at any time thereafter, upon motion of the
appellee, after three days’ notice to the appellant or his at
torney. 

§ 6151 Comp. Laws.
The defendant may make the same plea as upon an indictment.
His plea must be oral, and entered in the minutes. If the de
fendant plead guilty the court may, before entering such plea or
pronouncing judgment, examine witnesses to ascertain the
gravity of the offense committed; and if it appears to the court
that a higher offense has been committed than the offense
charged in the complaint, the court may order the defendant to
be committed or admitted to bail, to answer any indictment
which may be found against him by the grand jury. 

§ 6152
Comp. Laws. Upon a plea other than a plea of guilty, if the
defendant does not demand a trial by jury, or an adjournment
or change of venue is not granted, the court must proceed to
try the case. 

§ 6153 Comp. Laws. In crimi
nal proceedings before a justice of the peace, a change of the
place of trial or examination may be had at any time before
such trial or examination commences, when it appears from the
affidavit of the defendant that he has reason to believe and does
believe, that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial or exam
ination before the justice about to try or examine such case, by
reason of the bias or prejudice of such justice; whereupon the
cause shall be transferred to the next nearest justice of the
same county, unless the parties otherwise agree; Provided, that
a change of the place of trial or examination under the provis
ions of this section can be had but once. 

§ 6154 Comp. Laws. When a change of the place of trial is
ordered the justice must transmit to the justice before whom
the trial is to be had all the original papers in the cause, with a
certified copy of the minutes of his proceedings; and upon re
ceipt thereof, the justice to whom they are delivered must pro
ceed with the trial in the same manner as if the proceeding or
aotion had been originally commenced in his court. 

§ 6155 Comp.
Laws. Before the commencement of the trial either party
may, upon good cause shown, have a reasonable postponement
thereof. 

§ 6156 Comp. Laws. The defend
ant must be personally present before the trial can proceed.

§ 6157 Comp. Laws.
Before the court hears any testimony upon the trial, the de
fendant may demand a trial by jury. The formation of the
jury is provided for in chapter 1, article 10, of this code. 

§ 6158 Comp. Laws. The
same challenges may be taken by either party to any individ
ual juror, as on the trial of an indictment for a misdemeanor;
but the challenge must, in all cases, be tried by the court.

§ 6159 Comp. Laws. The court must ad
minister to the jury the following oath:
ou do swear that you will well and truly try this issue between the
State of South Dakota and A B, the defendant, and a true verdict render
according to the evidence. So help you God.
Any juror who is conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, shall be allowed to make affirmation, substituting for the
words “so help you God,” at the end of the oath, the words,
“this you do affirm, under the pains and penalties of perjury.”

§ 6160 Comp. Laws. After the jury are sworn they must sit to
gether and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties,
which must be delivered in public and in the presence of the
defendant. 

§ 9161 Comp. Laws.
The court must decide all questions of law which may arise in
the course of the trial, but can give no charge with respect to
matters of fact. 

§ 9161 Comp. Laws.
The court must decide all questions of law which may arise in
the course of the trial, but can give no charge with respect to
matters of fact. 

§ 9161 Comp. Laws.
The court must decide all questions of law which may arise in
the course of the trial, but can give no charge with respect to
matters of fact. 

§ 9161 Comp. Laws.
The court must decide all questions of law which may arise in
the course of the trial, but can give no charge with respect to
matters of fact. 

§ 6165
Comp. Laws. The jury cannot be discharged after the cause
is submitted to them, until they have agreed upon and rendered
their verdict, unless for good cause the court sooner dis
charges them. 

§ 6166
Comp. Laws, If the jury is discharged, as provided in the
last section, the court may proceed again to the trial, in the
same manner as upon the first trial, and so on until a verdict is
rendered. 
§ 6167 Com. Laws.
When the defendant pleads guilty, or is convicted, either by
the court or by a jury, the court must render judgment there
on, of fine or imprisonment, or both, as the case may be. 
§ 6168
Comp. Laws. A judgment that the defendant pay a fine
may also direct that he be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied,
in the proportion of one day's imprisonment for every two dol
lars of the fine. 

§ 6169 Comp. Laws. When the defend
ant is acquitted, either by the court or by the jury, he must be
immediately discharged; and if the court certify in the minutes
that the prosecution was malicious or without probable cause,
it may order the prosecutor to pay the costs of the action, or to
give satisfactory security by a written undertaking, with one
or more sureties, to pay the same within thirty days after the
trial. 

§ 6170 Comp. Laws.
At the close of the trial, judgment must be immediately ren
dered by the justice, and entered in his docket. 

§ 6177 Comp. Laws. The jus
tice, immediately on rendering judgment against the defend
ant, must inform him of his right to appeal therefrom, and the
defendant may thereupon take an appeal to the circuit court of
the county or subdivision in which the trial was had, by giving
notice orally to the justice that he appeals, and the justice must
make an entry on his docket of the giving of such notice; and
upon such appeal the action may be tried anew in the circuit
court upon questions of law and fact, or fact alone; or the ap
peal may be determined therein upon questions of law alone,
and the judgment may be set aside, affirmed or modified, or a
new trial granted as provided in section 6136 of the justices'
code. 

§ 6178
Comp. Laws. Instead of such appeal, the defendant may at
any time within thirty days after judgment, appeal to such cir
cuit court in the same manner as provided in sections 6129,
6130, 6131 and 6132, and such appeal may be determined there
in as provided for in section 6136 of the justices’ code. 

§ 6179 Comp.
Laws. Upon an appeal the justice must enter an order on
his docket, fixing the amount in which bail may be given by
the defendant, and the execution of the judgment shall not be
stayed unless he enter into an undertaking in the amount fixed
with sufficient surety to be approved by the justice to appear
and answer at the next term of the circuit court, and not depart without leave of the same. 

§ 6180, Comp. Laws. The bail may be taken by the
justice who rendered the judgment, or by any magistrate in the
county who has authority to admit to bail, or by the circuit
court or the clerk thereof. 

§ 6181 Comp.
Laws. When an appeal is taken, the justice must, if applica
tion be made by the district attorney, cause all material wit
nesses on behalf of the prosecution to enter into an undertak
ing in like manner as in a case where a defendant is held to
answer on a preliminary examination for an indictable offense.

§ 6182 Comp.
Laws. Upon an appeal being taken, the justice must, within
five days, transmit to the clerk of the circuit court, if the ap
peal be upon questions of law alone, a certified copy of his
docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice of
appeal, if any, and the undertaking of bail; or, if the appeal be
on questions of fact, or both law and fact, a certified copy of
his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other papers
filed in the cause, the notice of appeal, if any, and the under
takings filed; and the justice may be compelled by the circuit
court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such pa
pers, and, if the return be defective, to make further return,
and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same.
A certified copy of such order may be served on the justice by
the party or his attorney. In the circuit court, either party
may have the benefit of all legal objections made in the jus
tice's court. 

§ 6183 Comp. Laws. No appeal
from the judgment of a justice of the peace in criminal proceed
ings shall be dismissed. All proceedings necessary to carry
the judgment upon appeal into effect shall be had in the circuit
court; provided, however, that when a new trial is granted the
case must be remanded, and the new trial had in the justice's
court, 

§ 6644 Rev. Codes N. D. In a justice's
court the parties may appear and act in person or by attorney
and any person may act as attorney except a practicing attor
ney, or other person occupying the same room in which the
justice has his office, or a person employed in serving a sum
mons or venire. 

§ 6645 Rev. Codes N. D. The
parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear after the
time stated in the summons or any time fixed for further pro
ceedings in the action and neither party is bound to wait long
er for the other. 

§ 6646 Rev. Codes N. D. If neither party appears
within the time limited by the preceding section, the action shall
be deemed discontinued and there shall be no further proceedings
therein unless by the consent of both parties; if both parties
ppear, the case may be called when they appear, but if only
one or more of the parties appear, the case shall not be called
until the expiration of the hour and in either case shall be dis.
posed of as hereinafter prescribed. 

§ 6647 Rev. Codes N. D. In case of the
sickness or other disability or necessary absence of a justice,
on a return of a summons or at the time appointed for a trial,
another justice of the same township or county may at his re
quest attend in his behalf, and thereupon is vested with the
power for the time being of the justice before whom the sum
mons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the
proceedings before the attending justice subscribed by him
must be made in the docket of the justice before whom the
summons was returnable. If the case is adjourned, the justice
before whom the summons was returnable may resume juris
diction. 

§ 6648 Rev. Codes N. D. The court may of its own motion
or on application of a party postpone the hearing or trial:
1. For not exceeding one day if at the time specified in
the summons or Order of the court, the justice is sick or en
gaged in the trial of another action.
2. For not exceeding two days, if by amendment of a
pleading or allowance of time to plead or amend, a postpone
ment is rendered necessary.
3. For not exceeding three days, when a jury is required
for the trial of an issue of fact.
4. For not exceeding thirty days, when a second sum
mons is issued as prescribed by section 6643 of this code.

§ 6649 Rev. Codes N. D.
The court may, by consent of the parties given in writing or in
open court, postpone the trial to a time agreed upon by the
parties. 

§ 6650
Rev. Codes N. D. The trial may be postponed upon the appli
cation of either party for a period not exceeding sixty days:
1. The party making the application must prove by his
own oath or otherwise, that he cannot for Want of material tes
timony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial
and must show in what respect the testimony expected is ma
terial and that he has used due diligence to procure it and has
been unable to do so.
2. The party making the application must, if required by
the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party, who is in attendance, may be then taken
by deposition before the justice and that the testimony so tak
en may be read on the trial with the same effect and subject to
the same objections as if the witness was produced; but the
court may require the party making the application to state
upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if
the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence would
be given and agrees that it be considered as actually given on
the trial or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must
not be postponed.
3. If the trial is postponed, the depositions of witnesses
residing out of the county or state may be taken either upon
commission issued by the justice or upon notice to take depo
sitions in the same manner as is provided by the code of civil
procedure; and such depositions shall, when completed, be di
rected to the justice and be published by the justice in the same
manner as depositions are published by the clerk of the district
court. 
§ 6651 Rev. Codes N. D. No postponement shall be
granted as prescribed in the preceding section for more than
five days, unless the party applying for the postponement files
an undertaking executed by a sufficient surety approved by the
justice to the effect that he will pay to the adverse party all
costs which he shall recover in the action. If the application
is made by the defendant in an action of forcible detainer, the
undertaking must be to the effect that the surety will pay to the
plaintiff whatever sum he shall recover in the action including
all rents and profits that shall accrue to him during the post
ponement. 

§ 6652 Rev. Codes N. D. The court may at any time before the
trial, on motion, change the place of trial in the following
Ca,SeS:
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the justice be
fore whom the action is pending by affidavit of either party
that such justice is a material witness for either party.
2. When either party makes and files an affidavit that he
believes he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such
justice by reason of the interest, prejudice or bias of the jus
tice. - * * -
3. When from any cause the justice is disqualified from
acting.
4. When the justice is sick or unable to act. 

§ 6653 Rev. Codes N. D. The place of trial
cannot be changed on motion of the same party more than once.
When the court orders the place of trial to be changed, the ac
tion must be transferred for trial to a justice's court the parties
may agree upon, and if they do not so agree, then to the next
nearest justice's court in the same county. 

§ 6654 Rev. Codes N. D. From the time the
order changing the place of trial is made, the court to which
the action is thereby transferred has the same jurisdiction over
it as though it had been commenced in such court. After an
Order has been made transferring the action for trial to another
..court the following proceedings must be had:
1. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately
transmit to the justice of the court to which it is transferred,
on payment by the party applying of one dollar for the trans
cript, all the papers in the action together with a certified
transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein.
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers the justice of
the court to which the case is transferred must issue a motice
stating when and where the trial will take place, which notice
must be served upon the parties at least one day before the
time fixed for trial, unless such notice is waived by consent of
the parties entered on the docket. 

§ 6681 Rev. Codes
N. D. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; or,
. Upon new matter in the answer not admitted in the re
ply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply. 

§ 6682 Rev. Codes N. D. Issues of fact must be tried
by jury unless a jury is waived. When a jury is waived, the
court must try the issues, hear the allegations and proofs of
the respective parties and render judgment thereon. 

§ 6683 Rev. Codes N. D. Subject to the provisions of article 2 of this chapter the trial must commence as soon as the
issues are joined or as soon as the jury is empaneled, and con
tinued until concluded without an intermission for more than
twenty-four hours at any one time; if either party fails to ap
pear at the time fixed for the trial, it may proceed at the request
of the adverse party. 

§ 6684 Rev. Codes N. D. A jury
is waived:
1. If neither party before the commencement of the trial
demands a jury as prescribed in the next section.
2. If either party fails to appear at the time fixed for the
trial. 

§ 6685 Rev. Codes
N. D. When an issue of fact is joined, either party may de
mand a trial by jury on depositing with the justice a sum suffi
cient to pay the jurors their fees for one day's attendance.

§ 6686
Rev. Codes N. D. The jury shall be composed of six residents
of the county having the qualifications of jurors or of any num
ber less than six if the parties so agree, who shall be selected,
summoned and impaneled as hereinafter prescribed. 

§ 6687 Rev. Codes N.
D. Unless the persons to be summoned are named in the
agreement of the parties, the justice shall write down the
names of eighteen residents of the county competent to sit as
jurors, and from the list so prepared, the parties alternately,
beginning with the party demanding the jury, shall strike out
one name each until there remains only the number required
to constitute the jury. If either party refuses to strike out a
name the justice shall act for him. The justice shall thereup
on issue his venire to the sheriff or any constable of the county
commanding him to summon the persons so selected or agreed
upon, as the case may be, to appear forthwith or at a fixed
time and place stated therein, to serve as jurors in the trial of
the action. 


§ 6688 Rev. Codes N. D. The officer shall, without
unnecessary delay, serve the venire upon each of the persons
therein mamed by reading the same to him and shall state in
his return the name of each person served and the name of
each person who cannot be found. A person disobeying a ve
nire may be compelled to appear or be punished for a failure
to appear in the same manner as a witness who disobeys a
subpoena. 

§ 6689 Rev. Codes N. D. If the persons so summoned
do not all appear at the proper time, the justice must require
the absentees to be brought in or cause others to be substituted,
or if any person appearing as a juror is excused for legal
cause before the jurors are sworn to try the issue, others must
be substituted until the required number of jurors is obtained.
The persons so required must be selected and summoned forth
with as hereinbefore prescribed from a list containing three
times as many names as there are jurors to be substituted.

§ 6690 Rev. Codes N. D. Upon the appearance of a sufficient
number, the jurors must at the request of either party be first
sworn to answer truly all questions that may be propounded to
them by the court or by the parties as to their qualifications to
sit as jurors in the trial of the action and may thereupon be
examined accordingly. 

§ 6691
Rev. Codes N. D. Challenges to individual jurors are allowed
for the same causes as in a civil action in the district court, but
must be taken before the jurors are sworn to try the issue, and
every challenge must be tried in a summary manner by the jus
tice on the examination of the juror or other witnesses under
oath. 

§ 6692 Rev. Codes N. D. As soon as a
sufficient number are secured and accepted, the justice shall
administer to the jurors the following oath: “You, and each
of you, do solemnly swear (or affirm as the case may be) that
you will well and truly try the matters in issue between the
plaintiff and defendant and a true verdict rendered according
to the evidence.” 

§ 6693 Rev.
Codes N. D. After the jurors are sworn to try the issue, they
must sit together and hear the allegations and proofs of the
parties, which must be delivered in public in the presence of
the justice and as nearly as may be in accordance with the prac
tice in the district court. 
§ 6694 Rev. Codes N. D. The jury cannot be discharged after
they are sworn until they have agreed upon and returned their
verdict, unless for good cause the court sooner discharges
them. 

§ 6695 Rev. Codes N. D. The justice must decide all questions
of law arising in the progress of the trial, but must not instruct
the jury upon the law of the case, nor express an opinion as to
any matters of fact in controversy therein. 

§ 6696 Rev. Codes N. D. After hearing the proofs and , allegations, the
jury may decide in court or may retire for consideration. If
they do not immediately agree, an officer must be sworn to the
following effect:
You do swear that you will keep this jury together in some quiet and
convenient place; that you will not permit any person to speak to them nor
speak to them yourself unless by order of the court, or to ask them whether
they have agreed upon a verdict; and that you will return them into court
when they have so agreed or when ordered by the court. 

§ 6697 Rev. Codes N. D. The verdict of
the jury must be in writing, and be signed by all the jurors or
by one of them as foreman. When they have agreed upon their
verdict they must render it publicly to the justice and it must
be entered in the docket immediately, but if the verdict is not
in proper form, the justice may inform the jury accordingly
and require them to correct the same. 

§ 6698 Rev. Codes N. D. The
verdict shall be as follows:
1. In an action to recover possession of personal prop
erty, to the effect that the jury find the plaintiff or defendant
entitled to possession or if not in possession, to a delivery of
the property therein described, specifying its value article by article and to damages, if claimed for its detention, in a sum
therein stated as assessed by the jury. If the finding is in favor
of the plaintiff as to part of the property, the verdict shall con.
tain a like finding in favor of the defendant as to the residue.
2. In an action of forcible detainer when in favor of the
plaintiff, to the effect that he is entitled to a delivery of posses
sion and to rents, profits and damages if claimed, in a sum as
sessed by the jury. If in favor of the defendant a finding to
that effect is sufficient.
3. In other actions, when in favor of the plaintiff or plain
tiffs to the effect that the jury find for him or them and assess
the amount of the recovery at a sum therein stated in dollars
and cents; or if there are several defendants, to the effect that
the jury find for the plaintiff and assess his recovery at a sum
stated as against all or against one or more of the defendants
by name as the case requires. When in favor of the defendant
or one of several defendants, to the effect that the jury find for
him or them designating each by name if necessary, and assess
ing the amount of his recovery, if determined in his favor, upo
a counterclaim. *
4. When the plaintiff is entitled to satisfaction of the
amount expressed in the verdict out of personal property of the
defendant by virtue of a mortgage or other lien, the verdict
shall contain a further finding to that effect with a particular
description of the property. 

§ 6699 Rev.
Codes N. D. If the jurors are discharged without rendering a
verdict or because they cannot agree, the court shall proceed
again to trial as in the first instance until a verdict is rendered.

§ 6700
Rev. Codes N. D. No motion in arrest of judgment or to set
aside a verdict can be entertained in a justice's court. 

§ 6657 Rev. Codes N. D. An issue
arises upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is
maintained by one party and controverted by the other. Issues
are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact. 

§ 6658 Rev. Codes N. D. An issue of law
arises upon the demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply
or to some part thereof. 

§ 6659 Rev. Codes N. D. Issues of law must be determined by
the court and be disposed of in the order in which they are
presented before the trial of an issue of fact. 

§ 6668 Rev. Codes N. D. If the plaintiff annexes to his com
plaint or files with the justice at the time of issuing the sum
mons the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of ex
change or other written obligation for the payment of money
upon which the action is brought, the defendant is deemed to
admit the genuineness of the signature of the makers, indors
ers, guarantors, acceptors or assignors thereof, unless he spe
cifically denies the same in his answer and verifies the answer
by his oath. 
§ 6771 Rev. Codes N. D. Any party dissatisfied
with a judgment rendered in a civil action in a justice’s court
whether the same was rendered on default or after a trial, may
appeal therefrom to the district court of the county or subdivis
ion at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the
judgment. The appeal is taken by serving the notice of appeal
on the adverse party or his attorney and by filing the notice of
appeal together with the undertaking required by law with the
clerk of the district court of the county to which the appeal is
taken. 

§ 6772 Rev. Codes N. D. To render an appeal
effectual for any purpose, an undertaking must be executed on
the part of the appellant by sufficient surety to the effect that
the appellant will pay all costs which may be awarded against
him on the appeal not exceeding one hundred dollars, which
undertaking shall be approved by and filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court of the county to which the appeal is
taken. 

§ 6773 Rev. Codes N. D. If the
appellant desires a stay of execution an undertaking must be
executed on his part by sufficient surety to the effect, that if
the appeal is dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount of
the judgment appealed from and all costs or if judgment is ren
dered against him in the appellate court, that he will pay the
amount of such judgment and all costs not exceeding a sum
specified in the undertaking, which must be at Jeast one hun
dred dollars and not less than twice the amount of the judgment
appealed from; or, if the judgment appealed from is for the re
covery of specific personal property, an undertaking must be
executed on the part of the appellant by sufficient surety to the
effect that if the appeal is dismissed or if judgment is rendered
against the appellant in the appellate court, the appellant will
deliver the property described in the judgment and pay the
damages awarded for the taking or detention thereof and all
costs or pay the sum fixed by the judgment as the value of the
property together with the damages awarded for the taking or
detention thereof and all costs. Such undertaking shall be ap
proved and filed as provided in the last section. 

§6774 Rev. Codes N. D. In judgments for the
delivery of possession in actions of forcible detainer the execu
tion of the same shall not be stayed, unless a written under
taking is executed on the part of the appellant with sufficient
surety to the effect that during the possession of such property
by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer to be committed
any waste thereon and that if the appeal is dismissed or judg
ment is rendered against the appellant in the appellate court,
he will pay all rents for the use and occupation of the property
and all damages from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of the possession thereof. Such undertaking is in addition to
the undertaking provided for in the last section and shall be
approved and filed in the manner provided in section 6772.

§ 6775
Rev. Codes N. D. When the appellant is required under any
provision of this article to give an undertaking, he may in
lieu thereof deposit with the clerk of the district court in whose
office the notice of appeal is required to be filed, who shall give
a receipt therefor, a sum of money equal to the amount for
which such undertaking is required to be given and in lieu of
the service of such undertaking serve a notice of the making of
such deposit. Such deposit and notice shall have the same ef
fect as the service of the required undertaking and be held to
answer the event of the appeal upon the terms prescribed for
the undertaking in lieu of which the same is deposited.

§ 6776 Rev. Codes N. D. The undertaking given on
appeal and appellant’s pleading, if the judgment appealed from
was taken by default, must be served with the notice of appeal.
The adverse party may except to the sufficiency of the surety
upon any undertaking on appeal within five days after its ser
vice upon him. Thereupon the surety must justify upon like
notice and in like manner as bail upon an arrest; or a new un
dertaking must be given with new surety and thereupon the
same proceedings may be had as upon the original undertak
ing. Unless such surety justifies or a new undertaking with
new surety is given and justifies, if required, the appeal must
on motion of the respondent be dismissed; but the liability of
the surety upon any undertaking given on appeal shall not
be thereby released. 

§ 6777 Rev. Codes N. D. Upon the fil
ing of the notice of appeal and undertaking, or the making of
the deposit prescribed in section 6775 in the office of the clerk
of the district court, such clerk shall immediately mall to the
justice of the court in which the judgment appealed from was
rendered a written notice thereof, specifying the court in which
the judgment was rendered, the names of the parties, the date
and amount of the judgment appealed from and stating wheth
er the undertaking filed or deposit made entitles the appellant
to a stay of execution and requiring such justice to transmit to
such clerk the record required by law. Such justice must with
in ten days after the receipt of such notice transmit to the
clerk of the district court a record which shall contain a certi
fied copy of the justice’s docket, the pleadings, all notices, mo
tions and other papers filed in the cause. The justice may be
compelled by the district court by order entered upon motion
to transmit such record and may be fined for neglect or refusal
so to do. A certified copy of such order may be served on the
justice by the party or his attorney. 

§ 6778 Rev. Codes N. D. If an execution has been issued, the
justice must, if the written notice received from the clerk
states that the undertaking filed or deposit made entitles the
appellant to a stay of execution, by order direct a stay of all
proceedings on the same. The officer in whose hands such ex
ecution may be must upon payment of his fees for services ren
dered upon the execution relinquish all property levied
upon and deliver the same to the judgment debtor together
with all moneys collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees
are not paid the officer may retain so much of the property or
proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the same.

§ 6779 Rev. Codes N. D. The action
shall be tried anew in the district court in the same manner as
actions originally commenced therein. No notice of trial and
note of issue shall be required to be served or filed in order to
bring the case upon the trial calendar in the district court but
the record of such appeal shall be filed by the clerk of the dis
trict court and the action entered upon the calendar. 

§ 6780 Rev. Codes N. D. When an appeal to the district court is
dismissed and no appeal is taken to the supreme court from the
judgment for costs rendered in the district court upon the dis
missal thereof, a certified copy of the order dismissing the same
shall be filed in the justice's court in which the judgment was
rendered and thereafter the judgment appealed from shall have
the same force and validity, and may be enforced in the same
manner as if no appeal had been taken. In case an appeal is
taken to the supreme court after a certified copy of the order
aforesaid is filed in the justice's court, the judgment therein
shall be suspended until the further order of the district court.
SEC. 1. The
clerk of this court shall reside and keep his office at the seat of
government, and he shall not practice as an attorney or coun
selor in this or any other court while he shall continue to be
clerk Of this court.

SEC. 2. Until otherwise directed
by a rule of court, the clerk of the supreme court shall keep
his office at the capital of the state. When absent from the
capital, the office shall be kept open, and the duties of the
clerk shall be performed by a deputy. The clerk shall not
practice as an attorney or counselor.

SEC. 3. He shall keep a
complete record of all proceedings of the court, and shall
perform all the duties pertaining to his office. He must not allow
any written opinion of the court, or any original record or pa
per pertaining to his office, to be taken therefrom without an
order from the court, or one of the judges thereof. He shall
promptly announce, by letter, any decision rendered, to one of
the attorneys of each side, when such attorneys are not in at
tendance upon the court.
SEC. 4. The appellant or plaintiff in error on bring
ing a cause to this court shall at or before the filing of the record,
deposit with the clerk of said court the sum of ten dollars, to
apply on costs therein; and in all cases (except habeas corpus)
originally brought in this court, the plaintiff or petitioner, at
or before the filing of the first papers in the case, shall deposit
with the clerk the same amount for the same purpose.
Whenever the sum so deposited is exhaused, but not before,
the clerk shall require from such party, as a condition of fur
ther service in said cause, an additional deposit of not to ex
ceed ten dollars, for the purpose and application aforesaid.
Any balance remaining after the determination of the cause,
shall be returned to the party depositing the same.

SEC. 5. The appellant, on bringing a cause to this court,
shall, at or before the filing of the record, deposit with the
clerk, of said court the sum of eight dollars, to apply on his
fees; and in all cases (except habeas corpus) originally brought
in this court, the plaintiff or petitioner, at or before the filing
of the first papers in the case, shall deposit with the clerk the
same amount for the same purpose.

SEC. 6. The notice of appeal
shall be served in the manner provided by law; and if not
served thirty days before the first day of the next succeeding
term of the supreme court, the cause shall not then be tried,
unless, when there is a shorter service the respondent shall
within five days after service of the notice of appeal give the
appellant notice that he will insist on a hearing at such term,
in which event the same shall be heard at such term, unless
continued upon a sufficient showing or otherwise disposed of.

SEC. 7. The notice of appeal shall be served in the man
ner indicated by section 4 of an act regulating appeals, ap
proved February 11, 1891, and chapter 23 of the Compiled Laws
of 1887, and the acts amendatory thereto; and if not served
ninety days before the first day of the next succeeding term of
the supreme court, the cause shall not then be tried.

SEC. 8. In
criminal cases, immediately after the issuing of the writ of er
ror, a citation to the adverse party to be and appear at the su
preme court, on a day and hour to be therein designated, shall
be issued by the clerk of this court, and by him delivered or
sent by mail to the plaintiff in error, or his attorney, who shall
cause the same to be served on such adverse party or his at
torney, at least ten days before such designated day.

SEC. 9. Writs of
error in criminal causes shall be allowed in all cases from the
final decisions of the district courts to the supreme court. The
party seeking the writ must apply to the chief justice or
to one of the judges of the supreme court, by petition, verified
by affidavit, setting forth clearly and succintly the chief mat
ters of error complained of. All superfluities and unnecessary
recitals must be excluded from the petition. Immediately
after the issuing of the writ of error, a citation to the adverse
party to be and appear at the supreme court, on a day and
hour to be therein designated, shall be issued by the clerk of
this court, and by him delivered or sent by mail to the plaintiff
in error or his atterneys, who shall cause the same to be served
on such adverse party or his attorney at least ten days before
such designated day.

SEC. 10. When a Sufficient
time intervenes, the citation provided for in the preceding rule
shall be made returnable on the first day of the next succeed
ing term; otherwise it shall be made returnable on some day
during such term; and writs of error in criminal causes may is
sue and citations be made returnable on any day during term
time. 

SEC. 11. When a writ of error is allowed and issued, it
shall be the duty of the plaintiff in euror forthwith to file with
the clerk of this court the petition in error, and a failure to do
so shall be cause for the dismissal of the writ; and such peti
tions shall be filed by the clerk as of the day when the writ
was allowed. 

SEC. 12. Up
on an appeal being perfected, the clerk of the court from which
the appeal is taken shall transmit to this court, the judgment
roll, or papers in the case, or copies thereof, with notice of ap
peal and undertaking, as provided by law. See sec. 5217,
Compiled Laws.
Where writ of error is sued out in criminal cases
he shall transmit a complete copy of the record and of
all bills of exceptions, together with an assignment of errors
and prayer for reversal, and embracing the certificate of the
judge provided in section 7510 Compiled Laws; and to certify the
same under his hand and seal of the court, and transmit the
same to the clerk of this court. Which certificate shall be sub
stantially in the following form:
Form of clerk's certificate in criminal cases. .
1, A. B., clerk of the circuit (or county) court within and for said
county of ....................... '... in the ....................... Judicial
Circuit of the State of South Dakota, do hereby certify and return in obe
dience to the annexed writ of error, that the above and foregoing is a full,
true, correct and complete copy and transcript of the record of this action,
to-wit: Of the indictment (or information), of the minutes of the plea (or
demurrer) and of the minutes of the trial; of the charges given and refused,
and the endorsements thereon; and of the judgment, and also of all bills of
exceptions, the assignment of errors and prayer for reversal, and of the cer
tificate of the judge in the foregoing entitled cause wherein the State of
South Dakota is plaintiff and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . is
defendant, as the same now remains of record in said court.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the
seal of said court this . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , A. D. 189. . . .
[L. S.] 

SEC. 13. When an appeal is taken,
either from a judgment or an order, (except in cases where
by special order of the district court copies are sent to the su
preme court in lieu of the originals), the clerk shall transmit
the original judgment roll or order and papers used upon the
motion as required by section 5 of an act of 1891 regulating ap
eals. Whether the original or copies are transmitted, the .
judge's certificate or a copy thereof as prescribed by Rule 12
must be appended to the record in all cases. The original no
tice of appeal and undertaking must be transmitted to the su
preme court. Where original papers are sent up, the certifi
cate of the clerk of the district court must conform substan
tially to the requirements of said section 5. Where copies of
the record on appeal are transmitted to this court, it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the district court, without unnecessary
delay, and within the periods limited by law, to make out a full
and perfect transcript and copy of the judgment roll; or if the
appeal is from an order, or any part thereof, a complete copy
of such order, and of the papers upon which said order was
granted, and the certificate of the judge, as prescribed by Rule
12 of these rules; or where a writ of error is sued out in crim
inal causes, a complete copy of the record and of all bills of
exception, together with an assignment of errors, and prayer
for reversal, and embracing the certificate of the judge of the
district court provided in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
Compiled Laws, section 7510, and to certify the same under
his hand and seal of the court, and transmit the same to the
clerk of this court, which certificate shall be substantially in
the following form:
[Form of clerk's certificate when the appeal is from a judgment in civil
cases.]
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA, 'ss
County of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judicial District.
I, A. B., Clerk of the district court within and for the said county of
* - - - - - - - - - - - , in the . . . . . . . . judicial district of the State of North Dakota,
do hereby certify that the above and foregoing papers are the original no
tice of appeal, with proof of service thereof, and the undertaking given
thereon, and also the original judgment roll and certificate of the judge
thereto appended (or full, true and complete copies of said judgment roll
and certificate, as the case may be) in the above entitled action, wherein
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - is plaintiff and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . is defendant, as the same
now remain of record in said court, and the same are transmitted to the su
preme court pursuant to such appeal.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of
Said court this . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . , A. D. 189. . 

SEC. 20. The ap
pellant shall cause the proper return to be made and filed with
the clerk of this court within sixty days after the appeal is per
fected. If he fails to do so, the respondent may, by notice in
writing, require such return to be filed within twenty days af
ter the service of such notice, and if the return is not filed in
pursuance of such notice, the appellant shall be deemed to
have abandoned the appeal, and on an affidavit proving when
the appeal was perfected and the service of such notice,
and a certificate of the clerk of this court that no return has
been filed, the respondent may apply to any judge of this court
for an order dismissing the appeal for want of prosecution,with costs, and the court below may thereupon proceed as
though there had been no appeal; Provided, nevertheless, That
this Rule shall have no application to cases where the respond
ent has elected to cause the record to be transmitted to the
supreme court as regulated by the proviso contained in section
5 of the act of February 11, 1891, regulating appeals.

SEC. 31. ll criminal causes shall be placed first on the calen
ar in the order of the date of the filing of the petition, and
shall have precedence of all other business, and shall be tried
at the term at which the transcript is filed, unless continued
or otherwise disposed of; and shall, if practicable, be decided
at the same term, and the presence of the defendant in the su
preme court shall in no case be necessary, unless especially
ordered by the court.
Civil cases in which the state is a party shall immediately
follow in the order in which the original papers were filed by
this court.

SEC. 32. Fif
teen days before the commencement of any term of this court
all civil causes, except as provided in Rule 8, shall be placed
on the calendar by the clerk, in the order of the several judi
cial circuits, commencing with the First. Causes coming from
that circuit shall be placed at the head of the civil calendar in
the order of filing the original papers or copies. The clerk
shall then proceed to place the causes from the Second judicial
circuit, in the same manner, and so on, until the causes from
all the judicial circuits, consecutively, have been placed upon
the calendar.
No case shall be placed upon the calendar unless the orig
inal papers (or copies) are filed fifteen days before commence
ment of the term, except as provided in Rule 4.

The calendar shall be printed and distributed among the
attorneys having causes thereon.

SEC. 33. ll civil causes shall be
placed on the calendar by the clerk in the order of the filing of
the transcript, and shall (with the criminal causes) be num
bered consecutively from term to term in one continued series;
and no civil cause shall be placed on the calendar after the day
preceding the opening of the court, unless ordered by the
COurt.

SEC. 34. In making up the judgment rolls or
records in all cases to be brought to this court, the parties and
the clerks of the courts must arrange and attach together the
process, pleadings, orders and proceedings in the chronologi
cal order provided in Rule 12 for the preparation of an abstract;
and when copies are prepared for this court they must be plain
ly written, carefully paged, and the lines on each page careful
ly numbered.

SEC. 33. In
civil actions and proceedings the appellant shall append to and
print with his abstract an assignment of errors, which assign
ment need follow no stated form, but must, in a way as specific
as the case will allow, point out the errors objected to, and
only such as he expects to rely on and ask this court to exam
ine. Among several points in a demurrer, in a motion, in the
instructions, or in other rulings excepted to, it must designate
which is relied on as error, and the court will, in its discre
tion, only regard errors which are assigned with the requisite
exactness. And in criminal causes the counsel for the plaintiff
in error may also file a new assignment of errors in this court,
specifically setting forth the errors he desires to have re
viewed, as in this rule provided.

SEC. 12. In all civil and criminal actions and in
all special proceedings which are brought into this court the
judge of the district court shall append to the original judg
ment roll or record filed in the court. below, a certificate,
signed by him, as follows: In civil actions and special pro
ceedings the certificate shall state in substance that the above
and foregoing papers—naming each separately—are contained
in and constitute the judgment roll (or other record as the case
may be) and the whole thereof. The original certificate (or
copy thereof in cases where a copy is transmitted) must be em
braced in the record sent to this court. The certificate re
quired in criminal cases is indicated by Rule 8 of these rules.

SEC. 13. The judgment roll men
tioned in Rule 8 must only contain the pleadings, the judg
ent, the verdict of the jury, or decision of the judge, the re
port of the referee, if any, the offer of the defendant, if any,
the bill of exceptions or statement of the case, as settled and
certified by the court or judge, and such orders and papers as
have been, by direction of the court or judge, incorporated into
and made a part of the judgment roll; also all orders and pa
pers which necessarily involve the merits and affect the judg
ment. Bills of exception and statements of the case, whether
to be used on a motion for new trial or on appeal without such
motion, must, when brought into this court, be framed in sub
stantial conformity to the requirements of section 5090, Com
piled Laws of 1887, and if such bill or statement fails to con
tain the specifications of errors of law complained of, or,
where the finding of fact is attacked, fails to specify the par
ticulars in which the evidence is claimed to be insufficient, such
bill or statement will be disregarded. When a bill or state
ment contains superfluous matter, or fails to contain the cer
tificate of the trial judge, as specified in Rule 12 hereof, it will
be liable to be stricken out on motion. The specifications re
quired by statute to be embraced in bills of exception and state
ments are vital parts thereof; and such specifications shall be
either prefixed or appended to all bills of exception and state
ments, and shall be settled and allowed by the district courts
as essential parts thereof. Attention is directed to section
5090 of the Compiled Laws of 1887.

SEC. 15. In all civil cases the appellant shall deliver
or mail to the clerk of this court, twenty (20) days before the
first day of the term of the court at which the cause may be
heard, at least ten (10) printed copies of an abridgement or ab
stract of the record in the cause, setting forth so much thereof
only as is necessary to a full understanding of all the ques
tions presented to this court for decision. He shall at the same
time also deliver a copy of the same to the counsel for the re
spondent, and if there be more than one respondent, to the
counsel of each. The abstract shall be prepared and printed
in substantially the following form:
IN THE SUPREME COURT,
State of South Dakota,
- - - - - - - - Term, 18. . . .
[Appellant or
JOHN DOE, Plaintiff and | Respond’t, as
case may be.
t’s.
Appellant or
RICHARD ROE, Deft. and A Respond’t, as
case may be.
COMPLAINT.
The plaintiff in his complaint states his cause of action as follows:
(Set out all the complaint necessary to an understanding of the ques
tions to be presented to this court, and no more. In setting out exhibits
omit all merely formal or irrelevant parts, as for example, if the exhibit be
a deed or mortgage and no question is raised as to the acknowledgment,
omit the acknowledgment. When the defendant has appeared it is useless
to incumber the record with the summons or the return of the officer.)
DEMURRER.
To which complaint the defendant demurred, setting up the following
grounds:
(State only the grounds of the demurrer, omitting all formal parts. If
the pleading was attacked by motion below and the ruling thereon is one of
the questions to be considered, set out the motion in the same way and con
tinue.)
And on the . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . , 18. ..., the same was submitted to
the court, and the court made the following ruling thereon:
(Here set out the ruling. In every instance let the abstract be made
in the chronological order of the events in the case-letting each ruling ap
pear in the proper connection. If the defendant pleaded over, and thereby
waived his right to appeal from these rulings, no mention of them should
be made in the abstract; but it should continue.)
ANswer.
*
Which complaint the defendant answered, setting up the following
defenses:
(Here set out the defenses, omitting all formal parts. If motions or
demurrer were interposed to the pleading, proceed as directed with refer
ence to the complaint.
Frame the record so that it will properly present all questions to be re
viewed and raised before issue is joined. When the record shows issue joined
proceed.) •
On the . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . 18. ..., said cause was tried by a jury
(or the court, as the case may be) and on the trial the following proceedings
were had: -
(Set out so much of the bill of exceptions, or statement, as is necessary.
to show the rulings of the court to which exceptions were taken during the
progress of the trial; and if the evidence, or any part thereof, be embraced
in the bill of exceptions, or statement, epitomize the same carefully so as
to only present the matter in regard to which error is alleged.)
INSTRUCTIONS.
At the proper time the plaintiff (or the defendant, as the case may be)
asked the court to give each of the following instructions to the jury:
(Set out the instructions referred to and continue:)
Which the court refused as to each instruction, to which several rul
ings the plaintiff (or defendant) at the proper time excepted, and thereupon
the court gave the following instructions to the jury:
(Set out the instructions.)
To the giving of those numbered (give the numbers, if numbered) or,
(if not numbered) to the giving of the following portions thereof (setting
out the portions), and to the giving of each thereof, plaintiff (or defendant)
at the proper time specifically excepted.
VERDICT. t
On the . . . . . day of.......... 18. . . . the jury returned the following ver
dict into court:
(Set out the verdict.) -
(If the case be tried by the court, instead of the instructions and ver
dict of the jury, set out so much of the findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and requests for findings, if any, together with the exceptions relating
thereto, as may be necessary to present the errors complained of.)
MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL.
On the . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . 18.... the plaintiff (or defendant) moved
for a new trial upon the following grounds:

SEC. 17. If the
respondent shall deem the abstract of the appellant imperfect
or unfair, he may within fifteen (15) days after receiving the
same, deliver to the counsel of the adverse party, one printed
copy, and deliver or mail to the clerk of this court at least ten
(10) printed copies of such further or additional abstract as he
shall deem necessary to a full understanding of the questions
presented to this court for decision. -
Either party, however, upon notice, or order to show
cause, and upon satisfactory showing that through mistake or
excusable neglect, he has made or consented to an abstract
which is incorrect or imperfect, in any material respect, desig
nated in the notice, may have an order of court allowing him
to file a supplemental abstract upon such terms as to the court
shall seem just.

SEC. 18. Not less than twenty (20) days before the first da
of the term at which any civil cause may be heard, the counse
for the appellant shall serve upon the counsel of the advers
party one copy, and shall deliver or mail to the clerk of thi
court at least ten (10) copies of his brief; and not less than fiv
(5) days before the first day of such term the respondent sha.
serve upon the counsel of the adverse party one copy, and de
liver or mail to the clerk of this court at least ten (10) copie
of his brief; which briefs shall be printed and shall contain
statement of the points relied on, and the authorities to b
cited in support of the same.

SEC. 19. Rules 12, 13 and 14 are hereby made applicable as well to
criminal causes, with the following exceptions and modifica
tions: When because of the poverty of the defendant counsel
has been assigned to his defense, and such defendant makes
and files with the clerk of this court an affidavit stating in sub
stance that he is financially unable to pay the expense thereof,
the printing of such abstracts and briefs may be dispensed
with, and only six (6) copies of each of the united abstracts
and briefs need be filed with the clerk. And in all criminal
causes the abstracts must be served by the plaintiff in error
not less than ten (10) days before the return day of the cita
tion; and the amended abstract not less than three (3) days be
fore such return day; and the brief of the plaintiff in error
must be served not less than six (6) days before such return
day, and the brief of the defendant in error not less than one
(1) day before such return day.

SEC. 20. In all
cases in which by law the attorney general is required to ap
pear for the state in this court, and in which the state is a par
ty, respondent or defendant in error, the notice of appeal or
citation in error, as the case may be, and the abstracts and
briefs prescribed by law or the rules of this court, shall be
served upon the attorney general; and in criminal causes the
citation shall also be served upon the state's attorney of the
proper county.

SEC. 31. The
manner of bringing on the argument in criminal causes, and
the hearing thereof, are prescribed in section 7516, 7517, 7518,
and 7519, Compiled Laws.

SEC. 32. ll cases and points, and all other papers furnished
to the court in calendar causes, shall be printed on white pa
per with a margin on top, bottom and outer edge of the leaf,
two inches wide. The printed page, exclusive of any marginal
note or reference, shall be seven inches long and three and a
half inches wide. The folios, numbering from the commence
ment to the end of the case, shall be printed on the outer mar
gin of the page. Small pica, solid, is the smallest letter and
most compact mode of composition which is allowed. No
charge for printing the papers mentioned in this rule shall be
allowed as a disbursement in a cause, unless the requirements
of this rule shall appear to have been complied with in all pa
pers printed. 

SEC. 33. Only two counsel shall be permitted to argue for
each party in a cause, except in capital cases, and the court
may limit the time to be occupied by counsel for each side, be
fore the argument shall commence; and any cause may be sub
mitted on printed arguments or briefs.

SEC. 34. In the argument of a cause not more than one hour shall be oc
cupied by counsel upon each side, exclusive of the time neces
sarily occupied in reading the record, unless by the expres:
permission of the court, obtained before commencement of th
argument.

SEC. 35. The court, on the first day of each term, will com
mence calling the causes in the order in which they stand upon
the calendar, and will proceed to call not more than two upol
each day, until disposition has been made of all causes thereon
The first day, however, upon which each circuit shall b.
reached, shall be the motion day of that circuit, and no caus
shall be heard on that day, except for disposition of motions.
The calendar, as printed, shall indicate upon what day
each circuit is liable to be reached.
No cause shall be heard in advance of the day when it wil
be reached, in its order, at the rate of two cases per day, un
less by leave of court and consent of counsel for both appellan
and respondent.
When a case is called, in its order and on its proper day
if the parties, or either of them, are ready, it shall be heard
but if neither of the parties is ready to proceed with the argu
ment or to submit the cause, it shall go to the foot of the calen
dar or be disposed of as the court may direct.

SEC. 25. The court on the first day
in each term shall commence calling the cases for argument in
the order in which they stand on the calendar, and proceed
from day to day during the term in the same order, (except a
hereinafter provided), and if the parties or either of then
shall be ready when the case is called, the same shall be heard.
And if neither party shall be ready to proceed in the argu
ment, the case shall go to the foot of the calendar, and be con
tinued or dismissed, as the court may direct. -
Ten cases only shall be considered as liable to be called on
each day during the term, including the one under argument.
Criminal causes may be advanced by leave of the court on
motion of either party.

SEC. 22. The clerk shall
distribute the printed abstracts and briefs required by these
rules to be furnished him, as follows: One copy of each to
each of the judges when the case is called for hearing; one
copy of each to the reporter of the supreme court, and two
copies of each to the state library, and the remaining copies to
be by him kept with the papers in the case.

SEC. 26. The clerk shall distribute the printed abstracts and
briefs required by these rules to be furnished him, as follows:
One copy of each to each of the judges when the case is called
for hearing; one copy of each to the reporter of the supreme
court, and the remaining copies to be by him kept with the pa
pers in the case. In criminal causes, when under Rule 20, the
printing of briefs and abstracts is dispensed with, the clerk
shall deliver one copy of each to each of the judges, (two of
which, upon the determination of the case, will be returned to
the clerk, one for the use of the reporter, and the remaining
copy he shall retain with the papers in the case.)

SEC. 23. All motions, except as hereinafter provided,
shall be heard upon the motion day for the circuit (see Rule
21) from which the case comes, in which such motion is made.
And all motions made or submitted to the court shall be in
writing, and upon notice to the adverse party of at least eight
(8) days, stating the grounds thereof, but the court may, by
order to show cause, fix a shorter time. Copies of the papers
upon which the motion will be based shall be served with such
notice or order, except that the records of the case on file may
be particularly referred to without serving the same.

SEC. 27. Motions, except for orders
of course, shall be brought upon notice; and when not made
upon the records or files of the court, the notice of motion
shall be accompanied by the papers on which the motion is
founded, copies of which shall be served with the notice of mo
tion. Motions shall not be taken up until the day following
the service thereof, unless the case is sooner reached for hear
ing. Upon the hearing of a motion, or order to show cause,
the moving party shall be entitled to open and close; Provided,
That the papers on both sides shall be read in the opening.

SEC. 28. A petition for rehearing after judgment, can be pre
sented only at the term at which judgment is entered, unless
by special leave granted during the term, and must be printed
or typewritten, and briefly and distinctly state its grounds;
and will not be granted or permitted to be argued unless a
judge who concurred in the judgment desires it, and a majority
of the court so determines.
In each case decided the remittitur, unless otherwise spec
ially directed, will be held in this court thirty days from the
date offiling the decision. Either party desiring to apply for a
rehearing must within said thirty days file in the office of the
clerk of this court five printed or typewritten copies of his pe
tition for such rehearing, supported by such argument and
authorities as he may choose—serving a copy thereof within
the same time upon the opposite attorney, who may, within ten
days after receipt thereof, file with the clerk of this court five
printed or typewritten copies of his answer thereto, with ar
gument and authorities, and serve a copy thereof on the Op
posite attorney. The application for rehearing will then be
determined by the court on such petition and answer.
If no petition be filed within the time stated, or if such ap
plication be denied, the clerk shall forthwith remit the case to
the court below. In order to save the right of either party to
move for a rehearing no decision will be filed within thirty days
of the final adjournment of any term.

SEC. 29. hether a decision is handed down in term time or
in vacation, a petition for a rehearing will be entertained if
five copies of the same be filed with the clerk within twenty
days after the decision is filed, and the remittitur will be stayed
during the twenty days, except in cases where, by special or
der, the court shall direct that the remittitur be sent forthwith
to the court below. The petition for a rehearing shall be ea:
parte, and shall not be orally argued. The petition must be
printed or type written, and shall briefly and distinctly state
the grounds upon which the rehearing is requested. It need
not be served upon opposite counsel. Where a rehearing is
granted in term time, the case will not (unless by special or
der of the court) be reargued at the same term except by con
sent. When the rehearing is granted in vacation, and less than
six days prior to the first day of the next regular term, the
case shall not, except by consent or by Special order of the
court, be argued at such term. Rearguments of cases shall or
dinarily take precedence on the calendar of all other matters
before the court except motions and criminal business.

SEC. 25. The opinion of the
court on all questions reviewed on writ of error or appeal, as
well as opinions on all important motions, collateral questions,
and points of practice, shall be reduced to writing and filed
with the clerk in open court.

SEC. 20. The opinion of the court
in all cases decided by it, whether originating in the supreme
court, or reaching it by appeal or writ of error, will be re
duced to writing and filed with the clerk either in open court
or in vacation. The court will also file written opinions upon
all motions, collateral questions or points of practice when the
same are deemed exceptionally important.

SEC. 26. It shall be the duty
of the clerk to insert the amount of the costs in the body of
the order or judgment remitted to the court below, and annex
to the same the bill of items taxed in detail; but such order or
judgment shall not be remitted in civil causes until thirty days
after the filing of the same, unless by special order of the
court, or a judge thereof; and not until the clerk’s fees in this
court shall have been paid. 

SEC. 31. In all cases originating in this
court the costs and disbursements will be taxed by the clerk of
this court. In other cases the costs and disbursements of both
courts—except the fees of the clerk of this court, which shall
be taxed by him without notice—shall be taxed in the district
court after the remittitur is sent down, and the amount thereof
shall be inserted in the judgment of the court below. In civil
cases the remittitur will not be transmitted until the fees of the
clerk of this court shall first have been paid. In all cases
where parties are dissatisfied with any bill of costs as taxed by
the clerk of this court the matter complained of will be re
viewed informally and readjusted by this court at any regular
Session thereof.
SEC. 27. A failure to comply with any of the requirements
contained in these rules within the times therein provided, will,
in the discretion of the court, be cause for dismissal of the
appeal, or writ of error, or affirmance of the judgment, as the
case may demand. 

SEC. 28. All motions for continuance and
dismissal, and all motions affecting the place of causes upon
the calendar shall be noticed for the first day of the term, and
will be for hearing previous to the calling of causes for argu
ment.

SEC. 29. ules of the Supreme Court, South Dakota, regu
lating the examination of candidates for admission to practice
as attorneys and counselors at law; being a substitute for
Rule 28. -
1. When Examination Held. Examinations for admission
to practice law in this state under chapter 21 Laws of 1893, shall
be held on the first day of each term of the Supreme Court.
2. In Open Court. Such examinations shall be conducted
in open court by the judges of said court, or by such attorneys
of said court as the presiding judge may appoint for that pur
pose, or by both, in the discretion of the court.
3. Preliminary Qualifications. Prior to such examination
each candidate for admission shall present to the court satis
factory evidence that he is a resident of the state; that he is
twenty-one years of age; and a certificate of good moral char
acter from a court of record of the state.
4. License, on Satisfactory Examination, –0ath—Fee. If
any candidate shall thus pass a satisfactory examination he
shall receive a license as an attorney and counselor at law,
upon his taking the oath required by law, and paying the
clerk of the court a fee of five dollars. -
5. Rejection of Candidate. If the examination of any can
didate shall not be satisfactory to the court, such candidate
may be rejected, or the further examination continued until the
next or some subsequent term, at the discretion of the court,
6. Applicants From 0ther States. Applications for admis
sion upon the license or certificate of the Supreme Court of the
United States, or of any other state, may be upon motion in
open court upon production of such certificate or license and a
certificate of good moral character from a court of record of
this state. If these are satisfactory to the court the candidate
may be admitted by filing with the clerk of this court his oath
as required by law and the payment to the clerk of a license fee
Of five dollars.

SEC. 38. Appli
cations for admission to practice at the bar of this state, when
made upon a certificate issued by the courts of any other state,
may be made at any regular or special term of this court. Such
application shall be upon written motion made by a member of
the bar of this court and filed with the clerk, and with such
motion shall be filed an affidavit, or the certificate of an attor
ney of this court, showing that the said applicant is at least
twenty-one years of age, of good moral character and an in
habitant of this state, and that such applicant practiced law
regularly in the state where he was admitted for at least one
year after such admission. All other applications shall be
made on the first day of a regular term of this court, and shall
be upon like motion, and with such motion shall be filed affi
davits, or the certificate of an attorney of this court, showing
that the applicant possesses the qualifications, and has devoted
to the study of law the time specified in section 2 of an act ap
proved March 7, 1891. If satisfied with such affidavits, the
court shall appoint a committee of not less than three mem
bers of the bar of this court to examine such applicant touch
ing his qualifications to practice as an attorney in the courts of
this state. All examinations shall be had in open court unless
otherwise directed, and when the examination is not had in
open court the applicant shall not be admitted to practice ex
cept upon the unanimous written recommendation of the com
mittee making such examination, which recommendation shall
be filed with the clerk and attached to and preserved with the
motion and affidavits. But any party who has been or may be
prior to July 1, 1891, admitted to practice in the district courts
of this state, in accordance with the law in force at the time of
such admission, may thereafter be admitted to practice in this
court under the rules heretofore existing. This rule shall not
take effect until July 1, 1891.

SEC. 33. In the preparation
of briefs in causes to be argued in this court, counsel for ap
pellant or plaintiff in error shall prefix to their brief or argu
ment a concise and true statement of the facts in the case which
are material to the points of law to be argued, with proper
reference to the folios of the abstract which sustain them,
which statement may be read, or its substance stated orally to
the court. No further reading of the abstract will be allowed
without permission of the court.

SEC. 30. All actions or proceedings originally commenced
in this court, except habeas corpus, shall be presented for argu.
ment on the printed abstracts and briefs, which shall conform
to the requirements of Rule 18.

SEC. 34. he dismissal of an appeal is in effect an affirm
ance of the judgment or order appealed from, unless the dis
missal be expressly made without prejudice to another appeal.

SEC. 35. Executions
signed by the clerk, sealed with the seal of this court, attested
of the day when the same issued, may issue out of this
court to enforce any judgment for costs made and entered in
cases which originate in this court. Such executions may is
sue and be directed to any marshal of the supreme court of
North Dakota, and may be enforced in any county in the state
in which a transcript of such judgment for costs is filed and
docketed.


SEC. 36. All writs and process issued from and out of this court shall be
signed by the clerk, sealed with the seal of the court, attested
of the day when the same issued, and made returnable at
any day in the next term, or in the same term when issued in
term time; and a judge may, by endorsement thereon, order
process to be made returnable on any day in vacation, when, in
his opinion, the exigency of the case requires it. When pro
cess is made returnable in vacation, the court or judge direct
ing the same to issue shall state in the order allowing the same
the time and place when and where the writ shall be re
turnable.

SEC. 37. If the return made by the clerk of the court
below is defective, either party may, on an affidavit specifying
the defect or omission, apply to the chief justice or one of the
judges of this court for an order that such clerk make a fur
ther return and supply the omission or defect without delay.
