That in all civil suits that may be or shall have been
prosecuted in the name of the State and for the use and 
benefit of the same, against any person or persons, and
such suit or suits may be or shall have been decided in 
favor of the defendant or defendants; then and in that
case the State shall pay for the summoning and for the
attendance of her own witnesses, and shall pay all legal
fees to which the clerk shall be entitled; and the bill of
costs shall be made out, certified and paid as bills of
cost are by law, required to be made out, certified and 
paid in criminal cases where the State pays the costs. 
CHAPTER 62. 
Aa act to authoriae the courts of'rec.ord to render judgments for costs, ou 
motion. [Puaed January 17, 1848.] 
.SEC. 1. That whenever any plaintiff, in a court ofre-
cord, fails to prosecute his suit with effect, and costs are 
adjudged against him, the judgment shall be rendered
jointly against him and his security for the prosecution. 
S
2
Th h 1
, · a- · t f d 
i...: sc, • at w enever a p aintitt, ma cour o recor ,
obtains a judgment or decree against the defendant, and 
it appean from, tire ·return of the exeolltion, that : tile
plaintiff's costs cannot be made out of the defendant, tao
officers and witnesses: who rendered services in the suit 
to the plaintiff, may move for and have judgment against
him for such costs, but the plaintiff may, nevertheless,
collect the same from the defendant. 
CHAPTER 56. 
An act to change the taxation of costs in certain cases. . [P888ed January
17, 1848.] 
SEc. I. That in all cases of malicious prosecutions, the
court shall tax the prosecutor, · as well with the costs of
the defendant, as of the State. 
SEC. 2. That justices of the peace shall have the same
power in taxing costs as is, by the above section, vested
in the courts. 
COUNTY COURTS. 
CHAPTER 106. 
An act defining the duties of the Chairmen of the County Courts in this
State. [Pused January 31, 1848.J 
SEc. I. That all business for the action of the
several County Courts in this State, shall be presented 
to the Chairman thereof, whose duty it shall be to an­
nounce the same to the court, and take the vote there­
on; and no business shall be acted on by the court, un­
less presented as herein required, except by the consent
of a majority of the justices present. 
SEc. 2. That if the chairman of said court should be
absent fsom any term thereof, it shall be lawful for the
court, and it is hereby made their duty to appoint a. 
chairman, pro tern, who shall be invested with the same
powers, and governed by the same regulations, and per­
form the same duties, as are herein set forth, and requir­
ed of the chairman of the 
several county courts in this
State. 
I 
CHAPTER 112. 
An act to seenre the privilegea of Meeting housfs and School h.ou:ae1 ill.
certain cases. [P1111ed January 28, 1848,] 
SEo. I. That when there hag heretofore been or here­
after may be, a deed of conveyanee made of any lands 
and tenements, to certain trustees, for the use of a meet­
ing house for public worship, or a school house, and any
ef said trnsteef!I· 8ball move, die or refuse to act, it shall
and may be lawful for the county court of the county in 
which said land is eituated, at any quarterly· term of 
said court, on petition of those interested thereia; to fill
such vacancy, by appointment or election, as m&y be 
necessary. .
SBC. 2. That before such court shall be authori2ed to 
fill such vacancy, the deed of conveyance, or a certified 
~opy thereof, shall be produced to the court, and proof
~e .to the satisfaction of the oeurt, of the death, re-
moral, or refusal to act, of the trustees whose places
are proposed to be filled. 
SEc. 3. That in filling such vacancy the court shall
not be bound by county lines, but may appoint some in 
another county if they shall deem it necessary, to the
interest of those concerned. 
SEC. 4. That when a deed of conveyance may be for 
a free meeting house, and a particular trustee appointed
therein, for the benefit of each of the religious socie- 
ties in that vicinity, that then and in that case it shall
be the duty of such court appointing their successors,
to have due regard to the interest and wishes of each
denomination, so that each may have one trustee if
practicable. · 
SEC. 5. That a copy of the order of court, filling such 
vaeancy, duly registered in the register's office of the 
C,O.llllty in which the land is situated, shall give to the
~es named therein as successors, all the powers,
privileges, and emoluments, which the original trustees
possessed, and subject therein to all the liabilities of 
such original trustees. 
An act to amen.cl the act of 1846, chapter 194, entitled "an act exte::,3
the jurildiction of the Circuit Court.," pused Feb.!, 184t?. [P 
Nov, 19, 1847.] 
CIRCUIT COURTS. 
CHAPTER 18. 
SEC. I. That the circuit courts shall have concurrent.
jurisdiction with the chancery courts in the matter of 
appointing trustees, when necessary, to prevent failures 
in the execution of trusts ; also in the matter of selling
trust estates, and re-investing the proceeds. 
SEc. 2. That the commercial and criminal court of
Memphis shall have the same jurisdiction. 
That in all aetions of ejectment OT trespass for inju-
ries to real estate, where the tract of land lies in two 
or· more counties, the oourt· of the county in which pro­
cess shall be served on the defendant or defendants,
shall have jurisdiction to try the title to the whole tract
of land in the action of ejectment, and award execu­
tion accordingly ; and in the action of trespass, to hear
and determine the case; as though the entire· tract lay 
in the county in which the suit .was brought. 
CHAPTER 177. 
An act to .entitle either party to a suit at common law to a discovery in
nid court. [P888edJaa. 31, 18'8.] 
SEC. 1. That either party to a. suit in any of the cir-
cuit courts of this State, shall be entitled to a discovery 
from the other party, of all matters material to the issue
in said suit, in all cases where the party would be enti­
tled to a discovery by the rules of equity in aid of mieh
suit • 
SEc. 2. To entitle a party to such discovery, he shall
iti 'fl. d b h ffid . f h' If 
present a peti 10n. ven e y t e a a v~t o imse or
some other creditable person, to the court, or judge
thereof in vacation, setting forth the matter on which
his claim to a discovery is founded, the facts sought to
be discovered, and such interrogations in relation there­
to as may be thought necessary to exhibit, in order to
obtaina full discovery. 
3. The petition and order to answer, shall be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court, and a copy there­ 
of served on the other party or his attorney, and the
same proceedings shall be had on the petition, and the
court may exercise the same powers therein, as would
be bad, or might be exercised in a court of equity, on
a bill for a discovery in aid of a suit at law. 
SEC. 4. The .answer of the party to the Interrogate-
ries shall be evidence on the trial of the suit, in the 
same manner, and with the like effect, as an answer
to a bill in equity for a discovery; and if the party shall
neglect· or refuse to answer the interrogatories, and the
petition shall, according to the course in equity, be final­
ly taken for confessed, the facts stated in the petition,
and therein sought to be discovered, may be given in
evidence upon the trial, as facts admitted by the party 
from whom ~e discovery is sought. 
That it shall and may beJawfuL for any person who
has been rendered infamous, or -deprived of any of the 
rights of citizenship, by the judgment& of any of the
tcourts of this State, to be restored to the aame upon ap­ 
plication by . p&t>ition to the ei~uit court of· the county
in which saeh petson. resides, and sa&isfactory proof. by
two credible witnesses 011 o~th, that for three y-ears next 
before such application~ and, since said judgment of dis­
qualification, such person has conducted himself aa a
good, respectable, honest cit~n, and that he is gen­
erally estime.&ed sueh by.his neighbors. 
An act to guard against packed juries in criminal cue,. [PUied January
26, 1846.] 
That hereafter in all trials for felony the State shall
be entitled to ten-peremptory ehalle~•· 
An act for the pnteathm of ·public bllildinp. [PIINd J anuar, 11, l~.] 
SEC. 1. That to cut, write upon, deface, disfigure. or
damage any part or appurtenance of the State House, or 
.any other building belonging to the State, or of a court
house. or any other building belonging to any of the
counties in this State, shall be a misdemeanor, punisha- 
ble by fine "!lOt exceeding fifty dollars, or impi:ison~ent
not exceeding ten days, or by both fine and imprison- 
. ment, within said limits. · 
SBC. 2. That the foreman, or any of the free white
workmen engaged in the erection of the State house, or 
the persbn whe shall be assigned to keep the samo after 
j 
CHAPTER 74, 
. CHAPTER 45. 
completion, or any official occupant of that, or any oth­
er building, belonging to the State, or to any of the
counties in this State, shall arrest any person found com­
mitting this -effenee, and carry such offender before a.
justice of the peace of the county; er any of said per­
sons, or any ciiisen may_ complain to a justice of the
peace, and demand a warrant for the arrest of such of­
fender. 
3. That when .brought before a justice of the
peace the accused may plead guilty, and in such case,
may be fined or imprisoned, or both, at thediscretion of 
the justice within said limits ; but if the. accused refuse
to plead guilty, the justice shall examine the case, and 
shall discharge the aeeused, or bail, or.· commit him to
appear in the criminal orcircuit court of the county, to
answer said eharge, and shall file -the papers in the
clerks office of mid court. 
SEC. 4. The AttorneyGeneJ"a}, on finding such papers
in the office · of the clerk, shall file a'l1 indictment ez
ojfrcio, and without a prosecutor. · . 
SEO. 5... That it shall be the duty of grand juroTS to
make presentment of this offence, "'hen it comes within
the knowledge of any one of them; and the circuit and
criminal judges of the State sh@-11 give this act in charge 
to the grand juries. 
An act to authorize appeals f'rom judgtnents of' conviction, against slaves,
bef'ore j~atice. of the peace .. [PIUllled January 17, k48.] 
SEC. I. That the owner of any slave, convicted before a. 
justice of the peace, or before more than one justice of
the peace, of anyoffence,now cognizable and punishable 
by justices exclusively, may appeal from such convie­
tion to the. next circuit court of the county, on giving
bond for the appearanee. of sue~ slave in said court,
there to abide the judgment thereof. , 
SEc. 2. That this act shall take effect from its passage. 
· 
CHAPTER 50. 
CHAPTER 55. 
An act for the punishment of small offences. [Passed January 10, 1848.] 
SEO. I. Thatanypersonbroughtbefore a justice of the
peace for a misdemeanor, may plead guilty, whereupon 
the justice shall hear the evidence, and fine the offender,
according to the aggravation of. his offence, n.~t less than 
.... 
two dollars and not exceeding fifty dollar , tog ther with
th co t . 
81 c. 2. The offender hall immediately pay the fine O
and co t , or give ·ecurity to pay th am irnm .diately, I:
or immediately be impri oned until he sati fy th fine
and co ts. · 
~ EC. 3. One or more person may become uch curity, 
_by verbal ackno wl dgment b for the ju ic , or by eal-
ed or unseal .d wri ing to the ju tice to that eff ct. 
EC. 4. If th offender give such curity, th ju tice
hall forthwith i ue execution again t the offender and 
hi curity, or any of th m, for th fine and cost , which
execution shall be returnable to the justice within thir- 
ty day , including the day of its is ·uance. 
EC. 5. If the offence merit a fine exce ding fifty dol-
l 
. . d fl f . .
ars.or impn onment an ne o any arnount.or impri on- 
ment alone, or if the off enc i punishable xpres ly by
both fine and impri onment, the justice hall not ren-
der judgment against the off nu r, but shall proceed as 
usual. 
Ee. 6. The knowingly taking of insufficient security
for the fine and co ts, shall be a misdemeanor, for which 
the justice shall be punished by discretionary fin . 
Ssc. 7. The fine and costs, if paid before execution,
shall be paid to the justice; if paid after execution, to 
the officer having the same.
St.c. 8. The Sheriff and every justice of every county, 
before proceeding under this act, and within a reasona-
ble time after its passage, shall execute bond with seen- 
rity to his county trustee, for county use, with or with-
out seal, or scroll and renewable biennially, in the pen- 
alty of five hundred dollars, conditional to pay to the
county trustee every fine received or co1lected, or which
might have been received or collected by him under this 
act. 
SBC. 9. Proceeding under this act without having ex-{oaU~ng
ecuted such bond, or failing to execute, or to renew such 
· bond, shall be a misdemeanor for which the sheriff or
justice shall be punished by discretionary fine. 
SBc. 10. The county trustee shall proceed against the
sneri!f or justice. arid ~~s security or any of !hem, for a 
forfeiture of the condition of the bond required by the
8th section, by motion before a justice of the peace, giv-
ing five days· written or verbal notice, when, where, be- 
fore whom. and for what the motion will be made, which
motion shall be disposed of Mother motions. 
Sm. 11. Every county trustee, before proceeding un-
der this act, and within a reasonable time after its pas- 
sage, shall execute bond with security to the chairman
of the eouaty court -for county use and renewable bien- 
nially, in the penally of twenty-five hundred dollars,
conditioned to indemnify his county for any loss occa­
sioned by breach of his duty, and to pay as lawfully di­
rected, all fines received, or which might have been re­
ceived by him under this act. 
EC. 12. Proceeding under this act, without having 
; executed such bond, or failing to exe~ute or renew uch
bond, shall be a rmsdemeanor, for which the county trus- 
tee shall be puni bed by di cretionary fine. 
SEC. 13. The chairman of the county court shall pro· 
- cee<l against the county trustee, and his s curity, or any
of them. for a forfeiture of the condition of the bond re- 
quired by the 11th section, by motion, before the circuit
court, giving five day ' written or verbal notice, when,
where and for what the motion will be made, which
shall be disposed of as other motions. 
EC. 14. Every execution under this act shall be ad- 
is- dressed and delivered to the heriff, who shall pay the
proceeds thereof, if the execution is not against the
county trustee, to said trustee, for county use, if the ex­
ecution is against the county tru ·tee, the sheriff shall
pay the proceeds· thereof into the county court for coun-
ty u e. 
EV· 15. If any person commit a contempt of the jus-
tice, during proceedings before him, under this act, the
justice shall find the offender not less than one dollar­ 
and not exceeding ten dollars and the costs. If the fine
and costs be not immediately paid. or if security be not
given to pay the same immediately, the justice shal1
forthwith imprison the offender, until he sati fy the fine
and costs. lfthe offender give such security, the justice
shall immediately issue execution against the offende
and his security or any of them for the fine and costs,.
which execution shall be returnable, addressed and
delivered as is provided in the 4th and 14th sections. 
SEc. 16. Security under the 15th section shall be
given and taken as is provided in the 3d section. 
SEc. 17. If the Sheriff shall fail to make due return of
an execution under this act, addressed and received by
him, or to pay over the money on such execution, when 
the same is returned satisfied in whole or in part, or
shall make a false or insufficient return on such exeou­ 
tion, the county trustee shall proceed against such
sheriff therefor, as is provided in. the 10th section, for a.
breach of the 8th section. . 
SEc. 18. For services under this. act, the same fees
and commissions shall be allowed as for similar ser­ 
vices, under other acts.
SEc. I 9. The costs of a proceeding under this act 
shall be pJ'idby the c~nty, when tµ~ ~e.n4er is dis- 
harg d from pri on by virtue of the law for the hen fi
of in olvent . 
Ee. 20. Ev ry ju i of the p ace sh 11] pa docket-book

in which hall b r gularly dock t d th nam 
of th off nder, he d t of the proc eding, th de rip- 
tion and date of the .ffi nc ., the per on azain t or up n
whom the off nee wa committed, the pl a of guilt
whether aft r h arinz the vid nee the plea wa r j c 
d, or the off n r recogniz to appear at court-if the
plea wa r c iv d, the judgm nt and its amount, both
fine and co t i p· id or not b fore ex cution-if not p i
n mes of ecurity date of is uance of r ecution to 
v horn i ued and delivered, wl en returned, nd v hat
returned. 
EC. 21. In ffe tua ing this act, any riff, d pu y
heriff, con t le and per on hall obey the command o
the ju tice, and v ry p r on shall obey the command of
the offic r. vioJ tion of thi s ction hall b a mi 
demeanor, puni habl y di er tionary fin . 
EC. 22. If any per n proceeding under this act,
abu e or exceed hi pow r, or x rci e pow r not grant- 
d, the injur d party by writt n petition, all ging the
grievance and v rifled by his or his ag nt' affidavit, and 
addre d to the circuitjud e of the county in which th
proce ding i had, sha11 [have writ of super d a and
c rtiorari grant d by any circuit judge, by which the
proce ding hall be tr n .ferr d to the circuit court o
the county and be there determined as though nothing
had be n don under thi a t. 
EC, 23. If the injured party obtaining writs of up r- 
sedeas and c rtiorari i ·e uch bond and curity or hi
appearance b or the circuit court a i re uir din mi 
dern anor · he ball be di char ed from u tody und r
thi act. If e do not ive uch bond and curity he 
shall be ntitl d to said writ , but he hall r main in
custody until di char ed by due course law go rn- 
inz mi deam anors, 
EC. 2 . The circuit jud es shall give thi act in
charge to the· r re pecti ve rand juries. 
SEc. 25. Thi act hall take effect from it pa a
and every conflicting law is h reby repeal d. 
CHAPTER 67. 
An act to amend Che crimiaal law• or thia State. [Paued January 19,
1848. 
SEC. I. Whoever shall malicious} y and wilfully poison,
so as to produce death, any mare, horse, or gelding, filly, 
foal, mule, jennet, or jack, shall be deemed guilty of a
felony, and upon conviction thereof, shall undergo con­
finement in the jail and penitentiary house of this State
for a period not less than one year, nor more than ten
year ; Provided, the value of such horse, mare or geld­
ing, filly, foal, mule, jennet or jack so poi oned shall be
of the value of ten dollars and upward , but if such
horse, mare or gelding, filly, foal, mule, jennet or jack,
shall be of less value than ten dollar , then such person
so convicted as aforesaid, shall undergo confinement in
the common jail of the county, for a period of not less
than three months, nor more than one year. 
as- SEC. 2. It hall be the duty of the jury trying any per-
son for the offence mentioned in the first s ction of this 
act, at the same time to enquire of and assess the value
of the horse, mare or gelding, filly, foal, mule, jennet or
jack so poisoned as aforesaid ; and it shall also be the
duty of the court before whom any such conviction hall
be had as aforesaid at the time of pa sing ntence upon
any such convict, to render up judgment against uch
convict, for the amount of such valuation as hall be
assessed by the jury as aforesaid, in favor of the owner
of such horse, mare or gelding, filly, foal, mule, jennet 
or jack, together with the cost of prosecution. 
CHAPTER 121. 
An aet to pay the expemes of a guard for the apprehensicm of fugitives
from justice, and for other purposes. [P888ed February 4, 1848.] 
That it shall be lawful for the Governor, for the time
being, to appoint an agent or agents, to demand of the 
Executive authority of any other State or Territory, any
fugitive from justice, or any other person charged with
treason, felony, or any other crime, in this State ; and ·
said agent shall, if necessary, be authorized to employ a
sufficient guard, or escort, to bring such criminals to this
State. And it shall be lawful for the Governor, from
time to time, to certify the account to the Comptroller,
who shall issue his warrant on the Treasurer, for suffi­
cient sums of money to defray the expenses of such 
agent and guard, or escort, and the jail fees in other
States or Territories ; for which sums of money the
Treasurer shall be allowed in the settlement of his ac­
counts. 
SEc. I. That an act passed the 26th of January, 1842, 
entitled "an act to amend the criminal laws of this
~tate," be and the same is hereby repealed. 
SEc. 2. That the act of ~822., section 3, chapter 40, be
and the same is hereby revi ved, 
CHAPTER 130. 
An act to amend the criminal laws of this State, an& to protect and _pre~
serve inviolate the right of trial by jury. [Passed February 3, 1848.] 
Sec. 1. That when any person or persons, in this
State, may be arraigned for trial, on a charge of felony, challenge
and any person shall be presented to the prisoner, as
one of his triers, it shall be good cause of challenge, if
it hall appear that such person has applied to the sher- 
iff to be one of the guard to take such prisoner to the
penitentiary. .. 
SEc. 2. That hereafter, it shall not be lawful for any
sheriff, in this State, to summons any person, as a guard, not 
to assist in taking a prisoner to the penitentiary, whom
such person as a juror, convicted. 
DEPOSITIONS. 
CHAPTER 17. 
An ILCt to facilitate the taking of depositions. (Passed December 3, lt'4i.J 
That the constables in the different counties in this
State be. and they are hereby authorized to execute no-
tices to take depositions in suits pending in the courts of
law and equity; and the return of a constable shall be
evidence of the service of said notice. For each no- 
tice delivered by a constable, he shall be allowed a fee
of fifty cents, to be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEc. I. That whenever an executor or administrator
shall file a bill under existing la'!s to have any real 
'estate sold for the purpose of paying debts, the court
may in its discretion, when it is necessary to pay debts,
decree a sale of any lands belonging to the testator or
intestate in any other county or counties than the one
in which the bill may be filed. · 
SEc. 2. That the provisions of the first section of this
act, so far as applicable, shall apply to bills flied by
heirs, devisees or tenants in common to sell lands for 
partition. 
GUARDIANS. 
CHAPTER 105. 
An act prohibiting th. appoinment of executors or adminiitlators, as the
guardians of minors in certain cases. [Passed January 28, 1848. J 
That hereafter it shall not be lawful for any county 
. h. S . t . 
court m t is tate to appoint any execu or or executrix,
administrator or administratrix, guardian to the minor 
heirs of his or her testator or intestate. as the case may
be, until after such executor, executrix, administrator or 
administratrix, shall have first settled his. her, or their
accounts, as such executor, executrix, administrator or
administratrix, any law, usage or custom to the contra­
ry notwithstanding. 
LANDLAWS. 
CHAPTER 98. 
An act to authorize the issuance of grants in certain cues. [Pu,ed De­
cember 26, 1847.] 
SECTION 1. That where any plat or plats and eertifi-
cates of survey for lands heretofore, or may hereafter 
be as igned, and the a ignm n or as ignments proven
according to law, and the ame h ving b nor may be
lo tor de troyed by any ca ualty, it hall lawful, and 
the different register of the land office of this tate are
hereby directed to i ue to the a ign e or a i n es a 
grant or grant thereon, on the production to ith r of 
the r zi ter afore aid, a certifi d copy or copi of uch
plat or plat , and certificate of urvey from under the
hand of the per on or p r on v ho i or are authorized
by law to make them, wi ha rtifi d copy of the re­
cord of the court endor ed th reon, in which uch pro­
bate or acknowledgement wa made, ·bowing th t aid
plat or plat , and certificate of urvey a igned, nd the
same duly proven; Provided, aid plat and c rtifi.cate
of survey are founded upon good and valid warrant , and
that the same have not been previously granted. 
SEc. 2. That when any plat or plat and certificates
of survey have heretofore or may her after be a igned 
to any person or per on , and the subscribin witness
thereto may die or remove beyond the limits of thi tate,
before the same may have been proven, th n and in that
that ca e the hand writing of the a ignor or a ignor ,
and the sub cribing witne s or witn s , may be proven
in the same manner and under the ame rules r ula-
tion , re trictions as de ds of conveyanc arenowproven,
in the ca e of the d ath of th bargainor or bar ainors 
or any one or all of the ub cribing v itn e to aid
deed. 
SEc. 3. That wher any per on ha made an ntry on
a good nd valid warrant in any of th surveyor offi-
ce in thi tat , and the ame b ving been lo t or mi -
placed, so that the urv yor or ntry taker ha failed to
record the same before the general office i clo ed it ball
be the duty of the entry taker of the county wh r in the
land lie , to receive and record the am with the plat
of surv y; Provided, th said land is vacant and th war-
rant with the location is tendered to the ntry taker. 
An act. to authorize the 1everal county coarta, aoatb and west of the Con­
rreasional reservation line, to have new maps or general/lane of their 
several counties made, and for other purposes. [Paue January 18, 
16'8.] 
CH.APTER 136. 
SECTio1' 1. That it shall and may be lawful for the
several county courts south and west of the congression- 
al reservation line, and those counties through which
said line runs, a majority of the acting justices of the 
peace being present, and voting for the same, to appoint
or employ some competent mathematician to make a
general plan or map of their respective counties, which
plan shall be made from the survey books, or copies of
books, as the case_ may be, that are on file in their re­
spective entry taker or surveyor general's offices; and
should there be any entries that have not been surveyed
said entries shall be represented on the plan of said
county, which plan shall be made at a scale of two hun­
dred poles per inch. 
SEc. 2. That it shall be the duty of the person so ap-
pointed by said court, to represent the range and section 
lines, and al io to represent the principal water courses
and public roads, as near as may be, without actual 
measurement on said plan, and that said plan shall be
made on the best kind of drawing paper. 
SF.c, 3. That so soon as said plan shall be completed 
com-· h 11 b h d f h ki h 
it s a e t e uty o t e person ma mg t e same, to
produce the same to tlre county courts for their inspec­ 
tion, and that said court shall thereupon make an al­
lowance to said person, for his services, to be paid out
of the county treasury of any amount they may think
just and right, not exceeding two hundred dollars. 
SEc. 4. That said plan shall be filed in the er try ta-
ker's office of said county, for the use and inspection of 
the citizens thereof; and that all entries made in said of­
fice thereafter, shall be represented by the entry taker
on said plan. 
SF.c. 5. That when the former principal surveyors in
the Western District have failed or refused to perform 
the duties enjoined on them by the second section' of an
act, passed at Nashville, the 19th of February, 1836,
chapter 48, that it shall be the duty of the several coun­
ty surveyors to do and perform said services within their
respective counties, and that said county surveyors shall
be allowed the same fees, and be subject to the same
penalties, that said principal surveyors were entitled to,
and Jiable for, in processioning said lands, and that said
county surveyors shall return a plat and certificate of
each tract so processioned by them to the entry taker of
the county, who shall forthwith record the same in his
survey book, for which services the said entry taker shall_
be allowed the same fees as for other services of the
same kind, and. that said several tracts of -Iand shall be
liable to attachment and final judgment for all expen­
ses in processioning and recording the same. 
Sm. 1. That all persons who before or at the passage
of this act, or who may hereafter become bona fide resi- 
dent occupant settlers upon vacant and unappropriated
land, south and west of the congressional and reservation
line, may have any quantity of said land, including his,
her or their improvement, not to consist of more than
two hundred acres, surveyed in legal form by the county
snryeyor or his deputy, and such survey the owner
thereof may have represented on the plan of the county 
by the entry taker thereof. 
SEC. 2. That where any person is now or may here-
after become the owner by deed, grant, entry or occupant 
reservation of a less quantity than two hundred acres of
land, the owner or owners thereof may enlarge the same 
to any quantity not exceeding two hundred acres: Pro-
nided, always,· that they do not interfere with any oc-
cupant settler, and that no person shall be entitled to
the benefits of this section who may be at the time he
may wish to make such enlargement the owner of two
hundred acres of land. , 
· SEC. 3. That it shall· and may be lawful for the own-
er or owners of any occupant claim or claims to enter 
the same, or any part thereof, by virtue of the whole
or any part of any genuine land warrant or certificate
whenever the same may suit the convenience of such
owner. 
Sac. 4. That the several county offices shall be and
remain open for entries and reservations under the pro- 
visions of this act, from and after the passage thereof. 
SEC. 5. That the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth,
eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, sixteenth, seven- 
teen th and eighteenth sections of an act, passed N ovem-
ber 11th, 1837, entitled "an lfct to provide tor the oc-
cupant settlers south and west of the congressional re-
servation line, and for other purposes," he revived and
considered a part of this act, and be in full force and
operation. 
Sso, 6. That the several entry takers, surveyors and
deputy surveyors shall be and they are hereby fully 
authorized and empowered to administer the oath ne-
cessary to make proof to the identity of the occupancies
within the bounds of their respective counties. 
SBC. 7. That if any person or persons be resident eiti-
zens upo11 lands which have been supposed to be enter- 
ed by warrant, and where the same is in fact vacant and 
unappropriated, on account of the removal of the entry
or otherwise, they shall have the same privilege of oc­
cupancy which is granted by this act to any person re­
siding upon vacant land, and the same right to enter by
warrant as any other person· or persons provided for by 
this act. 
SEc. 8. That it shall and may be lawful for any per-
son or persons, in making locations as aforesaid, either
occupant or upon warrants or certificates, to include in
the same location land which may be partly in two·
counties, the said locations to be made first in the office
of the county in which the beginning corner may be, and
be surveyed off by the surveyor of such county, and a
plat of such part of such location or entry as may run
into the adjoining county, shall, properly certified by
the entry taker of the county in which the beginning
corner may be, be forthwith laid on the general plan of
the county in which such location may in part extend;
and all locations of occupant claims or entries made
heretofore upon any good and va1id land warrant, or
certificate of warrant so made, be and the same are
hereby declared to be .as valid to all intents and pur­
poses as if the whole of such location or entry had been
made in whole in one county. · 
SEc. 9. That upon the death of any occupant holder,
his occupant claim or claims shall be subject to di vis- 
ion amengst his heirs at law in the same manner as
real estate: Provided, nothing in this act contained shall·
be so construed as to prevent said decedent from mak- ·
ing a different disposition of the same by a last will .and .
testament. . 
10. When any person may wish to build a mill.
on any vacant and unappropriated land, the entrytaker
for said county shall receive his location for the same
number of acres as other occupants are entitled to, and 
if the said person or persons shall complete thereon a .
grist mill within the term of twelve months, he shall be
entitled to an occupancy as other occupants are allowed 
bylaw. .
11. That it shall not be lawful for any person to . 
enter any land warrant or certificate of warrant upon .
the occupant of any other person not designated on the 
general plan, leaving such person a less quantity of land, 
including such occupant's improvements, than one hun­ 
dred acres: Provided always, that if any person wishing
to enter any warrant or certificate -of warrant on any .
such occupancy belonging to any other person, it shall
be the duty of the owner of such warrant or certificate
to notify the owner pf such . occupaat Qr oeeupents, ill. 
writing, that th y wi: h to enter uch occupancy or oc­
cupancies a af re aid, and to proceed to have such
occupancy or occupancies entered and de ignated on
the general plan of the county in which the me may 
be situated: Provided, also, that if the owner or owner
of such occupancy or occupancies hall fail to have the
same entered and de i nated a afore aid, and enlarzed 
according to the provi ion of thi act, within thirty days
from and after the service of such notice as afor aid,
it shall and may be lawful for the owner of such war­
rant or certizcate to proce d to ent r such warrant or
certificate of warrant on any vacant and unappropri­
ated land adjoining such occupancy or occupancie ·. 
Ee. 12. That the further time of two year be, and
the same i hereby allowed to any per on or p r on 
who have heretofore made location , to have the ame
er eyed and grants btained ther on, or if surveyed to 
have grants obtained. 
An act to make rood certain eatriea and to nrreN litigation. . [Puled
. Dece~ber 18, 1845. . 
Whereas, It appears that in some instances in entering
lands in the land offices south and west of the Congres­
sional reservation line, land warrants were divided, and
by the entry takers of those offices a good many small
entries were permitted to be made on large warrants,
and as doubts are entertained whether entries thus made 
are legal-Therefore, 
CHAPTER 18. 
SEC. 1. That all entries made upon good and valid
warrante south and west of· the Congressional reserve- 
tion line, are hereby made as good and effectual as if 
there had been; at the time such entries were made, no 
law prohibiting the making of two or more entries on
parts of the same land warrant. 
Sso, 2. Where any person may be in good faith the 
owner or claimant of a tract of land, which appears to 
be regularly entered in any of the said land offices, and
such entry may be void for the want of a land warrant 
to found it upon, or for any other· reason, such penon
Bhall have the same preference of entry as the occu-
pants south and west of the Congreslional reservation
line bave by law; and it shall not be lawful for any
other person to enter said land cntil further proviaiona 
are made by the Legislature of Tennessee, 
S:r.c. 3. That the owner of any tract of land by deed, 
grant, or entry, whose beginning oorner or oommence· 
ment to run for said corner may have been upon any
of the entries afterwards made void in accordance with
the former laws of this State, so that said beginning 
corner or commencement cannot now be found, mav
apply to the surveyor of the county in which his said
land is situated, whose duty it shall be to survey said
tract or entry, so owned as aforesaid, according to the
original calls of its boundaries, by beginning on some
contiguous well known tract or entry, and make out a
correct plat and certificate of the same under the pro·
visions of this act, and shall state in the same the date
and number of the original entry, as well as the date
and number of said entry so made void, when the same
can be done; for which the surveyor shall receive the
same fees as in other cases, and said plat and certificate
shall be received by the entry-taker of the county, and
entered as in other cases; and when so entered, shall
relate to the date of the original entry and survey: -
Provided, said person so applying shall satisfy the sur­
veyor that said tract or entry falls within the provisons
of this act, And provided [urther, that the rights of oth­
ers shall not be prejudiced thereby. 
S.Ec. 4. That this act shall not be so construed as to
fl · h · · d h · · f h 
con ict wit • impatr or exteu to t e provisions o t e
29th and 30th sections of an act passed the 11th day of
January, 1842, chapter 34; but the same shall continue
in full force and effect, as though this act had not been
passed. 
CHAPTER 20. 
An act further to provid~ fot the occupant a,ttlen. IO\tth aDd wflllll of the
~ongressional Reservation Line, and for other pui,p~. [Paned N •· 
vember 2, 1847.] . _ ; 
SEC. 1. That from and after the passage of this act,
any person or persons, theirheirs or assigns, who may ..
by any former acts of th~ Legislature· of this State, be 
entitled to any of the vacant and una.pp1'opriated lands
in this State, lying south and West of the Co.ngressional
Reservation line, and north of· Winchester's line, by oc­
oupan~y or pre-emption· right, ~hall ba ve the -preference,
and priority of entry, until the first day of September, 
·1849, and may, at any time: :within the term aforesaid,
enter his, her, or their claim or; claims, Ol' any part there-­
of, by payiag to the entry taker of ·the cOlln~. in whtoh
said land may lie, the fees that are now allowed by law 
to the entry taker, surveyor, reglst>er~ and secretary of
State, in ·obtaining igtap.t.8. · , , · . . , ; • . 1 
CHAPTER 46. 
' 
. Sr.c. 2. That "if any person or persons, who may be en-
tiffed to any right of occupancy, under any former act 
of the- Legislature of this State, shall not, on or before
the first day of September, 1849, enter his, her, or their 
occupant claim, according to the provisions of the first
section of this act, then it shall and may be lawful for
any other person to enter the same by paying the fees
afores~id- . · 
:: · ~ 3. Thai so· much of the act of eighteen hundred 
&Jld. (orty-two, chapter thirty-four, section five, as relates
~.~'payment of twelve and one-half cents per acre, 
~so much of the act of eighteen hundred and forty- 
fl~e, chapter eight, and sectiori two, as relates to the 
sale of the vacant and unappropriated lands, be and
die.same are hereby repealed. 
. - ~~ 4. That any of ~he v!l'cant lands, not claim.ed by::•:!~~=:~·
occupancy or pre-emption right, may he entered m the 
sapine way that vacant lands are now entered, north and 
ea,a& of the Congressional Reservation line. . ' · ., · 
S.C. 5. That where an[ person is claiming )and 15y 
• • 
~M of occupancy, and as not a plat and certificate, 
89!: ~ regul~r transfer o~ .plat_ and certifica.te,. from an 
~l claimant, on satisfactory proof being made to
~ 1,try taker of the county in which said land is situ-
~ tllat said person, so claiming, has had the peaeea- 
~>~nd uni~er~pted posse.ssion of said land, by right 
al ownership, either by himself or tenant, for three
years immediately preceding the passage of this act, or
~ time of application for his plat and certificate, it 
~.alt be the duty of the entry taker to so certify, and up­ 
c;,t,. such certificate, ~rants may issue, by the p~rson so
~ing, paying the fees. 
SBC. 6. That in all cases where the owner of such
occupant, has heretofore had the same surveyed, and 
designated in the entry taker's office, of any of the offi- 
ces aforesaid, it shall not be necessary to have any re-
-~urv~y. 
An act authorizing the eounty courta to appoint commiNio11era to contn,:t
for t.be niaking of county plua, and for other purposes. [Paeaed De­
cember 30, It47.] 
Sec. 1. That the several county courts in this State,
· lying south and west of the Congressional Reservation 
line, shall have the power; at their April term, .1848, or
at some quarterly ierm thereafter, a majority of all the 
justic~s being present, to appoint three commissioners, 
whose duty it shall be to contract with and employ the
entry taker, or some other person who is fully compe­
tent, to make out a complete map or plan from the sur­
veyor's and entry taker's books, fairly representing all
the entries heretofore made in .their county; and such 
person, so employed, shall have access to all the books 
and papers in the office of the entry taker and surveyor,
necessary for the completion of said map. 
SEc. 2. That where a map or plan has heretofore 
ne been made, it shall be the duty of said commissioners to
examine the same, and if they shall find said map cor­ 
rect, fairly representing all the entries in their county,
then, and in that case, it shall not be necessary to con­
tract for the making of another. 
- · SEc. 3. That it shall be the duty of the entry taker,
in each county in this State, south and west of the con- 
gressional reservation line, to have entered on said plan,
all' the entries that may hereafter be made in his coun­ 
. ty, and shall report from-year to year, to the revenue
collector of his county, the amount of all the lands held
by grant or entry in his county. 
SEc. 4. That said commissioners shall decide the scale
by which said plan shall be made, not exceeding two · 
hundred poles per inch; and after said plan shall have
been completed, it shall be the duty of said commission­ 
ers to examine said plan; and· if it be made agreeable
to contract, said commissioners shall report the same to
the county court; and said court shall appropriate to the
person making said plan, the amount agreed upon, out
of any money in t.he county treasury, not otherwise ap­
propriated; and may from time to time, make such ap­
propriations as will be reasonable compensation to said
commissioners for the services they are required to per­
form by the provisions of this act. 
SEc, 5. That in all cases where any person or persons
had entered his, her or their bid for any of the vacant and 
unappropriated lands lying south and west of the con­
gressional reservation line, and had paid in their money
on said bid, under the provisions of an act, passed No­
vember 17th, 1845, and where the sales had not taken
place, under the provisions of said act, previous to the
passage of the act, passed 2nd day of November, 1847,
then and in such case, it shall be the duty of the several
entry takers, so receiving such money, on such bid, to
record the entry in the name of the person or persons so
depositing their money, in pursuance of the act afore­
said, without any sale thereof, but strictly under the pro­
visions of the act passed the 2nd day of November, 1847,
such entry taker first retaining a sum sufficient to cover 
the fees of procuring a grant, and the balance, if any, to
pay over to the person or persons paying the same into
the office as aforesaid. 
Sso. 6. That the sixth section of the act passed 2d
day of November, 1847, be so construed as to authorize
the entry takers of the difterent counties south and west 
of the congressional reservation line to order re-surveys,
in cases where it shall appear to such entry taker, that
the surveys heretofore made do not sufficiently describe
the lands intended to be entered • 
. CHAPTER 92. 
An act giving farther time to perfect certain titles to Janda north and east
of the congreaional reeenatioa. line. [Pused January 25, 1fU8.] 
SEC. 1. That time be "given till the first day of Sep-Time
tember, 1849, to perfect titles on all entries heretofore
made, north and east of the congressional reservation 
line. ,
SEC. 2. That the provisions of this act shall apply and 
extend to all lands and entries thereof in this State. 
CHAPTER 182. 
An act to le28,lize the acts of Isaac Lewi,,. register of East Tenneuee, 
and for other purpnea. [Paued Fi96ruary 4, 1848.] 
That in all cases where any plat and certificate of
survey, occupant right, or entry, shall heretofore have 
been, or may hereafter be, transferred by the surveyor·~·
or entry taker, of any county or district, or their depu-•" 
ties, with the consent of the owner of such plat and cer-
tificate, occupant right or entry, grants may issue to the
assignee of any such plat and certificate, occupant right
or entry, in the same way as the same could have been
issued to the original owner : and the fact that any such 
transfer has been made shall be prima f acis evidence
of the assent of such owner. 
SEC. I. That where the process, proceedings, decrees,
orders, exhibits, depositions and· other evidence in any
suit at law or equity, or before justices of the peace, or
any portion of them are lost, destroyed or mislaid, such
loss may be supplied by making up others in their stead,
The court or tribunal before whom such cause is pend­
ing ·ma,y requilte the affidavit of tbe parties, their .agent
or attorney, or the clerk of tae onrt or other person,
setting forth facts in reference to the loss of the p•pers,
the search for them and the contents of the same. And
upon the court being satisfied that a substantial copy of
the proceedings is presented, the same may be substitu­
ted for the papers which have been lost, destrqf ed or
mislaid, and the cause shall stand for trial on the sub­
stituted, as it would have stood upon the original papers. 
Depoaitiom SEC. 2. The court or magistrate may, in their discre­
tion, award depositions to be .re-taken when the wit-
nesses are ali ve. 
SEc. 3. The provisions shall extend to all cases now
pending in which the papera are· destroyed, lost· or mis­ 
"laid, so that they cannot be procured, as well as- to ca.se•
that may bereafter &l"i~. · 
POOR PERSONS. 
CHAPTER 208. 
An aot to exempt from execution certain articles of property tberem 1pe­
cified. [Paned January 30, 1844.] 
Tltat in addition tp the . property heretofore P.Xempt
from execution, there shall in like manner be exempt
from execution issuing upon judgments founded on eon-
tracts entered into after tne passage of this act, five head
of sheep, ten head of stock hogs, all fowls and poultry,
six chairs, one bible and hymn book, one loom and gear,
and where the family consists of six or more persons, one 
additional feather bed a11d bedstead and bedclothes. 
SJIO'l'tO!r. 1. That the! Governor of the State shall ap- 
point sevea commissioners, not more than three of whom
shall reside in Da.vids<>Jl county, to superintend the con- 
struction of said Asyltllll, and to select and purchase a
tl'aet of land at a fair price, embracing not less than one
hundred acres, capable of culti vation. There shall be
apon the premises a never failing supply of wholesome
water aad said tract shall be conveniently situated for
receiving supplies of fuel, either of wood or coal. Said
oom~ioners eha.ll rqceive no compensation for their
services, over and above the necessary expenses incur·
red in the discharge of their duties, If any person or
persons sha,11 make f.,ee gift of an available tract for
farm and site for State Hospital, said commissioners are
hereby 11,uthorized to reeeive a deed to the State Hospi- 
tal for the insane. 
SBC. 2. Within thr,e months after . said site shall be·
,ebtained by commissioners, they shall oontract for the 
erection of said bospi&al by fira.t rate workmen, on such
tenw, as are just and prudent. Said hospital building
te be constrw cted in the most approved manner, after
tlie most recent and accepted plans embracing all im­
provements and accommodetiene for institutions of this
description. either of brick or unhewn stone; the foun-
dations to be substaptial, and of rough ma.son-work, the
basement to ~- not Jess than eight feet above, nor more
than two feet below the out ground surface; the water
table; window and door sills, window caps and door
-eaps of rough stone; the partition walls of brick, and
-eontain flues for ventilato,s, furnace flues for boating 
the building, and co¥1J<rting fiues, all of which .shall be
free from obstructing surfaces, and the roofs to be fire 
~f. i 
S.C. 3. The site fot ·the building shall be 10 selected
as to afford good and, sufficient under ground drainage; 
to command cheerful views, and open upon such aspects 
as will admit the sun's rays a portion of the day into
-every suit of the l=tng apartments. 
SIIC. 4. Said comm ioners shall, on or before the first 
day of J.'anary, oae ousand eight hwulred &Dd forty·-tbeird11t
nine, and on the first day of January, annually, thereaf­
ter, until the buildings are completed, render to the prop-
er accounting officers of the State of Tenness e, an ex­
act account of all the contracts, expenses and liabilities
which they have incurred or authorized in the execution
of their commissions with vouchers for the same, and in
case of their failure so to do, their authority to draw on
the State Treasurer for such sum. or sums of money as
shall hereafter be specified, shall cease; and said com -
missioners shall so build and finish said ho pital that the
whole cost of said buildings, together with -suitable and
sufficient apparatus for heating the same, and for cook­
ing, washing and for furnishing ample supplies of wa­
ter for all the uses of the institution, constructing the
same for the comfortable accommodation of two hun­
dred and fifty patients, and al] the necessary officers and 
attendants, shall not exceed forty thousand dollars. The
commissioners appointed by th is act, before entering 
upon their duties, shall give bonds with such security
as may be required by the executive, for the proper ap­
plication of funds placed in their hands, and for the
faithful performance of all their duties. 
SEc. 5; That the State tax upon ~ach hundred dollars
worth of taxable property shall be mcreased one and a 
half cents for this special purpose, for the term of three
years; and the same shall be set apart for building and
constructing said hospital in the most commodious man­ 
ner. The funds accruing from said tax shall be payable
by the State Treasurer to the order only of the whole
board of building commissioners, and in sums no greater
than five thousand dollars at one tjme. 
SEc. 6. The Governor shall· nominate, and by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint nine 
trustees of said institution, two from East Tennessee,
two from West Tennessee, and five from Middle Ten­
nessee, of which five, three shall be residents in or near
Nashville, the other two out of Davidson county, three
of the trustees first appointed shall serve two years,
three for four years and three for Bix years, at the expi- 
ration of which periods, the vacan cies shall be filled by
appointments for six years, and st ould a vacancy occur
by. death, resignation or otherwise, it shall be filled by
Executive appointment for the unexpired term of such
trustee. Said nine. trustees shall be a body politic and
corporate by the style of "the trustees of the Hospital for
the insane in Tennessee." Said. trustees in their said
corporate capacity may acquire property, real and per-
sonal, by gift or otherwise, and hold, sell, and convey
the same for-the use of said institution; and may have a
common seal, and sue and be sued, in the same manner 
as a natural person, S id tru te s ball appoint a u­
perintendent of the ho pital, who shall be a killf ul phy-
sician of uu blemi hed m ral c aract r, of nlightened 
and thorouzh profes ional ducation, of prompt bu in s
habits and of humane and 1 ind disposition. He hall
al o be a married man, and with hi family hall re id
con tantly in the in titution; he ·hall be ubject to 1· - 
moval or re-election by the tru tees no oftener than in
periods of eight years, except for infidelity to hi tru t 
or incompetency fully shown and declared. 
SEc. 7. The tru 'tee of the tate hospital hall a so-
ciate with the phy ician, make such by laws and regu- 
lations for the government of the Ho pital as shall b
neces ary, and hall cause the same to be publish d with
the biennial report of the phy ician and that of the
trustee ~ and the trea ur r, all which hall be di tributed
throuzhout the State for the full in ormation of the cit-
izens thereof Th tru tees a . i ·ted by the ·uperinten-
dent shall determine the salaries and compensation of
the officers and assistant , whos servic s may be nece -
sary for the comfortable, ju t and .conomical manage- 
ment of c id hospital. 
E • 8. Tb three tru tee , re ident in David on coun-
ty, shall be competent to transact all ordinary bu in ss 
ari ing at the monthly me .ting of this branch of the
board each in rotation for one month shall vi it the 
ho pital once a week at such time as i most convenient
-and together they shall vigil ntly xamine into the
condition of the ame once in very month, and oftener
if notified by the sup rintendent or any member of the
board. The trustees composing the full board, hall be
notified to convene at the Ho pital and strictly investi-
gate the adrnini tration of the same, the first day of
October, upon each biennial ses ion of the legi lature. 
SEC. 9. The tru tees shall report annually to the Go-
vernor, and biennially to the General Assembly. the true 
history and condition of the State Hospital, and in accor-
dance with the act of 1839-40, chapter 120, s ction 4,
they shall know that there are suffici nt upplies of
provi ion , fuel, water, clothing, boot , and whatever
el e may be deemed nece ary for the health, comfort, 
cleanliness and security of the inmates. 
SEo. 10. The superintendent hall exerci e ntire 
coutrol over all subordinate· officers and as. i tant in the
Hospital, and shall have entire direction of th duti . 
of the same, him elf being accountable to th board of
trustees for their good character and fidelity in the dis- 
charge of their duties.
SEc. 11. The admission of insane patients from the 
several counties of the State, shall be in the ratio of 
their insane population, and each county shall render to 
the Secretary of State, biennially the numerical esti­
mate of its insane, that proportionate benefits mayduly 
embrace each case. ·
SEc. 12. Persons in indigent circumstances, while 
resident in the Hospital, shall be in their own right or
by the tate bearing their expenses, chargeable no more . 
than the actual cost for clothing, nursing, board and
medical attendance; paying patients, whose friends pay
their expenses, and who are not chargeable npon the
country, shall pay for the care received, the terms being 
su bject to decision by the trustees.
Sze. 13. The courts of the State shall have power to 
commit to said Hospital any person, who has been
h d . h a: • h bl b . . t 
e arge wit an onence, pums a e y impnuonmen 
or death, and who shall have been found to here been
insane at the time that the offence was committed, and
who still continues insane, and the expenses of said per­
son, if in indigent circumstances, shall be paid by the 
State. ·,:·
SEO, 14. For the admission of the State patients, the 
following proceeding shall be had, Some respectable
citizen resident in the county, to which said patient be­
longs, shall file with a justice of the peace of said coun­ 
ty, a statement in writing, which shall be substantially
as follows: 
S-tate of Tennessee, cou11.ty, ss. 
The undersigned, a citizen of the State of Tennessee,
residing in said county, hereby states as follows, (nam­
ing the person.) is insane. His insanity is of less than 
two years duration, (or his being at large is dangerous
to the safety of the community,) he is in needy circum­
stances, has a legal settlement in county, and is a.
citizen of the State of Tennessee. These facts can be
proved by and (naming at least two persons,
one of whom shall be a respectable physician.) Dated
this day of A. D. E. F. 
2. The' justice shall issue subpmnas, for the persons
named as witnesses, and such other persons as he may
think proper, requiring them to appear before him at a.
specified time, to testify concerning the facts set forth
in said statement. Subpoenas may also be issued. for
witnesses in behalf of the person alleged to be insane • 
If after such inquest the justice shall be satisfied of
the truth of the Iaets set forth in the statement, tbey
shall require the medical witness forthwith to make out
a certificate, such as is required for pay patients by the
eighteenth section of this act, the j1111tiee shall fortbwilb 
make out a certificate, which shall read substantially as
follows: 
·SEC. 15. Immediately after the inquest, the justice
shall transmit to the clerk of the county court, a ceni-~ofpro­ 
ficate of said facts, attested. by a physician, and he shall
file the same. ~lso, the said clerk, shall proceed upon 
receipt of said attested certificate, to transmit a copy of
the same to the superintendent of the State Hospital.
accompanied with application for the admission of the
patient therein named to the same. Upon receipt of
this application, the superintendent shall immediately
advise the clerk, when the patient can be received.-
The clerk shall thereupon in due season for the convey-
ance of such patient to the Hospital by the time ap-
pointed, issue his warrant to any suitable person, re-
quiring him forthwith to receive said insane person, and
convey him to the Tennessee State Hospital; said wor-
rant shall read substantially as follows : 
To 
State of Tennessee, C01''1ltJ, ,,. 
I, the undersigned, justice or the peace, in and for
the county aforesaid, hereby certify, that I ha.ve visited 
of said county, a person alleged to be insane.
and have this day held an inquest in regard to him ac­ 
cording to law. I am satisfied that he is Insane, that he
has a legal settlement in · eounty; that he is a fit
subject to be sent to State Hos}>ital for the insane to 
undergo treatment therein; he is in needy circumstances
and a fit subject for the bounty of the State. I am well
satisfied that his being at large is injurious to himself
and disadvantageous, if not dangerous, to the communi-
ty. Witness my baud and seal, this day of A. D .. 
county, ss,
State of Tennessee, 
JVhereas, all the proceedings necessary to entitle
· to be admitted in the Tennessee State Hospital 
as a State patient have been had according to law; you
are hereby required forthwith to take said person and
convey him to said Hospital after executing this warrant.
You shall make due return to this office. Witness my
hand and seal of office this day of A. D. 
Upon receiving said. patient, the superintendent shall
endorse upon said warrant a receipt as follows: 
C. D. 
Cler A:. 
Received this day of
the within warrant. 
TBNMP,SHB STA TB Ho1P1TAI,, ~ 
Sm 16. Every term in this act, importing the mas­
culine gender, shall extend to and be applied to females
as well as males. 
SEC. 17. In order of admission, the indigent insane of 
te· the State shall have precedence of paying patients, and 
pa- recent cases of both classes shall have precedence over
those of long standing ; but paying patients from other
States may be received into the hospital should vacan­
cies occur unclaimed by residents in Tennessee. 
Preliminariu SEc. 18. Before any patient shall be received into the
hospital as pay patient,'there shall be produced to the
superintendent, · 
1st. The Treasurer's receipt for three months charges
in advance. 
2d. A sufficient bond, conditioned as heren.fter re­
quired. 
3d. A certificate from some respectable physician,
setting forth, · 
1st. That the patient is free from any infectious dis­ 
ease.
2d. The age of the patient and concise history of the 
case.
3d. The duration of the disease, dating from first 
symptoms.
4th. The supposed exciting cause of the disease.
5th. Whether the disease is hereditary.
6th. Whether the patient has ever been subject to ep- 
ilepsy. . · 
A. D. ~ 
the patient named in 
Superintendent. 
7th. Whether the patient has ever made any attempt
to commit any violence upon himself or others. , 
8th. The medical treatment pursued in the case, and
any circumstances known to the physician tending to
illustrate the same. 
No other proceedings shall be necessary for the ad­
mission of paying patients. 
The bond before mentioned shall be substantially as
follows: 
Know all men by these presents, that we
of the county of in the State of Tennessee, are
held and firmly bound unto the superintendent of the
Tennessee State Hospital in the penal sum of
dollars, for the payment whereof' we hereby bind our­ 
selves jointly and severally.
The condition of this obligation is as follows : 
, 
Whereas, of the county aforesaid, is about to
be admitted as a pay patient into said ho pital-now if
while he shall remain th rein the under igned shall con­
stantly supply him with suitable clothin , and pay all
the charges of said hospital against him quarterly in
advance, and whenever hi removal h 11 be required,
immediately remove him; and if he shall escape from
the hospital, pay all rea onable charge incurr din re­
storing him; and if he hall die therein, pay all rea on­
able expenses incurred for hi funeral, then this obliga­
tion shall be void, otherwi e it shall remain in full force.
Witness our hand and seals this day of A. D. 
SEc. 19. If there be a balance in the Treasury of the
hospital to the credit of a patient removed therefrom, 
the Treasurer shall pay it to the person authorized to
receive the same. 
SEc. 20. The Treasurer of the State shall be Trea-
surer of the hospital, and shall perform all the duties
thereof, and shall be liable, as he now is or shall be by
law made liable in all other of his official acts, .and· he 
shall present a report quarterly to the trustees of the
receipts of all money paid into the Treasury for the
benefit of the hospital or in behalf of the patients, and
of all sum or sums of money paid out for the necessary
uses and expenses of the same. 
SEC. 21. The Treasurer shall pay out of the hospital
funds no sum or sums of money for any hospital uses
whatever, except by order of the chairman of the act­
ing board of trustees for the same. 
· SEc. 22. The Governor, Judges of the courts and
members of the General Assembly shall be ex-officio 
visitors of the State Hospital. 
SEc. 23. That so soon as the new hospital shall be
erected and ready for the reception of the insane, the 
present Asylum with the premises thereunto belonging
shall be disposed of upon the most advantageous terms,
and the money arising therefrom shall be paid into the
treasury to replace as far as may be the money appro-
priated by this act to the building the new Asylum and
that the sale herein provided for be made by the building
commissioners. 
This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after the first day of March next: Provided, that the said 
hospital shall not exceed the cost of forty thousand dol-
lars. 
A. B. 
C.D. 
SECTI01' I. That the wives and widows of the soldiers
who have served, or may hereafter serve in the war be­ 
tween the United States and Mexico, who now are, or
who may hereafter become deranged, shall be received
by the superintendent, and kept in the Lunatic Asylum, 
at the public expense. 
SEc. 2. That applicants, under the provisions of this
act, shall present to the superintendent a certificate of
the chairman of the county court, in which the derang­
ed woman lives, to the purport, that she is the wife of a 
soldier of the Mexican war; and the certificate of the
county court clerk, with the county seal affixed, to the
purport, that the signature to the first certificate is that 
of the chairman of the county court. 
REGISTRATION. 
CHAPTER 82. 
An act to provide for the probate and acknowledgement of wills and deeds
made by persons in the service of the United Stat.et in a foreign country. 
[P881ed January 19, 1848.] 
SEQ. 1. That deeds and other instruments of writing,
which require registration, executed in foreign countries, 
by any officer or soldier in the regular army, or in the
volunteer corps, or any other person in the service of the
United States, may be acknowledgedby the granter, or 
proved by two subscribing witnesses, before. the colonel,
lieutenant colonel, major or commanding officer of the
regiment, to which such officer or soldier may belong,
and such certificate shall be given under the hand of
said colonel, lieutenant colonel, major or commanding 
officer; that he is acquainted with the witnesses, and
that they saw the grantor sign, seal and· execute the
deed in their presence, or in case of acknowledgment,
that he is acquainted with the grantor or maker of the
deed or other instrument, and that the same was duly
acknowledged. Such officer of the regiment shall have
the same power, in taking the probate and acknowl­
edgment of deeds and other instruments, as a commis­
sioner appointed under the act of 1839, chapter 26. sec.
3, entitled "an act to provide for the probate and regis- 
tration of deeds and other instruments executed beyond
the limits of the United States, and for other purposes;"
and the deeds and instruments so proved or acknowl­
edged, may be registered in the proper counties in this 
State.
SEC. 2. The colonel, lieutenant colonel, major or com- 
manding officer of the regiment, shall have authority to offi!~ 
certify to the county court of any county where any
soldier, officer or other person in the service of the
United States was domiciled, the probate of the sub-
scribing witnesses to any last will, or the acknowleg-
ment of the' testator of the execution of the will before
such commissioner, which probate or acknowledgment
shall be sufficient to authorize the said will to be proved·
after the death of the testator, before the county court. 
Provided, The heirs of next of kin of the testator shall
have the right to contest the validity of said will accord- 
ing to the laws now in force and use in this State, the
said probate or acknowledgment being prima f acie evi-
dence in such contest of the validity of the will. 
An act to amend an act, entitled "an act to amend the act of 1831, chap­
ter 90, with regard to the probate of deeds,'' puled January 22, 18'6. 
[Passed February 2, 18'8.] 
CHAPTER 129. 
SEc. 1. That the provisions of the above recited act,
be so extended as to authorize and require any clerk of
any of the courts in this State, who may have, or shall 
unintentionally omit any words in a certificate of an
acknowledgment or probate of any deed or other instru-nnunentl. 
ment, required by the laws of this State to be registered,
on application ol either of the parties interested, to cor-
rect such mistake or omission of words in such certificate
on any such deed or other instrument of writing. 
SEc. 2. That if any clerk, or any of the courts in this
State, may have, or shall unintentionally omit any words 
in the certificate of a privy examination, by him taken,
of any feme covert touching the execution of any deed, or
other instrument of writing by her executed, it shall and
may be lawful, for said clerk, at any time, on applica-
tion of either of the parties interested, to correct such
error, mistake or omission; said clerk making oath, in
open court, to truth of such correction. 
Sze. 3. That it shall be the duty of the register of the
county, whe~e suc.h omission or mi~take may have hap-tio~. 
pened, to register m the books of his office such correct-
ed mistake or omissions. 
That from and after the passage of this act, it shalJ
and may be lawful for any person or persons passing 
through this State or any county in the same, with a
wagon or other vehicle, to sell, barter or traffic the fol·
lowing articles free of taxation, in addition to the arti­
cles of iron and salt set apart in the said 17th section of
the above recited act, viz: raw and spun cotton and
garden seeds, all laws and parts of laws to the contrary 
notwithstanding. · 
An act to authorize sheriffii, clerks and other collectors of the public reve­
nue, to deposite moneys of-the State in the bank of Tennessee. [P8819- 
ed December 23, 1847.] 
CHAPTER 30. 
SEc. 1. That sheriffs, clerks and other collectors of
the public reveuue of the State may hereafter, during
any time in their fiscal year, dcposite any moneys they 
may have collected for the State, in the bank of 'fen·
nessee, or any of its branches, to the credit of Trea­
surer of the State; and upon such deposite being
made · by any of the above named officers, it shall
be the duty of' the cashier of said bank or branch to
issue to such officer, a certificate of deposite for the
same, stating the amount of money deposited by him
to the credit of the Treasurer of the State, which cer­
tificate of deposite shall be received by the Cromptroller
from the officer making such deposite, on settlement· at
the end of his fiscal year, or at any other time he may
be required to pay over the public moneys in his hands
to the Treasurer of the State, as so much money. 
SEc. 2. That whenever any deposites are made, in
pursuance of the first section of this act, it shall be the 
an~ duty of the .cashier of said bank or branch to enter the
same to the credit of the Treasurer of the State, and 
give him and the Comptroller notice. thereof 
S1e. 3. That said bank or branch shall receive from
any of the officers named in the first section of this act, 
any kind of bank notes that said bank or branch may
be receiving on deposite at the time, in her ordinary
business transactions. 
CHAPTER 126. 
Aa act for the relief' of collectors and receivers of' the revenue of the
State in certain cues. [Pass&d February 5, 1848.] 
SEC. 1. That on auditing the accounts of any eollec-
tor or receiver of public revenue, the Comptroller of~c:de
the Treasury shall allow him a credit at par for bank 
notes which were at par when received by such officer,
or if then depreciated, the depreciation of which was
unknown to such officer at the time of his receiving the
same, and the Comptroller shall give such officer a war-
rant to pay said notes into the Treasury, and the Trea-
surer shall receive the same and immediately convert
them into cash at the current rate of depreciation. 
SEtJ. 2. In case of actual payment by such officer of
good funds into the Treasury, instead of depreciated 
bank notes, collected or received as aforesaid, the Comp-
troller shall give such officer a warrant to pay said notes
into the 'I'reasury, and a warrant to receive back the
good funds so paid in. 
SEc. 3. The evidence upon which the Comptroller
shall issue said warrants, shall be the accounting offi- 
' h h . .
eer s sworn statement, t at t e notes m question, were 
collected or received before he had knowledge of their
depreciation, and such other evidence as the nature of
the case may enable the officer to adduce, which evi-
dence shall be filed and preserved in the Comptroller's
office : Provided, That swearing falsely under this sec-
tion, shall be perjury. 
CHAPTER 134. 
An act to tax persona peddlinr and retailing ratent medicine.. [Paaed
February 2, 184if. 
SEUTION 1. That all persons who receive patent medi-
eines, for the purpose of retailing them, shall take out a 
license from the county court clerk, for twelve months,
which shall show that he, she or they have paid to said
clerk, for county purposes, the sum of five dollars; and
upon failure to take out said license, the said clerk shall
institute suit against him, her or them, in his official 
name, before some justice of the peace, who shall g,ive
judgment and issue executions as in other cases. 
S.Bc. 2. That nothing herein contained shall apply to
practising physicians, or apothecary establishments. .• 
SEC. 3. That all travelling peddlers, vending or de­
positing patent medicines for sale, shall pay to the coun­ 
ty court clerk of each county, in which they may sell, or
deposite the same for sale, ten dollars for county purpo­
ses, which shall be collected as provided· for in the first
section of this aet. 
CHAPTER 146. 
An act to authorize merchants ud othen, to vanafer or ohange .their"l'.-
cease. (Paaed Februry 5, 11348. . 
SECTION 1. That whenever any person or persons for
the purpose of engaging in any business which requires 
license by the laws of the State, shall have taken out
such license, and before the expiration of the term there­
of, shall sell out his, her, or their stock, in trade, or priv­
ilege to any other person or persons to be again sold,
the person or persons purehasing, said stock in trade or
privilege to be sold again. shall not be required to pay
any other tax or license on said stock in trade or privi­
lege; Provided, that the person or persons selling the
same, go immediately before the clerk of the county
court, and make affidavit according to law, of the amount
on which he, she or they are bound to pay license, or
tax, and pay the same, and surrender up the original li-
cense; and provided, that the person or persons who shall
purchase said stock in trade or privilege aforesaid, shall
at the same time make a statement upon oath of the
amount, if any, of. the stock in trade or privilege, that
he, she or they,. have added to the stock or privilege so
purchased, and pay the a.mount of tax or license on the
same, if any, and take out license, as an original appli­
cant; and provided, that if the purchaser or purchasers
under this section should be a person or persons having
license, the second proviso of this section need not be
complied with. 
SBo. 2. That should any person or firm of persons, 
of after taking license in any one county in the State, and
before the term of such license shall expire, wish to re- 
hi h h . k . d . il
move is, er or t e1r stoc m tra e or pnvi ege, to 
another county in the State, it shall and may be lawful
for such person or firm of persons to go before the clerk
of the coanty court, from whom he, she or they have 
obtained lioe111e, &IMl make a statement on oath of tao 
• 
amount he, she or they may then be bound to pay licen e
or tax upon and pay th ame, and urrender the original
lice e nd take a certificate thereof, from aid cl rk,
and upon aid per on or firm of p r ons pr ntinz aid 
certificate to the county court of the county in which
said tock in trade or privil e, i r moved to be old 
nd making affidavit before aid clerk of the amount
added to aid stock in trade or privileg , on which
licen e or tax has been paid if any, and paying the same
and taking a licen e as an original applicant, aid person
or firm of persons shall not be required to pay tax upon
said tock in trade or privilege. once paid on and remov­
ed; Provided, that nothing in thi ection hall be o con­
strued as to prevent the county court of the county to
which aid stock in trade or privil ge are removed to, 
from laying a tax upon the ame for county purpose .
Ssc. 3. That in a firm of two or more perso engaged 
in merchandize or any other bu ine s requiring lie nse,
if any, one or more shall die pending a licens , or if one
or more hall retir from, or be added to th firm, the
survivin or remaining member or the new firm under 
uch addition , hall in like m nner immediat ly appear
before the cl rk of the county court and urrender the
origial licen e, pay the revenue then accrued upon the 
same, and take out a new licen e under the sam rule ,
regulation and r triction an original applicant, but
the tock in trade or privilege once paid for or taxed
shall never be again taxed. 
CHAPTER HJI. 
An act to amend the revenue laws of thia State. 
SEc. 1. A yearly tax of one mill in the dollar shall be
assessed upon the value of all lands, town lots, slaves, 
jewelry, pianos forte, pleasure carriages, gold and sil-
ver plate, watches, capital loaned or deposited at inter-
est, turnpike gates or roads, and bridges, and stocks, ex- 
cept" such of said property as may be exempt from taxa-
tion. Twenty per cent of all the revenue raised and
collected under the provisions of this act, shall consti-
tute a sinking fund, in adddition to the sinking funds 
heretofore created by law, and shall be applied, first, to 
the repayment to the bank of Tennessee of the sum of
.one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars, paid by 
said bank in the redemption of the bonds of the State
issued for stock in the Union bank, under the provisions
of an act passed at this session of the General Assem­ 
bly-second, to the redemption of the bonds of the State 
now outstanding or that may hereafter be issued by au-
thority of law. · 
exe~pt SEc .. 2. The following property shall be exempt from 
t' t' . 
axa ion, viz. · .
Land held for any' religious society for the purpose of 
having thereon' a church, meeting-house, or other build-
ing for public worship. , 
Land appropriated for the use of schools,
Land held in trust for the use of a college, academy, 
or other seminary of educatioh. .
All court-houses, jails, poor-houses, alms-houses, and 
all the real and personal property belonging thereto.
. All public roads, streets, alleys, promenades and walks
in the different towns and grave-yards. 
All slaves under twelve and over fifty years of age.
All jewelry kept by jewelers and merchants for sale.
All pianos forte, used in schools and academies,
All carrya1ls. · 
All silver tea and table spoons.
All stocks owned by the State, or by literary, reli­ 
gious, or charitable institutions.
All capital stock or property of all such incorporated 
companies as are exempt from taxation in their respec­
tive charters. 
SEc. 3. The term Ian , as used ·in the first section, in-
eludes, besides the land itself, all buildings thereon, and' 
erections affixed thereto; all trees growing thereon;
all water privileges, mines, minerals, quarries, and fos­ 
sils, in and under the' same.
SEc. 4. Land sold by the State, though not granted or 
conveyed, shall be assessed as if actually conveyed.
SEc. 5. 'Merchants shall not sell their goods without 
first taking from the clerk of the county court, for such
establishment, a yearly license, for which they shall pay
as follows: · · 
Every wholesale merchant shall pay for his license,
one cent in the dollar on the invoice cost at the place
where purchased, of all his goods, except such as may.
be sold without license. 
Every retail merchant shall pay for his license one
cent in the dollar on the _invoice .cost at the place where
purchased, of all his goods, except such as may be sold'
without license. 
Every commission merchant shall pay for his license,
one cent in the dollar on the gross amount of all his sales,
public and private, except on sales .of goods which may 
e sold. without license.
SEc. 6. Goods that may be sold without license are 
salt, iron, sugar, coffee, spun cotton, garden seeds, and 
. 1 f d . hi S P . 'd S id
artic es manu acture m t is tate : rovi ed, ai ar- · 
ticle shall not be exempt from taxation in the hands of
any p r on who et him elf up a am rchant or rocer. 
E • 7. The term "m rchant," a u ed in the above
ection, includes every per on trading or dealin in olaat-wbat. 
good , war , merchandize grocerie jew lry, drug or
medicine vhich may not be old without lie e. 
SEc. • Every pedlar hall take from the cl rk of the
county court of v ry county in which he travel and 17 
offers hi goods for ale, a yearly licen e, for which he
shall pay: 
Twenty dollar if he travel on foot or on hor e-back,
Thirty dollar if he travel in a vehicle; and
Thirty dollars for each vehicle, if he use more than 
one. 
B:tc. 9. A yearly specific tax shall be assessed upon 
privileges, as foDowa: 
1. Upon tlte privih!ge of a,ying auetion sales, twenty
dollar!. 
2. Upon the privilege of doing busine88 asa broker,
two hundred dollars. 
3. Upon the pri•ilege of selling gooos· at a boat or
other '1t&ter era.ft, one handred dollars. 
4. Upon tile privilege of itlip&rting. or manufacturing,
or seUing playing cards, fifty cents on the deck. 
5. Upon the privilege el discounting seouritiM for 
· money, or shaving notes, one cent on every dollar so em· 
ployed. 
6. Upon the privilege of granting policies of iDR·
ranee by others than companies chartered by this State,
a sum equal to-the highe1t ye•ly- hon~ exacted from 
any company chartered by the State.
?. ·Uponthe privilege of keeping a jack or stallion 
for the propagation of stock, the insurance price of one
mare; and· when a jack is kept 1br j8Dlleta principally, 
the insorahee price of one jennet. 
8. Upon the privilege of keeping a track for turf·ra·
eing, one hundred dollars. 
9. Upon the privilege of exhibiting any show, feats
of activity, ·slight of hand, or for any other exhibition
for which money is taken,·seventy-fin dollars for each 
CO!lnty in which the privilege is ex-ercised: Provided, 
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to tu the 
privilege of delivering ·a•y popular lecture on, or exhibi­ 
thir auy &pedimen of the arts and sciences.
10~ Upon the privilege of keeping a confectionary, 
fh'e per cent on the capital employed.
11. Upon the privilege of retailing spirituoul liquors. 
twenty.five dollan on any 8Wll under two hundred and 
fifty dollars employed in &he bUlineu; ud teat per caaL 
on very hundred dollars of capital so employed ove
two hundr d and fifty dollars. 
legal S.Ec. 10. The following specific taxes shall be le vi d
on Iezal proceedings : 
I. n each uit in equity, three dollars and eventy­
five cents, to be paid by the unsuccessful party. 
2. On each uit in the circuit court, three dollars and 
fifty cents, to be paid by the unsuccessful party. 
3. n each appeal, writ of error, or certiorari fro
the circuit court or chancery court, to the suprem
court, three dollars, to be paid by the unsucce sful party. 
4. On each appeal or writ of certiorari from befor
a justice of the peace, two dollars, to he paid by th
unsuccessful party. 
5. On each indictment or presentment, two dollars, to
be paid by the party or person taxed with the cost. 
6. On the registration of every grant or deed for land
one mill and a half, for every acre embraced therein. 
7. On the registration of every deed for a town lot
r a part of a town lot forty cents for each lot or par 
ot lot conveyed in the deed. 
EC. 11. A yearly tax of fifteen cents a poll shall b
assessed on every white male inhabitant of the State,
not exempt from taxation, between the ages of twenty­
one and fifty years • 
SEc. 12. Those exempt from the poll tax are persons
wounded in the military service of the country, minis­ 
ters of the gospel, and persons exempt by particular
laws. 
LICENESJSB--HOW OBTAINED. 
SEC. 13. jAn· original wholesale or retail license .shall
be issued- 
1. On conditionthat the applicant delivers to the clerk
a sworn statement of the invoice cost ofthe goods about
to be offered for sale-at the establishment for which he
demands a license- 
2. On condition that he pays to the clerk the tax there­
on, and his fee of one dollar for issuing the same. 
· 3. On condition that he makes and delivers to the
clerk .a.joint and several bond of himself and at least
one good surety.rin the penalty of one thousand· dollars,
: payable .to the State of Tennessee, conditioned taat he
will render to .the clerk, at the end of twelve months
fromthe date of his bond, .a sworn statement of the in­
voice cost of all the goods which he or his assignee shall
bring to. sa;ia: establishment for sale within the .said
twelve. months, and that he will pay the clerk the tax 
upon such goods. .. ·. . · , . . . •. t , • 
SEO. 14. At the end of the first twelve months, and of -
I
h
h
ft 
.d
1. 
every twe ve mont s t erea er, sai icense may e re- ed. 
newed~
1. On condition that the applicant or- his assignee has 
complied with the terms of the aforeasaid bond.
2. On condition that he gives a new bond of the like 
tenor for the ensuing twelve months; and pays the clerk's
fees; but any goods remaining on hand and unsold shall
be.ezempt from further taxation. , 
Saa. 15. Any licenses iBStied under the existing law
may be renewed upon the same terms. 
b mayberenew- 
SBC. 16. An origillBl commission license may be is-
saed- ·· !ice~
1. On condition that the applicant execute and deliv- i11Ued.' 
cer· to the clerk a joint aocl several bond of himself and 
at least one good surety,. in the penalty of fifteen hun-
dred dollars, payable to the State of Tennessee, condi­
tioned taat he will render to the clerk, at the end of
twelve months from tihe date .of the bond, a sworn. state-
ment of the. groSM amount of all sales; whether private
or at auction, made by him within the 1aid twelvf' 
months, a.& the esta'Wishment for which he demands - the
license, and that he will pay the tu thereon. - 
2. On condition that he pays the clerk's fee of - one
dollar. 
Si:c. 17. At the end of the first twelve mouths, the
license may be renewed-. 
1. On condition that the applicant has complied with
the terms of said bond. 
2. On condition that he renews his bond by giving
one of like tenor for the ensuing twelve months and 
paying the clerk's fees. w • 
SBC- 18. AJly Licenses issued under the existing law
may be renewed upon the same terms. 
Sze. 19. A peddling license shall be issued on the ap-
plicant's paying to the clerk the specific tax laid there-
on, and the clerk's fee. 
SEC. 20. Licenses for exercising the privileges speci-
fled in the ninth section, except the privilege of retail- 
ing spirituous liquors, shall be granted on the applicant's
paying the tax laid thereon, and the clerk's fee, except 
confectionaries, who shall give bond and pay clerk's fees
as required by retail merchants in this act. 
SEC. 21. The license for retailing spirituous liquors
shall be issued upon the terms prescribed. in the laws 
upon the subject, and upon fhe further condition that
the applicant takes an oath not to import or sell playing
cards withottt license. 
·SBC.~- 'l'he clerk may administer to every applicant
for liceii$e such oath as may be necessary to obtain the 
.information requisite to enable him to demand the taxes
herin laid. · 
BEFUS.AL TO TAKE LICElfSB. 
D.i&tre•.ww· Sac. 23. If aayperson presume to sell g~ods, or ex­ 
~!e'ru!,1:';: ercise _any privilege without: obtaining the lice~se above
prescribed, the clerk shall issue to the. aberdf or any 
constable ef'.the county, a distress we.rran~comma.ndiag
•him to levy the tax, coats and oberges, by distrainmg 
and selling so much of the delinquent~~ goods and chat­
tles as shall he sufficient for the purpo!e. _ 
SEC. 24. The officer to whose hands said warrant-shall 
im~ come, shall immediately proceed to execute tllae same, cm
pain of being held liable himself, on motion •1 the clerk 
in the circuit court, for the tax, costs ,md cbarses 1oat 
by bis delay. 1 
SEC. 25. The officer, having eized the good, aad chat­
ties of the delinquent. ahaU P,:V8 tea days notice of the
time and place 0£ sale, whieh he ahall make at the · 
time specified, unless tile owner, at· or . before the time 
of sale, pl'Oduce the clerk's receipt fol' ihe··iu, oosts aacl
charges; in which cue, the ~«fr· .lhaJ.l redeliver ih• 
goods ,of ·the -0w11er. · 1 
AS&ll8SM~T-HO'W MAD& 
Sec, 28. Each revenue commissioner, immediately
after his appointment, shall prepare a blank assessment
roll with seven separate eolumnss-« · . _ · 
, The first for the names, in alphabetical order, of all 
the taxable in habitants in his civil district; -
The second for the number of acres of land to be 
taxed to each person; .
The third for the value o.f the land, according to the . 
definition thereof given in the third section of· tnis act;
The fourth for the value of the town lots to be taxed 
to each person; . · .
The fifth for the number of slaves to he taxed to eaeh 
person;
The sixth for the value of said s)aves;
The seventh for the value of all other taxable person- 
al estate of each person, .
SEc. 27. The revenue commissioner in each civil dis­ 
trict in his county, shall upon dilligent inquiry therein,
aided by the last tax list, which the clerk shall deliver 
to him for the purpose, proceed to obtain from every
taxable inhabitant in his district, a sworn statement in
writing of all his taxables, which the revenue eommis­
sioner shall insert in the blank columns of his roll, with
the true cash value thereof. 
·J 
o. 28. Al] real and per onal e tate liable to taxa- 
tion hall be e timat d by th revenue commis ioner, at
it full value, a he would apprai e the same in payment 
of a ju t debt in cash, du from a solvent debtor. 
SEc. 2U. If the own r of any taxable prop rty be un-
known, or a non-resident, or unable to giv in a Ji t when 
11
d
b
h
. . 
ea e 011 y t e revenue cornrms ion r he h 11 make a
Ii t thereof from the best information he can obtain. 
:-.EC. 30. When a per on is l i. ted as tru te , guardian,
executor, or admini trator, or in any fiduciary or repre- 
· h h dd · · f h h h
sentative c aracter, t ea ition o uc c aract r all 
e made to his name, and the prop rty o h Id by him
hall be entered o the list, in a separate line from his 
wn property.
SEc. 31. laves hall be Ii ted in the name of the ow- 
ner if an inhabitant of the county, whether in the po _
e ion or not; if the owner i not an inhabitant of the 
county, hi laves shall be listed in the name of the person
having them in pos 'on at the time of the as es ment. 
SEc. 32. Every revenue comrni . ioner hall complete
hi as ssment against the tenth day of March ev ry 
year, and immediately return the ame to the clerk of
the comty court, who hall ubmit the same for twenty 
<lay th reafter, to the in pection of all per ons who hall
apply for the purpo e. 
SEc. 33. If any person, upon such inspection, conceive
himself aggrieved, by the a ses ment the revenue com- 
. . II · h h id f .r. b ld f th
missioners a , wit t e ai o two tree o ers o 
district, review the same, and if it appear to them from
the statement of the party complaining, or upon evi- 
deuce adduced by him, that the a e ment is erron ou
the commi ioner shall make and nter upon the roll the
proper correction, subject to revi ion or app al to the 
county court.
SEc. 34. If no objection be made to th a m nt, or 
. d. 1 fi h . . h 11 b .. ..1 
unme iat y a er sue o ~ ction a a e mc2A1 r
disposed of, the commi sion r hall ign th roll, and at- 
tach th reto an affidavit, ·ign by him, in the following
form: "I do swear or affirm, that I have set down in the
above a ses ment roll a I the taxable property and polls
within my district, according to the best of my knowl-
edge and information; and that the aid a s s m nt roll 
contains a true statement of the aggregate amount of
aid taxable property of each and every p r on n med 
therein, estimated according to the true ca h value there-
of, without favor or affection." o help me God. 
SEc. 35. All bonds given under the provi ions of. this
act, or any other rev nue law, shall be held to be good 
statutory bonds; provided, said bonds are good common 
law bonds. 
That from and after the passage of this act, all stock 
1ocb owned by non-resident-stockholders, in any of the incor­
porated companies in this State, shall be added to the
list of property enumerated in the act of 1836, chapter
13, section 1, and shall be subject to taxation, as other
property in this State. 
i, 
ROADS. 
CHAPTER 9. 
An act to exempt persona whe have attained the age of forty.:five from
working on roads. [P881!18d November 19, 1847] 
~EOTION 1. That,, aft~t the paas~e of this act, no fr~e
white. man shall be compelled to work on any public 
road, in this State, after he shall have passed the age of
forty-fiv.e years. 
SCIRE F ACIAS. 
CHAPTER 191 .. 
An act to provide more effectually for the collection of debts in certain 
cues. [Pueed Februuy 3, 1845.] 
Ssorroa 1. That in all cases where execution from 
fa- any court of record, or justice of the peace, may be re­
turned satisfied, either in whole or in part, by the sale 
of property, taken as the property of the defendant there­
in, and afterwards the value of the property, or- the
property itself, or any part of it so sold, shall be recov­
ered from the plaintiff in the execution, or the officer,
by some third person claiming the same, in all such ca­
ses, the plaintiff in the execution may have his judment,
or decree, revived by scire f acias, from the court, or jus­
tice, rendering the judgment. 
Seo. 2. That in all such cases, the plaintiff, before he
can obtain a scire f 'acias, shall file with the clerk of the 
ourt of justice before whom th judgment or decree was
rendered, an affidavit se ing forth uch ale under exe­ 
ution, and sub equent r covery as afore ·aid, and there­
upon it shall be the duty of the clerk or ju tice, to i su 
cire Jacias again t the defendant in the execution, an
the same hall be served, return d, and heard, as in all
other case when this proce . is u ed. 
Ee. 3. That the provi ions of this act shall apply, a
well to judgments or decrees, for co ts as for debts, and 
when any execution for costs from any court of record
or justice of the peace, may be returned satisfied, either 
in whole or in part as aforesaid, and upon uch subs -
quent recovery as afore aid, either from the cl rk of
the court or justic , from whom the execution issued, or
from the officer . Hing under the same, the judgment or
decree upon which uch xecution i founded, may b 
revived in like manner; and in all such case where th
judgment or decree hall be revived, it shall tand 
though no previous execution had i sued. 
SENATORS TO CONGRESS. 
CHAPTER 8 . 
• \a act to repeal the fi"8t section of an act, chapter 48, passed 27th De­
cember, 1843. [PUNd No:vem.r 16, 1847.] 
SECTION 1. That the first section of an act passed on
the 27th December, 1843, chapter 48, entitled "an act to 
prescribe the time, place and manner of choosing Sena-
tors to the Congress of the United States," be, and the
same is hereby repealed. 
SHERIFFS. 
CHAPTER 94. 
An act giving further time for sheriff's to settle unfinished business. {Pau­
ed January~' 1848.] 
SECTION 1. That all sheriffs that have gone out of offlee

within four years past, shall have two years from 
the passage of this act, to collect arrearages of taxes, 
and close other unsettled · business in their hands, with
all the powers of acting sheriffs. · 
SEO. 2. That the provisions of the first section of this
act, be extended to the securities of collectors <! the rev­
enue, who have died within the la.st two years, and th.at
they, (the securities,) be clothed with as full and ample
powers to collect the revenue in ~rrearsas the collectors
would be, had they Ii ved. 
An act £or the relief of Daniel McLean, ahemF of CoJFee county, aad lar
[other purposes, Pasted Februaey 5, 1848.] · 
SEc. 3. That the sheriffs of the several counties of this
State shall hereafter be allowed the same fees, for con­ 
veying a. prisoner from one county to another, who has 
b d . d . ·-Z--d • d f 
een arreste upon a capia, a responaen um issue rom
another county, as is now allowed by law for conveying
a prisoner from one jail to anotber, if the arrest has
been for a felony, fees to be paid by the State, but if for
misdemeanor, to be paid by the county from which said 
capias may issue. 
An act prescribing at what time the acts of the General Aaembly shall
take effect, where not otherwiae directed. [Passed :November 16,1847.J 
Sscrrox J. That hereafter, no general law, passed at
any session of the General Assembly. shall go into ope-
ration, or have any binding effect, until after the expi­ 
ration of forty days after its passage, unless otherwise
provided in the act declaring such law . 
., 
CHAPTER 202. 
. STATUTE LAWS. 
OH.APTER 39. 
TELEGRAPHS. 
CHAPTER 83 • 
An act concerniilg Telegrappe. [Puaed JalUW'J 14, 1848.] 
SEc. 10. That the .la.wful owners of any system of 
Telegraphing, shall have and enjoy in the manner here- 
inafter provided, the same ri ht of way in this tate,
is granted to the proprietors of Mor e' Electro-Magnetic
Telegraph by the act to incorporate the New Orleans
and Ohio Telegraph company, pas ed, October I th, 
I 47, Provided, such sy tern hall not conflict with ny
private right secured by patent from the Unit d tat 
Ee. 11. That any per on or companie who may d
sire to avail them elves of the privilege afore aid, hall 
d
h b d f
. l . f h 
pro uce to t e oar o mt rna improvem nt o t
tate, a full and accurate de cription of th y tern 
they . propo e to u e, toz th r with th ir titl pa rs
thereto; and if the said board. acting und r th advice
of the ttorney Gen ral of the 'tate, hall be ati fled
that such system doe not conflict with any riv te
right ecured as afore aid, and hat the applicant are
the lawful owner ther of, th nth y hall give the aid
applicants, a lie nse to have and enjoy the right of way
as afore aid, but not otherwise; Provided, that b fore
granting such licen: e the board hall give notice of the
application to any partie with whose rights it may be 
uppo ed to conflict, and allow them a reasonable time
to be heard. 
TREASURER OF THE STATE. 
CHAPTER 69. 
An act to agieod the act of· 1835, chapter ~'l, section 1. [Passed January 
17, 1848.] 
SEc. 2. 'I'hat the act of 1835, chapter 27, section 1, 
be so amended, that the Treasurer elect, and his seeuri-
ties, may acknowledge .the execution of the bond, now 
required by law, before any one of the Circuit Judges,
or Chancellors of the State of Tennessee, ich Judge
or Chancellor may also administer the oath now requit-
ed, to said Treasurer; in the same manner as the same
is now done by Judges . of the Supreme Court; and it
shall be the duty of such Judge or Chancellor, to endorse
upon the bond, in the same manner as _is now .the duty
of Judges of the Subreme Court, which bond and certi-
ficate shall be deposited as now required by law. 
SEC. 1. That the superintendent of the penitentiary,
out of the number of convicts placed under the control
of the commissioners of the State-house, by the act of 
1846, chapter 49, shall detail thirty convicts, with ne­
cessary guards, to work at the quarries, and at the build­
ing under the orders of the Architect. 
SEc. 2. The sum of fifty thousand dollars a year is
hereby appropriated, to employ· seventy stone-cutters, 
two setters, and eight laborers, and to pay the salary of
the architect, and contingent expenses. . 
SEC. 3. To raise this money, the Governor shall. from
time to time, when required by said commissioners, 
execute State bonds under the great seal, signed by him-
self, and countersigned by the Secretary of State. 'pay­ 
able to the President of said commissioners or his assigns,
ten years after date, bearing interest at six per cent, per 
annum, · payable half yearly. of the denominations of
two hundred and fifty dollars, and deliver the same to
said commissioners, to be sold by them for cash at par. 
Peni~entiary SEc. 4. The surplus revenue of the penitentiary, or
so much of it as may be necessary, is hereby appropria­
ted to pay the interest and principal of said bonds. 
And the superintendent thereof shall pay a sufficient
amount of said surplus into the ·Treasury for, said pur­
pose, to be drawn from thence by the Treasurer for said
purpose, on the Oomptroller's warrants, .issued in favor
of the holder of said bonds. · 
SEc. 5. C.Uardians and other trustees, not especially
directed by the instruments under which. they a.ct, as to 
d - f" . • th .l'. d ..l- h . 1
a mo e o Investing e tun s UDU'7r t err control, may 
invest the same in these bonds, which shall be credited
to them in their settlement as cash. 
SEc. 6. The chancery, circuit, and supreme courts
may cause funds under their control to be invested in 
these or other bonds of this State. 
SEc. I. That where ·any party may take an appeal from
any decision of a justice of4the peace, to the circuit court
and exceptions shall be taken to the form af the entry
made by such justice, in" granting the appeal, or to the
sufficiency of the bail or security given in said appeal, or
to the form of the bond, or that no bond has been taken, or
that no entry has been made of the prayer for, or grant­
ing the appeal, the court shall from time to time, on ap­ 
plication, allow the party making the same to supply any
defect in the proceedings of the justice, as though the
same had been commenced in that court. · · 
CHAPTER 40. 
An Act to amend the laws in relation to writs of Error and Appeals. [Passed
January 15, 1842.] 
S 1 Th t • 11 . di • h S
ao, • a m a cases now pen mg in t e upreme 
Court, or which may hereafter be taken by appeal or
otherwise to said oourt, and in all cases of appeal from
an inferior, to a superior jurisdiction, where the appel­
lant shall have died, or shall die subsequent to the ap- 
peal or writ of Error, and b fore the final d t rmination
of such cause by th upr me Court or other court to
which the appeal or rit of rror hall hav be n tak n, 
uch cau e or cause hall not abate on th failure or n g­
lect of the r pr ntative of such d cea d p r on to
come in andrevive the ame, but in every uchca it hall
be lawful for th appelle ~ at any tun b for th lap e of
two terms after the d ath of such d c d nt, to come in
and revive th am , and in every uch ca e the appel­
lee may have a scire facias again t the executor , ad­
ministrator , or h ir or d vi e of uch dee d nt, and
the aid uperior or uprem Court to which th app al
or writ of error i tak n, may thereupon proce d tor -
vive the cau e and to d t rmine the ame according to
ri ht and ju tice. In li manner aid app al or writ of
error may be reviv d by the appellant or plaintiff in th
writ of error, where the adver e party hall have died. 
CHAPTER: 99. 
An Act authorising and allowing appeals from the decisions of county 
courts in certain cases. [Passed January 15, 1844.] 
SEc. 1. That hereafter whenanyperson or persons may
conceive him, her or themselves.or the county, aggrieved 
by any decree or decision of any county court in this State,
or by said county" court malting allowances out of the
public or county moneys, it shall and may be lawful for
such person or persons to ask for and obtain an appeal 
from the decision o• judgment of said county court to the
circuit court of said county, upon such person or persons
giving Bond and security for the prosecution of such
appeal, which appeal shall be prosecuted in the name of
the party praying the same. 
ATTACHMENTS. 
CHAPTER 166. 
An Act to amend and explain an act entitled "An act more effectually to
subject property in this State, belonging to non-resident debtors, to the pay­ 
ment of.their debts due citizens of this and other States, paeeed 15th Feb­
. ruary, 1836. [Passed Janua1y 27, 1838.J 
SEC. 1. That when any creditor shall have any demand
against a debtor, and such debtor shall not reside in the 
t. 
State, but shall have property, debts or other effects with­
/t~~tin this State, or debts due him from persons residing or 
being within this State it shall be lawful for such creditor,
without first having obtained a judgment at law, to file his
bill in chancery, to attach such property, debts or effects,
and to subject them to the payment of the creditor's de­
mand, under the provisions of the act which this is in­
tended to amend, But in no case shall a party who is
indebted by a negotiable or assignable instument be de­
creed to pay the same, under the provisions of this act,
and the act which this is intended to amend, unless such
negotiable or as ignable instrument i delivered up, or
cancelled or destroyed, or the debtor completely exone­ 
rated and indemnified from all future liability on such .
instrument, after he shall have paid or discharged the
-lecree of the court. 
SEC. 2. That it hall not be lawful for oflic rs levying
attachments under the provision of the fourth section of 
said act, to sell any property which may be levied upon,
unless he is ordered by the court or judge to do so, and
then the property shall be sold by the officer or other
person, as directed by the judge or court, for cash, or on
a credit, so as to command· a fair price if practicable. 
SEc. 3. That in a1l proceedings to be had under
this and the aforesaid act, the complainant shall set
forth in his bill the amount of his demand, and the
judge in his fiat, shall direct so much of the property
and effects of the defendant to be attached, as is suffi­
cient to satisfy such debt and costs, according to the com­
plaint, and if the sheriff shall make an excessive distress
or levy, he shall be liable therefor, as in other cases of
excessive distress or excessive levy upon executions, and 
no attachment shall issue except for the satisfaction of
the debts so specified in the bill and sworn to. 
CHAPTE.R 43. 
I 
An Act further to amend an act entitled "an act more effectually to aubject
property in this State belonging to non-resident debton in the payment of
their debts due citizens of thi11 and other Statee,.. pamed 15th February,
1636. [Pa111ed December 23, 1839.] 
SEC. I. That where any creditorshall have the proper-
ty or effects of a debtor attached under the provisions of 
re- the above recited act, and the debtor or pers~m whose
property is thus attached shall wish to replevy the same, 
it shall be lawful for him to do so on giving bond and
security, payable to the complainant, in double the value
of the property attached, or double the . amount of the 
debt claimed, conditioned to pay the debt and interest 
and all costs, or the value of the property attached, with
intere t, and if the court shall so deer , and upon bond
and ecurity being given, the property and eff cts shall
be relea ed from the attachment. 
EC. 2. That the officer levying the attachment shall Officer's 
be authorized to take uch bond, if th pr P rty is ought
to be replevied b fore the r turn of th attachm nt; but
if the attachment be returned to court, or to th clerk
and master of such court, then uch court, or th clerk and
master thereof, hall be authorized to take the bond ,
and in either case the officer or court taking the bond
shall fix upon the value of the prop rty and p nalty of 
the bond. 
SEc. 3. That if, upon the final hearing of the caus ,
the defendant is ca tin the uit, the court hall render it
judgment or decree again t the ecurity a well a the 
principal for the amount of their respective ~abiliti s. 
CHAPTERM. 
An Act to amend tlM act of 1836, Chapter 43, in relation to Attacbmenia. · 
fP&lled 1aauary ~. J.84i,] 
SBC. 1. That the act of 1836, Chapter 43, Section 1, be
so amended, as that it shall be lawful fer the agent, at-
tomey or factor of any complainant, to make affidavit in 
the same manner and under the same rules, regulations
and restrictions as are therein required of the complai­
nant or complainants, or some one of them; and that in
all cases where any bill has been filed ~der the provi­
sions of said act and the affidavit has been made by any
agent, attorney or factor of the complainant or complai­
nants therein, the same and all the proceedings thereon
shall be as good and valid as if said affidavit was made
in conformity with the act. 
SEC. 2. That section 5 of said act be so amended, as
that the Clerk and Master of the court in which a bill is 
filed may atany rule day order publication in the same
manner and under the same regulations and restrictions 
as are prescribed when ~said order is made by the court,
and in like manner when the bill is filed the Clerk and 
Master may forthwith make all necessary orders of pub- 
"lication against absent defendants. which shall have the
same force and effect, as if made at the first or any sub­
sequent term of the court. 
. SE~. 1. That in all cases where a· debtor .or a defend­ 
Attach_ment ant in any suit or judgment is removing or about to re- 
•. 
. move himself or his property beyond the limits of this
State, or shall be absconding or concealing himself or 
his property. or effects, it shall be lawful for the creditor,
or other person entitled to sue, to obtain an attachment
against the property, debts, choses in action, and effects 
of such debtor, in the same m:3-nner as .such process may 
be obtained against absconding or non-resident debtors
under the different· statutes now in force in this State, 
and the same .proceedings may be had.as in other cases
o£attachment_exc.ept so far.as it is-aljered ~y this act. 
SEc. 2. That whenever a debtor shall wish to replevy
or release the property or · effects taken under attach­ 
ment, it shall be-lawful for him to de so, on giving bond
and good security in double the amount of the debt, or
for the forth corning of the property attached, at the op­
tion of the defendant, conditioned that .he 'wi1J pay the
debt, interest and costs, or the value of the property at­
tached, and interest as the case may be, in the event that
.he shall be cast in-the suit; and that, part of the law
which authorized the defendant, in a suit commenced
by attachment, to replevy the property by giving bail,
be and the same is hereby repealed. · . 
SEc. 3. That the bond required to be given under the
preceding section of this act; shall constitute a part of 
the- record of the cause; and if· the .defendant shall be
cast in the suit, it shall' be lawful for the court to enter up
its judgment or decree against the defendant and surety
for the amount of their respective liabilities. 
SEc. 4. That no attachment shall be abated or quashed
for or by reason of the affidavit, or Bill for the attach­ 
ment, or· the attachment' stating in 'the alternative that
the defendant has removed himself privately out of the
county or State, or so absconds or conceals himself that
the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him 
or that he is an inhabitant of another government, or has
removed, or is about to remove his property or effects be­ 
yond the limits of this State, or for stating all these as 
causes of the attachment; but in all such cases it shall be
the duty of the defendant to answer to the attachment
in the same manner as if but one cause only were stated
in the affidavit, or bill, and attachment. 
SEc. 5. That if the debtor or other person shall wish 
to replevy the property or effects thus attached, the officer 
.. 
SEO. I. 'I!hat whenever an attachment, issued by a
justice of the peace 0.,nd returnable before a justice of 
the peace, shall be levied upon the real estate of a non-
resident or absconding debtor, such justice ahall after he
has given judgment on the case, in accordance with the
laws now in force, return all the papers in the case to
the circuit court -of his county, which court shall upon
the return of said papers, proceed to condemn the real 
estate, and to order a;' sale thereof for- the satisfaction of
the judgment rendered by such justice, together with all 
interest and.costs. ~ .•
SEC. !. That whenever an attachment against a non- 
resident-is retamed before a justice of the peace, in ac-dftendaat.
eordanoe with the existing laws of this State, it shall be 
the duty of the justice before whom the same is returned 
to stay all further proceedings thereon, for such period as
such justice may deem reasonable, not exceeding twelve
months, nor less than six months from such return; and to
cause the plaintiff in the suit, his or her agent or attorney,
to give public notice, by advertisement, of the time 
and place fixed for the trial of the suit, requiring the:
defendant then and there to appear and defend the case. 
SEc. 3. That upon the expiration of the time so fixed .
by the justice for the appearance of a non-re ident de­
fendant in any attachment case, and the trial thereof, it
shall be the duty of such justice to try and determine, and
render judgment thereon, as in other cases over which
he has jurisdiction. 
SEc. 4 That on attachment cases against non-resident
defendants, it shall be the duty of the justice to enter on
his docket a memorandum of the stay of proceeding.
thereon, and of the order for publication. 
SEc. 5. That should the property levied on by an at­
tachment against a non-resid nt be perishable, the jus­ 
tice of the peace before whom the attachment is return­
ed, may order the property to be sold upon ten days pub­
lic advertisement at such places as property sold by
executions is ued by ju tices of the peace are adver­
tised, and sold upon a credit of six months, the purchaser
giving bond and security, payabl to the officer, and the
officer shall hold said bond for the benefit of the parties,
and be liable for the same to the plaintiff for the satis­
faction of his debt. But should the plaintiff not succeed
in his suit for an amount equal to said bond or bonds, the
balance on said bonds shall be paid over to the defen­
dant; and should the plaintiff be non-suited, or fail to
recover any thing against the defendant, such bond shall
be delivered over to the defendant, and the officer taking
such bond, and his securities, shall be liable to account
for the same according to the provisions of ~his section. 
ATTORNEYS~ 
. . . .. 
·oHAPTER ISI. 
~ . , 
AM ACT authorizing the attorneys and counsellors at. law of other States, to
practise law in this State. [Paased January 19, 1838.] 
. ... \ 
SEc. I. The attorneys arid~unsellors at Jaw horn the
adjoining states to Tennessee, are hereby.permitted and
authorised to practice law in e.11 the eourts of law and 
equity in this. ~tate, . u~oli pr?<1ucing e.. license fro~ the
proper authorities, withm their respective states, m as 
full and ample a mannervand enjoying- all the privileges
extended by the laws of this· state, to the attorneys and
counsellors at law within this state. · · . 
SEC. 1. That whenever any judgment, for any fine or
cost, shall be rendered-in any court, against any defen-
dant, upon any prosecution under any of the statutes
which may be in force, to discourage and suppress
gaming, only five dollars shall be taxed to the bill of cost,
as a fee for the Attorney General, when the same shall
be prosecuted to conviction: Provided, That on convic-
tion for games made felony by law, the fee of the Attor-
ney General shall be ten dollars, to be taxed in the bill of
.cost, and to be paid by the defendant. 
An act to repeal all laws allowing salaries to Attomt'ys General. [Paseed
Jan. 24, 1844.J 
SEc. 1. That all laws authorizing Attorneys General
to receive a salary of one hundred and twenty-five dol-
lars, be, and the same are hereby repealed. 
ATTORNEY GENERAL AND REPORTER.
CHAPTER 177. 
An act to regulate the manner of reporting the deeisions of the Supreme 
SEc. I. That hereafter it shall be the duty of the re­
porter of the decisions of the Supreme Court of this
State, in the report of each case, to state the name of
the Circuit Judge, Chancellor or Judge of the Criminal
Court, as the case may be, deciding the same below .. 
B 
CHAPTER 141. 
Court of this State, [Paseed Jan. !9, 1844.] 
SEc. I: That the clerks of the several county courts
in this State shall hereafter have power and authority
and it is hereby· made their duty to take and state the 
accounts of executors, administrators and guardians, at
their offices in vacation, and report the same to the next 
county court of their county for confirmation or rejection;
and any person interested in any such settlements may
except to the same, when presented to the court, which
shall be tried by said court, subject to appeal ~s in other
cases: Provided, However, that if the clerk is related to
either of the parties, by affinity or consanguinity within
the degrees, disqualifying a judge of the circuit court
from. trying a cause, or if he himself is interested in the
event of such settlement, it shall be the duty of the
county court to appoint other commissioners of their own
body, who shall make settlements under the same rules
as the clerks are herein authorized to make. · 
SEC. 2. The clerks of the said courts shall have power,
and it shall be their duty, by subpcena, to compel all exec­ 
utors, administrators and guardians to come before them
once in every year, for the purpose of settling their ac- 
counts: Provided, That executors and administrators shall .•
not be compelled to make settlements until after two
years shall have elapsed from their qualifications as such. 
SEc. 3. Any executor, administrator or guardian, who
shall neglect or refuse to appear before the clerk of his;
her or their comity, for the space of thirty days after 
the service of the subpoena to settle his, her or their ac­
counts, shall be subject to indictment or presentment in 
the circuit court of the county, and upon conviction shall
be fined in a su~ not less than one nor more than twenty­ 
flve dollars, and it shall be the duty of said clerks to
make returns of such delinquent executors; administra­
tors or guardians to the clerks of the circuit courts, on or
before the first day of each and every term of said circuit
court; and it shall be the duty of the attorney general 
to prefer indi~tments ex-o_fficio, against such delinquents
without a prosecutor: Provided, That the clerk, on suffi­
cient cause, shown by affidavit, may continue the said 
settlement from time to time. 
An Act to regulate the fees of county court clerks in certain cases. [Paued
January 27, 1838.] 
SEc. I. That the clerks, of the county courts in this
State, shall from and after the first day of January, instant,
be alfowed for each copy of the tax list, required by law state 
to be made out by them, one dollar and fifty cents for rer 
each civil district in his county, one half to be paid by
the treasurer of the State, and the other half by the
county trustee, and that all laws now in force, making it
the duty of the clerks of the county courts to furnish
each commissioner who may be appointed to take in a
list of' taxable property and polls, with a copy of the
list of the taxable property and polls, for· the preceding
year in their respective districts, be and the same is
here by repealed, and instead thereof the said clerks shall 
and over to such person as may be appointed in each
district, the original list returned for the preceding year. 
The said clerks may also demand and receive the fol­
lowing fees to wit: for each merchant's license and bond,
two dollars; for each license to hawk and peddle, one
dollar; for recording as required by law, each inventory
and account of sales, seventy-five cents; and for copies 
of inventories and account of sales when required,
fifty cents; for a certificate that a magistrate is an acting 
justice in his county, without the county seal, twenty-
five cents; for quallifying each sheriff and taking bonds
as required by law, three dollars. 
SEc. 2. That it shall be the duty of said clerks to keep
a well-bound book, in which they shall registerthe names
of the parties, and the date of the issuance of each mar- 
riage. license, and opposite thereto they shall copy the
return of the minister of the gospel, or justice of the
peace, who solemnized the rights, and the day on which
it was done; and for taking the bond, issuing the license,
and· recording the return of the minister or justice of the
peace, as required by .this act they shall receive one dol- 
~~ 
CHAPTER 118. 
. SEc. 3. That the clerks of the several courts may de-
mand and receive the following fees for the following 
named services, to be paid out of the county treasury: 
for each road order twelve and a half cents; for receiv­
ing petition and making order for a jury of view, twenty­
five cents; for entering of record th »enire f acias, for the
circuit court and copy thereof, fifty cent ; for ent ring
allowance for each pauper and copy thereof, fifty cent ;
for recording in the revenue docket the settlement with
himselfor the clerk of the circuit. court, each, one dollar;
and for entering of record any other allowance and copy
thereof when neces ary, to be paid by the party in who e
favor it be made, twelve and a half cent . 
EC. 4. It shall be the duty of aid clerks to charge all
executors, admini trators and guardians with all uch 
sum or urns of money as theymay have receiv d a such,
and also all such sum or sum of money a they might
haver cei ed, by u ing due and reasonable diligence;
it shall al o be their duty to allow uch executors, admin­
i trators and guardians a re onable compensation for
their services, they shall al o have authority to examine
executors, administrators and guardian , upon oath, touch­
ing their receipts and disburs m nts, and it hall be their
duty o to examine them when in their opinion it hall 
be necessary. 
EC. 5. The settlements when made and recorded, as
contemplated by this act, shall be prima f acie evidence
in behalf of said executors, administrators and guardi­
ans in any suit again t them, either in law or equity,
whereby the accuracy of said account shall be questioned,
subject, however to be disproved as other prima facie 
evidence. 
EC. 6. The said clerk shall have and receive for every
such settlem nt with xecutors and admini trators, the 
sum of two dollar , and with guardians one dollar, and
such further sum a the court will allow, upon a confir­
mation of the ettlement with such executors, adminis­
trators or guardians, and the further sum of fifty cents 
for recording the same as is now directed by law.
SEc. 7. That all letters testamentary and of adrninis­ 
tration when granted by the county courts, shall be re·
corded in said courts, and a copy of such record shall be
deemed and taken to be of the same validity with the
original letters granted, and the clerks shall be allowed
the sum of fifty cents for each letter so to be recorded,
and the further sum of fifty cents for each copy of such 
record. 
· EC. 1. That the cl rk of the county courts in this
tate, hall not be r quir d h reafter to include a state- 
ment of the county r venue, in the duplicate tax book
which they are r quired by law to furnish to the comp- 
troller of the State.
SEc. 2. That all laws requiring the clerks of the county 
court to make returns to the Legi lature of th number
of ju tices of the peace, and captain' companies in their 
re pective counties, be and the ame ar hereby repeal d. 
EC. 3. That the fourt enth section of the act of I 35,
chapter 15, be and the ·ame is h r by so amended, that
the clerk of the county court shall have forty day aft r
the court to which the rev nue commi sion rs are re-
quired to make their r turns, to record the sam , and
make out and deliver the tran cript to the sheriff, as re-
quired by the said act, which thi i int nded to. amend. 
SEc. 4. That the clerks of. the several county courts
shall he allowed to demand and receive for making outfortranecript 
a transcript of any paper or record in his office, for which
fees are not already allowed, ten cents for each hundred
words contained therein, or in that proportion for a greater
or less number •. 
· CHAPTER 42. 
An Act to amend an act entitled an act to prescribe certain duties to be per­
formed by the clerks of the several courts in this State, and for other pur­
pueee, paeeed 15th of February, ~836. f Passed December ~O, 1839.) 
Sso. I. That so much of the 8th section of the above
recited act as required the several attorney generals in 
this State to call upon the clerks of the county courts, at
the first court after the first day of October in each and
every year, for their receipts for public moneys by them
collected, and also the Comptroller's receipt for the state­
ments of the moneys collected, be, and the same i~ hereby
repealed. · 
SEC. 2. That it shall be the duty of the several clerks
of the county courts· in this State, at the first court after 
the first day of October in each and every year, to pro-
duce to the chairman of the several county courts their
receipts for the public moneys by them collected, and
also the Comptroller's receipt for the statement of moneys
collected, and if said clerks shall fail to produce their 
receipts when called on by the several chairmen of the
county court , or if said receipts should show from the
dates thereof that said clerk had not complied with the
requisition of theactpassed 15th February, 1836, it shall
be the duty of the court to dismiss such clerk from office,
and said court shall appoint a clerk pro tempore, as may 
be prescribed by law.
SEc. 3. That if any chairman of the sev ral county 
courts of this State, or attorney generals of the several
circuit courts in this State, shall fail or refuse to call 
h l k f h d · · " h ·
upon t e c er s o t e county an circuit courts tor t err 
receipts, in pursuance of the act of 1836, passed the 15th
of February, which this act i intended to amend, and in
pursuance of this act, it shall be considered a misde­
meanor in office, and on conviction thereof they shall
be fined in a sum not less than ten nor more than fifty 
dollars.
SEc. 4. That in all cases hereafter when any of the 
clerks of the county courts in this State, shall issue a
license for any privilege, upon which a State and county 
tax have to be collected, that it shall be the duty of the
clerks of the county courts, when they issue the license
and collect the State tax, also to collect the county tax,
and account for the county tax collected on privileges as
aforesaid in their annual settlements with the revenue 
commissioners of their respective counties, and pay the
same over to the county trustee of their -respective coun­
ties at the time of paying over other ... county revenue by 
them collected. · . ·
SEc. 5. That" so much of an act· passed on the 5th day 
of February, 1836, as requires the clerks of the several
county courts in this State .to make out and forward to 
the Comptroller of the Treasury a duplicate or transcript
copy· of every return made by the commissioners of his
county, be, and the same is hereby repealed, and instead
thereof the said clerks shall hereafter only be required to
make out an aggregate statement of t4e taxable property
and polls in each civil distriet, arid the State tax due
thereon, which the sheriffs of the counties are bound to 
collect, and forward the same to the Comptroller in the
same manner that they are now bound to forward the du­ 
plicate of the tax book; for which aggregate statement
the Treasurer of the State shall pay the clerk the sum of
seventy-five cents for each civil district. 
SEC. I. That if any clerk of the county court, ~ircuit
court, chancery court or supreme court in this State,. 
shall fail or refuse to render to the trustee of his county cour~;,~urS:~ 
the amount. of the money by him collected and due said render 
county, in the manner prescribed by law, it shall be the accounts 
duty of said trustee, at the first term of the circuit court
ofhis county after such failure,or at!any subsequent term
thereof, to cause the attorney general to move said· cir-
cuit court for judgment against said clerk and his secu-
rities upon his bond, in the name of the Governor for the
use of said county; and 'it shall be the duty of said cir-
cuit court immediately to give judgment against such
clerk and his securities for the penalty contained in said
bond, and shall awa d.execntion: Provided, That if such
clerk, at any ime before the payment of such judgment,
produce to· said trustee an account sworn to and certified
in the manner prescribed by law, and pay him the full
amount thereof, and interest due thereon from the time
the same should have been paid, without deducting any
commissions, the said trustee shall receive the same in
discharge of said judgment, leaving the clerk and his se-
rities liable to pay the costs of said suit. 
SEc. 2. That if any such clerk, after rendering to the
trustee of his county the account of the moneys by him 
collected and due the county, in the manner prescribed Clerk's 
by law, shall fail to pay to said trustee the amount due to 
thereon, it shall be the dnty of said trustee to cause the
attorney general to move the circuit court of his county at
the next term of said circuit court after said failure, or at
anysubsequent term thereof, for a judgment against such
clerk and his securities, in the name of the Governor, for 
the use of said county; and it shall be the duty of said
circuit court immediately to give judgment against such
clerk and his securities for the amount which appears to
be due said county by said account, withinterest thereon
from the time said account should have been paid, together
with twelve and one half percent. damages and all costs. 
SEc. I. That it shall be the duty of the .Clerks of the
several County Courts in this State, to settle with the 
Trustees of the several Comity Academies in this State,
and to do and perform all the duties required of the Com- 
missioners specified in the acts which this act is intended
to amend, at the same time, and in the same manner, that
such Commissioners are requiried to make such settle­
ments, and to discharge all the duties required to be per-
formed by the Commssioners, specified in the acts which
thisactis intendedtoamend,forwhich services the Clerks
shall be allowed two dollars, to be paid out of the Comity 
Treasury. 
CHAPTER 57. 
An Act to regulate the duties of Clerks 'in certain CllelL [Puled Janury 
· 26,- 1$41.] . 
. 
SEO. 1. That hereafter when. an appeal shall be taken
from the Chancery or Circuit courts of this State to the 
Supreme court, it shall be the duty of the Circuit or
Chancery Court Clerks to make out a complete bill of 
cost in said cause in which said appeal shall be taken,
which said bill of cast shall accompany the record, and a
copy of the same placed by said Clerks of the Circuit or
Chancery Courts, upon their execution docket. 
SEc. 2. That when the cost accrued in any case where
an appeal has been or shall be taken as aforesaid, and
the costs accrued in the Circuit or Chancery court, either
has, or hereafter shall be paid into the office of either of
the Clerks of the Supreme court; it shall be duty of the
said Clerks of the Supreme Court to pay said costs to the
clerks of the said Circuit or Chancery courts in which
said costs may have accrued, and take their receipts for
the same. . 
SEo. 3. That when the Clerks of the Circuit or Chan
cery courts shall receive said cost from the Clerk of the 
Supreme cou1!, they s~all charge themsel v~s with the
same upon their execution docket, and pay 1t out to the 
persons who are entitled to the same, under the same rules
and regulations as otlier moneys collected by them. 
SBC. I. That the Clerks and Masters of the Chancery
courts, Clerks of the Circuit courts, and special oornmis- Fees 
sioners appointed under the decrees of the said courts to
,ell real or personal estates, shall be allowed the follow-
ing fees for executing such decree, and no other allow-
ance shall be made; at the rate of four dollars for the
firsthundred dollars, at the rate of three dollars for every
hundred dollars, over one and not exceeding three hun-
dred dollars, and at the rate of two ·dollars for every
hundred dollars over three and not exceeding five hun-
dred dollars; and· at the rate of one dollar and fifty cents,
for every hundred dollars over five hundred until his fees
shall amount to one hundred dollars, and in no case shall 
his fees or commissions exceed the said sum of one hun-
dred dollars. 
-
•, 
CHAPTER 147. 
An Aet to amead an acl entitled "an act to prescribe certain dbties to be per-
6,mied b:, the Clerks of die several Courts in this State, passed February
15, 1836. [Puaed February 5th, 1842,l 
SEc. I. That it shal~ be !he duty of the . several Clerks Duty 
of the county courts, circuit courts, chancery courts and
supreme courts in this State, on or before the first day of
November in each and every year, to pay to the Treas- 
urer of the State, or to such other person as the Treasu-
rer may instruct him to pay the same, all such sum or
sums of money as they,or either of them may have collec-
ted, up to the first day of September, and said Clerks
shall render unto . the Comptroller of the Treasury, on
or before the said first day of November, a statement in
conformity with the existing laws of this State. 
SEc. 2. That it shall be the duty of the several Attor-
neys General in this State, at the first court after the 
first day of November, in each and every year, to call on
said clerks in their respective districts, for their receipts
for the public . moneys by them collected· as aforesaid,
and also the Comptroller's receipt for the statement of 
moneys collected; and if the said clerks should not pro­
duce the receipts when called on, or in any other wayfail 
to .. comply with the requirements of this act, and the act 
which this is intended to amend; then it shall be the duty
of the court to dismiss such clerk from office. 
SEc. 3. That all laws, and parts of laws, coming within
the purview and meaning of this act are hereby repealed. 
SEc. I. That in all cases where the clerk of the county
court shall 'make his report to the court, under the pro­
visions of the act to amend "an act to regulate and sim-
plify the distribution and division of the estate of persons 
dying insolvent, passed the 21st of December, 184)," he
shall be allowed such fees as the county court shall deem
reasonable: Provided, The same shall not exceed the 
fees allowed by law to the clerks pf the chancery courts
for similar services: And provided, That no fees shall be
allowed till the report be confirmed, and all laws coming· 
within the purview of this act, are herebf repealed . 
SEc. 1. That in all cases where any suit is now pend-
ing, or may hereafter be pending in any of the circ · 
or chancery courts of this State, all writs, subprenas or.a.a
other papers that shall become a part of the record of 
said suit, which shall be received through the-Post Office
by the clerk of the court where said.suit may be pending,

it shall and may be lawful for said clerks to tax in
the bill of costs the amount of postage which he may
have paid for the same, setting forth in the bill of costs
each item separately, showing what the same was and
where mailed; which costs when so taxed shall be paid
by the unsuccessful party in the suit, as in other costs. 
SEc. 2. That· nothing in this act contained, shall be so
construed as to prevent any of the said courts from 
ordering, directing or regulating the payment of ,costs 
as heretofore: Provided, Nothing herein contained shaJl
be construed to make it the duty of c erks to take from 
the Post Office any papers or documents. 
CHAPTER 191. Jo 
An Act for tha replation of cost1 in certain c&le8. [PUied January 29, 
1844.] 
Whereas, in cases of contested wills by the heirs or
legal representatives of the decedent on the one part,
and the colonization or other society, or body politic or
corporate, or the trustees of any or either of them on the
other part, claiming under any paper writing purporting
to be the last will and testament of said deeedent ; the
colonization or other society body politic or corporate, or
their trustees are not bound to pay the costs of the
suit, although it may be decided _against them, but the
costs are taxed to the estate of decedent; for remedy
whereof, 
· Sze. 1. That in a.II cases now pending, or which may
be hereafter pending between any colonization or other 
society, or aqy body politic and corporate, or the trustees
of any or either of them claiming under any paper wri-
ting purporting to be the last will and testament of any 
decedent, either in part or in the whole, it shall be the 
duty of the court before whom said suit may be pending,
to require said colonization or other society, body politic
or corporate, their trustees or either of them, to enter into
bond and security to be approved of by the court, for the
payment of all the costs which may accrue in said suit
in the event it shall be decided against them, and said
costs shall not be taxed against the estate of the dece­
dent in the hands of the special administrator or other­
wise; and if said colonization or other society, body
politic or corporate, their trustees or either of them, shall
fail or refuse to give security as aforesaid, then said suit
shall be dismissed, and the court shall render up judg­
ment for the costs, and administration shall be granted
as in cases of persons dying intestate. 
SEC. I. That in all cases where any property, real or
personal, shall be sold under a decree of a court, and in all 
cases where a court of chancery is authorised to decree a
partition or transfer, or divestiture of title, out of one person
and vesting it in another, it shall be lawful for the court, in
its decree, to direct deeds of conveyance to be made to the
purchaser, or persons entitled to the land under the decree,
which deeds shall be made either by the ru,rson holding the 
legal estate, or the commissioner, or person making the sale,
or by the' clerk and master of the court, as directed by the
decree, and may be proved or acknowledged and registered,
and shall vest the title in the purcha ers or persons entitled,
to the property, and it shall not be necessary in any of such
cases to have the decree, of. the court registered: Provided,
That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to 
prohibit the courts of chancery from decreeing a title as
now practised; and in all cases in which the court shal1 not
direct the title to be made by deed, the decree of the court
shall be registered as under the existing laws: but the regis-
ter shaft receive as his fees for registration the same com-
pensation now given to the clerk of the chancery courts for
enrolling bills or answers. 
CHAPTER 33. 
An act supplemental to an act passed on the 22d of December, 1835, entitled
an act to establish Chancery Courts. [Passed December 30, 1839.] 
SEc. 1. That this State shall be laid off into four Chan-
cerv divisions, and that the fourth. division of district Chan- 
cery Courts shall consist of the said Courts holden at
Livingston, Carthage, l\l'Minnville, Winchester, Lebanon,
Murfreesboro' .and Shelbyville, with the counties by law
attached to said districts; and the said Court composing the
said fourth division shall continue to be held in the counties
and districts as is now provided or may hereafter be pro-
vided by law; and for the said fourth division a Chancellor.
shall be elected who shall reside in the same, who shall be 
lawfully commissioned and qualified, and possess all the
powers and authority bylaw conferred on h~ 'Chancellors 
of this State- 
CHAPTER 92. 
An act to amend the act of 1801, Chapter 6. [Passed February 3, 1842.J 
SEc, l. That complainants may, without the order or per-
mission of the Chancellor, amend billsas provided for in the 
8th Section of the act of 1801, Chapter e. 
SBc. 2. That the defendant or defendants on having given
one rule for replication may have the cause· set down for 
hearing under the 24th Section of the act of 1801, Cliapter 6. 
CHAPTER 122, 
' 
An Act to amend the practice in Chancery Courts, and to diminish the expense
of suits in said Courts. [Passed January 20, 1846.] 
SEC. 1, That whenever any bill or petition shall hereafter
be filed in any of the chancery courts of this Stater and all 
the defendants in such bill or petition reside in the county
in which the court is held, or in the county in which the
bill or petition is filed, the clerk and master shall issue only
one subpcena to answer for all the defendants, in which he
shall include the names of all the defendants to such bill or
petition, and the said clerk and master shall issue only one 
cvpy of such bill or petition, which copy shall be delivered
to some one of the defendants to such bill or petition, unless
a copy or copies of such bill or petition shall be applied fbr
by a defendant or defendants to said bill or petition, his, lier,
or their agent, attorney or solicitor, in which case it shall be
the duty of the clerk and master to issue a copy of the bill
or petition to each defendant so applying, the-costs of which
copy or copies shall abide the decision of the suit. . 
Non-rem.dents SEc. 2. When any defendant or defendants to .any such
bill or petition reside in any other county than the county
in which the court is held, or the bill or petition is filed, it 
shall be the duty of the clerk and master to issue one sub­
·pama to answer, in which he shall include all the defendants
in the bill or petition, residing in any -one county; and the
clerk and master shall also issue a copy of the bill or peti­
tion to each defendant residing in any county of this State
except the county in which the court is held or th_e bill or
· petition is. filed; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or 
'· 
other officer to whom the subpoena is i ued, to execute
such subpoena and deliver a copy of the bill or petition to
each defendant included in such subpcena, and make return
thereof as now required by law and the rules of the courts 
of chancery in tpi State. ·
SEc. 3. When any injunction hall is ue from any chan- 
cery court in this State, all the defendants to the bill upon
which such injunction shall have been is ued, residing in
any one county, shall be included in the same injunction;
and the mode of service of uch injunction shall be by read-
ing the same to each defendant pecified therein, and the
endorsement of the fact of service on injunction and the
return thereof by the officer serving the aid injunction, into
the court from which the same wa issued, and thi shall be
a valid and sufficient service of such injunction. Provided, 
· That if any defendant shall evade or attempt to evade the
service of any injunction, as required by this section, it shall 
• be the duty of the officer charged with service of such in­
junction, to leave a copy thereof at the usual place of resi­ 
dence of such defendant, and this shall also be deemed a
sufficient service of the injunction. 
SEc. 4. The clerks and masters in chancery, shall be
allowed fifty cents for taking the deposition of each witness 
examined by them in any cause pending in any of the chan-
cery courts in this State, but said clerk and masters shall
not be allowed any fee whatever for any interrogatories
propounded to any witness examined before such clerk and
master; and the said clerks and masters shall be allowed
fifty cents for examining a party to a cause on interrogato-
ries; but said clerks and ma ters hall not be allowed any 
fee for writing interrogatorie to the party so examined.
SEc. 5. So much of the 23th rule of the chancery courts 
as provides that upon a plea or demurrer being overruled,
the defendant shall pay twelve dollars and fifty cents costs,
and so much of the said rule as provides that if the plea or
demurrer be sustained, the. complainant shall pay the like
sum, be, and the same is hereby repealed and aboli hed.
And al o so much of the twenty-fifth rule a provides, that
upon exceptions being taken to a defendant's answer, the
exceptions be overruled, that the complainants hall pay
twelve dollars and fifty cent cost, and that if the exception
be su tained, the defendant shall pay twelve dollars and
fifty cents costs, be, and the same is hereby repealed and
abolished. 
SEc. 6. Hereafter it shall not be lawful for the chancel- na1Chancellor'1 
lors to make any rule or rules incon i tent with the provi-
sions of the fifth section of this act. And after the passage
of this act upon exceptions to a defendant' an wer being
overruled, the complainant shall pay three dollars cost ;
and upon exceptions to a defendants an wer being sus- 
tained, the defendant shall pay three dollars costs, which in
each case shall be paid to the opposite party. 
SEc. 7. In all cases whereby the existing laws and the
rules of the courts of chancery in this State, publication is 
now required to be made in a newspaper, the clerk and
master shall make out a copy of the order" of publication
and transmit the same to the publisher or publishers of such
newspaper as the clerk and master at the rules or the chan­
cellor in court may direct publication to be made in, and to
cau e such order to be published as now required by law
and the rules of the court. But no brief or abstract of the
bill shall be required to accompany the order of publication
as now required by the rules of the courts of chancery ;
and the costs of such publication shall in no case exceed the
sum of three dollars; and the cost of advertising sales under
a decree in any of the chancery courts shall in no case ex­
ceed the sum of three dollars, unless otherwise specially
ordered by the chancellor. 
SEc. 8. After the passage of 'this act, the clerks and mas- 
. 
~ 
ters m chancery shall have the same power to open causes
for proof after the same have been set for hearing, that the
chancellors now have, upon sufficient cause shown upon 
affidavit" as now required by the rules of the courts of chan­
cery in this State. Provided, however, that upon a cause
being so opened for proof by one party, the adverse party
shall be allowed to take rebutting proof in the cause. 
SEc. 9. When ~my defendant or defendants to any suit or
suits pending in any of the chancery courts of this State, 
shall die during the pendency of said suit or suits, the same
may be revived by scire facias without filing abill of revivor 
as now required by law: and the rules of the courts of chan­
cery upon the suggestion of thedeath of any defendant or
defendants to any suit or suits pending in any of tlie chan­
cery courts of this State, being made to the clerks a 'H mas­
ters or in open court, it shall· be the duty of the clerk and
master to issue· scire facias against the administ tor, or
administrators, executor or executors, heir or heirs of the
party or parties so dying, as the case may be, comm· dmg
such administrator or administrators, executor or ·execu­
tors, heir or heirs, to appear in rourt to show cause, if any
they have, why such suit or suits. shall not ~e revived
against them. Every scire f acias issued under the I?,r.ovi­
sions of this act shall include all the administrators, execu­ 
tors, or heirs, residing in any one county to which such scire 
facias may be issued, and the clerk and master-of such court
shall be allowed a fee of seventy-five cents for every scire
f acias issued under the provisions of this act. 
SEc. 10. When any feme sole, defendant.' to any suit in 
any of the chancery courts of this State, shall marry during 
the pendency of such suit, the same shall and may be re- 
vived against the hu band by cire facia in the same man­
ner a suits may be revived against administrator , execu­
tors and heirs, under the provisions of the preceding ec­ 
tion of this act. 
SEc. U. Any party or parties a~ainst whom scire facias
may i sue under the provi ions ot the two preceding ac­ 
tions of this act, shall be allowed to make any def e ce
against the revival of such uit or suit , that he, she or they
would be allowed to make under the existing laws and 
rules of the courts of chancery, in ca e a bill of reviver
were filed as now practiced in said courts. 
SEc. 12. In issuing scire facias under the provi ions of 
this act, it shall only be necessary for the clerk and ma ter
to recite in said scire facias the filing of the bill, the na es
of the parties, complainants and defendants, the p ndency
of the suit, the death or marriage of the party or parties,
defendant or defendants to such suits, as the ca e may be,
and thereupon command the party or parties against whom
the scire facias may issue, to appear in court and show
cause, if any they have, why the suit should not be revived
and pro ecuted against him, her or them. 
SEc. 13. That after the passage of this act, whenever in Enrollment 
the opinion of the chancellor, finally trying the cau e, it is papen. 
necessary and proper that the paper in the cause should
be enrolled, he shall order such enrollment to be made by
the clerk and master of such court ; and in no case shall
any clerk and master charge any fee for enrolling the pa- 
pers in any cause, unless its enrollment shall have been
ordered by the chancellor-nor shall any enrollment be
nece sary only in cases in which the chancellor orders the 
same. 
SEc. 14. That from and after the passage of this act, it 
shall be the duty of the chancellors of thi tate, upon theJUry.
application of either of the parties, to empannel a jury to 
try and determine any issue of fact involved in any case
pending in said courts-the finding of which jury shall be 
final and conclusive upon the chancellor, so far as the facts
involved in the issue are concerned: Provided, the chan-
cellors shall have power to grant new trials under the same
rules and regulations that the circuit courts now have 
power to grant new trials. 
CH.APTER 1 es. 
An Act to tqaalille the labors. of the Chancellon of thie State. fPatllled 
February~, 1846.] 
SBC. I. That hereafter the Chancellor for the Middle
Division wall hold tho courts at Charlotte and Clarksville, 
and the ~~ellot of the Fourtb' Division shall hold the 
courts at Gallatin and Springfield. ., '_ ·, . . _
8Ec. 2. That hereafter the chancery court at' Charlotte 
shall he held on the third Mondays in April and October, 
andthe chancery courtat Clarksville shall be held on the 
last Thursday before the fourth Monda~s in Afril and Octo­ 
ber, and the chancery courts ai Franklinshal hereafter be 
holden on the first Mondays hf' April and October; • 
SEc. 3~ That in case it shall happen from sickness or any 
other cause that either of the chancellors of this State shall 
fail to hold any of the courts in hf~Jl)ivision, such Chan­
cellor shall be authorized to n];>point a. special term for such
court which shall be holden With all the powers and author­ 
ity of a chancery court at a regular term. 
SEc. 4. That~the Chancellors of this State be and they
are hereby authorized to solemnize the rites of matrimony. 
SEc. 5. That it shall be the duty of the Registers of this
State, where any plat and certificate may have been lost,
and it appearing to the satisfaction of said Register that the 
said plat, and certificate 'had been transferred, and that la~t 
made to appenr from record, it shall be the duty· pf satd
Register to issue the grant accordingly. · .,,. 
···suPREME. COURT. 
CHAPTER 112: 
An Act to 'compel the Judges of the Supretne Court to givewritten opiniona
in all cues, in their Court, including its present term ; and the Reporter o( 
the State to report the same; [Passed Feb. 5, 1842.J 
SEc. I. That the Judges of the Supreme Court of this
State, are hereby directed to gise written opinions in all
cases, in their Courts. except actions, in which there is no 
defence; and the AtJorny General and Reporter of the
State shall report the same where any principle shall be 
settled, or former opinion overruled. 
CHAPTER 135. 
An Act to aataorile the Suprane Conrt ro do juatioe in Cfflllin 1Ue8, [Puled 
1 Jan. 81, 1846,] . 
Sze. L That in all cases in which .. the Sopreme Court 
may have given judgment, or may hereafier give judg- 
ment against any party, through inadvertence or oversight,
when upon the face of the record no cause of action ex­
i ted against said party, it shall be the duty of said court
at any sub equent term, to vacate such judgment on mo­
tion! and al o all other judgments founded upon the same
against officer for a failure to execute proce s issued on
such unjust judgment: Provided; That it shall be apparent
in the record that the original judgment was rendered
through inadvertence or over ight and against a party n t
liable to any judgment according to the laws of the land:
Provided, however, The court shall see the error and order
the motion to be made. · 
SEc. I. That in all cases where petitions or bills may be
filed in the circuit or chancery courts against non-residents
of the State, and such petition or bill may be taken for
confessed for want of an answer, the petitioner or com­
plainant may proceed to take depositions to sustain the
charges in the petition or bill, where the same is necessaryr
after having filed with the clerk of the circuit court or the
clerk and master, as the case may be, a copy of the inter­
rogatories, together with a memorandum of the time and
place. of taking the depositions, for at least twenty days
before the time of taking the same; and in· such cases the
depositions so taken, shall be read in the same manner as if
notice had been served on the defendant. 
SEc. 2. That in all cases where depositions shall be
returned to the clerk of the circuit court, it shall be the duty 
of the clerk, at the instance of either party or his attor-
ney, to open said depositions for the inspection of the 
parties. 
SEc. 1. That hereafter in all suits at law. and .equity
where the plaintiff or defendant may wish· to take the 
deposition of any person or persons, it shall and may be
lawful for either of them, their agent or attorney, to
insert in the commission the name of the commissioner
before whom such deposition may be taken, and the same .
shall be deemed as valid as though the name of the com- 
missioner was inserted by the clerk of the court issuing
said commission: Provided, .That nothing in this act shall 
be so construed as to .authorize the insertion of the name
o.f any commissioner who is not authorized by the laws of 
this State to-administer an oath. 
SEc. 1. That upon all judgments to be hereafter ren­
dered before any Justice of ,the Peace, the defendant or 
· defendants shall be entitled to a stay of execution for
eight months, upon giving good and sufficient security
therefor, under the same rules, regulations and restric-
tions as now prescribed by law. • 
CHAPTER 72. 
An Act giving preference to executions issued by Justices of the Peace, in 
certain cases. [Passed January 22, 1846.) 
SEc. I. That when an execution issued from a courtr:evy
of record, and an execution issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be levied upon the same personal property,
the execution first levied shall have preference. 
SEc. I. That where any final judgment or decree shall
be had by or in the name/of any executor or administra­
tor, in such cases an administrator de bonis non may sue.
forth a sciri f acias and take execution upon such judg­
ment or decree . 
• 
CHAPTER 131. 
An Act to amend the law-in relation to executors and administrators.
[Passed 28th Jan. 1840.] 
SEC. 1. That the act of 1809, chapter 121, and all laws
authorizing foreign-executors and administrators to com­ 
mence and prosecute [suits] in this State, be and the
same are hereby repealed: Provided, That when any
suit or suits shall be comfnenced or pending before this
act goes into effect the same shall not abate on that
account, but may be revived in the name of the executor
or administrator that may be appointed in this State,
and all final judgments or. decrees had before this act
goes into effect shall be extended as though this act had .
never been passed. 
CHAPTER 58. 
An Act to amend an act, entitled "an act to amend an act, entitled an act,
to amend an act, for the benefit of the· Widows of inteetares, and for 
other purposes; passed the 16th day of December, 1813, so as to extend to
orphans. [Passed Jan. 26, 1842..) 
SEC. I. That upon the death of any intestate, leaving
no widow, but minor children under the age of fifteen 
years, it shall be the duty of the county court, to appoint
three free-holders, unconnected with the children either
by affinity, or consangunity, who being first duly ~worn
to act impartially, shall set apart so much of the crop,
stock, provisions and moneys on hand, or due, or other
assets, as may be necessary for the support of such
minor children, until the expiration of one year after the 
decease of the int tat , and all uch crop, tock, pro­
vi ion , and mon ys on hand, or due, or other a set so 
t apart, hall be absolute properly of uch minor chil­
dren, for the use aforesaid, and hall not be taken into 
the account of the admini tration of the estate of uch
inte tate. 
SEc. 2. That when sue · year's provisions, shall oe laid
off and set apart for the minor children of such intestate, 
it shall not be liable to be taken by any precept, or execu-
tion whatever: 
Ssc. 3. That the administrator of such estates, shall
be trustee for the management of the property so set 
apart, for the support of the ~hildren aforesaid, until the
appointment of a guardian for such children, when he 
shall pay it ov_er to said guardian, and take a receipt
therefor. ' • 
SEC. ~- That in all cases where a year's support has
been heretofore laid off to such minor children as afore-
said, under the construction of the acts o 181 a and 
1837, on this subject, the such sup.port so laid off, and
allowance so made, shall be held good and valid, to all
intents and purposes, and said children, or their trustee
shall be held entitled to such allowance against any­
claim or claims of creditors, whether the same be in 
judgment or execution or otherwise; any law to .the con­
trary notwithstanding. 
An Act to amend the ac of 1S31, chapter 31. [Passed January,29, 1842.] 
SEc. 1. That letters of administration and letters tes­
tamentary, may be granted under the act of 1831, chap-~~.:~:d­ 
ter 24, upon the estate of any person who as a non-
resident at the time of his death, where the decedent
had any goods, chattels or assets, or any estate, real or
personal, in this State, to be administered at the time of
his death, or at the time such letters are appli ed for and
in like manner such letters of administration or testa-
mentary may be granted, where AU'B suit is to bebrought
or prosecuted or defended, in which the estate such dece-
dent is interested, and in any of the foregoing of cases
where debts or demands only are to be collected or
suits to be brought, prosecuted or defended, it shall
be lawful for the court of the county in which such
debtors or any of them may reside, or where such suits
or any of them, are to be brought, prosecuted or defended,
to grant such letters of administration or testamentary,
and where such suit is pending or to be brought in a 
K 
CHAPTER 69. 
chancery court, composed of mor than one county; the
county courts of any one of the counti composing the
chancery di tricts, shall have jurisdiction to grant such
letters, and where such suit is pending in the upreme
court, the county court of the county where uch suit
was originally brought, shall have the juri diction to 
grant such letters. 
SEc. 2. That nothing in this act shall be o con trued,
as to authorise the i suance of letters of admini tration,
or letters t stamentary, after twenty years from the death 
of the testator or intestate. 
. ;, 
OHA~ER 177. 
An Act to amend the laws now in force in relation to the administradon of
the estates of deceased persona. [Paesed February 3, 1842.] 
SEc. 1. That where six months shall have elapsed from
the death of any testator or Intestate, .and no person will 
apply or can he procured to administer ,n the estate of
such decedent, it shall be lawful for any of the next of
kin, or any- creditor of such estate, to file his bill in the
chancery court of the district where such person may
have resided at the time of his death, or where the estate,
goods. and chattels, or effects· of the decedent may be,
setting forth the facts of the case, and that no person
can be procured to administer on the estate agreeably
to the laws now in force, and praying that an adminis­
vator be appointed, with such other specific prayers as
are required, and for general relief; and such bill, if filed
by a creditor or creditors, shall be on behalf of all other
creditors who may wish to come in. and be made parties
on ihe u,ual terms, and the distributees and heirs of the
estate shall be authorised to be made parties defendants
to such bill, and if the bill is filed by the next of kin, or
any of them, it shall be on behalf ofell the distributees
and heirs against the creditors thereof, and such credi­
tors shall be authorised to become defendants to such bill, 
and thereupon the court in term time, or chancellor or
judge, in vacation, shall appoint an administrator of such
estate, upon such terms as he may think best, and the
administration of such estate shall be conducted under
the authority of the chancery court, in the. same manner
and under the same rules, regulations and principles, in
every respect, as the administration of insolvent estates
are now conducted, except where the same is otherwise
provided for in this act; and such administrator . shall 
have the same power as other administrators, except 
her he is r stricted by th orders or decrees of the
court. All bills fil d und r this act shall b sworn to. 
SEc. 2. That uch admini trator may be remov d from Removal 
office for any neglect or improper conduct in office, in
th same manner, in every respect, a receivers ar now
liable to be removed, and shall make their reports and
be under the same responsibilities as receiver· in court
of chancery are ubject to, and wh re any administrator
is removed, or hall die or re ign, a successor shall be 
appointed.
SEc. 3. That uoh administrator, when appointed, hall 
be considered a party to the proce ding in court, and
shall be bound by any decree or order ther of, in th 
ame manner as other parti s ar bound, and wh re any
of the parties intere ted in the estate ar minor , the
court may appoint guardian to uch minors. 
E • 4. That if ny admini trator i appoint d under
this act by a judge or chancellor, in vacation, it hall b Bo~f 
upon condition of the complainant giving bond nd cun 
s curity, in double the value of the state to be admini -
tered; conditioned that. such administrator shall render
a true inventory of the estate to the court at its next
term, so far as the same may come to his knowledge,
and will deliver such assets over, or place, the same, or 
its proceeds, under the charge of the court. The judge
or chancellor may also direct in his order, that the per- 
ishable property belonging to the estate be sold. 
CHAPTER 165. 
An Act to amend the act of 1831, chapte 24, in relation to the granting of 
letters of administration, or letters testamentary on the estates of non-resi­
dents, testators or intestates. [Pueed February 5, 1842.) 
SEc. I. That hereafter, it shall and may be lawful for 
the county court of any county in this State, upon the
application of any person interested, his, her or their
agent or counsel, to grant letters of administration, or
letters testamentary upon the estate of any person who
resided atit;he time of his or her death, in any State or ter-
ritory of the United States or foreign country: Provided,
It shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, that any
citizen of this State, or person having property chooses
in action or debts due them within this State, was
indebted to such decedent at the time of his death, which
debt, at the time of such application, is still due and
unpaid. 
SEc. 1. That the owner or keeper of any ferry that
has been or may hereafter be established under this or
any· other act of the General Assembly of this State,
shall keep a good and substantial ferry -boat or boats,
with safe banisters, at least three feet high, with
sufficient number of horizontal rails, to prevent the
escape of all kinds of stock, which first two Pails from
the gunwale of the boat, shall not be farther apart than
four inches, under the penalty of one hundred dollars, to
be recovered by any person who may sue for the same
before any court having jurisdiction, one half to the use
of the State, the other half to the informer. . 
SEc. 2. That this act shall be in force from and after
the first day of May, 1842. 
SEc. 3. That in all cases· where, on application, the
county court of the county in which a ferry is situated,
shall be of opinion that from the nature of the banks at
the ferry, or the swiftness of the current, it would not be
practicable, without great difficulty, to carry 3: boat
across the stream with hand-rails, as above provided,
such court shall relieve the ferryman of such ferry from
the necessity of making such hand-rails. 
FIRE WOOD. 
CHAPTER 146. 
An Act to repeal ail laws imposing a fine for selling fire wood in towns in
this State, othenwse than by the cord. [Passed January 17, 1838.] 
SEc. I. That all laws now in force .in this State,
making it finable to sell fire wood in towns except by the
cord, are hereby repealed; and any person may hereafter
sell any quantity of fire wood in any town in this State,
without being subject to any penalty whatever. 
SEc. I. That all cases of forcible or unlawful detainer,
~r forcible entry and detainer, shall be tried before three 
justices of the peace, in. the county where the offence or
injury was cqmmitted, a majority of whom shall decide
the case · and all questions of law and fact arising there-
in, and the warrant issued, shall be in the following form,
or to the following effect: 
St t
f T 
l 
To the Sheriff of -
a e o ennessee 
· C 't county, or to any constable
. oun Y· of said county. 
Wher~as, complaint is made to me, one of the justices
of the peace, in and for said county, by A. B., of acer­
tain forcible and unlawful entry and detainer, made by E. 
F., into a certain tract or lot of land, situate in the coun­
ty aforesaid, bounded or unknown, and described as fol­
lows: Here the justices of the peace will describe the tract
or lot of land in which the forcible or unlawful detainer is
alledged to haoe been committed, which land it is alledged,
the said A. B. is entitled to the possession· of, and E. F.
unlawfully detains the same from him; we therefore
command-you that you summon the said E. F. to appear
before three justices of the. peace, in and for said coun­
ty, to answer the above complaint of the said A~ B.
Given under my hand and seal, this -- day of--18-. 
S.Ec. 2. That the officer serving said warrant, shall Officer 
notify the party of the time and place of trial, which fy 
shall not be less than six days from the time the warrant
is executed, and it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff,
in said warrant, to give the defendant any other notice
to quit, except what is given by the service of the war-
rant aforesaid, and the notification of the time and place
of trial, shall be entered on the warrant, nor shall it be 
necessary for the justice to issue any other process in 
order to try said cause, except the warrant aforesaid, and
the cause aforesaid shall be tried by three justices, at
the time and place aforesaid, with out the intervention of
a jury, and shall, in all other respects, be conducted as
any other civil suit, cognizable before a justice of the 
peace.
SEc. 3. That, on the zrial of the cause, if the justices, 
or a majority of them, shall be of opinion that the
defendant is guilty of the forcible entry and detain r, or
a forcible detainer, or an unlawful detainer, or a forcible
entry only, and that the plaintiff is entitled to be restore
to the posses ion of the land de cribed in the warrant,
they shall give judgment for the plaintiff, in the following
form, or to the following ffect, which shall be endorsed
on the warrant, or annexed thereto: 
( J udgm nt for plaintiff, that 
A. B. plaintiff, he be restored to the po'"'s s­
sion of the land described in the 
vs. within warrant, and that a writ
of po s ion or restitution is­ 
E. F. defendant. sue therefor, and also for cost of
suit. 
Gi v n under our hands and als, this -- day of-· -
18-. 
SEc. 4. That, after the lapse of twenty days, if said
cause is not previously removed, by certiorari to the cir- 
cuit court, it shall be the duty of said justices, or any
one of them, to issue a writ of possession, or writ of 
restitution of' said land, and also an execution for the
cost, which writ of possession shall be in the following
form, or to the following effect: 
· • ~ To the sheriff of 
State of Tennesse~, , county, or to. any constable
· . coun Y· thereof. 
Whereas, at a court of enquiry of forcible and unlawful
entry and detainer, holden in said county, before G. H-,
K. L- and N. -, three ofthe jnstiees thereof, on the 
- day of - 18-, judgment w:as given. .
That A. B. recover fromE. F., possession of a eertein 
tract or parcel of land, bounded or unknown and
described as follows: (Here describe the tract or piece
of land, as it is 'done in the warrant.) We therefore
command .you, that yod take with you, the form of the
county, if necessary, and cause the said A. B., the plain­
tiff in said judgment, to have and be restored· to the
possession of said tract or piece of land, and that you
remove the said E. F., the defendant in said judgment
therefrom, and give the said plaintiff peaceable posses­
sion of said premises, and make return to me in twenty
days how you have executed this writ. Given under my
hand and seal, 31st day of 18-. 
SEc. 5. That in every case of forcible entry and de­
tainer, or of forcible detainer, or unlawful detainer, the 
l'lntry warrant may be in the form given in the first section of 
this act, and it shall not be necessary to set forth in the
warrant the particular species of detainer, or forcible 
entry and detainer, of which the defendant is guilty, but 
nd oth offi-
duti s h r in r uir d them, 
now all w d by law for imil r 
e ices.
SEc. 8. That actions of forcible entry and detainer, 
or unlawful detainer, or forcible entry only, may be orig-
inally instituted in the circuit courts-of this State, in the 
same manner that actions of trespass, quare clausum
fregit are at present instituted and conducted, and the 
same forms shall be substantially pursued, as those pre­ 
scribed by this act, and all process which shall be issued
by the clerk of the court, when the suit is brought; an«!
the court may, if they think proper. direct a declaration
to be filed, and pleadings made up showing the issues
that are to be submitted to the jury; and the cause shall
stand for trial at the first term, and the judgment of the
court, if. for the plaintiff, shall be for the possession of 
the premises as well as for the damages and costs of the
forcible and unlawful detention, as found by the jury. 
EC. 9. That in all cases originating as aforesaid, in
the circuit court, when the jury hall find for the plaintiff,
they hall ascertain, in their verdict, the value of the 
rent, and the damages sustained by the plaintiff for the 
forcible or unlawful detention, and the court hall give
judgment accordingly. . 
EC. 10. That in any of the foregoing ca es before
justic s of the peace, witnes. es shall be allowed the
fees for attendance, a are now allowed by law in other
case before justices of the peace. 
Ssc- .i. Th~t when any o~e or m;qre ofth . grand jurors
f ?~ a.~ ~ounty; shall beunable from ~any c~use; 'to serve 
ou tpe ~erm of the court, for which .he ' or th~y were
elected, sworn and charged, it may b :. lawful for the 
eours 'to supply the. place· f such juror 9 jurors, from
the pannell of the petit 'j,ur-0rs, in the 'sa:m' manner, .In 
which ot~er grand ·jivors ~Te. selected,' and.t~~ Jurors. so
selected shall be sworn in the 'same manner, and be- su - 
ject to all the duties with other grand juror : and shall
serve .. out the whole of .the termvor until the' disability of
the original grand jurors may be removed, as may be
directed by the court .. • , · . · · · ~ . ·. , 
SEc. 2. That the circui courts in, this State shall have
power to discharge the gra a jury,.whenev.er 'they have 
ctischarged .. their dutY," as a! grand j,qry; a~x 'law to 'the
contrary notwith 'tapdmg. J • · . 
SEc. l.l. That it shall not be Ip. wful for the county courts
to appoint .the samf: person to be a juror more than one 
time in each year, and in supplying, -vacancies in the
p~tit jury, the court -shall not· permit any person to be
summoned as a juror for the term; who has served at
any erm within a year · 
SEc. 4. That th~ circuit court in any civil case depend­
ing therein for jury trial, on motion of either party, may
have a special jury summoned for the trial thereof: Pro­
vided, In the , opinion of the judge it shall be proper:
And provided, The party cast in the suit, shall be taxed
with the additional cost of such special jury . 
. . 
. ,s'~c/ t.: Tn'lit rom'and :aft rt fir t day o April n t, 
• ju-Stice.of t-h~ peace in· h · tate shall hav con urrent
juri diet OR of a1f debts ind d mand from one hundred 
dollars ito two hu o,:cect/dollar h n the bala c i due
on any specialty, note, a reem n 01· • s ttled account,
signed Ly-the p.arty ,t~be."charg d erewith, in addi ion
to the j ispfom.on n rnr .allow d by law, and may give
judgrne · t .r~d 'a,w~ .execution cordin y-;wbject,
nev rtlieJes ; to apJH~al , by cij;lier:· arty' t .. t. e circuit
court oft lie.' ~~µnty, to· e tri <t .b · a- jµry, a · n other 
c~ses: P~o.V{~<;ll. illways, T ~t .eXfC~tiqn.~-~ j~1a~~ts
given as afor~s~1d~m~y. be .sta ed. ~s _0th.cm~ ecutions .. 
EC. 2. Th t. the officer who mar e Ilect an: executioa 
r issued under.J)h_i' ;;t~t _'s ,all be allowed th~ same COnJ.ffiis- 
. ..( • . . 11 ·a h' • 'ff: fi . • 1\ . t' ' . ~ . 
sions as are now ;a rowe. -tos · eri s (?r' conec J.Qg ~ ltrn
um:_ Provided, ~lia:t w~ere~ a.ti. exe_cution. is staf~d. o. · 
any ·Judgment given_ oy. fl. Jqstice of. the peaces if the
debt is paid to }h'e constable or sheriff who- served the
warranj, efoJ.·e~t~e-~xecutiqn was placed in his hands,
such office,~ .shall 1 ot he al owed ~hy commission. fees on 
. . "'-. ' ' ... ' 
said debt, · . .' ' · · · · · . , · 1 · · • 
. . - ...... \... .. . . . . - ... 
···~ • .... ·. . ---· .. ~,, .... 
, .. I . • .. • 
· ·· ·. · · ch APTER ·i.R. -· · ... · · · .. 
. . •. 1 ~ .. .,,... ~ ~;. ~ . . : •. . ', ' .. .
A~ A.ct .to amend an a.ct.,.-paa&ed ~eb~a!;Y :13th, 836, entit!'t~ "a aot .to 
prescribe the .auti~s apd -define tl\c jq isdiction of .Justic~'S ef 1he_,l'~11ce- .. 
[Passed De~. 27; 1837.']' . ' , • . . . . 
SEc. r. That \o . O:u~h. of'the . ~th. :s.~~ti'~h .o/an .·act
passed 13th daY, of .Febr~·ary~ i.83~;'- ~s·.requ"i~l!'s .con­ 
stables and othe pfficers to .return warrant , in tl\e dis­
trict where the defendant reside;,·l;>~- ~sq 'amended, that 
hereafter, when any· officer shall execute a warrant on
any defendant or defendants, to. force the collection of
any debt or debts, and the defendant' or defendants 'dis­ 
putes or refuses to acknowledge the correctness of the
plaintiff's claim, or any part thereof, it shall be the duty
of the officer to return the warrant in the district where
the plaintiff resides: Provided, That 'if the plaintiff' and 
defendant do not re ide in th ame county, th n said
warrant hall be return d in the di trict in which the 
d fendant r id . 
EC. 2. That hould the ju tic of th p ace, re iding When 
in the di trict wh re th plaintiff re ides, b co titu- is 
tionally incompet nt to try aid warrant, th n, and in to 
that ca , the warrant hall b r turn d befor th n ar-
e t ju tice of th p ac to th plaintiff, who i compet nt
by law to try the ame: Provided, however, That in th 
vent the d fendant acknowl g th plaintiff cl im to
b just, an do s not claim off ets, and will endor on
th plaintiff' claim, in hi own proper name, that fact,
then it hall be the duty of th r turning offic r, to
r turn hi warrant b for any ju tic in the di trict
wh r th d fendant re id : And provided further, That
nothing in thi act contain d, hall be o construed a to
pr v nt the r turn of warrant , at any plac in the
c unty by consent of parties, as her tofore pre cribed by
l w. 
CHAPTER 102. 
An Act providing for the issuance of Scire Eacia« by justices of the peace,
to revive judgments against ndministratora or executors in certain cases.
[Passed Jan. 15, 1838. 
SEc. I. That whenever a defendant against whom a 
. d h . b d d b . . . f h 
JU gment as . een ren ere y a justice o t e peace, sue 
sh all die before the same has been satisfied, it shall be
lawful for the plaintiff to apply to the justice having 
rendered the judgment, or to the justice having posses-
sion of his papers, for a scire f acias, against the adminis- 
trator or administrators, executor . or executors of such
deceased defendant, whether the said administrators ar
executors or any of them reside in the county where the
defendant died, or in any other county in the State, and
upon the return of such scire f acias made known by any
constable or sheriff, on all the executors or adrninistra-
tors, if they reside in the county where the defendant
died, or on any one of them; if in any other county it
shall b the duty of the justice, to revive the judgment 
and issue execution as in other cases. 
SEC. I. That hereafter when a. justice of the peace in
this State shall resign his office, or die, and a successor 
is elected, and there shall be any judgments in the' office
of the magistrate resigning or dying against the indivi- ·
dual to succeed him; that then and Iu that case, it shall
be the duty of the magistrate, so resigning, or his repre­
sentative to return such judgments and papers as he 
may have in his office against the person elected to
succeed him, to the other magistrate of his district, and
take his receipt for the same, and file said receipt in
the office of the clerk of the county court of his county. 
SEc. 2. That· hereafter it shall 'be the duty of the
justices of the peace, residing in the several civil districts
to appoint a patrol within their distriots, who shall
possess all the powers heretofore invested in patrols
appointed by captains commanding companies in this 
State. 
CHAPTER 112. 
An Act to authorize Justices of the Peace to issue. eubpeenaa for witnesses
to adjoining counties. [P888ed Jan. 1 T, 1844.] 
SEc. 1. That any acting justice of the peace in this
State shall have power and authority, upon the applica- 
tion of either plaintiff or defendant in any cause which
m~y be pending before him, to issue subpcenas for wit­ 
nesses to the sheriff, or any legal officer of any county
adjoining the county where said justice resides, requir­
ing their attendance· before him, and if such process
shall be legally served upon such witnesses, it shall be
their duty to attend and give evidence agreeably to the
tenor of such subpoenas, in the same manner as if they
resided in the county where the justic issuing such
subpcena resides. 
SEC. 2. That persons who may be required to attend
as witnesses under the provisions of the first section of 
this act, shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty cents
for every day they may be necessarily required to attend
as witnesses, and the sum of four cents for every mile
they may be necessarily required to travel in going to,
and returning from such trial, to be paid in the same 
manner that the costs of other witn'.esses are required by
law to be paid. · 
CHAPTER 66. 
An Act to regulate the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace upon notes of
hand. [Passed Jan. 15, 1846.] 
~
SEc. I. That from and after the first day of May next, 
justices of the peace in this State shall have jurisdiction Jurisdiction. 
of all notes of hand, other demands and obligations of
which they now have cognizance under the existing laws,
regulating the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, not
sounding in damages, which call for current bank bills,
in the same amount, and to the same extent that they
now have upon notes of hand and other obligations that
call for dollars. 
·cHAPTER 86. 
An Act to increase the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace, in endorsement
cases. [Passed Jan. 21, 1844 .. ] 
SEc. 1. That the jurisdiction of justices of the peace
in this State shall hereafter be co-extensive on endorse- 
tnents by the terms of which demand and notice are ex-
pressly waived with their jurisdiction by existing laws on
notes of hand, and they may render judgment jointly
against the maker or drawer of such negotiable instru-
ment and the endorser or endorsers thereof, and issue
execution accordingly, which execution shall be satis-
fied by the officer to whose hands it may come first,
out of the property of the maker or drawer, or in case 
of their failure then-out of the property of the endorsers
in the order of their liability. 
T J /t. f, . 
SBd .. I ", That hereafter all wri ts and' other process, "cept
subpeenas rastan ter, sent.out and mad'e returnable to any vf 
the circuit fO~rts of this. State, shall and may .h«: executed
five .days pr~v1~ t(\,the commencement o,;.5!-tt1(lg,:o( tho
court to which the same may be made returnable, . 
. SBC. 2. That somuch of said actas 'reqaires procgss to 
be executed ten days previous tothe term to which th~ same 
may be made returnable, be and the ~91e .isJie_rebyfr~pealed~· 
• j • • • 
Aza aci tq amend the act of 1794, chap. 1; lnd tht aqt of 1837 ~ ~h~. 131: 
, [Passed No_v. 1~- 1841.) . t . 
SEC. I. That all original or mesne process in ci\tiJ-suitst .
issuing from the circuit courts, shall and may be issued five 
days before the commencement of the term to which such
process is made returnable, and shall be executed in the
manner and time as by law now directed. 
SEc. I. That so much of the thi section of the act,
which this is intended to amend, as authorizes the pur- section 
h f I
d
. . l l . . m
c aser o an . at ex cution a e, or any person c aimmg ed. 
under such purcha r, to pay, or secure to he paid, with­
in six months thereafter, to any bona fide creditor who
may offer to redeem the ame, the- sum proposed to be
advanced by him on the bid at execution sale, be and the
same is hereby repealed. 
SEC. 2. Tha the fourth section of the act which this Fourth 
· · d d d b d h · h b l of 
rs mten e to amen e, an t e same is ere y repea - repealed. 
ed.
SEc. 3. That this act shall be construed to extend 
to, and embrace all ales vf land, subject to redemption, ot 
whether the same be made under execution, decrees in,
Courts of Chancery, Deeds of Trust or Mortgages. 
EC. 4. That all law , coming within the purview and Repeal 
meaning of this act, be, and the same are hereby repeal- mer 
ed. 
EC. 5. That this act shall be in force, and take effect When 
only on sales f Real Estate, made from the .Ist day of e
January next. 
EC. 6. That when any person shall purcha e any real R
e tat , which by law is ubject to redemption, and the real 
same shall be redeemed by any bona fide creditor, he
shall hold it subject to redemption in the ame manner
that it was in the hands of said purchaser; and all .real
e tate, which by law is subject to redemption, may
hereafter be redeemed by paying to the purcha er, or to
any one claiming under him the amount bid or paid by
him, with interest thereon, at the rat of six per cent. per
annum, and it hall not be lawful for the holder of such
real estate to advance on the bid or sum paid by him, and
keep the property: Provided, That in any ca e where a
bona fide creditor shall become the purchaser of any r al 
estate at execution or other sale, he may at any time
within twenty days aft r uch ale, make an ad ance on
his bid, and credit the ex cution, judgm nt, d cree, or
debt acknowledged by deed, with such advance and upon
such credit being given in the, manner hereinafter pre- 
scribed, he shall hold the property subject to redemption
at the price bid, and such advance in the same manner
as though he had bid the whole sum at the time of said 
sale.·
SEc. 7. That when any bona fide creditor shall pur- 
y • • h
chase any real estate as afore aid, and shall make. t e 
advance aforesaid, he shall give credit for the same by
depositing a ;receipt therefor with the Clerk of the Court,
in which the judgment or-decree shall have been render­
ed, or if the sale has been under a deed of trust, he shall
acknowledge a receipt for such advance before the Clerk
of the County Court for registration, and shall have the
same registered in the county where the land lies, for
which the Clerk and Register shall each be allowed the
sum of twenty-five cents. . . 
SEc. 8. That where any creditor shall redeem any real
estate, under the provisions of jhis act, or the aet which
this is intended to amend, he shall liold it subject to the
redemption of the original debtor, or any other of his 
di h . hi h · · ad
ere itors upon t e saµi.e terms on w ic It IS m e 
redeemable in the hands of the first purchaser or any
person claiming under him. That is.to say, the creditor
proposing to redeem the land which has been previously
redeemed, shall pay or tender to the person holding said
land, the amount of money which has been 'paid by: the
person holding the same pursuant to the provisions of
this. act, and the one which this is intended to amend,
with interest at the rate of six per cent, per annum
thereon, and shall also agree and pay to the debtor t e
further sum of ten per cent. or more on the sum bid for
said land when sold under execution, or shall give him a
credit for that amount or more on the debt owing to him 
by said debtor. · · .'
SEc. 0. That real estate, sold and made redeemable by 
the laws of this State, shall be, and continue redeemable
to creditors and the debtor for two years after the execu- 
tion sale upqn the terms provided in this act, no matter
how often if may have been previously redeemed: Pro­ 
vided, The person proposing to redeein, shall always pay 
or tender to the holder the amount of moi;iey which he
has paid pursuant to the provisions of this act, and the
one which this is intended to amend, with interest there­
on at the rate of six per cent. per annum; and shall, if he
be a creditor, pay to the debtor, or credit his 'debt with a
sum equal to ten per cent. or more, on the sum bid at the
original sale, and in no caseshall the holder or claimant
increase his bid against the debtor or any bona fide cred­
itor offering to redeem the real estate except as provided 
in this act. 
SEc. I. That it hall not he lawful for any per on hold­
ing the temporary title to real e tate ubject to red mp­
tio , to use more of th tim b r thereon than shall be
nee s ary to keep the imp ov m nts in good pair, and
furni ih fir -wood for th per ons occupying the ame,
neither shall it b lawful for such per on to d stroy or
r move from the land any fencing or b ilding . 
Ee. 2. That upon a viol tion of th provi ions of the
fir t sec ion of thi act, any p r on having the right to 
red m rs: tat~,. may. fil a Bil~ ~n th chhancery
court an o am an injunction r training uc waste, 
and the per on having the right to red mption may, aft r
having r deemed the sam , bring an action upon the ca e
at law, and recover the full damag s for uch waste . 
• An Act' to repeal the act of 1824, chapter 20, antl for other purposes ..
[Passed Jan. 29, ''1844.] 
~· 
SEC. ·I. Tha~ the act of 1824, chapter 20, be and the
same is, hereby repealed. . . · 
·SEc. 2. That hereafter when atty real estate has been
sold by virtue f any execution in the hands of the Sheriff 
of any county in this State, and the debtor or debtors
afterwards wishing to redeem the same according to the
laws now in force in this State, and the purchaser or pur-
chasers of said real estate, shall absent himself or them-
selves from his, her or their usual place of residence, or
shallreside outof the county where such sale was made,
so as to prevent a tender of ·t;b.e· money due upon the
redemption of any property sold antler the laws of this
State, then and in all such cases it shall and may be law- 
ful for such persqn or persons, to pay the redemption
money to the clerk of the circuit court of his, her or their
county, who shall hold the same, for the benefit of the
person or persons entitled thereto, and the payment so
made shall be good and valid to all intent and purposes. 
SEc. -9. If any clerk shall fail or refuse to pay over
such money to-the person or persons entitled, on appli- 
cation, the same may be recovered by motion in the
same way as money.s paid on execution not paid over by 
him, 
f . 
: . 
~.
. ' 
. 
C.H~PTER. 18!}. 
. . ·• 
• 
SEC. I. That when the goods or chatt ls of any person
or body corporate, may be seized or detained by another,
or by any body corporate in violation of the right of
such person or body corporate and against his, h r or
their will, the person or body corporate who e goods or
chattels are so seized or detained, shall be ntitled to
institute an action of replevin against the person or p r­
sons, or body corporate, who shall have so eized or
detained the same, in the circuit court of the county
wherein said per on or persons or body corpo ate o
having illegally seized or detained the aid goods may be
found, or where either of them may be found, and coun­ 
terparts of the summons may issue to any other county 
when there may ),.e several defendants, and all cannot be
found in the same county, 
SEC. 2. That any person or persons, or body corporate,
wishing to bring an action of replevin, may apply to the 
clerk of the circuit court of the county in which he
wishes to institute the same, for a writ of replevin, who,
upon the plaintiff giving bond in double the value of the
property sought to be replevied, payable to the defen­
dant, conditioned to be void, provided the plaintiff' shall
abide by and perform the judgment of the court in the
premises, shall issue the same to the sheriff. 
Sze. 3. That in an by said writ the sheriff, coroner or
constable, as the case may be, shall be commanded to
summon the defendant or defendants to answer the plain­
tiff wherefore he detains his goods or chattels to his
damage - dollars; which goods and chattels shall be
described in said w.rit with reasonable certainty, and 
al o that he take said goods or chattels out · of the pos­
session of the defendant or defendants, and deliver the
same to the plaintiff or his order. 
SEc. 4. That the clerk shall value said goods or chat­
tels for he purpose of ascertaining the amount of the 
bond to be given by the plaintiff, which valuation shall
be according to the description of the property in the 
writ; but if after the return of the writ of replevin, the
court should at any time be of opinion that the bond is
insufficient in form, amount of the penalty or in respect
to the solvency of the securities, the court shall have
power to remedy such defects in the bond by making such
orders as the court may think proper, and the plaintiff
may be held in custody of the court until the property is
secured and the orders of the court relative to the insuf­
ficiency of the bond are complied with; and the court
shall have power to make such other orders as may be
considered expedient to secure the rights of the plaintiff
or defendant: Provided, That nothing in this section
shall be so constructed as to exempt clerks from any lia­
bility that may occur for a failure to take good and suf­
ficient security. 
SEc. 5. That it shall not be necessary, where there are
several defendants in different counties, that there should 
be any other evidence of their residence than the bare
suggestion of the plaintiff in order to obtain a counter­ 
part of the writ,.
SEc. 6. That upon said writ being duly returned. the 
plaintiff shall file his declaration as in other cases; and
the defendant shall plead th reto as in other cases. 
SEc. 7. That the defendant may plead not guil'1,, and
all special matters of defence may be given in VIde e 
under said plea; or the defendant may plead specially, if
he wishes o to do. 
EC. 8. That hould the jury find for the plaintiff, they
hall ascertain his damages for the seizure and detention 
of the good or chattel , uring the time they were
detained by the defendant, and t e court hall give judg­
ment for the same, and all costs, and execution shall issue 
accordingly. 
EO. 9. That where in replevin the verdict is for the
def ndant, the judgment shall be that · the goods and 
chattel be returned, or that the plaintiff and his s uri­ 
tie in the r plevin bond pay the value thereof with ix
per cent inter st thereon and damages for th detention
from the time of the seizure, which hall be determined
by the seizu e, which shall be determined by the jury and
form a part of thei verdict, and all lawful cost and exe­
cution shall issue accordingly; and should the plaintiff
enter a nolle prosequi, or fail to prosecute his suit from
any cau e whatever, without first having returned the
property replevied to the defendant, and satisfied the 
-defendant for the det ntion, the court shall empannel a
jury to ascertain the value of said property and damages 
for the seizure, or seizure and detention of the property
and when the jury have so found, the court hall give 
judgment that the plaintiff and his securities return sa d
property to the defendant and pay the damages assess d,
or on their failure to return said roperty, then, that the
defendant recov r against said plaintiff and his securities
the value of said property and damages aforesaid, and
execution may issue accordingly. 
EC. 10. That before any action of replevin hall be
instituted under the provisions of this act, it shall be the 
duty of the plaintiff, hi agent or attorney, to file an affi-
davit with the clerk of the circuit court, in which affida-
vit the plaintiff shall tate, according to his, h r, or their
information and belief that he, she or they, (a the case
may be,) are entitled to the possession of the property
the plaintiff proposes to replevy, which property shall be
described in the affidavit ith reasonable certainty, and
also tha the said property was not subject to th seizure
or execution, to which affidavit the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, shall be sworn by the aid clerk. 
'Ee. 11. That the court shall have power to direct and
ord r the i uance of alias and plurie writ of replevin. 
Ee 12. That when a writ of replevin ha been i su d
and the officer whose duty it shall be to xecute the same,
from any cause what v r, cannot find the property men­
tioned in the writ, it hall be lawful for th aid officer to
make known the content of the writ of replevin to the
def ndant or defendant ; and should the said officer by 
his return how that he has been unable to get po ses­
sion of the property, and that he has made known the
contents of the writ of replevin to the defendant or defen-
dants, then the plaintiff may elect to declare again t the 
d o. d . .
eren ant or defendants m trover or detmue, and may pro- 
ceed to final judgment in trover or detinue without the
aid of any additional summon ; and when the plaintiff 
lects to declare in trover or detinue, the proceedings
shall from that time be conducted a though the original
writ had been is ued in one of the last mentioned forms 
of action. 
SEc. 13. That writs of replevin may be executed on or 
plevin-when made known to the defendant or defendants as provided
in this act, at any time before the fir t day of the term of 
the court to which the same are returnable. 
SEo. I. That it shall be the duty. of the sheriffs of this
State to execute a receipt- . for all executions coming to 
their hands, if required, and to return the same with a
sufficient response thereon, together with the money col- 
lected on or before the day of return mentioned in such
execution. 
Sso. 2. That all executions issuing from the supreme
court shall be returnable within si'.x months · from the
commencement of each court, or to the next court, ifmon 
issued more than six months from· and after the preced-
ing term; and every sheriff failing to make return of
such execution, [ on lor before the return time mentioned
in this execution, sfiall forfeit to the plaintiff in such exe-
cution, twelve and a half per cent. damages upon the
amount of judgment,. and the interest up to the return
day, and also the amount of costs to the several parties
entitled thereto, and judgment shall be given by the
court on motion against such sheriff and his securities,
for the amount of the debt and interest, together with the
damages and costs aforesaid. 
SEo. 3. That the several clerks of the supreme court
shall note on their execution dockets such executions
as have failed to be returned as required by this act, and 
in no case shall the return of the execution and payment
of the money after the day specified, excuse or release
the damages and costs aforesaid: Provided always, That
no judgment shall be given against any sheriff under
this act, unless such execution shall have come to his
hands at least twenty days before the return day, and
proof made, either by the exhibition of the sheriffs receipt,
the oath of the clerk or some other person. . 
SEc. 4. That for failing to make due return of all process
other than executions issuing from the supreme court, the 
sheriffs into whose hands such process may come shall
forfeit one hundred and twenty-five dollars, and judgment 
nisi shall be rendered thereon, for such penalty on
motion, for the benefit of the party aggrieved by such
failure, and upon the return of a scire f acias made known
to such sheriffs, should they fail to show sufficient cause,
in the opinion of said court to excuse the non-return of 
such process, judgment final shall be rendered against
such sheriff and his securities for -the amount of such
penalty .and all costs accruing. 
SEC. 5. That all penalties under this act in the name
of the State, shall be collected by the clerks and paid
over to and make part of the common school fund. 
CHAPTER 103. 
An Act for the benefit of sheriff's, and to pay the guard nece81!18ry in convey·
· ing prisionen to jail. [Pueed Jan. 29, 1840.] 
SEC. 1. That in all criminal causes now pending, or
which may hereafter be pending in any of the circuit
courts in this State, where any prisoner or prisoners may
have been, or shall hereafter be ordered by the court to
be carried to the jail of another county for safe keeping, 
for want of a sufficient jail in the county where such
cause is pending, it shall be lawful for such court to make
a reasonable allowance to the sheriff· and necessary
guard, including expenses, for conveying such prisoners
to jail so ordered by the judge aforesaid. , 
CHAPTER 126. 
Anaet for the relief of sheriffi, in eertail?, caeea. [Passed Feb. 5, 1842.] 
. S~. I. That in all cases where any sheriff of this State
may have heretofore been prevented by the sudden and unex­ 
pected adjournments of the court, from returning a list of
insolvents in his county, as now required by law, and obtain­ 
ing a credit therefor, with the county court of his county, ·
such sheriff or sheriffs shall have the further time of three
months allowed them, after the passage of this law, in which
to apply for such credit, under the same rules and regula­
tions that are now prescribed by law, and such credit, when
so obtained, shall be as good in his or their settlement with
the Comptroller, as though the same had been allowed at the 
proper time. .,
SEC. 2. That when any sheriff or collector of any county 
in this State, shall have failed to make his report of the
lands of non-residents, lying within his county, and on
which taxes are due, to the term of the circuit court, to 
which the law makes it his duty to make said report, and
such failure is certified by the presiding Judge, and the clerk 
of said court, to have been occasioned by a failure of that
term of the court to be held, it shall be the duty of the 
Comptro1ler of the Treasury, and the trustee of the county
in which such failure· may have happened, to allow said
sheriff' pr collector, on settlement with them, and on his
presenting the certificate of the presiding Judge, and the
clerk of said court, a credit for the full amount of taxes, due
on said lands: Provided, That such sheriff or collector, shall
embrace the lands thus failed to be reported in his next suc·
ceeding report, and shall thereafter settle for the same, as in 
other cases.
Sze. 3. That the provisions of the first section of this 
act, shall extend to and embrace the· case of the securitiesaecuritiea
of any sheriff in this State, who may have heretofore· failed 
to settle up for the revenue which had come to his hands,
and who had failed to return a list of insolvents in his coun-
ty, within the time allowed by law, and obtain a credit
therefor; in such case, the further time of three months
after the passage of this law, shall be given such securities
to get such credit, and the same, when so obtained, shaJl be
allowed them for the sum due for State and county revenue,
whether there be a judgment against such securities or not. 
SBC. 4. That in all cases, where sheriffs and collectors, in
this State, have heretofore been prevented, (by failure of th1
court to be held) from returning the order of sale, by virtue
of which such sheriff or collectors had proceeded duly and
legally to offer for sale, the lands of non-residents, on which
taxes were due, and a portion thereof failed to sell, it shall 
be the duty of the Comptroller of the Treasury, and all
other officers of this State, to whom the laws make such
sheriff or collectors accountable for the same, to allow on 
,settlement with him or them, a credit to said sheriffs or col-
lectors for the full amount due on that portion of the lands
that they have thus failed to sell, under the same rules, reg­
ulations and restrictions, contemplated in the second section
of this act: Provided, The provisions of the first and third
sections of this act, shaJI not be extended to or embrace
any failures or omissions accruing after the passage of this
act. 
S:ac. 5. That the further time hereinafter specified, be grant-
ed to William Smith, Ephraim Wilson and other securities 
of Madison G. Fellows, late sheriff of Green county, to pay
the sum due the State from said Fellows, as sheriff, on the
following conditions: That the said secunties shall, within
one month after the passage of. this act, deliver to the clerk
of the circuit court of Greene county, their promissory notes,
respectively, with such securities as the clerk shall deem
sufficient for the. full amount of their proportionab1e part of 
said Fellews' defalcation, payable to the Governor of the
State, or his successors in office, forthe use of the State, due
two years after the date thereof, but bearing interest at the 
rate of six per cent. per annum, from the date thereof. 
Sao. 6. That anyjudgment obtained against IUCh securi­
ties, shall be stayed for the said tetm of two years, aod
shall never be proceeded in unless on failure of the parties
to par, their notes so to be executed as aforesaid, butin cue 
of failure to pay such notes, thensaid judgment, at the end
of said two years, is to be in full fora, and virtue and to be 
proceeded in accordingly, .. 
CHAPTER 59. 
An act to authotize the comptroller of the treuury to make allowauce tt
Sheriffa, who by the direction of any court IUJDDlOD more than two pereou
to guard prisoners, [Pamed Jan. 4, 18«.] 
Sac. I. That in all cases that have heretofore occurred,
or which may hereafter occur, in which it shall be made to
appear to the comptroller of the treasury that any court 
may have heretofore or may hereafter direct a sheriff" to
summon more than two ~uards; in order to carry safely any 
prisoner charged with cnme, from any onecounty to another
i>r trial or safe keeping, in such case said comptroller shall
allow such additional guards ordered by the court the same
compensation now allowed to the two guards, and give his
warrant therefor to the sheriff as in other cases; Provided, 
That nothing herein contained shall authorize the paying
for more than two guards, unless the same shall have been
ordered by the court. 
CHAPTER 46. 
An act to refund to lberiffi, rnenue improperly paid by them. (PUied Dec.
j7, 1843.J 
SEC. 1. That it shall and may be lawful for the comp­
troller of the treasury to audit and settle the claim of any 
person who may have been sheriff in any county in this
State, for revenue paid over by him on accountot taxes 
chargeable on the lands of non-residents, and to draw a
warrant on the treasurer for the amount appearing to be 
justly due said sheriff, which warrant shall be paid out of any
money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated; Provi­ 
ded, It shall appear to the. satisfaction of the comptroller
that the amount so claimed by such sheriff, was afterwards
received and paid into the treasury by his successor in office. 
SIIO. I. That the further time of twelve months be given
to all former and present sheriffs to collect all taxes due and 
imposed: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be 
construed to release any sheriff from his liabilities to account
for the State and county revenue at the times and in the 
manner heretofore directed by law. ,, 
SEO. 2. That the sheriff of Bledsoe countf be and he is 
h
b
h
. d . ddi . d th 
ere y aut onze to appoint one a 1twna eputy to e
number now allowed by law. . 
S:ac. I. That whenever any sheriff shall have failed, or
shall bereafterfail to aprly at the term of the C:OUrt as DOW 
required, to obtain relie for insolvencies, it shall and may
be lawfulfonaid sheriff to apply at any county court in his
county, and on making it appear to said county court that
said sheriff was prevented from attending at the proper time,
by sickness or other unavoidable accident, then it shall and 
may be lawful for said court to allow said sheriff a credit for
said insolvencies, and upon said allowances being made, the
comptroller of the State, or county trustee, may refund to
said sheriff the sum thus wrongfully paid by him, or allow
him a credit on his next settlement with said comptroller or 
00~~~~ 
Auetfor the relief of Sherif&. [P11111ed Jan. 30, 1844.] 
An Act to incnue the power of Deputy Sheriffs. [Pa111ed Dec. 18, 1845.] 
SEC. 1. That, from and after the passage of this act,
deputy sheriffs shall have the Baille power to execute all
process, that sheritfs now have, and to take recognizance
from persons arreated upon capia,, as sheriff"s now have 
power to do. 
CHAPTER~. 
CHAPTER 2'J. 
SEc. I. That hereafter when the sheriff of any county
in this State, fails, by sickness of the judge or other una­
voidable cause, in obtaining judgment, or condemning
land, on which taxes are due for preceding years at the
first term of the court in each year as now prescribed by
law, such sheriff so failing to obtain judgment at the
first term, may return a list of such lands at the next
regular term of the court for said county, and the court
is hereby authorized to condemn and give judgment on
all such lands where taxes are due. 
SEc. 2. That sheriffs whose term of service expired in
March, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and have not
yet collected all the taxes due for that year, be allowed
the further time of twelve months from and after the
first day of March next, to collect the same, and the
courts are hereby authorised and empowered to con­
demn all lands returned for taxes by the acting sheriffs of
eighteen hundred and forty-one, where the taxes are yet
due and remain unpaid for said year. 
SEc. 3. That hereafter, where any land shall be con­
demned by the court of any county in this State, and
under such condemnation, the sheriff, of said county
proceeds to sell said land, the sale shall be good and
valid to all intents and purposes: Provided, The range,
the section, the surveyors district, the number of grant
or entry and the owners name, be correctly given in the
report and advertisement of the sheriff, subject however
to redemption as heretofore. 
SBC. I. That in all cases 'where an iSlue out of· chan~,
shall be directed 1G be tried before: the circuit· court of any 
county, such court shall be authorized tb change the venue
in the same manner as in suits originally brought in such 
court, and in like manner where such issue or question of 
fact shall be directed to be tried by a jury in the chancery 
court; the chancellor shall be authorized to change the venue 
upon a proper case being made out in the same manner as
the circuit courts are authorized to change the venue in cases 
:f>eDding therein. And in all cases where issnes in chancery, 
or questions of fact in a cause in chancery are directed to
be tried by a jury, the pleadings, .or a copy thereof, and evi­
dence taken in the cause that is relavent to the issue, shall 
be read on the trial, but the parties litigant, shall not be 
examined in open court. 
SJDO. I. That each and every person who may be com-
pelled by law to attend as a witness any of the courts oflowuee. 
record in this State shall be allowed the sum of seventy-
five cents per day for each and every day they may be
neceaarily compelled to attend as a \1ritness. 
S.O. 2. That when any witness shall live at a greater
distance than ten miles from the court house, at which
he, she or they may have to attend as a witness, they shall
be allowed the sum of (our cents _per mile for traveling 
to and Crom said court house : Pro"ided, That no wit-
aess shall claim pay for mileage more than one time at
any one tenn in the same suit: Pro,,ided, That nothing
in this act contained shall be construed to change the
compensation of witnesses who may reside out of the
eounty in which they may be summoned to attend. 
CHAPTER 164. 
An Act for tliie llene6t of witnellee in certain eale8. [PMleCI Feb~ 9, 18'6.] 
S11e. I. That the several clerks of the circuit courts ef
this State shall have fuH power and authority to take pro-
bate of all evidences on witness tickets as well in vaca-
tion as term time, and the same may be done in all civil
cases, and of witnesses summoned at the i~ce of the
defendant in criminal cases at any time between the 
commencement and the decision of the cause. 
s.,. 2. That all laws and parts of laws contrary &o 
this aet be and the same are hereby repealed. 
