PART III. 
OF THE REDRESS OF CIVIL INJURIES. 
TITLE 1. 
OF CIVIL ACTIONS. 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Forms of Action.
CHAPTER 2. Of the Limitation of Actions.
CHAPTER 3. Of the Parties to an Action.
CHAPTER 4. Of the Place of bringing Civil Actions.
CHAPTER 5. Of the Mode of commencing Actions.
CHAPTER 6. Of the Change of Venue in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER 7. Of the Abatement of Actions.
CHAPTER 8. Of the Amendment of Actions.
CHAPTER 9. Of the Pleadings in Civil Actions. 
CHAPTER 10. Of Continuances and Proceedings prelimi-
nary to the Trial. 
CHAPTER 11. Of the Trial and its Incidents.
CHAPTER 12. Of Judgments and Decrees. 
CHAPTER 13. Of Execution.
CHAPTER 14. Of the Proceedings for the Correction of 
Errors.
CHAPTER 15. Of Costs in Civil Cases.
CHAPTER 16. Of Enrolment. 
8ECTI01' 
OF TIIE FORl\IS OF ACTlON. 
2i 46. One form of action in contract.
27 4 7. Action on the case for wrongs, 
and penalties.
27 48. Counts in tort and coatract may 
be joined.
27 49. Replevin and detinue to recover 
personal property.
2750. Ejectment, and forcible entry 
and detainer for realty. 
CHAPTER 1. 
SECTION 
2i61. Cause of action to be stated
clearly and briefly. 
2762. Provisions of the Code relating 
to the Chancery Court apply
to all equitable proceedings. 
2753. General provisions relating to 
actions apply to Juatlces' pro­
ceedings. 
§ 2746. All contracts may be sued on in the same form of
action. 
§ 2747. All wrongs and injuries to the property and person,
in which money only is demanded as damages, may be re­
dressed by an action on the facts of the case. Penal actions
may be brought in the same form. 
§ 2748. Whenever the facts of the case entitle the plaintiff
to sue for breach of contract, or, at his election, for the 
wrong and injury, he may join statements of his cause of
action in both forms, or either. 
§ 2749. Where the action is to recover specific personal pro­
perty; 
If the party seeks to obtain possession at the institution
of the suit, he may. sue in replevin, 
If he seeks to recover the possession only at the end of
the suit, he may bring detinue. 
§ 2750. Where the action is to recover real property, eject­
ment, or forcible or unlawful entry or detainer may be 
brought.
§ 2751. In all actions at law, the cause of action shall be 
stated clearly, explicitly, and as briefly as possible.
§ 2752. The provisions of this Code under the Title devoted 
to the Court of Chancery, apply to all equitable proceedings
in any other court. 
§ 2753. The general provisions of the Code, in regard to
a.ctions and their incidents, apply to proceedings b:f?re J us­ 
trees of the Peace, unless controlled by the pmv1s10ns de­
signed expressly for such proceedings. 
ARTICLE I. General Provisions.
II. Limitation of Real Actions. 
Sl!OT101' 
ill. Limitation of Actions other than Real. 
2764. Suing out summons is com­
mencement_ of action if prose­
cuted. 
2756. New action lies within one year
after arrest or reversal. 
2766. Time of injunction not counted.
2767. Time allowed persons under 
disability.
2758. Exceptions to the preceding 
section. 
OF THE LIMITATION OF ACTIONS . 
§ 2754. The suing out of a summons is the commencement
of an action, within the meaning of this chapter, whether it
be executed or not, if the action is duly prosecuted and con-
tinued by the issuance of alias process from term to term, or
recommenced within one year after the failure to execute. 
§ 2755. If the action is commenced within the time limited,
but the judgment or decree is rendered against the plaintiff:~~~!l~:r 
upon any &'round not · concluding his right of action, or
where the Judgment or decree is rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, and is arrested, or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff,
or his representatives and privies, as the case may be, may,
from time to time, commence a new action within one year
after the reversal or arrest. 
§ 2756. When the commencement of an action is stayed by
injunction, the time of the continuance of the injunction is 
not to be counted. 
§ 2757. If the person entitled to commence an action is, at
the time the cause of action accrued, either, 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Of unsound ming; or, 
3. A married woman; or,
4. Beyond the limits of the United States and the territo­ 
ries thereof;
Such person, or the representatives and privies, as the 
case may be, may commence the action after the removal 
of such disability, within the time of limitation for the par­
ticular cause of action, unless it exceed three years, and in
that case within three years from the removal of such disa­
bility. 
§ 2758. The provisions of the foregoing section shall not
apply to actions on a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, or to
actions against the estate of a deceased person brought more
than seven vcars from the death of the deceased and the time
the cause of action accrued, nor to cases provided for in section 2767. 
§ 2759. No person can avail himself of a disability unless 
it existe w en ns rig rt o action accrue ; ut w en two or
more disabilities then exist, the limitation does not attach 
until all are removed.
§ 2760. The time between the death of a person and the 
f
grant o letters testamentary or of administration on his 
estate, not exceeding six months, and the six months within
which a personal represeutative is exempt from suit, is not
to be taken as a part of the time limited for commencing
actions which lie against such personal representative. 
§ 2761. The word "action" in this chapter includes motions,
garnishments, petitions, and other legal proceedings in judi- 
cial tribunals for the redress of civil injuries.
§ 2762. The provisions of this chapter do not npply to 
actions brought either by or against the State of Tennessee,
unless otherwise expressly provided. 
§ 2763. Any person having had, by himself or those through
whom he claims, seven years' adverse possession of any lands,
tenements, or hereditamcnts granted by this State or the 
State of North Carolina, holding by conveyance, devise, 
grant or other assurance of title, purporting to convey an
estate in fee, without any claim by actjon at law or in equity,
commenced within that time and effectually prosecuted against
him, is vested with a good and indefeasible title in fee to
the land described in his assurance of title. 
§ 2764. And, on the other hand, any person, and those
claiming under him, neglecting for the said term of seven
years to avail themselves of the benefit of any title, legal or
equitable, by action at law or in equity, effectually prose-
cuted against the person in possession, as in the foregoing section, are for ever barred.
§ 2765. No nerson, or any one claiming under him, shall 
have any action, eit er at aw or m equity, J.Or any an s,
tenements, or hereditaments, but within seven years after 
the right of action has accrued. ·
§ 2766. The provisions of the foregoing sections do pot apply 
to lands, tenements, or hereditaments reserved for the use of
schools. 
§ 2767. A continuous adverse possession of twenty years or
more of land, held under a conveyance from husband and wife, 
executed upon valuable consideration, without fraud upen
the wife, and registered more than twenty years before any 
suit commenced, shall be. an absolute bar to any suit by
husband and wife, or either of them, or any person claiming title by or throuih either of them, whether the said wife was
privily examined or not. 
§ 2768. Possession is not adverse within the meaning of this article, as to any person claiming a right or interest. in the
land, when taken and continued under a title bond, mortgage,
or other instrument acknowledging that right or interest, or
when taken and continued in subordination to the right or
interest of another.
ARTICLE ill 
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS OTHER THAN REAL. 
2769. Actions shall be commenced
within the time herein limited. 
2770. For property lost at gaming.
2771. For slander within six months.
2772. Within one year, for libel, per- 
sonal injuries, malicious pros­
ecutlon, crim. con., seduction,
breach of marriage promise,
statute penalties. 
2773. Three years, for injuries to pro-
• perty, detention or conversion 
of personalty.
277 4. Three years, against sureties of 
collecting officer when process
returned satisfied. • 
27rti. Six years, for use and occupa­
tion, rent, against sureties for 
official delinquency of princi- 
SECTION 
pal, and for actions on con­
tracts not otherwise provided
for. 
2776. Ten years, against guardians,
executors and administrators,
public officers, on judgments,
and all other cases not ex­
pressly provided for. 
2777. Exception in favor of mer­
chants' accounts. 
2778. And mutual accounts between
individuals. 
2779. Andnotes issued as money.
2780. Time runs from accrual of 
right, not demand.
2781. From recovery against principal, 
for default of agent. ·
2782. From payment of money by 
surety, or judgment against
him. 
2788. Action barred in another State
barred here. 
2784. Against personal representative 
§ 2769. All civil actions, other than those for causes em-
braced in the foregoing article, shall be commenced after the 
cause of action has accrued, within the periods prescribed in
this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. 
§ 2770. Actions to recover money or goods lost at any kind
of gambling or betting, and paid or elivere , 1 brought by
the loser, shall be commenced within ninety days next after 
SUCh payment Or delivery. If brought for the USC of the wife,
child, or children, or next of kin, within twelve months from 
the expiration of the ninety days; if by a creditor of the loser,
within twenty-four months from the end of said ninety days. 
§ 2771. Actions for slanderous words spoken, shall be com-
menced within six months after the words are uttered. 
§ 2772. Actions for libel, for injuries to the person, false 
imprisonment, ma icious prosecution, cnrruna conversation,
seduction, breach of marriage promise, and statute penalties,
within one year after cause of action accrued. 
§ 2773. Actions for injuries to personal or real property;
actions for· the detention or conversion of personal property, 
within three years from the accruing of the cause of action .
§ 2774. Actions against sureties of any collecting officer for 
failing to pay over money collected, when he has made return
of an execution or other process, that the money is made or 
the process satisfied, within three years from the return of
the process. 
§ 2775. Actions for the use and occupation of land and for 
rent, actions against tie sureties o gnar tans, executors, an 
administrators, sheriffs, clerks, and other public officers for 
nonreasance, nnsreasauce, an ma easauce 111 o ce; actions 
on contracts not otherwise expressly provided for, within six
years after the cause of action accrued. 
§ 2776. Actions against guardians, executors, administra­
tors, sheriffs, clerks, and other public officers on their bonds; 
actions on judgments and decrees of courts of record of this
or any ot er State or overnment, an a ot er cases not
expressly provided for, within ten years after the cause of 
action accrued. •
§ 2777. The limitations herein provided do not apply to such 
actions as concern the trade of merchandise between mer­
chant and merchant, their agents and factors, while the 
accounts between them are current. 
by resident in two, b1 non­
resident in three years. 
§ 2778. When there are mutual accounts between persons
who are not merchants, the time is computed from the true 
date of the last item, unless.the account is liquidated and a
balance .struek. , . 
§ 2779. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to
actions to enforce payment of bills, notes, or other evidences 
of debt issued or put in circulation as money .. 
§ 2780. When a right exists but a demand is necessary to
entitle the party to an action, the limitation commences from 
the time the plaintiff's right to make the demand was com-
pleted, and not from the date of the demand. 
§ 2781. When an injury arises from the act or omission· of a 
eputy or agent, t e time or t e imitation o an action y 
the principal against such deputy or agent does not com-
mence to run until the liability of the principal for the act
or omission is ascertained by suit of the aggrieved party
against such principal or otherwise . 
§ 2782. So, also, the time for the limitation of an action by
suret~ or accommodation endorser against ~is principal on 
negotiable paper, or for any matter growmg out of the
suretyship, does not commence to run until judgment is
rendered against the surety or endorser, or he has paid the
money. 
§ 2783. Where the statute of limitations of another State or
government has created a bar to an action upon a cause 
accruing therein, whilst the party to be charged was a resi-
dent in such State or under such government, the bar is
equally effectual in this State. 
§ 2784. Actions against the personal representatives of a
deceased person shall be commenced by a resident of the 
State within two years, and by a non-resident within three
years after the qualification of the personal representative, if 
the cause of action accrued in the lifetime of the deceased,
or, otherwise, from the time the cause of action accrued. 
§ 2785. Any delay granted bv the person entitled to sue at
h · 1 f h • 1 · h 11 
t e specia request o t e persona representative, s a not 
be counted in the time specified in the foregoing section. 
§ 2786. But all actions against the personal representatives 
o a ece ent or eman s against sue ece ent, s a e
brought within seven years after his death, notwithstanding 
any disability existing, otherwise they will be for ever
barred. 
CHAPTER 3. 
OF THE PARTIES TO AN ACTION. 
ARTICLE I. Joint and Several Liabilities.
II. Parties for whose Use an Action is brought. 
ARTICLE ill. The .Adding or Intervening of.New Parties.
IV. Parties to Actions for Seduction, for Injury to 
SECTION 
Minor, and when Husband has Deserted· his
Family. 
V. When the State is a Party . 
.ARTICLE I. 
JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITIES. 
2i87. All or any number of parties to
a liability may be sued in the
same action. 
2788. And by the name used in the
instrument. 
2i89. Joint obligations are made sev­
eral, and survive. 
2790. Plaintiff may recover as to one,
and fail or dismiss as to
others. 
SECTION 
2791. When one executor or adminis­
trator leaves the State, the
others may be sued. 
2792. And before a Justice, when he
leaves the county, 
2793. Subject to like defences as if all 
had. been sued.
2794. Th~ judgment may be enforced 
as if against all. 
§ 2787. Persons jointly or severally or jointly and severally
bound on the same instrument, or bv d"udgment decree or 
statute, including the makers and en orsers of negotiable
paper and sureties,. may all or any part of them be sued in 
the same action.
§ 2788. Suit may be brought by or against any of the 
parties to a written instrument on which the action is
founded, by the name and description used in the instru­
ment. 
§ 2789. All joint obligations and promises are made joint
and-several, and the debt or obligation shall survive against
the heirs and personal representatives of deceased obligors
as well as against the survivors, and suits may be brought
and prosecuted on the same against all or any part of the
original obligors, and all or any part of the representatives
of deceased obligors, as if such obligations and assumptions
were joint and several. 
§ 2790. In all actions on contracts, a dismission of suit as to 
one or more o t ose joint y sue , or at ure to recover as to 
one, shall not prevent a recovery against those defendants
who may be liable. 
§ 2791. Where one of several executors or administrators 
removes out o t e tate, actions may e prosecute an 
judgments rendered against such· as remain, in the same
manner as if all were sued. 
§ 2792. And if the cause of action be within the jurisdic-
tion of a Justice of the Peace, it may be prosecuted against 
the administrator or executor who remains in the county, 
where one of them removes out of the State or into another
county. 
§ 2793. But the defendants so separately sued shall not be
held further liable than if all were sued, and may avail them- 
selves of all the defences allowed where all are sued.
§ 2794. The same proceedings may be taken on judgments 
rendered in such separate suits, to subject the defendants for
waste of assets, or to subject real estate descended to heirs, 
as when all the executors or administrators are sued. 
§ 2795. In all suits prosecuted in the name of one person
for the use of another, the person for whose use the suit is
brought shall be held the real plaintiff of record. 
§ 2796. The person whose name is used in the prosecution
of a suit, may, at any time durin8' the progress of the cause, 
require the party for whose benefit the action is brought, to
give bond with good security to indemnify him against all
damages and costs. · 
§ 2797. For any breach of an official bond or undertaking
o any o cer, executor, a ministrator, or guar ian, or o 
· any bond or undertaking required to be given by law for the
security of the public generally, or of particular individuals,
the party aggrieved may, without assignment, bring suit
thereon for his use, ~iving security for costs, and being liable
therefor as if the suit had been brought in his own name. 
ARTICLE ill. 
SECTION 
2800. The defendant may substitute
another in his place, surren­
der property, and be dis­
charged. 
§ 2798. At any time before trial, new plaintiffs or defendants 
may .be added to the suit by the plaintiff upon supplemental 
process taken out· and served, and subject to such terms, 
in regard to costs, as the court may impose. H at the
appearance term, it may be done without cost; if at any
subsequent term, on such conditions as the court may pre­
scribe, so as especially to prevent <lelay. 
§ 2799. In actions for the recovery of property, any {>erson
not a party thereto, on showing himself interested m the 
subject-matter of the suit, may be allowed to appear as de­
fendant therein. 
§ 2800. At any time before defence made, the defendant
may app y to t e court or ustice to su stitute in 18 p ace
any person, not already a party, who claims the money or 
property in suit, by filing his affidavit, stating the facts on
which he founds his application, showing that the right in the
subject-matter in controversy is in such third person, that he·
(affiant) has no interest in the suit, and may be exposed ro 
the claim of two or more adverse parties, <lcuying all collu­
sion with the person sought to be substituted, and proffering
to pay the money, or deliver the property into the custody of
the court. If, on notice to the plaintiff and the person
sought to be substituted as defendant, sufficient cause be
shown, the court may order the substitution and discharge
the original defendant from liability to either party, and make
such disposition, pending the suit, of the fund or property in
controversy, as to secure the money, property, or its value, to
the party who shall prove to be entitled. 
ARTICLE X. PARTIES TO ACTIONS FOR SEDUCTION, FOR INJURY TO MINOR,
AND WHEN HUSBAND HAS DESERTED HIS FAMILY. 
SJWTION
SECTION 
2801. Action for seduction may be
brought by female seduced. 
2802. Or by her father, or mother,
without actual loss of ser­
vice. 
2803. A father or mother may sue 
§ 2801. An unmarried female may prosecute an action for
her own seduction, and recover such damages as may be
found in her favor. 
§ 2802. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may bring- a suit for the seduction of a 
daughter, although such daughter be not living with nor in 
tho service of the plaintiff and though there be no loss of
service. But a recovery in one suit, by the father, mother, or
daughter, shall be a bar to all other actions for the same 
cause. 
§ 2803. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may maintain an action for the expenses 
and the actual loss of service resulting from an injury to a
minor child, in the parent's service or living in the family. 
§ 2804. An action for the injury to the child 'shall be brought
in the name of the child itself.
§ 2805. Where a husband has deserted his family, the wife 
may prosecute, or defend in his name, any action which he
might have prosecuted or defended; she may also sue and be 
sued in her own name for any cause of action accruing sub-
sequently to such desertion. 
§ 2806. The Statesshall commence and prosecute suits accord-
ing to the laws of the land, as in cases between individuals, 
except that no security shall, in such case, be required. This section does not apply to suits for or against the Bank of
Tennessee. 
§ 2807. Actions may be instituted against the State under
the same rules an regulations that govern actions etween
private persons, process being served upon the DistrictAttor-
ney of the district in which the suit is commenced. 
CHAPTER 4. 
OF THE PLACE OF BRINGING CIVIL ACTIONS. 
o.nd real actions, lie where any
part of property is. 
2811. Act.ions growing out of office or
agency, where office or agency
is. 
2812. Action brought in the wrong
county, abated only by plea, 
§ 2808. IN all transitory actions, the right of action follows the person of the defendant, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 2809. If the plaintiff aud defendant both reside in the same
county in this State, such action shall be brought in the 
county of their residence.
§ 2810. In actions commenced by the attachment of property· 
wi~h?ut personal servi.ce of pro~css, and in cases where the
suit is brought to obtain possess10n of personal property, or 
to enforce a lien or mortgage, or where it r~lates to re~l pro­
perty, the attachment may be sued out or suit brought many 
county where the real property or any portion of it lies, or
where any part of the personal property may be found. 
§ 2811. When a corporation, or company, or individual has
an office or agency in any county for the transaction of busi­
ness, actions growing out of or connected with the business
of that office or agency, may be brought in the county in
which such office or agency is located. 
§ 2812. If action be brought in the wrong countv it mav be prosecuted to a termination, unless abated by plea of the
defendant. 
ARTICLE I. Process. 
SECTION 
..... • ~ "V ' ., 

OF THE MODE OF COMl\IENCIKG ACTIONS. 
II. Issuance of Process on the Sabbath. 
III. Teste, Service, and Return of Process. 
IV. Process against Corporations. 
2818. Civil actions commenced by
summons. 
2814. Must be signed, directed, and
require defendant to appear. 
2815. Form of summons from court. 
2816. May state cause of action
briefly. 
2817. Summons from a Justice's court.
2818. Security must be given before 
issuance of process. 
CHAPTER 5. 
ARTICLE I. 
PROCESS. 
SECTION 
• 
2819. Date of issuance to be marked
thereon. Penalty for neglect. 
2820. Process in local actions may
issue to n.ny county. 
2821. Counterpart summons '1&Y is­
sue to other counties. 
2822. When issued by Justice, return­
able in thirty days. 
2823. Not to be served on drawer,
unless original executed on
joint drawer. 
§ 2813. All civil actions at law in courts of record, or before
Justices of the Peace, except otherwise provided, shall be
commenced by summons. 
§ 2814. The summons shall be signed by the Justice or clerk
of the court, as the case may be, and directed to the sheriff 
or other proper officer, and require the defendant to appear
and answer the plaintiff's action. · 
§ 2815. The summons from a court of record may be in
substance as follows: 
" STATE OF TENNESSEE, } 
county.
"To the Sherifr of county: You are hereby com- 
manded to summon A. B. to appear at the next term of the
--- Court to be held for said county at the court-house
thereof, on the day of · , then and there to an- 
swer C. D. in an action to his damage
dollars. ~itness my hand this day of 
E. F., Clerk."
§ 2816. The cause of action in the summons may be stated 
ne y in general terms.
§ 2817. The summons from a Justice's court shall be sub- 
stantially the same, but requiring the defendant to appear
before any Justice of the county on a day fixed, or generally 
as at present used. If no time or place be designated, the
officer serving the process shall notify the defendant of the
time and place, and make his return accordingly. 
§ 2818. The Justice may, and the clerk shall, before issuinti
t e summons or ot er ea mg process, require t e p ainti 
to enter into bond, with sufficient surety, conditioned to pro-
secute his suit with effect, or to pay such costs and damages 
as may be awarded against him by the court having cogni-
zance thereof, unless the plaintiff sue in forma pauperis, as
prescribed in Chapter 15 of this Title. · 
§ 2819. The clerk, Justice, or attorney issuing any process,
shall mark thereon the day on which the same is issued· and 
the sheriff or other officer into whose hands the same shall
come to be executed, shall, in like manner, mark thereon the
day on which be shall have received it. The penalty for neg- 
lect of this requirement shall be a forfeiture of one hundred
and twenty-five dollars, to be recovered in any court having
cognizance thereof, by any person who shall sue for the 
same, with costs.
§ 2820. Process in local actions may run to any county in 
the State.
§ 2821. Where there arc two or more defendants in any suit 
in courts of law or equity, or before Justices of the Peace, the
plaintiff may cause counterpart summons or subpcona to be 
issued to any county where any of the defendants are most
likely to be found, the fact that the counterpart process is
issued in the same suit being noted on each process, which,
when returned, shall be docketed as if only one process had
issued. If the defendants are not served, the same proceed-
ings shall be had as in cases of other similar process not exe- 
cuted. 
§ 2822. Such counterpart when issued from a Justice shall
be returned within thirty days. 
§ 2823. In joint actions on negotiable paper, service of a
counterpart writ on the drawer or maker shall not be suffi- 
cient service to hold him to answer the action, unless the
original writ shall have been executed on a joint drawer
or maker. 
§ 2824. Civil process may be issued on the Sabbath, on the
application of any party, supported by oath or affirmation,
that the defendant is removing, o, about to remove himself
or property, beyond the jurisdiction of the court or Justice
applied to. 
§ 2825. The clerk or Justice shall endorse on the back of
such process, that it was obtained on the oath of the plain­
tiff his agent or attorney, as directed in the preceding section. 
§ 2826. It shall be the duty of the proper officers to execute
all such process on the Sabbath, subject to the same penal­
ties and regulations as in other cases. 
§ 2827. With this exception, civil process shall not be exe­
cuted on Sunday. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE II. 
ISSUANCE OF PROCESS ON THE SABBATH. 
ARTICLE III. 
TESTE, SERVICE, AND RETURN OF PROCESS. 
2828. Process from court tested of
previous term. 
2829. Served py reading to defendant. 
81CTIOK 
2826. Summons may be executed on
Sunday. 
2827. But no other civii process. 
SECTION 
2830. Return day is the first day of
term, commencing five days
after service. 
§ 2828. All process issued from any of the Circuit Courts
and returnable -thereto, shall be tested of the term next pre­ 
ceding the issuanee.
§ 2829. Original process shall be served by reading the 
same to the defendant, or offering to read it, in case he
neglects or refuses to hear it read. 
§ 2830. All civil process in courts of law or equity, except
in cases otherwise provided in this Code, shall be returnable
to the first day of the term next ensuing their issunuce, if 
issued and served five days before such term. If issued or
served within the five days, they shall be returnable to the
first day of the succeeding term. 
§ 2831. Service of process on the president or other head
. of a corporation, or, in his absence, on the cashier, treasurer, 
or secretary, or, in the absence of such officers, on any
director of such corporation, shall be sufficient. 
§ 2832. If neither the president, cashier, treasurer, or secre- 
tary resides within the State, service on the chief agent of
the corporation, residing at the time in the county where the 
action is brought, shall be deemed sufficient.
§ 2833. If the action is commenced in the county in which 
the corporation keeps its chief office, the process may be served
on any one of the foregoing officers, in the absence of those 
named before him.
§ 2834. Wben a corporation, company, or individual has 
an office or agency in any county other than that in which
the principal resides, the service of process may be made
on any agent or clerk employed therein, in all actions
growing out of or connected with the business of the office
or agency. 
SECTION
PROCESS AGAINST CORPORATIONS. 
OF THE CHANGE OF VENUE IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
2886. Venue may be changed on good
cause shown. 
2886. But not more than once by each
party, except for new cause. 
2887. How application made, and for
wha.t cause, 
2888. Judge, if satisfied cause is good, 
to order change. • 
2889. To nearest county free from 
like exception. 
ARTICLE IV. 
CHAPTER 6. 
SECTION 
2840. Allowed only in term, except
by consent. 
2841. Applicant to pay costs of
change. 
2842. Venue changed when Judge is
incompetent. 
2843. Clerk must make out and trans­
mit transcript and papers. 
2844. Compensation of messenger. 
§ 2835. In all civil cases at law where the issue is to be
tried by jury, and in all cases of issues in courts of equity, 
directed to be tried by jury, either in the Circuit or Chancery 
Court, the venue may be changed, at any time before trial,
upon ~ood cause shown as hereinafter prescribed. 
§ 2836. The venue may be changed by the plaintiff or
defendant, or both, but not more than once by each, except
for causes not in existence when the first change was taken. 
§ 2837. The party applying for a change of venue shall
make a statement of facts, in writing, under oath or affirma- 
tion, that he verily believes that owing to prejudice, or other
causes, then existing, he cannot have .a fair and impartial
trial in the county where the cause is pending; the truth
of which statement shall be verified and supported by the
oath of at least three respectable and disinterested persons. 
§ 2838. If the presiding Judge, on due consideration, should
be of opinion that the cause set forth is good, and the truth 
thereof evident and credibly supported, he shall allow the
change asked for. 
§ 2839. The change of venue shall be made to the nearest
adjoining county free from the like exception, whether iu the
same judicial circuit or out of it. 
§ 2840. Th1e application shall be made and tfhe c~an~e 
a owe on y in term time, except y consent o parties m 
writing.
§ 2841. The party applying for a change of venue shall, in 
the foregoing cases, pay the cost of the transcript, and trans-
mission of papers. · 
§ 2842. In all cases in equity, if the Judge is a party, or
directly interested in the suit, or is connected by blood or 
affinity within the prohibited degrees with any person so
interested, or is incompetent as having been of counsel, the
venue may be changed to the nearest Chancery Court, as
the case may be, not liable to the like exception, as of
course, at the instance of either party, without costs, unless
at the term at which the application is made (being a trial
term) the cause shall be heard and disposed of by a Judge
not liable to the like exception, by exchange. 
§ 2843. When a change of venue is directed, the clerk 
o tie court s a ma e a transcript o a t e mmutes,
orders, and proceedings in the cause, duly certified, and 
envelope the same, together with all the orizinal pa_pers, in
a strong wrapper, securely sealed, and safuly deliver, or
transmit the same by messenger, to the clerk of the court to
which- the venue has been changed. 
§ 2844. The clerk or messenger delivering the package
will be entitled to five cents a mile, going and returning, 
and tolls and fcrriages, to be paid iJ1 advance by the party
applying for the change of venue. If paid by the opposing
party, to be _taxed in the bill of costs against his adversary. 
§ 2845. Actions do not abate by the death, marriage, or
other disability of either party, or by the transfer of any in- 
terest therein, if the cause of action survives or continues. 
ARTICLE II. 
BY DEA.TB OJ PARTIES. 
8BOTION
S10Tiox 
2846. Ci'fil actions, except for wrongs
aff'eoting character, survive. 
2847. lutenention of a term after
death works no abatement. 
2848. Nor does aetion abate until 
second tam after entry.
2849. If no person will administer, 
ARTICLE I. 
may be rffffed against heirs. 
2860. Or against the suceeeeor in in­
terest. 
2861. Represeutative of joint pla.in­
tift' ma:, re-rive on motion. 
2862. Or defendant may elect to re­
Tive, proceed, or abate. 
2863. On death of sole executor or
administrator, aotion re-rind
against. adiiwiiatrator de bonis 
non, or successor in inter­
est. 
2854. No appeal or writ of error
abates by death, but may be
revived. 
2865. Actions may be revived by per­
son entitled to decedent's 
plaoe, by motion.
2866. By adverse party by consent on 
motion, or by notice. 
2867. Notice may be sued out in Ta· 
cation.
2868. Death of nominal plaintiff' 
works no abatement.
2869. Actions may be reviTed against 
heir, representative, guardian,
or &BSignee. 
§ 2846. No civil actions commenced, whether founded on
wrongs or contracts, except actions for wrongs affecting the 
character of the plaintiff, shall abate by the death of either
party, but ma.Y be revived. 
§ 2847. The mtervention of a term between the death of a
party and the qualification of the personal representative, 
shall not work an abatement or discontinuance of the suit. 
§ 2848. Nor shall the suit abate or discontinue for the death
of either party, until the second term after the death has been 
suggested and proved or admitted, and entry to that effect
made of record. 
§ 2849. If no;erson will administer on the estate of a de- 
ceased plainti or defendant, the suit may be revived by or
against the heirs of the decedent. 
§ 2850. If the decedent has parted with his interest pending 
t e suit, 1 may e revive y or agams t ie successor m in- 
terest instead of the representative or heir.
§ 2851. Where one or more of several plaintiffs, not part­ 
ncrs, dies, the person entitled to represent the decedent may
revive, by motion, at any time before the cause is tried or 
abated.
§ 2852. But, if the suit is not thus revived within the two 
terms allowed, the defendant may revive or elect to proceed
to trial with the surviving plaintiff or abate .the suit, if re-
vivor is necessary. - 
§ 2853. When any sole executor or administrator is plaintiff
or defendant, and dies, the suit may be revived by or against 
the executor, administrator de bonis non, or other successor
in interest of the decedent. 
§ 2854. No appeal or writ of error in any cause or court
shall abate by the death of either plaintiff or defendant, but 
may be revived by or against the heir, personal representa­
tive, or assign, under the foregoing rules. 
§ 2855. The action may be revi vc<l by the proper person, entitled to the decedent's place, by motion alone. 
§ 2856. And by the adverse party against such proper per­
son, by consent of that person, on mere motion; and, with-
out consent, by scire facias or notice. 
§ 2857. The scire facias or notice mav be sued out in term 
time or vacation, and the order to revive be made as of course,
unless good 'cause to the contrary be shown on the return of
the process. 
§ 2858. Where a suit is commenced in the name of one per­
son for the use of another, and the nominal plaintiff dies, the 
suit may be prosecuted, without reviver, as if the death had
not happened. 
§ 2859. Suits abated by the death of either party may be
revived by or against the heir, personal representative, guard­ 
ian, or assign, as the case may be, who may be legally entitled to the decedent's place in the subject-matter of litiga­
tion. 
§ 2860. No action in a court of law or equity by or against
a woman abates by her marriage, but may be revived by or 
against her husband.
§ 2861. The husband of a female plaintiff may make him- 
self a party p aintiff y motion, an JY givmg on wit goo
security to prosecute the suit with effect, or to pay the costs 
of suit, as in other cases. On the execution of such bond,
the original security for the prosecution is discharged from
liability for subsequently accruing costs. 
§ 2862. The suit may be revived at any time before final
disposition thereof, against the husband of a feme defendant 
, by motion, with his consent, or by scire facias without con-
sent. 
ARTICLE III. 
BY MARRIAGE OF PARTIES. 
SECTION 
2862. Or the action may be revived
against him on motion or
notice. 
CHAPTER 8. 
SECTION 
2869. Amendments allowed in the
form of action, pleadings,
and parties. 
2810. Made at first term without
costs, afterwards on terms. 
2871. These provisions apply to penal
actions. 
2872. Defects o~ form may be amended
after judgment. 
2878. Defects in verdict must be ob­
jected to before judgment. 
28i4. Supreme Court not to dismiss
for form, or wa11.t of jurisdic­
tion, unless ·exception taken
below. 
8ZCTI01' 
2876. Defect11 in Justioe'a prooeedinp
may be amended on appeal. 
2876. Lost papers supplied at any
stage of suit. 
2877. Clerical errors amended after
judgment in twelve months. 
8•CTI01' 
2878. And mistakes .apparent on the
record at any time. 
2879. But notice must be given, if
party out of court. 
§ 2863. No summons, writ, pleading, process, return, or other
proceeding in any civil action in any court, shall be abated or 
quashed for any defect, omission, or imperfection.
§ 2864. No writ of error, or other proceeding in civil actions 
in the Supreme Court of this State, shall be quashed or dis-
missed for any defect, omission, or imperfection. 
§ 2865. All demurrers, motions in arrest of judgment, writs
of error for matters of form in civil suits, are abolished. 
§ 2866. Immaterial variances, errors, omissions, or defects,
in a11 these cases, may be disregarded, or the court may 
direct an amendment without costs.
§ 2867. The court may allow material amendments at any 
stage of the J?roceedings, ~pon such terms, and subject to
such rules, as it may prescribe. 
§ 2868. No ca1u1 se sdhall b1e conhtinued in. cons~qfi!ledncthe. otf anby
amen ment a owe , un ess t e court is satia e a su - 
stantial justice requires such continuance.
§ 2869. No civil suit shall be dismissed for want of necessary 
parties, or on account of the form of action, or for want of
proper averments in the pleadings; but the courts shall have
power to change the form of action, strike out or insert in
the writ and pleadings the names of either plaintiffs or de­
fendants, so as to have the proper parties before the court,
and to allow all proper averments to· be supplied, upon such
terms as to continuances as the court in its sound discretion
may see proper to impose. 
§ 2870. These amendments, if applied for at the appearance
term, may be made without costs; if at any subsequent term, 
upon such conditions as the court may prescribe so as to pre­
vent delay. 
§ 2871. These provisions shall apply to penal as well as civil
actions. 
§ 2872. After judgment, any defects or imperfections in
matters of form may be rectified and amended by the court
in which the judgment is rendered, or the court to which it
shall be removed, if substantial justice requires it, and if the
amendment is in affirmance of the judgment. 
§ 2878. Any defect in entering a verdict where there are
different issues, or the verdict is not responsive to the issues,
shall be objected to before judgment is entered, or the objec­
tion will be considered as waived. 
§ 2874. The Supreme Court shall not dismiss any suit for 
matters of form, or ror want o jurisdiction over t e subject- 
matter in the court in which the action was instituted, unless
exception was properly taken by demurrer to the want of 
jurisdiction in the court below. 
§ 2875. In appeals from Justices of the Peace, the Circuit
Court shall supply any defect in the proceedings of the in- 
ferior jurisdiction, as though the suit had been commenced
in the Circuit Court. 
§ 2876. If an original process, pleading, or paper, in a cause,
be lost or withheld by any person, the court may, at any 
stage of the suit, authorize its place to be SUP.plied by a copy,
to lie used instead of the original, as prescribed in Part III., Title 8, Chapter 8. 
§ 2877. The Circuit, Chancery, and Supreme Courts may,
at any time within twelve months after final judgment or
decree, and while the cause is still in such courts, amend any
clerical error, mistake in the calculation of interest, or other
mistake or omission in the judgment or decree, where there
is sufficient matter apparent on the record, the papers in the
cause, or entries of a presiding J utlge to amend by. 
§ 2878. Every mistake apparent on the face of the record
may be corrected by the court at any term after final judg- 
ment, at the discretion of the court. · 
§ 2879. In all of the foregoing cases, if the cause has been·
finally disposed of, and the parties are therefore not before 
the court, the party seeking the correction shall give the
adverse party ten days' notice of his intention to move for a
correction of the supposed mistake. 
CHAPTER 9. 
OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
ARTICLE I. General Provisions.
II. The Declaration. 
III. Plea of Abatement.
IV. Plea in Bar. 
V. General Issue, with Notice of Real Defence.
VI. Plea of Set-Off. 
VII. Plea of Tender.
VIII. Replication and Subsequent Pleadings. 
IX. Demurrer.
X. Forms of Declaration. 
XI. Forms of Pleas.· 
8BCTI01' 
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
2880. This chapter applies to plead­
ings in all legal proceedings. 
2881. Pleadings must state only ma­
terial facts. 
2882. And may be stricken out, if
bad, prolix, or frivoloU8. 
2888. The court may impose terms for
violation of rules of pleading. 
2884. Pleading sufficient if reason­
ably certain, and shows good
cause of action. 
2886. If not certain, must be altered ;
if no cau~e shown, demurrer 
lies.
2886. Either party may require an­ 
swer under oath.
2887. Which is then evidence. 
ARTICLE I. 
2888. The court may require evidence
that oath is important. 
8SOTI01' 
2889. Oath must be made by party,
or some one authorized, having
equal knowledge. 
2890. May be sworn to u an answer 
in ehaneery.
2891. And cannot be used in criminal 
prosecution, except for per­
jury. 
28!>2. Supplemental pleadings allowed
for cause ; plea since last con­
tinua.nee no waiver of former
defences. 
2893. Profert as heretofore.
2894. Pleadings sufficient which con­ 
form to forms in this chapter.
2895. Date of filing to be endorsed by 
clerk. 
§ 2880. The pleadings treated of in this chapter apply to all
actions at law, and to all legal proceedings for the redress of 
civil injuries, in which r,1eadings are necessary, and not
otherwise expressly prescribed. 
§ 2881. All pleadings shall state only material facts, without
argument or inference, as briefly as is consistent with pre­ 
senting the matter in issue in an intelligible form.
§ 2882. If any pleading is bad for duplicity, unnecessarily 
prolix, irrelevant or frivolous, it may be stricken out at tlie
cost of the party so pleading, on motion of the adverse party, 
or by the court of its own motion.
§ 2883. It is the duty of the court to see that the rules of 
pleading are substantially adhered to, and for this purpose it
is empowered to impose terms upon delinquents. 
§ 2884. Any pleading possessing the following requisites is
sufficient: 
1. When it conveys a reasonable certainty of meaning.
2. When, by a fair and natural construction, it shows a 
substantial cause of action or defence.
§ 2885. If defective in the first of the above particulars, the 
court, on motion, shall direct a more specific statement; if in
the latter, it is ground of demurrer. 
§ 2886. The plaintiff in his pleading may require the answer
of the defendant to be given under oath; and in like manner
the party filing any subsequent pleading setting· forth new
matter, may require the reply to be given under oath. 
§ 2887. Any pleading thus required to be made under oath,
is evidence in the cause like an answer in Chancery, and
shall be overturned by two witnesses, or one witness with
corroborating circumstances. 
§ 2888. "Where the reply under oath is to create much delay
or inconvenience, the court may require satisfactory evidence,
by oath of the party or otherwise, that such sworn reply is 
important.
§ 2889. The pleading may be sworn to by the party himself, 
or some one of the parties, where there are several, who
avers that he has means of knowing the facts cq ually with 
any of his co-parties, or by some one showing himself to be
possessed of equal information with the party on the subject-
matter, and to have authority to make such sworn reply. 
§ 2890. Such pleading may be sworn to in the same way
and before the same officers as an answer in Chancery, or 
before the clerk of the court in which the action is pending .
§  2891. No pleading verified as above can be used in a 
crn~mal pr_osecut10n against th~ party, except on a charge of~~:~::!.
peIJury assigned on such pleadmg, nor can • party be com-
pelled to state facts which, if true, would subject him to a 
prosecution for felony.
§ 2892. Either party may, by leave of the court, on good 
cause shown, make a supplemental pleading, alleging any
material facts which have happened or have come to his 
knowledge since the filing of his former pleading; nor shall
such new pleading on the part of the defendant be considered
a waiver of former defences. 
§ 2893. Profert shall be required as heretofore, and a de-
murrer may be filed for want thereof. 
§ 2894. Any pleading which conforms substantially to the
forms attached to this part of the Code, is sufficient. 
§ 2895. All pleadings shall be endorsed by the clerk when
filed with the true date, and for want of such endorsement 
may he rejected by the· court on motion, unless sufficient
cause be shown. 
§ 2896. The declaration shall state the plaintiff's cause of
action. It may contain several statements or counts. But
where several distinct causes of action against the same party 
issues.
§ 2897. It is sufficient to state in the declaration in slander 
or libel, that the defendant falsely and maliciously charged
the plaintiff with perjury, larceny, or other crime, as the case
may be, in substance as follows, setting it out. 
§ 2898. In actions upon penal bonds or other writinzs for 
the non-performance of any covenant or agreement contained.
therein, the plaintiff may assign as many breaches as he may 
deem proper; and verdict and judgment may be rendered
for such of the breaches as he may prove; or, if judgment be
rendered for the plaintiff on demurrer or by default, a writ
of inquiry of damages shall be awarded. 
§ 2899. Successive actions may be maintained on the same
contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a
new cause of action arises therefrom. 
§ 2900. In actions for the conversion or detention of personal 
property, it rs s cient to state m t e ec aration t e n 
of property, that it belongs to the plaintiff, and has been
detained by the defendant or converted to his use. 
ARTICLE III. 
PLEA OF ABATEMENT. 
SBCTIOJf 8&eTIOJf 
2901. Plea in abatement to be verified 2903. Other causes not escluded.
by affidavit. 2904. These provisions do not apply 
2902. Causes of plea in statement. to attachment auita. 
§ 2901. No plea in abatement shall be received in any court,
unless its truth is verified by the oath of the party or other- 
wise.
§ 2902. Actions may be abated by plea of the defendant in the 
following cases:
1. Where the process is issued or served on Sunday, in the 
cases prescribed in section 2836.
2. Where the process is served upon the defendant while 
attending his duty at a muster of militia, or election, or as 
witness or juror.
3. Where suits, local in their nature, are· brought in a dif­ 
ferent county from that required by law.
4. Where the plaintiff and defendant both reside, at the 
time suit is roug t, in tie same county, an t e action IS 
instituted in another county.
5. Where the defendant is the joint drawer of negotiable 
paper with others, and the original writ is not served upon
any one of the joint drawers. 
§ 2903. But this enumeration is not intended to exclude any 
cause of abatement now recognized by law. 
§ 2904. The provisions of the foregoing section shall not
apply so as to affect any rights or remedies against abscond- 
ing debtors, under the attachment laws. 
SICOTIOM
811CTI01' 
2006. Defendant may demur or plead
to declaration. 
2906. Plea must state facts relied on. 
2907. Defendant may plead o.ny num­
ber of pleas. 
2908. Character of plea determined
by subject-matter. 
2909. Pleas denying writing, and 
2905. The defendant may demur to the plaintiff's declara-
tion, as hereinafter provided, or he may answer by plea. 
2906. A plea. shall, in all cases, contain a succinct state-
ment of the facts relied on as a defence to the action, except 
in the cases provided for in sections 2918-2915.
2907. The defendant may plead as many pleas as he has 
real arounds of defence 
ARTICLE IV. 
PLEA IN BAR. 
• · 
§ 2908. The fact whether a plea is in bar or abatement, is
ascertained by the subject-matter. 
§ 2909. All pleas which deny the execution or assignment
by the defendant, his agent, attorney, or partner, of any in- 
strument in writing the foundation of the suit, whether pro-
duced or alleged to be lost or destroyed, and all pleas since 
the last continuance, shall be sworn to.
§ 2910. All allegations in the declaration, not denied in the 
plea, shall be taken as true for all the purposes of that issue.
§ 2911. Where the plea is required to be sworn to, if the 
defendant cannot admit or deny the fact for want of suffl-
cient knowledge, he may state his want of knowledge, and 
thereupon make the denial necessary to present the defence.
§ 2912. A plea since the last continuance is not a waiver of 
other pleas to the merits previously pleaded. 
ARTICLE V. 
GENER~L ISSUE, WITH NOTICE OJ1' REAL DEFENCE. 
8KCTJ01' I SBOTION 
since last continuance, must
be sworn to. 
2910. Allegations not denied, to be
taken as true. 
2911. But denial may be formal, when
defendant has no knowledge
of the fact. 
2912. Plea since last continuance no
waiver of form.er pleas. 
2918. Defendant may enter a general 2914. Whether the plea would have
denial to plaintiff"s action. been heretofore good or not; 
8BCTI01' 
2915. But must give notice of real
defences, separately and clear­ 
§ 2913. The defendant may enter a general denial of the
plaintiff's cause of action, equivalent to the general issue
heretofore in use. 
§ 2914. He may plead such general plea, whether such plea
would have been good heretofore or not. 
§ 2915. But wherever such general plea is filed, the defend­ 
ant s a , un ess notice is waive , give notice o a ts rea
defences, whether by way of denial or avoidance, thouzh
such defence might have been admissible heretofore under 
the general issue. And no matter of defence, of which 
notice is not given, shall be given in evidence or relied on.
Such notice shall state such defences separately, and if the 
same are· not stated clearly, or are double or insufficient, they
may be struck out on motion. 
§ 2916. Or he may plead specially his defences, in which
case he shall state the facts relied on, truly and briefly as 
may be, and no matter of defence not pleaded shall be
shown in evidence. 
§ 2917. To such special plea the plaintiff shall reply, and the
pleadings shall proceed to issue as heretofore. 
§ 2918. The defendant may plead by way of set-off or cross-
action- 
1. Mutual demands held by the defendant against the 
plaintiff at the time of action brought, and matured when
offered in set-off. · 
2. Any matter arising out of the plaintiff's demand, and
for which the defendant would be entitled to recover in a 
cross-action.
3. .Anv matter growing out of the ori~· al consideration any written mstrument, ror w ic e eren an wou e
entitled to recover in a cross-action. 
4. Any equities between the defendant and the orit" nal 
party under whom the /lamtrff claims, which by law ave
attached to the deman in the :plaintiff's hands, and for 
which the defendant would be entitled to a recovery against
such original party. 
§ 2919. _Mutual d~bts, though of a different natn:e, between
the parties to a suit, or between the testator or mtestate of 
both or either party, may _be set off against each other by
being pleaded in bar, or in discharge of the action, either 
wholly or in part, as the case may be. And if either debt
arose by reason of a penalty, the sum intended to be set off
shall be pleaded in bar, setting forth what is justly due on 
either side. . ·
§ 2920. A maker or surety, when sued alone, may, with the 
consent o IB co-ma er or prmcrpa , avai rmse , y way
of set-off, of any of the foregoing debts or demands, held 
by such co-maker or principal against the plaintiff at the
commencement of the action, and matured when offered in 
set-off.
§ 2921. But the plaintiff may meet such set-off in the same 
way as if made by the co-maker or principal himself.
§ 2922. If the de ht or demand so offered to be set off exceed 
the amount of the plaintiff's demand, such excess being
found by the jury, judgment shall be rendered against the 
plaintiff in favor of the defendant for such excess, and all
costs. 
§ 2923. When there are several defendants, the verdicts and
judgments, whether the pleadings by them are joint or 
several, shall be moulded according to the facts, and to meet
the exigencies of the case. 
§ 2924. If the matters in issue upon the pleadings are of
complicated account, the court may direct a reference to the 
clerk, or a special commissioner, as in the Court of Chancery,
allowing a trial by jury of any matters of fact arising upon 
such account, as m Chancery cases.
§ 2925. Judgments of the same court may be set off against 
each other on motion. 
§ 2926. A plea of tender of money, or of a thing in action,
shall be accompanied by a delivery of the money or thing in 
action to the clerk of the court. .
§ 2927. If the tender be of other personal property, the plea 
shall aver a readiness to deliver it to the plaintiff, and
judgment for the defendant upon the plea, vests the title to
the thing tendered in the plaintiff, subject to any claim the 
defendant may have for his trouble in keeping it. 
§ 2928. When the plea contains new matter by way of avoid­
ance or set-off, the plaintiff shall reply thereto by demurrer or
otherwise, and like proceedings may, if necessary, be con­
tinued by way of rejoinder or further pleadings until issue is
joined. 
§ 2929. Matters not denied in each subsequent pleading shall
be taken as admitted, as in case of pleas. 
§ 2930. The general replication is, the plaintiff joins issue on
the plea. 
§ 2931. A special replication, like the plea, is a brief state­
ment, in plain, intelligible language, of the facts relied on as
an answer to the plea. 
§ 2932. By leave of the court, for causes shown, the defend­
ant may file more than one replication. 
§ 2933. The rules of this chapter in relation to pleas and
replications, apply to all subsequent pleadings. 
§ 2934. Demurrers for formal defects are abolished, and those
only for substantial defects are allowed, All demurrers shall 
state the objection relied on. 
§ 2935. Either before or after judgment on demurrer, the
court may permit an amendment of the pleadings, which 
amendment shall not delay the trial unless the court is satis-
fied that substantial justice requires a continuance. 
§ 2936. The party against whom a judgment on demurrer is
ren ere , may p e over as a matter o ng t, wit ou waiv- 
ing his privilege of aasigning the judgment on demurrer as
error in an appellate court, unless he has subeeq.uently had
the benefit secured by the demurrer, upon the trial of other
equivalent issues. 
§ 2937. If such party fails to plead over, a writ of inquiry, if
necessary to ascertain the damages, will issue immediately, 
and be executed the same term.
§ 2938. If, in the opinion of the court, a demurrer is inter- 
posed without cause, terms may be imposed, not exceeding
the costs of the action. 
ARTICLE IX. 
ARTICLE X. 
JORMS o:r DBCLARATION. 
2989. The following forms of declara­
tion may be used : 
1. Endoraee against acceptor. 
2. Against endorser ot bill of
exchange. 
8. .Against drawer of same.
4. Payee against matet of note.
6. Obligee against obligor of 
bill single.
6 . .Assignee against maker of 
bill single.
7. Against drawer and endor­ 
lel' ot draft.
8. On account or Terbal con­ 
tract, and common counts. 
DEMURRER. 
8BCTI01' 
2986. If demurrer sustained, party 
SEOTION 
niay plE!fd over, 
2937. It he fails to plead onr, writ of
inquiry inetanter. 
2988. Terms may be imposed for
friTolous demurrer. 
9. For chattels and d&magei5
for their use. 
IO. On independent connant.
11. On dependent covenant. 
12. On bonds with condition.
13 . .Againlt comnion carrier. 
14. Deceit in ale of chat- 
tel. 
16. On watn.nty of ,oundnesa
of slave. 
16. On policy ot illlUJ'ance. 
17. ConTerlion of chattels.
18. For trespass in taking good.a.
19. For fal8e imprieonmeat.
20. For verbal slander. 
SBCTIOX SBOTIOll' 
21. For libel. 24. For rent on demise. 
26. For use and occupation.
22. To recover Iand,
28. For trespau to land. 
§ 2939. The following forms of declaration may be used :
No. 1. Endorsee against acceptor of bill of exchange. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. and says that sum is due him on a bill of exchange, 
C. D. here to the court shown, drawn by E. F. on the day
of· 18 , (at if a foreign bill,) upon the defend- 
ant, (at ,) and accepted by him, payable to one G. H. on
the day of 18 , and by him and one J. K.
endorsed to the plaintiff. The said bill, not being paid at
maturity, was duly protested for nonpayment, and the amount
thereof, with interest and protest fees, is unpaid. 
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
No. 2. Endorsee against endorser. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. and says that sum is due him on a bill of exchange, 
C. D. here to the court shown, drawn by E. F. on the
day o 18 , at upon G. H. at for . 
dollars, in favor of I. J., and by him and the defendant en­
dorsed to the plaintiff The bill not being accepted, when
presented for that purpose, was duly protested for nonaccept­
ance, of which the defendant had due notice ; ( or, the bill was
accepted and presented on the day of 18 ,
when it matured, to the acceptor for payment, which being
refused, it was duly protested therefor, of which the defend­
ant had due notice; or as the case may be.) The bill, with 
damages and interest, is unpaid. .
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff. 
No. 3. Endorsee against drawer.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, 
vs. which he says is due him on a bill of exchange,
C. D. here to the court shown, drawn by the defendant on
the day of 18 , at , on E. F. at
for the payment of dollars to G. H. on the day of 
18 ·, "bi whom the bill was endorsed to the plain­
tiff, and the said bill not being paid at maturity, ( or not being
accepted, as the case may be,) was duly protested, of which
the defendant had due notice. The bill, with the damages
and interest due thereon, remains unpaid. 
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
No. 4. Payee against maker of promissory note. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, 
vs. due by promissory note, here to the court shown, 
C. D. made by him on the day of 18 , and
payable the day of 18 , with interest thereon,
which remains unpaid. 
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff. 
No. 5. Obligee against obligor, on bill single.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues defendant for dollars, due 
vs. by bond, here to the court shown, executed by him
C. D. on the day of 18 , payable on the 
day of 18 , with interest due thereon, which
remains unpaid. L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff: 
No. 6. Assignee against maker of bill single.
A. B. } The plaintiff sues the defendant on a bond exe- 
vs. cuted by him, and here to the court shown, on the
C. D. day of 18 , payable on the day of 
18 , to one.E. F., and by him assigned (or en­
dorsed) to the plaintiff, the amount of which bond, with
interest, remains unpaid. L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff. 
No. 7. Holder against drawer and endorsers.
A. B. } The plaintiff sues the defendants 
vs. on a bill of exchange (bond or note as
C. D., E. F., & G. H. the case may be) drawn by defendant
C. D., and here to the court shown, on the day of
18 , at , on I. J. at , and made payable on the 
day of 18 , to defendant E. F., and by him
and the defendant G. H. endorsed to the plaintiff. The bill
was accepted, but, when presented for payment at maturity,
was not paid, and was thereupon duly protested, of which the
defendants had notice. The bill, with damages and interest 
due thereon, remains unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff. 
No. 8. On an account or verbal contract.
A. B.} The plaintiff (for the use of E. F., as the case may 
vs. be) sues the defendant for dollars, which he says
C. D. is due from him on the day of 18 , by ac­
count; or for money loaned by the plaintiff to the defendant
on the day of 18 ; or on an account stated between
the plaintiff and defendant on the day of 18 ; or
for goods, wares, and merchandise ( or specific articles, as the
case may be) sold by the plaintiff to the defendant on the 
day of 18 ; or for money paid by the plaintiff
for the defendant, at his request; or for' work and labor done
for the defendant by the plaintiff, at his request, on the
day of 18 ; which several sums of money, ( or which
sum of money,) with the interest thereon, are now due, (or
is due.) L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
N. B.-These several causes of action may be joined to-
gether as the common counts have heretofore been joined. 
No. 9. For chattels, and damages for their use.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for the following 
vs. slaves, the property of the plaintiff, ( or horses or
C. D. other personal property, as the case may be, describ­
ing it succinctly,) with the value of the hire or use thereof,
during the detention, viz.: from the day of 18 ,
to the day of 18 . 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
No. 10. On an independent covenant or agreement.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, 
vs. damages for the breach of a covenant (or agreement
C. D. as the case may be) entered into by him on the
day 18 , and here to the court shown, by which he
agreed-(here set out the contract or agreement, and the
breach complained of.) L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
If a demand ia necessary to entitle the· plaintiff' to his
action, it must be averred. 
No. 11. On a dependent covenant or agreement.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, 
vs. for the breach of a covenant here to the court
C. D. shown, (contract or agreement,) entered into by him
on the day of 18 , in substance as follows : (here
insert a copy, or according to its legal effect;) yet, although
the plaintiff has complied with all its provisions on his part,
the defendant has failed to comply with the following pro­
visions thereof, viz. : (here set out distinctly the matter, or
several matters, complained of.) 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 12. On bonds with condition. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. for the breach of the condition of a. bond ( or agree- 
C. D. ment) here to the court shown, made by the defend-
ant on the day of 18 , and payable to the
plaintiff, in the sum of dollars, with condition, (here state
the condition concisely.) And the plaintiff says the condi­
tion of said bond has been broken by the defendant in this :
(here state concisely and distinctly the breach or breaches
complained of, :first, second, etc.,) whereby the plaintiff has
been damaged as above. . 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 13. Against a common carrier. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for the failure to deliver certain goods, ( or 
C. D. within the time stipulated, or within a reasonable
time, or in good condition, or as the case may be,) viz.: (here
describe succinctly the goods,) received by him as a common
carrier, to be delivered to the plaintiff at · f01: a re­
ward, which he failed to do, (or by the time stipulated, or
within a reasonable time, or damaged, or as the case may
be.) · L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff: 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for a deceit in the sale of a horse, which 
No. 14. Deceit in sale of chattels. 
C. D. the defendant sold to the plaintiff; and at the time
knew to be unsound. L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
No. 15. On a warranty.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as 
vs. damages for a breach of warranty in a bill of sale,
C. D. here shown to the court, of a slave named , 
by him sold to the plaintiff on the day of 18
and warranted to be sound in body and mind, when, in fact,
the said slave was, at the time of the sale and warranty,
unsound in body, (the warrantj, and breach to be stated, 
according to the facts.) _ 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 16. On a policy of insurance. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. the value of certain goods, which the defendant, on 
C. D. the day of 18 , insured against loss
or injury by perils of navigation, and other perils in the.
policy mentioned, from to - in this State,
on board the steamboat , which goods were wholly 
lost by the sinking of said steamboat on her voyage, of
which the defendant had due notice. • 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 17. For the conversion of chattels. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, aa
vs. damages for the conversion by him, on the day 
C. D. of 18 _, of the following chattels, (de-
scribing them,) the property of the plaintiff: _ 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. .
. No. 18. For trespass in taking goods. . 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as 
1)8. damages for wrongfully taking the following goods
C. D. and chattels, thetroperty of the plaintiff, viz.: (here 
state the goods, ete.) . . M.,. Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 1~. For false imprisonment. . . 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for maliciously and illegally arresting and 
C. D. imprisoning him, or causing him to be arrested and
imprisoned for days from the day of 18 
:N" o. 20. Verbal slander. 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. . 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for falsely and maliciously charging the 
C. D. plaintiff with perjury, (larceny or other crime, as the
case may be,) by speaking of and concerning him in the pres- 
ence of divers pers?.ns, o_n the day of 18 ,
and at divers other times, m substance as follows: (here set 
out the defamatory language.) ·
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
No. 21. Libel.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, 
vs. damages for falsely and maliciously publishing of 
C. D. and concerning him in a newspaper published, etc.,
called, etc., (or book or writing, or as the case may be,) the
following false and.defamatory matter, with intent to defame
the plain tiff, viz. : (here set out the language charged · as 
Iibellous.) on the day of 18 .
. . L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff. 
No. 22. For the recovery of land.
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant to recover an 
vs. undivided moiety ( or third or other interest, as the
C. D. case· may be) in the following tract of land (or the
possession, as the case may be) of which he was possessed,
claiming in fee, (or for years1 etc.,) before the commencement
of this suit, and after such possession accrued, the defend­
ant, on the da1. of 18 , entered thereupon, 
and unlawfully withholds and detains the same, together
with dollars, due for the detention thereof 
L. lL, Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 23. For trespass to land. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for a trespass by the defendant, on the 
C. D. day of 18. , and on divers other days and
times, on the following tract of land, belonging to ( or in the
possession of) the plaintiff, ( describing it,) and for cutting
the timber, treading down the grass, etc., (setting forth any
other facts in aggravation.} · 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 24. For rent on demise. 
A. B.} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. the rent of a tract of'land, (describing it,) leased by the 
C. D. · plaintiff to the defendant, on the day of
18 , the rent then commencing, and ending on the
dayof 18 . 
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 25. For use and occupation of land. 
A. B.} · The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. for the use and occupation by him of the following 
C. D. tract of land belonging to the plaintiff, (describ­
ing it,) from the day of 18 , to the day
of 18 . 
§ 2940. The following forms of pleas may be used :
No. 1. Non est factum. 
A. B., Plaintiff, } The defendant for {>lea says that the
vs. note (bond or other mstrument) upon 
C. D., Defendant. which the plaintiff's action is founded 
was not executed by him, or by any one authorized to bind
him in the 'premiees.c-E, F., Attorney for Defendant. And
defendant makes oath that the above plea is true. (If filed
by an executor or administrator, that he believes it to be
true.) Sworn to and subscribed before me, J. K .. 
No. 2. Not guilty.
A. B.} The defendant for plea says he is not guilty of the 
vs. matters in the plaintiff's declaration alleged. ·
C. D. E. F., Attorney for Defendant. 
A. B.} The defendant for plea says he did not promise,
vs. (undertake, agree, covenant, or as the case may be,) 
No. 3. General issue or denial. 
C. D. as the plaintiff hath in his declaration alleged.
No. 4. Payment. 
A. B.} The defendant for plea says that he paid the debt 
»s. or demand, for the recovel'y of which the suit is
C. D. brought, before the action was commenced. 
A. B.} The defendant for plea says that plaintiff's action
vs. accrued more than years before suit 
No. 5. Statute of limitations. 
C. D. brought.
No. 6. Infancy. 
A. B.} The defendant for plea says that at the time of
vs. the execution of the note on which the suit is 
C. D. brought, ( or at the time the cause of action accrued,
or as the case may be,) he W!¥3 a minor, ti~der the age of
twenty-one years. 
No. 7. Usury.
A. B.} The defendant for plea says tliat the note, (bond 
vs. or contract,) upon which the action is founded, is
C. D. usurious to the extent of dollars, part
thereof. 
No. 8. Set-off.
A. B. } The defendant for plea says that at the time the 
vs. :plaintiff's action was commenced, the plaintiff was
C. D. mdebted to him in the sum of , dollars, 
by note, dated day af 18 , and due
day of .18 , (account, bond, or as the case may be,
and describing it by date, amount, and when and to whom 
~ay;able,) which he hereby _offe~ to set off against th~ plain­
tiff's demand, (and he elaims Judgment for the residue, as
the case may be.) 
No. 9. Tender. .
A. B. } The defendant for plea says .that before action was 
vs. commenced, he tendered to the plaintiff the amount
C. D. due him, to wit, . dollars, and now brings the 
money into court, ( or, he tendered/the articles sued for, and
has always been ready and willing to perform his contract
with the plaintiff, or as the case may be.) 
OF CONTINUANCES, AND PROCEEDINGS PRELUflNARY TO THE
TRIAL. 
S:scTI01' 
CHAPTER 10. 
2941. Causes may be continued by
consent, or for sufficient cause. 
2942. But the court may impose
terms. 
2943. And give judgment and execu­
tion for .eosts. 
2944. Marriage or death no ground of
continuance, if c9:use revived. 
2945. Causes to be docketed in order
of preparation. 
SECTI01' 
2946. If several ready at same time,
in order of commencement. 
2947. Causes are to be tried in order.
2948. Court may apportion eeuses, 
subject to priority as provided.
2949. Practice of the Chancery Conn 
applies to all equity causes.
2950. Practice of Circuit Court to all 
legal actions. 
§ 2941. Any cause may be continued by consent of both
parties, or on su cient cause shown by affidavit.
§ 2942. The court, in granting continuances, may impose 
terms upon the party at whose .instance the cause has been
continued, by making him pay costs or otherwise, as may 
best further the progress of the cause and the enda of justice.
§ 2943. If a continuance is granted on payment of costs, 
the court shall enter judgment, and award execution for such
costs. 
§ 2944. The marriage ·or death of a party shall not prevent
a trial at the term at which the cause is revived. 
§ 2945. The clerk of each court shall enter causes upon his 
trial-docket in the order in which they become ready for
trial, giving the cause first ready for trial, either by due
course of law or consent of parties, priority of position on the
docket. 
§ 2946. If a number of causes become ready for trial at the
same time, they shall be entered on the docket in the order
of their commencement. 
§ 2947. Oauses thus docketed should be tried and disposed ·
of in their order, unless the parties consent to a different
urrangem en t. 
§ 2948. The court may, in its discretion, direct the clerk to 
apportion t e causes or as many ays o t e term as may
be deemed necessary for their trial and disposition, but such
apportionment shall not affect the priority given by the last section.
§ 2949. The rules of practice of the Chancery Court, as pre- 
scribed in Chapter 3, of Title 10, of this part of the Code,
will apply to all cases in equity, or in the nature of equity, in
all the judicial tribunals of this State, unless otherwise ex­ 
pressly provided. 
§ 2950. So, also, the rules· of practice of the Circuit Court,
as prescribed in Chapter 3, of Title 8, of this part of the Code,
apply to all cases at law in all the judicial tribunals of this
State, unless otherwise expressly provided.
CHAPTER 11. 
OF THE TRIAL .A.ND ITS INCIDENTS. 
2951. Judgment by default if defend­
ant fails to appear. 
2962. Final, if plain on papers ; if
not. damages ueessed forth­
with by jury. 
2953. Issues of law heard by court at
first term. 
2954. On sustaining demurrer, judg­
ment given unless party pleads
over. 
2965. Issues of fact in equity causes
heard by court. 
2966. In actions at law, by a jury,
unless submitted to the court
by consent. 
2967, 2968. Charge of the Judge to
the jury to be in writing, 
when.
2969. Decision of court to be in writ­ 
ing, if required.
2960. Jury causes ban precedence. 
SJCOTION 
2961. Jury !4 be called over before
being sworn. · 
2962. Disabled juror may be dis­
charged, and cause tried de
novo. 
2968. Or, by consent, by the remain­
ing jurors. 
2964. Plaintiff may dismiss before
jury retire, but defendant may
elect to proceed on set-off. 
2965. Defendant may withdraw coun­
ter claim before jury retires. 
2966. If the trial is by the court, the
dismissal or withdrawal must
be before cause is submitted. 
2967. Court may require instructions
asked for to be in writing. 
2968. Bill of exceptions to be signed
by Judge. 
2969. Verdict applied to good counts
in declaration. 
§ 2951. If the defendant fail to appear and defend at the
time prescribed by law, judgment by default may be taken 
against him.
§ 2952. In such case, the judgment is final if the amount of 
the plaintiff's claim can be ascertained by simple calculation
from the papers; when the amount cannot be thus readily 
ascertained, the damages will be assessed by a jury empan-
elled at the same term for the purpose. 
§ 2953. Issues of law made by the pleadings are heard and
determined by the .court in all civil actions at law or in
equity, and stand for ariument at the first term. · 
§ 2954. Upon the decision of a demurrer, if the unsuccess-
fnl party foil to amend or plead over, writ of inquiry may be 
awarded, or judgment rendered, at the same term.
§ 2955. Issues of fact in all equity causes are heard and de- 
termined by the court, unless a jury is demanded by one of~~=ty
the parties under the provisions of this Code. 
§ 2956. Issues of fact in actions at law are triable by jury as
of course, unless submitted by both parties to the decision
of the court, in which case, it is the duty of the court to
hear and determine the issues without the intervention of
a jury.
§ 2957. On the trial of any suit, civil or criminal, in the
Circuit Court, the J u<lge shall deliver a written charge to 
the jury, if the attorney for either party desire it, and pre­
sent to him, on the opening of the cause, a brief statement
in writing of the points on which he expects to rely; and
the Judge's charge shall embrace his opinion upon the sev­
eral points con tamed in the statement; and it shall be filed
with the papers, and constitute a part of the record. 
§ 2958. Should other points besides those contained in the
attorney's statement arise in the progress of the cause, the
Judge, on being requested in writing to do so, shall deliver
a written charge thereon. And he shall embrace in his
charge all other points upon which he may deem it essential
to charge the jury, though the same be not embraced.in the
statements of the attorneys. 
§ 2959. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, the
decision, if requested by either party, shall be given in writ­
ing, stating the facts found and the conclusions thereon,
which shall constitute a part of the record. 
§ 2960. Jury causes always have precedence in the disposi-
tion of the business of the court, if the regular panel is in
attendance; but actions at law submitted to the court upon
issues of fact, without the intervention of a jury, are jury
causes within the meaning of this section, if witnesses are
in attendance.
§ 2961. In all civil causes, before the jury is sworn, the clerk
shall call over the names of the jury in the pane], in the
presence and hearing of the parties and their counsel. 
2062. If, after the jury is empanelled, and before verdict,
a juror becomes sick or otherwise disabled, so as to be una­ 
ble to perform his duty, he may be discharged by the court;
and, in such case, unless otherwise arranged by the parties,
the va-cancy may be filled, and the trial commenced anew, or
the court may, in its discretion, order the jury to be dis­
charged and a new one empanelled. 
§ 2962. In case of the disability of a juror or jurors, under
the foregoing section, the cause may be trie<l and determined,
by consent of parties, by the remaining jurors. 
2964. The plaintiff may, at any time before the jury re­
tires, take a non-suit, or dismiss his action, as to any one or 
more defendants; but if the defendant has pleaded a set-off or
counter claim, he may elect to proceed on such countor claim 
m t e capacity o a p aiuti . 
§ 2965. The defendant may, in like manner, withdraw his
counter claim at any time before the jury retires to consider 
of their verdict. 
§ 2966. If the t~ial is by the court instead of the jury, the
non-suit.or dismissal provided for in the last two .sections, 
shall be made before the cause is finally submitted to the
court, and not afterwards. 
§ 2967. Instructions to the jury, asked for by either party,
may be required by the court to be first committed to writing. 
§ 2968. The truth of the case being fairly stated in the bill
of exceptions, the Judge shall sign the same, which there- 
upon becomes a part of the record of the cause. ·
§ 2969. If any counts in a declaration are good, a verdict for 
entire damages shall be applied to such good counts. . 
ARTICLE I. Form and General Requisites.
II. Judgment by Confession. 
8BCTIOlf 
CHAPTER 12. 
OF JUDGMENTS AND DECREES. 
III. Lien of Judgments and Decrees.
IV. Revival of Judgments. 
V. Setting aside Satisfaction, and Substitution. 
ARTICLE I. 
FORM. AND GENERAL REQUISITES. 
2970~ "Judgment" and "decree" in­
terchangeable in this Code. 
2971. Is interlocutory or final accord­
ing to purport. 
2972. May be for or against one or
more plaintiff's or defendants. 
8BOTIOlf 
2978. And as the right may appear.
297 4. And moulded according to the 
rights of the parties.
2976. Damages as heretofore for same 
cause of act.ion.
2976. On bonds with conditions. 
§ 2970. The word judgment is usually applied to a determi-
nation of the rights of the parties in an action at law, and 
the word decree to a similar determination in equity; but
the words are interchangeable in this Code, each embracing
both classes of determination, unless limited expressly or by
the context. 
§ 2971. A judgment or decree may be interlocutory or final,
to be determined by the subject-matter and substantial pur- 
port thereof.
§ 2972. Judgments may be given for or against one or more 
of several plaintiffs, or for or against one or more of several
defendants. 
§ 2973. In such case, the verdict shall be as the right may
appear, and shall state separately any amount allowed to any 
of the parties. . 
§ 2974. Such and so many judgments, joint, separate, and
cross, may be rendered as may be necessary to the rights of 
the parties ; or one amount may be set off against another,
and judgment rendered for the residue; or juo~ment may be
rendered for the defendant ag-ainst the plaintiff for any
amount or balance for which it is found that the plaintiff is 
liable. . 
§ 2975. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any 
rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered
in any form of action for the same cause. 
§ 2976. In actions brought on bonds or agreements for the
payment of money, or with collateral conditions, and recovery 
had by. the plaintiff, the judgment shall be· entered for the
sti.Pulated penalty, to be discharged by the payinent of the 
principal and interest due thereon, or the damages assessed
by the jury, and execution shall issue accordingly. 
ARTICLE II. 
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION. 
SECTION I SscT10N • 
29i7. Judgment may be confessed on 2978. Or on written authority.
evidence of debt, 2979. To be filed as part of record. 
§ 2977. Any person indebted to another in any way, may go,
with the evidence of the debt or a statement of the cause
of indebtedness in writing, before any Justice' of the Peace, 
or into any court having jurisdiction of the amount, and 
confess judgment in favor of the creditor for the amount 
then due. 
§ 2978. So, also, if the debtor at the time the debt was con­
tracted, or afterwards, authorize any person in writing to
confess judgment in any court of record, or before any Jus­
tice of the Peace, for the amount of such debt, the person
authorized may, after the debt becomes due, go before any
Justice of the Peace, or into any court having Jurisdiction of
the amount, and confess judgment in favor of the creditor
for the amount then due. 
§ 2979. The written evidence of the debt shall be filed and
constitute a. part of the record of the cause, and no appeal
or writ of error shall be granted from such judgment; and
no more costs shall be taxed than the clerk' s fee for entering
the judgment and issuing execution, if execution be issued. 
SECTION • 
ARTICLE III. 
LIEN OF JUDGMENTS. 
2980 -. Judgment is a lien on land from
rendition in county of defend­ 
ant's residence.
2981. In other cases, from registration 
· in county of defendant's resi­
dence, or where land lies. 
2982. But lien lost if not enforced in
twelve months after rendition. 
2983. Or after injunction, etc., re·
moved. 
SBCTIOlf 
2984. To bind equity in land, must be
registered within sixty dftys
in eountj; where land lies. 
2986. And interest in personalty, in
county of debtor's residence,
or where property is. 
2986. In both cases, bill to be filed in
thirty days after return of ex­
ecution unsatisfied. 
§ 2980. Judgments and decrees obtained in any court ofLlenoolaod.
record of this State in the county where the.debtor resides
at the time of rendition, shall be a lien upon the debtor's
land from the time the same were rendered. 
§ 2981. If rendered in any other county than that in which
the debtor resides, the lien shall take eft'ect only from the 
time when a certified copy of the judgment or decree shall
be registered in the county where the debtor resides, if he
resides in the State, or if not, then in the county where the
land lies. 
§ 2982. The lien thus given will be lost, unless an execution
is taken out and the land sold within twelve months after
the rendition of the judgment or decree. 
§ 2983. If the sale within the twelve months is prevented by
injunction, writ of error, appeal in the nature of a writ of
error, or other adverse proceeding in court, the lien will be
continued, provided the creditor shall issue execution and
sell the land within one year after the injunction is dissolved,
the judgment or decree affirmed, or other adverse legal pro- 
ceeding dismissed. · · ·
§ 2984. A judgment or decree shall not bind the equitable 
interest of the debtor in real estate or other property, unless
within sixty day\ from its rendition a memorandum of the 
judgment or decree, stating the amount and. date thereof,
with the names of the parties, is registered in the register's
office of the county where the real estate is situated. 
§ 2985. Nor shall an execution thereon bind the debtor's
legal or equitable interest in stock, choses in action, or other 
personal property, not liable at law, unless a similar memo·
randum is registered within the same period of sixty days,
in the county where the debtor resides, if he lives in the
State, or if not, then in the county where the property is. 
§  2986; And, .in .both c~se~, the lie!1 shall ce:1s~, un1~ss a bill
m eqmty to subject said mterest is filed within thirty days 
from the return of the execution unsatisfied. 
§ 2987. It shall not be necessary t.o issue a scire facias to 
revive judgments or decrees which have lain a year and a
day without the issuance of an execution, but execution may
be s.ued out, in such case, after the year and day, as if issued
withia that time. · . 
§ 2988. If there are more defendants than one, and any of
them die, leaving the co-defendant or co-defendants surviv­
ing, the plaintiff may proceed by execution against the sur­
vivor, or revive by scire faciaa against any portion or all ·of
the personal representatives of the deceased, to be issued to
any county in the State. 
§ 2989. The provisions of the last two sections shall apply 
to ustices JU gments, as we as to JU gments o courts 
of record. 
§ 2990. In all cases where execution from a court of record
or Justice of the Peace is returned satisfied, in whole or in
part, by the sale of property, real or personal, taken· as the
property of the defendant, and, afterwards, the property or
its value, or any part of it, is recovered by some third person
by suit against the plaintiff, or the officer making the levy or 
sale, the plaintiff may have the satisfaction set aside, and the 
.judgment or decree revived by scire facias.
§ 2991. The scire facias may be obtained on affidavit of the 
plaintiff, setting forth the facts of the sale and recovery, and
shall be served, returned, and heard as in other cases . 
§ 2992. The provisions of these two sections. shall apply to
judgments and decrees for costs, upon affidavit of any party 
interested in the costs. · .
§ 2993. And in case the sheriff or other officer making the 
sale shall not have taken any bond of indemnity, and the de-
fondant in the execution shall proceed against him and 
recover judgment, he shall be substituted to the rights of
the plaintiff under the two foregoing sections. . ' 
§ 2994. Whenever a judgment by motion, or action at law,
is had against a sheriff: coroner, or constable, and his official 
sureties, for a failure of duty in and about an execution, and
the amount of such judgment has been paid by the sureties,
the sureties are entitled, at their cost and risk, to issue an
execution for their benefit on the original judgment. about 
which the recovery was had. ·
§ 2995. The clerk or Justice of the Peace shall, in such 
case, endorse upon the execution at whose instance it is sued
out, and take from such person's bond with security in a
sufficient amount for the costs and damages which may 
accrue.
§ 2996. In the same way, in all cashes in which property, 
rea or personal, is recovered from t e :eurchaser at execu-
tion, or master's sale, by the defendant, his heirs or represen-' 
tatives, or by third persons, the court rendering the judg-
ment, or· making the sale, may, in its discretion, upon
application of such purchaser, and scire facias sued out, set
aside the· satisfaction entered, and revive the original judg-
ment or decree for the benefit of the said purchaser. 
CHAPTER 13. 
OF EXECUTION. 
ARTICLE I. Form and General Requisites, and Tosto.
II. Issuance, Endorsements, and Official Entries. 
III. Return of Execution.
IV. Levy of Execution. 
V. Sales by Execution. 
VI. Delivery Bonds. 
VII. Conveyance upon Sale by Execution ..
VIII. Stay of Execution on Justice's Judgment. 
IX. Other Provisions relating to Justice's Execu­
tions. 
ARTICLE X. Exemptions and Redemption.
XI. Execution by Garnishment. 
FORM, GENERAL REQUISITES, AND TBSTE OF EXECUTIONS. 
'8SCTl01' 
2997. Judgment may be executed by
writ of possession. 
2998. And by execution.
2999. Which issues against goods and 
§ 2997. If a judgment or decree be that the party recover
or be put in possession of the specific property, real or per­ 
sonal, the court may carry the same mto effect by writ of
possession, or other process sufficient for the purpose. 
§ 2998. All judgments and decrees of any of the judicial
tribunals of this State, for money, may be enforced by exe­
cution. 
§ 2999. Executions issue against the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of the defendant. 
§ 3000. The party in whose favor a judgment or decree is
rendere agamst a corporation, may sue out a distringas or
fieri facias to be levied as well on the choses in action as
on the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the corpo~-
tion ; and in case of a levy on choses in action, the court
may appoint a receiver to collect the same. 
§ 3001. Court executions are tested of the first day of the
term next before the date of issuance; Justices' executions
of the day of issuance. 
ARTICLE I. ISSUANCE OF EXECUTIONS, ENDORSEMENTS THER:t:ON, AND OFFI­
CIAL ENTRIES RELATING THERETO. 
8BCTION 
XII. Execution by Attachment. 
lands. 
8002. Executions of any one term to
be issued within time pre­
scribed. 
8003. From Supreme Court, within
sixty days o.fter adjournment. 
8004. From Chancery Court, wi~hin
twenty days, if term less than
two weeks, otherwise t.hirty 
days. 

SECTION 
3000. And by ~istringas against cor­
porations. 
3001. Teate of executions. 
ARTICLE II. 
SECTION 
3005. From Circuit Court, within thir­
ty days, if term less than two
weeks, otherwise forty days. 
8006. From-County Court, within ten
days, if term less than one
week, otherwise twenty days. 
3007. Other courts, within time pre-
scribed for Circuit Court. 
8008. From Justice's court, within 
SECTION 
five days after ti.me allowed
for stay. 
3009. Clerk may issue execution soon­
er, on good cause shown. 
3010. Court may issue before adjourn­
ment, on good cause shown. 
8011. And Justice, before expiration
of time allowed for s~y. 
3012. But defendant is not deprived
of any right. 
8018. Execution issued at other times
on demand. 
301,J. Failure is a misdemeanor, and
subject to a penalty of $500. 
SECTION 
3015. Date of issuance, date and
amount of judgment, and bill
of costs, to be endorsed. 
8016. Entries to be made on execution
docket. 
8017. Penalty for neglect.
8018. Endorsements to be made by 
collecting officer.
3019. Penalty f9r neglect.
8020. No alias until previous execu­ 
tion returned or accounted
.for. 
§ 3002. The clerks of the several courts shall issue executions
in favor of the successful part;, on all judgments rendered at 
any term, as soon after the adjournment of the court as prac-
ticable, and within the time prescribed by this Code, without
any demand of the party. 
§ 3003. Clerks of the Supreme Court shall issue executions
within sixty days after the adjournment of each term. 
§ 3004. The clerks of the Chancery Courts, when the court
con tinues in session less than two weeks, within twenty days 
thereafter; when it continues in session longer than two
weeks, within thirty days thereafter. 
§ 3005. The clerks. of the Circuit Courts, when the court
continues in session less than two weeks, within thirty days;
when more than two weeks, within forty days thereafter. 
§ 3006. The clerks of the County Courts, when the court
continues in session less than one week, within ten days 
thereafter; when more than one week, within twenty days.
§ 3007. The clerks of all other. courts within the time pre- 
scribed for the clerks of the Circuit Courts.
§ 3008. Justices of the Peace shall, in all cases, issue execu- 
tion within five days after the time allowed for the stay of
execution. . 
§ 3009. After the adjournment of the court, and before the
expiration of the time prescribed by the preceding sections,
the clerk shall issue execution without delay, upon affidavit
made and filed in his office, that the defendant is about
fraudulently tq dispose of, conceal, or 'remove his property, to
the endangering of the plaintiff's debt. · . 
§ 3010. Upon the rendition of judgment or decree, exeou-
tion may be issued, by leave of the court, before the adjourn- 
ment thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney showing suf-
ficient cause by affidavit. · 
§ 3011. In like manner, J usticee of the Peace may, immedi-
ately after judgment and before the expiration of the time
allowed by law for the stay of execution, issue execution en
good cause shown by affidavit; and affidavit by the plaintiff, 
his agent or attorney, as prescribed in the section next before
the last, will be good cause within the meaning of this pro­
vision. 
§ 3012. The issuance · of execution under the provisions· of
the two preceding sections, will not deprive the defendant of
any right he would otherwise have had. 
§ 3013. In all other cases than those herein before provided
for, the clerk or Justice, as the case may be, shall issue to the 
plaintiff; his agent or attorney, on demand, an execution on
any judgment or decree to which the plaintiff is entitled. 
§ 3014. Any clerk or Justice who fails "or refuses to issue
execution as prescribed in the preceding section, forfeits five
hundred dollars, to be recovered by action, and is liable to
the party aggrieved in damages, and is also guilty of a mis­
demeanor in office, for which, upon conviction, he shall be
removed from office. 
§ 3015. The clerk, or Justice, as the case may be, shall en­
dorse on the execution, when issued, the date and amount of 
the judgment, and the items of the bill of costs, written in
words, and the amounts distinctly stated. in figures, and the
date of issuance. 
§ 3016. He shall also enter upon the execution docket the
date of the issuance of such execution, and to what county and 
officer issued; the return of the officer, with the date of suoh
return; the dates and amounts of all moneys received into,
or paid out of the office thereon; the entries to be made at
the time of the issuance, receipt or payment, as the case 
may be. .
§ 3017. The clerk or Justice neglecting the provisions of the 
two preceding sections, is liable to a penalty of one hundred
and twenty-five dollars, to be recovered by action, one half to
the informer, the other half to the State; to darna$es at the
suit of the party aggrieved; and is also guilty of a· misde­
meanor in office, for which, on conviction, he shall be removed
from office. 
§ 3018. The officer to whom an execution is legally issued,
shall, in like manner, endorse thereon the day on which he 
received it; any levy, sale, or other act done by virtue thereof,
with the date, and the dates and amounts of any receipts or
payments in satisfaction thereof; the endorsements to be
made at the time of the receipt or act done. 
§ 3019. Any officer who fails or neglects to comply with the 
provisions of the foregoing section, forfeits one hundred and
twenty-five dollars, t-0 any person who will sue therefor, and
is also guilty of a misdemeanor in office, for which, on con­
viction, he may be removed from office. 
· 
§ 3020. No alias or pluries execution shall issue until the 
previous execution is returned, or satisfactorily accounted for, 
by affidavit, 
§ 3021. All executions issuinflifrom the Supreme Court shall 
be returnable within six mont s from the commencement of
the term, if issued within the six months, and to the first day 
of the next term; if issued more than six months after the
commencement of the previous term. 
§ 3022. All executions issuing from the Circuit and Chancery
Courts, or from any criminal or special court, shall be return- 
able to the first day of the term next ensuing the date of issu-
ance. 
§ 3023. All executions from the County Court, shall be re-
turnable to the first day of the· third term after the term of 
which they are tested.
§ 3024. All Justice's executions shall be returnable within 
.'thirty days after the date of their issuance, to the Justice who
issued them, or the Justice who may have possession of the 
original judgment, as the case may be. /
§ 3025. Every sheriff or other officer, to whose hands an exe- 
cution may legally come, shall give a receipt therefor, if re-
quired, and make sufficient return thereof, together with the 
money collected, on or before the return day as above pre-
scribed. 
ARTICLE IV. 
LEVY OF EXECUTION. 
SECTION 
8082. Officer may require bond of in­
demnity, if property disputed. 
8038. Execution may be levied on
entry or location. 
8084. And on turnpike and railroad
stock. 
8086. The officer to notify secretary
of company of the levy. 
8086. On growing crop, when.
8087. On choses in action of corpora­ 
tion. 
§ 3026. Executions shall be levied of the goods and .ehattels
of the defendant, in the first instance, if any there be, but if, 
to the best of the officer's knowledge, there be no such
goods and chattels, or not sufficient to answer the plaintiff's 
demand, the same shall be executed upon the lands and
tenements. 
§ 3027. A description of the property levied on, with the
date of the levy, shall be endorsed upon or appended to the
execution. 
§ 3028. Where the judgment or decree is against a principal
and his surety, it shall be the. duty of the officer having -the 
collection thereof, to exhaust the property of the principal,
both real and personal, before proceeding to sell the property
of the surety. 
§ 3029. The term "surety," in the foregoing section, shall
embrace accommodation endorsers, stayors, and all other
persons whose liability on the debt or contract is posterior
to that of another. But the surety shall, if requested by the
officer, show the property of the principal, to entitle himself
to the benefit of this provision. 
§ 3030. After exhausting the property of the principal, it
shall be the duty of the officer to subject the property of the
other parties in the order of their liability on the debt or 
contract. But the party subsequently liable shall, if re­
quested by the officer, show the property of tlie party liable 
before him, to entitle himself to the benefit of this provision.
§ 3031. But all the parties will be considered as equally 
liable, in all cases, unless the order of liability is shown to the
court or Justice, and recited in the judgment or decree. 
And the clerk or Justice issuing execution on the jud~ment
or decree containing such recital, shall state the order of
liability in the execution. 
§ 3032. No sheriff or other officer shall be required to leJ.
an execution on any property the title of which is dispute ,
or to sell the same after levy, unless the plaintiff will first
give bond and security to such officer, to indemnify him
against all damages and costs in consequence of the levy or 
-sale, ·
§ 3033. Executions may be levied on land held by entry or 
location, in the same manner as land held by deed or grant;
and the officer's assignment of the warrant, and transfer to 
the purchaser of the entry or location, or plat and certificate
of survey if made out, shall vest him with all the rights of
the execution debtor. 
§ 3034. The stock in all the turnpikes and railroads char-
tered in this State shall be deemed personal property, and be 
subject to levy and sale bl execution. · 
§ 3035. The officer makmg the levy shall, at the time of
such levy, or as soon thereafter as practicable, notify the 
secretary or other officer intrusted with the books of the
turnpike or railroad company, qf the fact of such levy; the 
notice to be given· personally, or in writing left at the office
of the secretary, or other officer as aforesaid. 
§ 3036. A levy may be made upon a growing crop, but not
until the 15th November after such crop is matured, and 
then only subject to the landlord's lien, if any. If, however,
the owner of the crop absconds, conceals himself, or leaves
the country, an attachment or execution may be levied on a
standing crop at any time. 
§ 3037. An execution against a corporation may be levied 
o its c oses m action, as we as o t e goo · s an c atte s, 
lands and tenements of such corporation ; and in case of a
levy on choses in action, the court may appoint a receiver to
collect the same. 
§ 3088. Execution sales shall be made between the hours of
ten in the forenoon and four in the afternoon. 
§ 3039. The officer making a levy on property, shall adver- 
tise the time and place of sale at five public places at least,
in his county, one· of which shall be the door of the court-
house, and another, if the sale be of personalt7, at the most
public ylace in the neighborhood of the defendant; if of
realty, m the civil district where the land lies. But consta-
bles residing out of the district including the county seat,
shall not be required to advertise at the court-house door,
except where slaves may have been levied on. 
§ 3040. All sales of lands and slaves shall also be advertised
as provided in sections 2145-2149. 
§ 3041. The advertisement of sale shall be at least thirty
days for land and slaves, and ten days for all other kinds of 
property. ·
§ 3042. If the defendant is in actual possession and occupa- 
tion of the land levied on, the officer having the execution 
shall, at least twenty days previous to such sale, serve the de-
fendant with written notice, stating that the execution is
levied on said land, and mentioning the time and place of
sale ; and sales made without the notice required in this section are void. 
§ 3043. At any time before ten· o'clock A.M. on the day of
sale, the defendant may deliver to the officer a plan of division of the lands levied on, subscribed by him, and it shall,
in that case, be the duty of the officer to sell, according to 
said plan, so much of the land as may be necessary to satisfy
the debt and costs, and no more. Ifno such plan ie furnished,
the officer may sell without any division. 
ARTICLE VI. 
DELIVERY BONDS. 
8044. Defendant may give bond to
deliver property on day of
sale. 
8045. Sutelies liable for value of pro­
perty, to be ascertained sum­ 
marily.
8046. Delivery bond equivalent to 
judgment, if forfeited.
8047. Surety on bond liable before 
81tCTI01' 
original defendant who does
not join therein. 
8048. Duty of officer after forfeiture;
order of liability of parties. 
8049. Return, if satisfaction not ob­ 
tained.
8050. No second delivery bond al­ 
lowed.
3061. No delivery bond allowed on 
executions for oflioial default. 
3044. When personal property is levied on, if the defend­
ant will give bond, :payable to the creditor, in double the
amount of the execution, conditioned to deliver the property
levied on to the proper officer by twelve o'clock noon of the
day of sale, the sheriff may restore the property to the
defendant. 
§ 3045. The sureties on a forfeited delivery bond shall not
be held responsible for more than the value of the property 
specified in the bond, and not delivered according to its con­
dition; and the value of the property, if not agreed upon, 
shall be ascertained in a summary way by a jury of five dis­
in terestcd men, summoned by the officer making the levy or 
holding the execution, whose valuation shall be final.
§ 3046. The delivery bond, if forfeited, shall be, in the hands 
of the officer holding it, a sufficient authority to levy upon
and sell so much of the property of the sureties as will satisfy 
the amount for which they have made themselves liable; and
shall also be a sufficient authority to the clerk or Justice to
whom the same may be returned, to issue an alias or pluries
execution, as the case may be, against the defendant to the
judgment, and against the sureties on said bond, without
any judgment upon the bond. 
§  3047. If there are more defendants than one to the original
execution, and any of them do not join in the delivery bond,
the sureties on such bond shall be first liable before those de­
fendants who refused to join, to the extent of the liability 
incurred by the bond; but in the event the debt, or any
portion of it, is paid by the surety to the bond, he shall be
substituted to the rights of the defendant for whom he is
surety, as against the other defendants. 
§ 3048. Upon forfeiture of the bond, the officer holding the
execution shall levy immediately upon the property of the 
defendants who join in the bond, to satisfy the debt and
costs to the plaintiffs, and double costs to the officer; and if
there shall not be property enough of these defendants found
to satisfy the execution, be shall levy upon property of the
sureties sufficient to satisfy so much of the amount as they
had become liable for; and if the execution is still unsatisfied,
it shall be his duty to go upon such of the original defendants,
if any, as did not join in the delive~ bond. 
§ 3049. If unable to obtain satisfaction of the debt before he
is bound by law to return the execution, the officer shall
return the execution and bond together, with a proper en­
dorsement of the facts, and thereupon an alias or plnries
execution, as the case may be, shall issue against all parties,
with endorsements showing the amounts paid upon any
former execution, and specifying the amount for which the
sureties are bound, if less than tbe unsatisfied balance'. 
§ 3050. No second delivery bond shall be taken after forfeit-
nre of the first. 
§ 3051. The provisions of these sections allowing delivery 
on s, o no app y o executions issue on JU gmen s or
decrees against sheriffs, coroners, or other officers of court 
against whom judgment is obtained for failing to pay over
money collected or paid to them in an official capacity; and
the clerk shall endorse on all such executions, "No delivery
bond to be taken." 
SECTION
CONVEYANCE UPON SALE BY EXECUTION. 
3062. Officer must make bill of sale
of slaves. 
3053. And an assignment of stock.
3054. And certificate of sale of land.
8056. Which shall' be delivered to 
person redeeming. 
ARTICLE VII. 
8BOTION 
8066. Purchaser may demand a deed
to land. 
3057. But if land redeemed, he must
make title at his cost. 
8068. Person in office to execute
deeds. 
§ 3052. The officer shall, upon sale of slaves by execution
and payment of the amount bid, execute to the purchaser, on 
demand, a bill of sale, attested by two witnesses, or acknow-
ledged as bills of sale in other cases for registration, the costs
of which will be borne by the purchaser. 
§ 3053. And upon the sale of turnpike or railroad stock or
shares by execution, the officer, on receiving from the pur-
chaser the amount of his bid, shall execute and deliver to him
an assignment of the shares sold; and his return of the sale
on the back of the execution shall be notice to all the world
of the fact of sale ; and, on presenting to the proper officer 
of the company such assignment, .the officer shall transfer
said shares on the J)roper book, to the purchaser or assignee: 
§ 3054. On the sale of land by execution, the officer shall
give to the purchaser a certificate, if demanded, of the fact, 
stating the date of sale, the amount of the bid, the execution
under which the land is sold, and the description of the land
as given in the levy. 
§ 3055. If the land is redeemed, as hereinafter provided, the
purchaser or his assignee shall assign and deliver the sherift's 
certificate to the person redeeming.
§ 3056. The purchaser, after payment of the money bid at 
execution, or the person succeeding to his rights, may, at auy
time, either within or after the expiration of the two years
allowed for redemption, demand from the officer or his suc­ 
cessor a deed, who shall execute it accordingly.
§ 3057. If the officer's deed is made within the two years, 
the person obtaining it, in case the land is redeemed from
him, shall, at his own cost, make to him who redeems, a 
complete deed, proved or acknowledged for registration, di-
vestmg himself and vcstin~ the other with the title acquired. 
In like manner, title shall be made upon each subsequent
redemption, but at the cost of the party redeeming. 
§ 3058. Any sheriff coroner, or tax collector in office, may
execute deeds for lands sold by a former sheriff, coroner or 
collector, which deeds shall be as valid as if executed by such
former officer. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
STAY OF EXECUTION ON JUSTICE'S JUDGl\IENT. 
8059. Eight months' stay on security
given :within two days after
judgment. 
3060. Or at any time by consent of
plaintiff. 
8061. Justice must not enter stay for
surety, without hia assent. 
3062. Stayor liable before original
surety. 
8068. Execution may issue before stay
out, at instance of stayer. 
8064. But debtor may ~ive other
security. 
SECTION 
8065. Plaintiff may have execution
on affidavit and notice. 
3066. Entry of stay equivalent to a
judgment. 
8067. Stayor may have judgment
over by motion against prin­
cipal, on which no stay. 
3068. Co-stayors mny have judgment
against each other, upon which
there shall be no stay. 
3069. Nor State tax. 
§ 3059. On all judgments before Justices of the Peace, the
defendant is entitled to a stay of execution for eight months,
upon entering good and sufficient security on the Justice's
docket for debt, interest and costs, within two entire days,
Sundays excepted, after the rendition of judgment. 
§ 3060. The security for the stay may, with the consent of
the plaintiff, be received and entered by the Justice at any
time before the debt is paid. 
§ 3061. It is not lawful for the Justice to enter security for
t e stay o execution. ror any eren ant oun as surety or 
endorser on the original debt, where the security is offered by
the princiJ?al, unless the defendant assents in proper person 
or by writmg, signed by him, and showing that the stayor is
entered as such at his instance and request. 
§ 3062. The stayor who becomes security at the instance of
the principal.in the judgment, shall be first liable, in default 
of the principal, before the original surety or endorser.
§ 3063. Upon application of the stayor by affidavit in writing, 
to be filed with the papers, that he is fearful, and believes
that, if execution is further stayed, he will be compelled to 
pay the judgment, the Justice shall issue execution at any
time against the debtor and stayer. 
§ 3064. The debtor shall have two days after the levy of the
execu tion to give ot er security or t e unoxpire time o: t e
stay, which, if received, and entered by the Justice, shall ope- 
rate a release of the former stayor, and also as a discharge of
the levy. 
§ 3065. If the plaintiff deems his debt in danger of being 
ost on account o t e mso vency, rem ova , or msu eiency o 
a stayor, he may, at any time, make oath of that fact before
the Justice having possession of the papers in the cause, and,
upon giving the defendant two days' written notice of the
time of his application, require the defendant to justify, or
give other security; and, if the defendant fail to justify, or
to give other security to the satisfaction of the Justice, exe-
eution shall issue forthwith. 
§ 3066. The entry of the stay on the Justice's docket, under
the provieions of the foregoing sections, is a sufficient au- 
thonty to the Justice to issue execution against the defend.
ants to the judgment, and the stayors at the proper time. 
§ 3067. The stayor who pays off the judgment, may have his
JU gment over y motion against us prmc1pa, erore t e
Justice having lawful possession of the papers, for the amount
so paid, with interest and costs, and the defendant shall not 
be entitled to stay the execution on such judgment.
§ 3068. Co-stayors shall have the like remedy by motion 
agamst eac ot er, an e ore t 10 same tri una s, as co-sure- 
ties; and no stay shall be allowed on any judgment before a 
ustice o t e eace, unc er t is section. .
§ 3069. In taxing the costs of the motion under the preced- 
ing section, no State tax shall be charged. 
§ 3070. The Justice of the Peace who renders a judgment,
or his successor, or any other Justice having lawful posses­
sion of the judgment, may issue execution thereon. 
§ 3071. In the case of vacancy in the office of the Justice
rendering the judgment, or his successor, or in their absence, 
temporary or protracted, any Justice of the Peace in the
county may issue execution at the instance of the party enti­
tled. 
§ 3072. Wbere an appeal has been prayed and obtained from
a judgment of a Justice of the Peace, if the plaintiff and de­
fendant compromise the case before the papers have been
returned to the court to which the appeal was taken, and file
with the Justice a written notice of the fact signed by both
r.arties, the Justice shall issue execution on the judgment, as 
if no appeal had been taken. ·
§ 3073. Any Justice of the Peace in this State, upon the pro­ 
duction of an execution from a Justice's judgment in another
county, accompanied by the certificate of the Clerk of the 
County Court of that county, that the Justice by whom the
judgment was rendered and the execution issued, was at the
time an acting Justice of the Peace of his county, may issue
an execution for tho original jud$ffient and costs, and the
cost of the certificate, which execution may be levied upon any
property of the defendant in said county, real or personal, in
the same way as if the judgment had been originally rendered
in that county. · 
§ 3074. If the execution issued as provided in the last sec­
tion is levied upon land, it shall be returned, together with 
the certified execution, to the Circuit Court of the county in 
which the land lies, and the land shall be condemned and
sold, as if the original papers had been returned. 
§ 3075. An alias and pluries execution may likewise be
issued on the certified execution, in the same way as on the 
original judgment.
§ 3076. The Clerk of the Circuit Courts of this State may 
issue execution for the unsatisfied debt and costs, in all
cases where a Justice's execution has been levied on land, 
and return made. thereof to his court according to law, and
the real estate executed fails, for any cause, to satisfy the 
judgment.
§ 3077. Executions under the last section may be issued to 
any county in the State, from which the plaintiff shall
receive the same benefit, and the 'officer, into whose hands it
may come, shall have the same authority to proceed, as if
the execution had issued from a Justice of the Peace on a 
judgment rendered by him in the county to which the same
is directed. 
§ 3078. "When an execution issued from the judgment of a
court of record, and an execution from a Justice's judgment,
are levied on the same personal property, the execution first
levied shall have preference. 
§ 3079. "Where there is not sufficient time between the levy
and return day of an execution from a Justice's judgment to~:= 
sell, or where for any reason the sale cannot be had before
the return, the lien given by the levy shall continue, and the·
Justice of the Peace, or other proper officer, shall issue an
order of sale on the execution levied and returned. 
§ 3080. When an execution issued by a Justice of the Peace
is levied on real estate, it shall be the duty of the Justice to 
whom the same is returned, to return the execution, together
with the judgment and the papers in the cause, to the next 
Circuit Court of his county, for condemnation.
§ 3081. The Circuit Court, upon the return thus made, 
may condemn the land, and order the same, or so much
thereof as it may see proper, to be sold by the sheriff of the 
county, in satisfaction of the judgment and costs.
§ 3082. If the Circuit Court condemn the land to be sold, 
the clerk shall enter on the minutes the warrant, attachment,
or other leading process, with the officer's return thereon,
the prosecution and other bonds where the condition has
not been discharged, affidavits for attachment or other
process, the judgment of the Justice, the execution levied
with the officer's return, and the judgment of the court. 
§ 3083. Where several executions in favor of the same plain-
tiff are returned at the same term of the court, levied on 
the same tract of land, they shall all be included in one
judgment of condemnation, and only one order of sale 
issue.
§ 3084. The officer levying an execution issued by a Justice, 
on personalty, shall advertise the sale of such personalty, 
other than slaves, for ten days at one public place in
the district in which the defendant resides, at the court­
house door of' the county, and at two public places in the
district where the sale is made, subject to the provisions of section 3039. 
§ 3085. The same property is exempt from execution as
is exempt from levy, attachment, or sale by other judicial 
process, under the provisions of sections 2107-2123, which
treat of exemptions and the homestead. 
§ 3086. Real property or any interest therein, sold by exe-
cution, is subject to redemption, under the rules, regulations, 
and restrictions of sections 2124-2137, which treat of re­
demption. 
ARTICLE X. 
EXEMPTIONS AND REDEMPTION. 
ARTICLE XL 
EXECUTION BY GARNISHMENT. 
308i. Officer may summon garnishee.
8088, 8089. Answer of garnishee.
3090. All property, debts, and effects 
of defendant, liable on gar­
nishment. 
8091. Conditional and final judgment
on default. 
8092. Judgment upon answer.
8093. Notice for third persons.
3094. Property to be delivered to 
officer, or judgment against
garnishee. 
8095. If land, papers returned to
Circuit Court. 
8096. Garnishee may stay judgment. 
SsoTio• . 
SECTION 
tion, redeemed as if told
under mertgage. 
309i. Definition of "property, deb~
and effects." 
8098. Choses in action may be col­ 
lected or sold. 
3099: Garnishee entitled to eertlflcste
of payment, which shall be a
receipt. 
8100. Provisions of Code relating to
attachments, apply to these
proceedings. 
8101. Officer not to summon gar­
nishee, if he can find other 
. property.
8102. Privileges of garnishee. 
8103. Answer not conclusive for sums
under $50. 
§ 3087. The officer in whose hands is an unsatisfied exe­
cution, may summon in writing auy person as. garnishee,
to appear at the next term of the court from which the exe­
cution issued, or before the Justice of the Peace to whom the 
execution is returnable, as the case may be, and answer the
garnishment. . 
8088. The garnishee may be required to answer on
oath- 
1. Whether he is, or was at the time of the garnishment,
indebted to the defendant; if so, how and to what amount. 
2. Whether he had in his possession, or under his control,
any property, debts, or effects belonging to the defendant,
at the time of serving the notice, or bas at the time of an­
swering, or has had at any time between the date of ser­
vice and the time of answering; and, if so, the kind and
amount. 
§ 3088. Whether there are, to his knowledge or belief, any and
what property, debts, and effects in the possession or under
the control of any other, and what, person. 
§ 3089. Such other questions may be put to him by the court
or the judgment creditor, as may tend to elicit the informa-
tion sought. 
§ 3090. All property, debts, and effects of the defendant
in the possession of the garnishee, or under his control, shall
be liable to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment, from the service 
of the notice, or from the time they came to his hands, if
acquired subsequent to the service of notice, and before judg­
ment. 
§ 3091. If the garnishee fails to appear or answer, a condi-
tional judgment may be entered against him for the plain- 
tiff's debt, upon which a notice shall issue to the garnishee,
returnable at such time as the court or Justice may require,
to show cause why judgment final should not be rendered
against him; and on failure of the garnishee to appear
and show cause, the conditional judgment shall be made 
final, and execution awarded for the plaintiff's entire debt,
and costs. 
§ 3092. If, upon the examination of the garnishee, it appears
that he has property, debts, or effects in his hands, or under 
his control, liable for the plaintiff's debt, judgment may be
entered, and execution awarded for the property, money, or
effects, as the case may be, or so much thereof as will be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's debt and costs, and all
charges incident to the proceedings. 
§ 3093. So, also, if the garnishee's examination shows that
any property, debts, or effects of the defendant are probably 
in the hands of other persons, the court or Justice shall, on
the application of the plaintiff, issue notice to such persons
to come forward and answer as garnishees, and the same pro-
ceedings may be had as in other cases. 
§ 3094. So soon as the property is declared to be the pro-
perty of the defendant, under the provisions of the two 
preceding sections, it shall be delivered up to the officer
serving the garnishment, on demand, and on failure to de-
liver the same, and return made on the execution of that 
fact, jud~ent shall be entered immediately against the gar­
nishee, for the debt and cost. 
§ 3095. When the property consists of an interest in land,
if the garnishment proceedings are before a Justice, he 
shall return the papers to the Circuit Court of the county for
condemnation, as in other cases of the levy of a Justice's exe­
cution on land. 
§ 3096. The garnishee against whom judgment is rendered
by a Justice of the Peace, for money, shall be entitled to stay
the execution as in other cases. 
§ 3097. The words "property, debts and effects," include
real estate, and choses in action, whether due or not, and 
judgments before a Justice of the Peace, also money, stocks,
and any interest in an incorporated company. 
§ 3098. Execution of the garnishment judgment may be
stayed until choses in action fall due, and the court may 
order them to be collected, if necessary, or sold for what
they will bring, as may be deemed just and proper. 
§ 3099. The garnishee against whom judgment has been
rendered, is entitled to a certificate from the clerk or Justice, 
stating the date and amount of the garnishment judgment,
in whose favor and in what case rendered, which certificate
shall have all the force and effect of a receipt against the
original debt, and entitle the garnishee to a credit to the
amount thereof on the original judgment, or on the execution,
if already issued, to be entered by the Justice or officer. 
§ 3100. The provisions of this Code in regard to garnish­
ment on attachments, and attachments, regulate also pro­ 
ceedings under this article whenever applicable. 
§ 3101. The officer having an execution shall not summon a
garnishee under the provisions of this Code,. if he can find 
property of the debtor in his county sufficient to satisfy such
execution. 
§ 3102. The garnishee shall have the pay and be entitled to
the privilege of a witness, and shall recover costs against the
plaintiff if the garnishment is not successfully prosecuted,
unless the court or Justice should be of opinion that the gar­ 
nishee has been guilty of fraud or combination with the
judgment debtor, and order otherwise. 
§ 3103. Where the sum in controversy is less than fifty 
dollars, the answer of the garnishee is not conclusive, but
the plaintiff may controvert any of the facts contained 
therein. Upon the trial, the answer of the garnishee is testi­
mony. 
ARTICLE XII. 
8:&0TION I SaoTION 
EXECUTION BY ATTACHMENT. 
8104. Judgment enforced by attach- 8106. Mode of procedure.
ment, when. 
- 
§ 3104. In all cases where judicial process or execution,
according to the principles of the common law, cannot be
made to apply to the purpose of carrying · into effect any 
judgment or decree of a court of record, the court may
enforce the judgment or decree, by attachment for contempt,
in the nature of an execution. 
§ 3105. The proceedings under this writ are the same pre-
scribed by this Code for the enforcement of the decrees of
the Chancery Court, in Title 10, Chapter 8, Article XII., of 
this part of the Code. . 
ARTICLE I.OF THE PROCEEDINGS FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS. 
 The several Modes of Procedure for the Correc­
tion of Errors. 
II. Writ of Error Coram Nobis.
ill. Rehearing, Review, and New Trial.
IV. Certiorari and Supersedeas. 
V. Appeal from the Judgment of a Justice of the
Pace. 
VI. ppeal from the County Court.
Vil . .Appeal from the Circuit and Chancery Court. 
. G n ral rovisions touching Appeal.
ppeal in the nature of a Writ of Error. 
rit of Error . 
EVERAL MODES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE CORRECTION OP
ERRORS. 
•od of correcting errors.
ent y confe ion, and
ction, rele e of errors. 
ion nd exhibit part
ord in equity causes. 
r not em raced by the provisions of this Code,
~ en n , may be corrected in one or more 
n mod 
CHAPTER 14. 
.ARTICLE I. 
8BOTION 
§ 3106. not embraced by the provisions of this code, amendments may be corrected in one or more of the following modes:
3. By certiorari.
4. By appeal.
5. By ap~al in the nature of a writ of error.
6. By writ of error.
§ 3107. A judgment by confession, or the suing .ont of an 
injunction against a judgment at law, is a release of errors. 
§ 3108. In equity causes removed to the Supreme Court by
writ of error, or appeal in the nature of a writ of error, the 
depositions and exhibits read on the hearing below shall be
considered a part of the record, and the cause shall be re ..
viewed and examined as if brought up by appeal. 
§ 3109. All bonds and recognizances taken according to law
in the appellate court, or in the court below, in the progress
of a cause, form a part of the record, and judgment may be
rendered thereon by the appellate court, to the extent of
the respective liability of the parties, upon motion, without
scire facias or notice. 
ARTICLE II. 
WRIT OP ERROR CORAM NOBIS. 
SscT1ox
BEOTION 
8110. Lies in County, Circuit, or
Chancery Court, to correct
errors of fact. 
8111. Within one year from rendition
of judgment. 
8112. Bond required to obtain super­
sedeas. 
3118. Ten days' notice to adverse
party. 
8114. On affirmance or dismissal, 
judgment on bond with twelve
and a half per cent. interest. 
3115. Court mn1 order publication
for non-resident, make rules, 
issues, etc.
8116. Errors reached by this writ.
8117. Examples: infancy, judgment. 
by motion without notice.
3118. Superscdea.s may be discharged, 
on denial of fa.eta and refund­
ing bond. 
§ 3110. Any person aggrieved by the judgment of the County,
Circuit, or Chancery Court, by reason of a material error in
fact, may reverse the same upon writ of error coram nobis,
as herein provided. 
§ 3111. The writ of error coram nobis may be had within
one year from the rendition of the judgment, bi petition
presented to the Judge at chambers or in open court, who
may order it to operate as a supersedeas or not. 
§ 3112. Before such order shall operate as a supersedeas, the
party applying shall giYc bond, with good security, in double 
the amount of the Judgment, conditioned to abide by and
perform the judgment or decree. of the court. 
§ 3113. Notice of the suing out of the writ shall be served on
the opposite party, or his attorney, at least ten days prior to
the term of the court to which the writ is returnable, or the
cause shall be continued to the next succeeding term, unless 
the party entitled to notice consents to a trial at the first
term. 
§ 3114. In all cases of affirmance of the judgment, or dis-
missal of the writ for any cause, where the original judgment~~=-•~' 
has been superseded, judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintiff in error and his sureties for the amount of the for-
mer judgment, with interest at the rate of twelve and one
half per cent. per annum from the rendition thereof, and all
costs. 
§ 3115. The court may order publication for non-resident
defendants, who have no known attorney in the State, and 
may prescribe rules for the assignment of errors, making issues
thereon, and for all such other matters as are necessary to
give full effect to this proceeding. 
§ 3116. The relief embraced in this article is confined to 
errors o ac occurring m procee mgs o w re t e person
seeking relief has had no notice, or which he was prevented
by disability from showing or correcting, or in which he was
prevented from making defence by surprise, accident, mis-
take, or fraud, without fault on his part. 
§ 3117. Thus, infancy at the rendition of the judgment, not
appearing on the record sought to be corrected, or a real
defence to an action by mot.ion, of which the party aggrieved
had no notice, and so of like cases, are good grounds for
relief under this writ. 
§ 3118. If the matter is not tried at the first term after the
writ is sued out, the court may discharge the superaedeas, 
upon the motion of the adverse party, and his denial on oath
of the facts alleged in the petition, upon taking a refunding
bond, with good security, to perform the judgment. in case
the suit should be eventually decided in favor of the party
suing out the writ. 
ARTICLE ill. 
REHEARING, REVIEW, AND NEW TRIAL. 
8119. Rehearing only at term decree
rendered. 
8120. Review within three years after
decree or disability. 
8EOTION 
8121. Depositions and exhibits part
of record. 
8122. Not more than two new trials
to same party. 
§ 3119. A. rehearlnd can only be applied for at the term. of
the court at which the decree sought to be affected, is
rendered. 
§ 3120. No bill of review shall be brought, or a motion
made therefor, except within three years from the time of 
pronouncing the decree; saving to iufants, married women,
persons of unsound mind, imprisoned, or beyond the limits 
of the United States, a right to a bill of review within three
years after such disability has been removed. 
8121. The depositions and exhibits that were read on the
hearing of the cause, shall be considered a part of the record, 
as if the same were transcribed and incorporated with the
decree. 
§ 3122. Not more than two new trials shall be zranted to 
e same party man action at aw, or upon t e ria y Jury 
of an issue of fact in equity. 
§ 3123. The writ of certiorari may be granted whenever
authorized by law, and also in all cases where an inferior
tribunal, board, or officer exercising judicial functions has
exceeded the jurisdiction conferred, or is acting illegally,
when, in the judgment of the court, there is no other plain,
speedy, or adequate remedy. 
§ 3124. Certiorari lies-
On suggestion of diminution ; 
Where no appeal is given ;
As a substitute for appeal;
Instead of audita querela;
Instead of writ of error. 
§ 3125. All writs of certiorari and supersedeas granted to
revise the proceedings of the County Court, or of any Justice 
of the Peace, shall be made returnable to the Circuit Court,
unless otherwise expressly provided by law. 
§ 3126. The Judges of the inferior courts of law have the
power, in all civil cases, to issue writs of certiorari to remove
any cause or transcript thereof from any inferior jurisdic­
tion, on sufficient cause, supported by oath or affirmation. 
8127. Two Justices of the Peace may, within twenty days
after judgment, grant a certiorari and supersedeas to remove 
the proceedings of a Justice of the Peace to the Circuit
Court. 
§ 3128. The petition for certiorari may be. sworn to before
the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the Judge, or any J ustice of
the Peace, and shall state that it is the first application for 
the writ. 
§ 3129. Where the error complained of is in the amount of 
the judgment, the petition shall show the amount of the 
mistake, and the supersedeas shall not issue for more than
such amount, and the plaintiff in the judgment shall be
entitled to execution for the balance not complained of, as if
no such writ had been obtained. 
§ 3130. When the certiorari extends only to a part of the
judgment, or it is brou~ht by one or more of several parties 
only, a certified copy of the proceedings complained of shall
be made out by the proper officer, and filed in lieu of the
original papers, and proceedings as to parties who do not 
join in the application shall not be affected.
§ 3131. The Clerk of the Circuit Court, before he issues 
the writ, shall take bond from the party applying, with good
security, in double the amount of the judgment or error
complained of, payable to the opposite party, conditioned to
prosecute the writ with effect, or perform the judgment
which shall be rendered in the cause. 
§ 3132. The clerk shall also issue a writ of supersedeas in
all necessary cases, directed to the opposite party, or the
officer in whose hands . the execution may be, which shall
effectually supersede all further proceedings thereon. 
§ 3133. No supersedeas shall issue upon application in form.a
pauperis, without express order of the Judge dispensing 
with security. Such order may be made by the Judge only
on notice to the adverse party of the application. • 
§ 3134. On refusing such order, the Judge may either take
bond from the adverse party for the payment of damages, 
including the value of property levied on, or for the safe-
keepin~ of the property and its re-delivery at the end of the
suit, with damages if the applicant succeed in his applica-
tion; or he may order the property to be kept by the officer,
and take bond from the plaintiff for damages only; or, if the
property is such as to render it proper, or if the applicant
consents, may order the sale to proceed and take bond from
the plaintiff for payment of damages; or the Judge may
make such other order as the parties may agree on or the
circumstances justify. 
§ 3135. In such case no further notice shall be required to
bring the parties into court. 
§ 3186. On the final judgment, the court may, if the appli-
cant obtain relief, direct the jury trying the cause to assess 
his damages, or may empanel a jury for that purpose, may: 
order restitution of the property, or give such other judg­
ment in the applicant's favor as the state of the case re· 
quires.
§ 3137. Upon affirmance of tho judgment or decree below, 
or recov cry o o. arger amoun or upon tsrmssa o e 
certiorari for want of prosecution, or for any other cause,
the court shall enter up judgment for the amount recovered 
against the principal and the sureties to the prosecution
bond, with interest at the rate of twelve and one half per
cent. per annum from the date of the judgment or decree
below, and all costs. 
§ 3138. In all other cases, the judgment of the higher court,
if against the party obtaining the certiorari, shall be for the 
amount of the recovery, with interest and costs, against the
principal and sureties to the prosecution bond. 
§ 3139. The original plaintiff, upon certiorari to a higher
court, may be ruled to give security for the costs of suit in 
such higher court. . 
§ 3140. Any person dissatisfied with the judgment of a 
Justice of the Peace in a civil action, may, within two entire
days thereafter, Sundays exclusive, appeal to the next Circuit 
Court.
§ 3141. Before the appeal is granted, the person appealing 
shall give 'bond with good security, as heremafter provided,
for the prosecution of the appeal. 
§ 3142. When the appeal has been properly prayed and
obtained, it is the duty of the Justice, within the first two 
days of the term to which the appeal is prayed, to transmit
to the Clerk of the Circuit Court all the papers on file and
proceedings had in the cause. 
§ 3143. If the papers are not filed within the time prescribed,
the appellee may, on production thereof, have an affirmance 
of the J usticc's judgment, with costs.
§ 3144. If the Justice fail to return the papers within the 
time prescribed, but return them durin~ tho term to which
the same are returnable, and the appellant fail to appear 
and prosecute his appeal, if he is the original defendant, 
the plaintiff shall have judgment final, by default, for the
amount of the judgment of the Justice, against the appellant
and his sureties for the debt and costs. If the plaintiff is
the appellant, and fails to appear within the term, his suit
shall be dismissed, and judgment given against him and his. 
sureties for costs.
§ 3145. So, also, if the papers are properly returned, and 
the appellant fails to appear or defend within the first
three days of the term to which the papers are returned, 
or if the appeal is dismissed for any cause, the appellee is
entitled to an affirmance of the judgment below, with
costs. 
§ 3146. The original plaintiff may be ruled to security in the appelate court ror t e costs o t e cause . 
SECTION 
.ARTICLE VI. 
APPEAL FROM THE COUNTY COURT. 
3147. Lies to Circuit Court, unless
otherwise provided. 
8148. In cases of concurrent j urisdic­
tion, and by consent, to Su­
preme Court. 
8149. To first term five days after
appeal. 
8150. Transcript to be delivered to
elerk by first day of term. 
SECTION 
8151. If not, or if appellant fail to
appear, judgment affirmed. 
8152. Causes tried de novo in Circuit
Court. 
8153. Clerk of County Court to make
out and deliver transcript. 
3164. Clerk of Circuit Court to receipt
for and file same. 
§ 3147. Any person dissatisfied with the sentence, judg-
ment, or decree of the County Court, may pray an appeal to 
the Circuit Court of the county, unless it is otherwise ex-
pressly provided by this Code. 
§ 3148. In all cases in which the jurisdiction of the County
Court is concurrent with the Circuit. or Chancery Courts, or 
in which both parties consent, the appeal lies direct .to the
Supreme Court. 
§ 3149. 'I'he appeal is to the next term of the Circuit Court,
if more than five days intervene between the date of appeal
and the first day of the term; if less time intervene, the ap-
peal is to the next succeeding term. . 
§ 3150. A transcript of the record of the suit on which the
appeal is made, shall be delivered to the Clerk of the Circuit 
Court, by the first day of the term to which the appeal is
taken. 
§ 3151. If the transcript is not filed within the time pre-
scribed in the last section, or if the appellant shall fail to 
appear, or to prosecute his appeal, the judgment, sentence,
or decree of the County Court shall be affirmed. 
§ 3152. On appeal, all jury cases in the County Court shall
be tried de novo in the Circuit Court; and all chancery cases,
or proceedings in the nature of chancery cases, shall be re­
heard as if the proceedings had been commenced in the Cir­
cuit Court. 
§ 3153. The Clerk of the County Court, upon appeal taken,
shall immediately make a full and perfect copy of all the 
proceedings in the cause, and within five days after the
appeal, give the same, with a taxation of all costs accrued,
to the appellant, if required, and endorse on the copy the
day on which it was demanded, and the day on which
it was delivered, and sign his name thereto; or, if the
same is not demanded before the first day of the next Cir­
cuit Court, he shall then deliver the same to the clerk of
said court. 
§ 3154. The Clerk of the Circuit Court, upon receiving
t e transcript, sha l give a receipt to the person delivering
it, and immediately endorse thereon the date of its delivery,
and shall enter it on the proper docket. 
ARTICLE VII. 
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT AND CHANCERY COURT. 
8BOTION
8BCTI01' 
155. Lies in matters of equity to
Supreme Court. 
8156. Issues of fact tried by jury in
Chancery, corrected as in ac­
tions at law. 
8167. May be granted in equity causes 
§ 3155. Either party dissatisfied with the judgment or
decree of the Circuit or Chancery Court, in a matter of equity 
tried according to the forms of the Chancery Court, may ap­
peal to the Supreme Court, and have a reexamination in that
court of the whole matter of law and fact, appearing in the
record. 
§ 3156. Issues of fact in chancery, made up on demand of
either party, and tried by jury according to the forms of a 
court of law, are not embraced in the foregoing section, and
errors :ia the proceedings therein had can only be corrected
as errors are corrected in actions at law. 
§ 3157. The Chancellor or Circuit Judge may, in his dis­
cretion, allow an appeal from his decree in equity causes, 
determining the principles involved, and ordering an account,
or a sale, or partition, before the account is taken, or the sale,
or partition, is made; or he may allow such appeal on over- 
ruling a demurrer; or he may allow any party to appeal from
a decree which settles his right, although the case may not 
be disposed of as to others. 
before account, or sale, on 
overruling demurrer, and to
any party, before final decree
as to all. 
§ 3158. In divorce cases, an appeal shall be the only mode of
revising errors. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE VIII. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS TOUCHING APPEAL. 
169. A~y party may appeal without
affecting judgment as to 
others ..
3160. Appeal not dismissed for want 
of errors assigned.
8161. Bonds part of record, on which 
judgment may be given with­
out notice. 
8162. Bond for debt, required in ac­
tions at law founded on cer­
tain written instruments. 
8168. In other cases at law, for dam­
ages and cost. 
816f. Bond for amount of decree,
damages and cost in certain
cases. 
SECTION 
3166. Si:r. per cent. allowed on affirm­
ance of decrees. 
3166. Judgment maybe given against
all or any part of obligors to 
bond.
3167. On reversal, such judgment 
§ 3159. Any one or more of the parties t.o a judgment or
decree may pray and obtain an appeal therefrom, the judg- 
ment remaining in full force against such of the parties as do 
not appeal.
§ 3160. No appeal shall be dismissed by the appellate court 
for failure to assign reasons for the appeal.
§ 3161. Bonds taken for the prosecution of appeals are a part 
of the record of the appellate court, on which judgment may
be ren~lered at ~ny time, against the appellant and his sure- 
ties, without notice.
§ 3162. In actions founded on bonds for the payment of 
money, 1 s smg e, 1 s o exc ange, promissory notes, 
liquidated accounts signed by the party to be charged there-
with, written obligations for the payment of bank notes, or
promissory notes, bonds or written obligations for the
deli very of specific articles, or on endorsements of negotiable
instruments, if the appellant take an appeal in the nature of
a writ of error, from an inferior to a superior jurisdiction,
the bond shall be taken and the sureties bound for the pay-
ment of the whole debt, damages, and costs, and for the 
satisfaction of the judgment of the superior court where such
cause may be finally tried and determined ; and, in such
case, the appellant shall pay interest at the rate of twelve and
one half per cent. per annum.' 
§ 3163. In all other cases of appeal in suits at law, the bond
shall be for damages and cost only, and interest shall be re- 
covered at the rate of six per cent. per annum. 
to be given as should have
been rendered below. 
§ 3164. Where decrees are for a specific sum of money and
against the party in his own right, the appeal bond shall be 
for the amount of the decree and damages and cost.
§ 3165. On aflirmance of decrees in equity cases for money, 
interest shall be recovered at the rate of six per cent. per
annum. 
§ 3166. The appellate court shall, in all cases, render judg­
ment against all or any of the obligors in the appeal bond for 
the amount of the judgment, with interest, damages and
costs, accordin~ to the foregoing provisions. 
§ 3167. If the judgment or decree of the inferior court is re-
versed, the appellate court shall give such judgment or make
such. decree as should have been rendered m the inferior
court, and shall issue execution without a procedendo, except
where the damages to be assessed are uncertain, in which
case the court, if of last resort, shall remand the cause for
further proceedings. 
§ 3168. In equity cases, the court may retain the cause to 
take accounts or ascertain facts, or remand at its discretion.
§ 3169. In chancery cases, where the court reverses the de­ 
cree below sustaining a demurrer, the cause may be remand­
ed to the inferior court for further proceedings. 
§ 3170. The court shall also, in all cases where, in its opinion,
complete justice cannot be had by reason of some defect in 
the record, want of proper parties, or oversight without cul­
pable negligence, remand the cause to the court below for
further proceedings, with proper directions to effectuate· the
objects of the order, and upon such terms as may be deemed
right. 
§ 3171. And if a cause be remanded, upon being brought up
again for correction of errors, the transcript of the record
previously sent up shall, together with the transcript of the
subsequent proceedings in the court below, constitute a full
record. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE IX. 
APPEAL IN THE NATURE OF A WRIT OF ERROR. 
3172. Lies in equity causes as an
appeal. 
8173. In other cases in Count.y Court
to Circuit Court, or, by con­
sent, to Supreme Court. 
SECTION 
817 4. In actions at law, and jury
cases in equity, to Supreme
Court. 
81i6. The bond and proceedings same
as on appeal. 
§ 3172. An appeal in the nature of a writ of error lies, at the
instance of either party, from the judgment or decree of the
Court of Chancery, or of the County or Circuit Court in
equity causes, in all cases tried according to the forms of
chancery, npon the same terms, and subject to the same regu­
lations, as an appeal from similar judgments or decrees. 
§ 3173. In all other cases determined in the County Court,
when either party is dissatisfied with the final decision, an
appeal in the nature of a writ of error may be taken by him
to the Circuit Court, or, both parties consenting, to the Su-
preme Court. 
§ 3174. Either party to an action at law in the Circuit Court,
or to an issue of fact tried by jury in the Chancery Court at 
the instance of the parties, may, in like manner, at the term
at which final judgment is rendered, or a decree from which
an appeal may be allowed is entered, pray an appeal in the
nature· of a writ of error to the Supreme Court. 
§ 3175. The bond required from the appellant, and the procee mgs m t e appe ate court, upon an appea m t e nature
of a writ of error, are the same as those prescribed in this chapter, upon an appeal. 
ARTICLE X . 
WRIT OF ERROR. 
SBOTIO.ll
8BC'l'J01' 
3176. Lies where an appeal in the
nature of a writ of error
would have lain. 
8177. May be granted by appellate
court, or clerk. 
3178. But does not operate as super­
sedeas, except on order of
Judge. 
3179. The application to clerk of Cir­
cuit Court must be before next
term after judgment. 
3180. To clerk of Supreme Court,
within one year aft.er judg­
ment. 
3181. To appellate court, or Judge 
thereof, within two years after
judgment. 
3182. Or within the time prescribed,
after disability removed. 
8183. If sued out ~ft.er term at which
judgment rendered, five days; 
notice to adverse party.
3184. Bond and proceedings same as 
on appeal.
3185. Allowed even after appeal dis­ 
missed, when transcript not
filed in time. 
8186. Right or prior purchaser not
affected by. 
§ 3176. A writ of error lies from the final judgment of the
County Court, to the Circuit or Supreme Court, and from
the Circuit and Chancery Court to the Supreme Court, in all
cases where an appeal in the nature of a writ of error would
have lain. 
§ 3177. It may be moved for and obtained in the appellate
court, or issued by the clerk of the appellate court in vaca- 
tion, upon the transcript of the record being filed in his office,
and bond given as required by law. 
§ 3178. The writ of error does not supersede the execution
of the judgment, unless a Judge of the Supreme Court is of 
opinion, from inspecting the record, that there is error, and
shall order a. supereedeas to issue. 
§ 3179. The application to a clerk of a Circuit 'Court to~:
bring up a proceeding of the County Court, shall be made 
before the next term of the court after the judgment appealed
from. 
§ 3180. To the Clerk of the Supreme Court, within one year
after the judgment or decree. 
§ 3181. To the appellate court, or a Judge thereof, within
two years a ter tie ,JU~ gment or ecree. .
§ 3182. Infants, married women, persons of unsound mind, 
imprisoned, or beyond the limits of the United States, may
prosecute writs of error within the time prescribed after disa­ 
bility removed.
§ 3183. If sued out after the term of the court at which the 
judgment complained of was rendered, five days' notice in
writing shall be given to the adverse party of the intention to
apply for the writ. 
§ 3184. The bond required from the applicant for the writ of
error, and the proceedings in the appellate court thereafter,
are the same as those upon an appeal as hereinbefore pro­ 
vided in this chapter.
§ 3185. Where an appeal in the nature of a writ of error is 
dismissed on the ground that the record was not brouzht up
within the time prescribed by the rules of the court, the ap­
pellant may, notwithstanding, prosecute a writ of error within
the same time, and under the same regulations, as if no ap­
peal in nature of writ of error had been taken in the case. 
§ 3186. If the judgment or decree below has been executed
by a sale of property, either real or personal, before the writ 
of error is obtained and supersedeas granted, the right, title
and interest of any purchaser, previously acquired, under the
judgment or decree, shall not be disturbed or affected by the 
reversal of such decree. 
CHAPTER 15. 
OF COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
ARTICLE I. Security for Costs. 
II. Taxation and Re-Taxation. 
ARTICLE I. 
SECURITY FOR CO~TS. 
SECTION I SECTION 
818i. No leading process to issue 3188. Clerk linble on official bond for
without security for costs. neglect. 
8:BOTION 
3189. Security may be required on
petition or motion. 
3190. Plaintiff before Justice, may be
ruled to security in Circuit
Court 
8191. Party may be ruled to give or
justify security, at any stage
of cause. 
8192. Poor, except in certain cases, 
811:CTIO!'I 
may sue upon ta.king pauper
oath.· 
3193. Officers to perform duties o.s in
other cases. 
3194. If oath untrue, or cause frivo­
lous, action dismissed. 
8195. Judgment for costs mo.y be
given against pauper. 
8196. And against a surety, on mo­
tion. 
§ 3187. No leading process shall issue from any of the courts
o t IS tate wit out security emg given y t e party at 
whose instance the action is brought, for the successful prose-
cution of his action, and, in case of failure, for the payment
of all costs and dama~es which may be awarded against him,
unless in cases specially excepted by law. 
§ 3188. Any clerk who neglects to take the security required
by the preceding section, is liable on his official bond to all 
persons aggrieved thereby.
§ 3189. In any action commenced by petition or motion, the 
plaintiff may be· required to give security.
§ 3190. The plaintiff in an action commenced before a J us- 
~ice of t~e P.eace, shall, on 7:uotion, be ruled to give securi.ty
m the Circuit Court, to which the cause may be taken for 
the correction of errors.
§ 3191. Any person required by law to give security for costs 
may, at any stage of the cause, be ruled to give such security, 
if it has not previously been done, or to justify or give new
security on sufficient cause shown. . 
§ 3192. Except for false imprisonment, malicious prosecution
and slanderous words, any person may commence an action
without giving security as above required, by taking and sub­
scribing the following oath in writing: 
"I, A. B., do solemnly swear, that owing to my poverty I
am not able to bear the expenses of the action which I am
about to commence, and that I am justly entitled to the re-
dress sought, to the best of my belief." . 
§ 3193. In the cases provided for by the preceding section,
the clerks and other officers of court shall perform all the 
asual duties required in the progress of an action, and the
witnesses shall attend, as in other cases, unless their deposi-
tions are taken under the provisions of this Code. 
§ 3194. If it be made to appear to the court, at any time
before the trial, by the testimony of disinterested persons, 
that the allegation of poverty is probably untrue, or the
cause of action frivolous or malicious, the action may be
dismissed. 
§ 3195. On failure, for any reason, to prosecute his action
with effect, judgment shall be given against such poor 
person, and execution awarded, as in other cases. 
§ 3196. When security is given, judgment may, on motion,
be rendered against the surety for costs, as well as against
the principal. 
SECTION
TAXATION AND RE-TAXATION OF COSTS. 
8197. Successful party entitled to full
costs, unlesa otherwise pro­
vided. 
8198. In certain actions in tort, plain­ 
tUr recovers no more costs
than dam~es. 
8199. Suits may be dismissed at any
time, and costs stopped; costs
on compromise. 
8200. Judgment for costs against
party for whose use suit
brought. 
8201. Defendant "successful party,"
when. 
8202. Plaintiff', when.
8203. Full costs given on overruling 
plea in abatement.
3204. Costs against successful party, 
when.
8205. Party reserving usury, must 
pay all costs.
8206. Cost of copies to be taxed.
8207. Postage to be taxed.
3208. Costs on plea since the last con­ 
tinue.nee. 
ARTICLE II. 
SECTION 
3209. Judgment ·for costs on abate­
ment of actions. 
8210. Costs may be taxed between
defendants. 
8211. Omitted costs taxed at any
time. 
8212. Party may have re-taxation, on
cause shown. 
3213. Only two witnesses taxed for
one fact, except to prove cha­
racter, and then three. 
8~14. But motion in such case to be
made at trial term. 
8215. Costs on dismissal.
3216. Clerk to attach full bill of costs 
to transcript on appeal.
3217. Costs accrued below to be paid 
to clerk of inferior court,
3218. To be paid out by him to the 
parties entitled.
3219. Law of costs remedial, not 
penal.
3220. Therefore, in omitted cases, 
costs discretionary. 
§ 3197. The successful party in all civil actions is entitled to
full costs, unless otherwise directed by law, for which judg­ 
ment ehall be rendered.
§ 3198. In all civil actions founded upon assaults, assaults 
and battery, malicious prosecution, false imprisonment;
slanderous words, or for the recovery of damages for over­ 
flowing of water, by the erection of a grist-mill, or other
water-works of utility, the plaintiff recovers no more costs
than damages, unless the recovery exceed five dollars. 
§ 3199. Suits may be dismissed, in writing, out of term
time as well as in term, and further costs stopped ; and, if 
compromised and dismissed before the return day of the
original writ, or before the court to which an appeal is taken 
from the judgment of a Justice of the Peace, no costs,
except the clerk's fee for issuing the writ, and tho sheriff 's
fee for serving it, if served, shah be taxed. 
§ 3200. Where suit is brought in the name of one, for the
use of another, the person for whose use the action is 
brought is the real plaintiff, against whom judgment for
costs shall be given. 
§ 3201. In cases on nonsuit, dismission, abatement by death
of plaintiff, or discontinuance, the defendant is the success- 
ful party, within the meaning of the first section of this 
§ 3202. So, also, if the appeal of the defendant from a J us-
tice's judgment is dismissed for any cause, the original
plaintiff is the successful party ; and so of other cases. 
§ 3203. Full costs up to the time of overruling the plea shall
be adjudged against the defendant, who unsuccessfully re- 
lies upon a plea in abatement. 
§ 3204. All costs accrued at the instance of the successful
party, w ic cannot e co ecte out o t e ot er party, may 
be recovered, on motion, by the persons entitled to them,
against the successful party. · · 
§ 3205. If it be made to appear in an action that usurious
interest has been intentionally taken or reserved, the person 
taking or reserving such usury shall pay full costs. 
§ 3206. The necessary fees paid by the successful party, in
procuring copies of deeds, bonds, wills, or other records
:filed as part of the testimony, shall be taxed in the bill of 
costs. 
§ 3207. Postage paid by the officers of the court, or by the
parties in sending process, depositions, and other papers,
being part of the record, by mail, shall be taxed in the bill
of costs, as the other costs. 
§ 3208. When the party filing a plea "since the last con tin-
uance," succeeds thereon, but fails on the plea to the merits 
previously filed, he shall be taxed with. the costs which
accrued previous to the :filing the last plea. . 
§ 3209. 'When a plaintiff suffers his action to abate by the
death of the defendant, or other cause; or where the suit 
abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his representatives
fail to revive the same, judgment for costs may be rendered
ag~inst such plaintiff o~ repr~sentatives, in the . name of the 
officers of court, and, if agamst a representative, shall be
paid as other claims against the estate. 
§ 3210. The defendants against whom judgment has been
recovere , are entit e , as etween t iemse ves, to a taxation 
of the costs of witnesses whose testimony was obtained at
the instance of one of the defendants, and inured exclu-
sively to his benefit. 
§ 3211. Costs omitted in taxing the bill of costs may be re-.
taxe , a any time, upon app ication to t e court; ut 1 t e 
judgment for costs has been paid, the party against whom
the re-taxation is asked, shall have :five days' notice of the 
application. . 
§ 3212. If the taxation of costs be excessive, by charging 
the costs of witnesses who were not examined, or by charg­
ing costs to an improper party, or taxing costs contrary to
law, or the taxation is otherwise erroneous, the party ag­
grieved may move the court for a re-taxation, setting forth
the particulars in which the clerk has erred. 
§ 3213. Not more than two witnesses called to prove the
same fact shall be taxed in any bill of costs against the los­
ing party, except in case of witnesses called to attack or
sustain the character of a witness or party, and no more
than three witnesses for such purpose shall be taxed against 
the losing party.
§ 3214. If more than the number of witnesses allowed are 
examined in proof of any particular fact, a motion shall be
made at the term at which the cause is tried, and the court
shall instruct the clerk as to the taxation of costs; and such
motion shall not be made afterwards, without good cause 
shown.
§ 3215. Where a suit is dismissed from any court for want 
of jurisdiction, or because it has not been regularly trans­
ferred from an inferior to a superior court, the costs shall be
adjudged against the party attempting to institute or bring
up the cause. 
§ 3216. In case of appeals from the Circuit or Chancery
Court, the clerk shall make a complete bill of costs, which 
shall accompany the record, and a copy of the same shall be
placed upon the execution docket of the court below. 
§ 3217. When the costs accrued in the Supreme Court, and
in the court below, are paid to the Clerk of the Supreme 
Court, he shall pay so much of them as accrued in the court
below to the clerk of said court; and take his receipt for the
same. 
§ 3218. On receiving said costs, the clerk of the court below
shall charge himself with the money, upon his execution 
docket, and pay it to the persons entitled to the same.
§ 3219. The law of costs shall be construed remedially, and 
not as the penal law.
§ 3220. And if any case shall occur not directly or by fair 
imp ication em race m t e express prov1s10ns o t e aw, 
the court may make such disposition of the costs as, in its
sound discretion, may seem right. 
CHAPTER 16. 
OF ENROL!\IENT. 
SECTION 1· SECTION 
8221. Enrolment to be made in six 3222. What actions at law shall be
months after cause determined. enrolled. 
SBOTIO:R 
3223. In cases settled before judg­
ment, papers to be filed. 
3224. What clerk shall enrol.
3225. Papers enrolled upon cause be­ 
ing remanded.
3226. Papers in misdemeanor cases to 
be filed. 
SXOTION 
3227. Court to determine what equity
causes shall be enrolled. 
3228. Each District Attorney to ex­
amine whether enrolments
made. 
§ 3221. The clerks of the several courts, when any cause
required to be enrolled by them is finally determined, shall, 
within six months thereafter, enter all the proceedings
therein in a well- bound book, and an entire and perfect
record make thereof, under the provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3222. All actions at law shall be thus enrolled, except,
1. Suits settled before final judgment. 
2. Suits carried to a superior court, and there determined
without being remanded. 
3. Misdemeanor cases.
§ 3223. In all cases settled before final judgment, the clerk 
shall preserve and file the ori~inal papers, enter the case
upon his execution docket, and state that the matter was
settled before final judgment. 
§ 3224. When the case is carried to a superior court, and
there determined without being remanded, the clerk of that 
court shall make the enrolment.
§ 3225. If the cause is carried to a superior court and 
remanded, the clerk of the inferior court shall only enrol
the process, pleadings, and orders in the cause, and not the 
evidence, either oral or documentary, which may have been
made part of the record when taken up. 
§ 3226. The clerks of the courts shall carefully file in their
respective offices the original papers in all misdemeanor 
cases, but shall not enrol the same.
§ 3227. Whenever, in the opinion of the court finally deter- 
mining an equity cause, it is necessary and proper that the
proceedings should be enrolled, such court shall order the
enrolment, and the clerk shall make the same accordingly. 
§ 3228. Each District Attorney General of this State shall
examine the offices of the several clerks in his district, at 
every term of the court, whether enrolments have been
properly made, or fees charged for enrolments not made, 
and shall proceed against the clerk guilty of official delin-
quency, and move for the fees illegally charged, and shall
receive a tax fee of five dollars for each case. 
CHAPTER 1. Of Real Actions.Os SPECIAL ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS. 

CHAPTER 2. Of Partition.
CHAPTER 3. Of the Sale of Property of Persons under 
CHAPTER
CHAPTER
CHAPTER
CHAPTER 
CHAPTER 
,, 
TITLE 2. 
Disability.
4. Of Forcible Entry and Detainer. 
5. Of Replevin.
6. Of Slander and Libel. 
7. Of Nuisance, Waste, Trespass.
8. Of Proceedings in the Name of the State 
against Corporations, and to prevent the
Usurpation of Office. 
CHAPTER 9. Of Arbitration and Agreed Cases.
CHAPTER 10. Of Attachment. 
CHAPTER 11. Of the Enforcement of Liens.
CHAPTER 12. Of Mandamus. 
CHAPTER 13. Of Scire Facias.
CHAPTER 14. Of Summary Proceedings.
CHAPTER 15. Of Changing Names, Legitimation and 
Adoption.
CHAPTER 16. Of the Resignation, Removal, and Appoint­ 
ment of Trustees.
CHAPTER 17. Of Proceedings by Sureties to be Released.
CHAPTER 18. Of Proceedings in relation to Persons of 
Unsound Mind.
CHAPTER 19. Of Habeas Corpus. 
CHAPTER 20. Of Injunction, Appointment of Receivers,
and other extraordinary Process. 
CHAPTER 21. Of Suits for Freedom. 
8ECTI01' 
8229. Any person haTing Iegal inter­
est and right to possession,
may bring ejectment. 
3280. Action commenced by summons
in real names. 
8281. .Against occupant or claimant. 
8232. Landlord may appear and de­
fend. 
8233. Copy of declaration served with
summons. 
8234. Substance of declaration.
8236. It must specify plaintiff's estate, 
and describe the premises.
8236. It may contain several counts, 
in name of several parties,
when. 
8237. Amendments allowed as in
other cases. 
8238. Demurrer as in other cases.
8239. Plea of not guilty covers all 
legal defences. 
3240. And admits possession.
8241. If defendant fails to appear, 
judgment by default.
3242. Plaintiff need only show right 
to possesaion,
3243. But must prove ouster against 
joint owner.
3244. Verdict when there are several 
defendants.
8245. Plaintiff may recover part of 
premises. 
CHAPTER 1. 
OF REAL ACTIONS. 
8246. Verdict DlftY be for any plain- 
SECTION 
tiff' against any defendant,
according to right. 
8247. May specify plaintiff's estate,
and premises. 
3248. And be according to the facts.
8249. General verdict entitles plain­ 
tiff to estate and premises in
declaration. 
8250. Judgment for plaintiff.
3251. Execution by writ of po•ea­ 
sion.
8252. Judgment conclusive ag&inst 
party not under disability.
8263. Persons under disability al­ 
lowed three years aft.er dis­
ability removed. 
8254. Limitation of actions not af­
fected by these provisions. 
. 8265. Death of party no abatement,
but suit revived against heir 
or terre-tenant.
82l6. Publication may be made for 
non-resident heirs.
3257. And guardian ad litem appoint­ 
ed for infant heirs.
8258. And changed upon application.
8259. Claim for mesne profits and im­ 
provements not affected.
8260. Tenant in good faith is only 
liable for rent in arrear.
8261. Permanent improvements may 
be set off against rent. 
§ 3229. Any person having a valid subsisting- legal interest
in real property, and a right to the immediate possession
thereof, may recover the same by an action of ejectment. 
§ 3230. The action is commenced by summons and declara-
tion, in which the name of the real claimant is used as plain- 
tiff, and the pro:per name of the defendant is inserted.
§ 3231. The action is brought against the actual occupant, 
if any, and if no such occupant, then against any person
claiming an interest therein, or exercising acts of ownership 
at the commencement of the suit.
§ 3232. When the suit is against a tenant by a party claim- 
ing adversely to the title of his landlord, the landlord mav
appear and be made a defendant with, or in the place of, the
tenant. 
§ 3233. A copy of the declaration shall be left with the
defendant at the time the summons is served upon him. 
§ 3234. It is sufficient for the plaintiff to allege in his decla-
ration, that he was possessed of the premises sued for at the
time specified, which should be after his title accrued, and
being so possessed thereof, the defendant afterwards, on
a day stated, entered thereon, and unlawfully withholds the
same, to the plaintiff's damage, naming the sum. 
§ 3235. The plaintiff's declaration shall specify the quantity
of his estate, and the extent of his interest, according to the 
truth, and describe the premises with convenient certainty, 
by metes and bounds, or other appropriate description.
§ 3236. The declaration may contain several counts, and 
several parties may be named as plaintiffs jointly in one
count, and separately in others, but not without the consent 
of the party in person, or by a duly authorized agent,
unless he be tenant in common with the party commencing
the suit. And if the name of a person be used as a plaintiff
contrary to this provision, the suit shall be dismissed at the
cost of the plaintiff, on motion of the defendant, and proof
of want of authority. · 
§ 3237. The pleading-sin this action may be amended under
the provisions of this Code, so as to conform to the truth
and attain the ends of justice. · 
§ 3238. If the defendant conceive the plaintiff's declaration
to be fata11y defective upon its face, he may demur as in
other cases. 
§ 3239. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of
unlawfully withholding the premises claimed by the plaintiff,
and upon such plea may avail himself of all legal defence. 
§ 3240. Such plea admits that the defendant is in possession
of the premises sued for, unless he states distinctly upon the 
record the extent of his possession.
§ 3241. If the defendant fails to appear and defend within 
the first three days of the return term, judgment by default
may be taken, and such judgment executed as in · other
cases. 
§ 3242. Upon the trial, the plaintiff need not prove an actual
entry on or possession of the premises demanded, or receipt 
of any profits thereof, nor any lease, entry or ouster, except
as herein provided; but it is sufficient for him to show a
ri_e;ht to the possession of the premises at the commencement
ot the suit. · 
§ 3243. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in
common, coparceners, or jomt owners, against their co­
tenants, the plaintiff shall prove actual ouster, or some other
act by the defendant amounting to a denial of the plaintiff's
right as co-tenant. 
§ 3244. When therearemoredefendantsthan one, thejurymay
find the defendants jointly or severally guilty of detaining all
or any distinct parcels of the premises, and plaintiff may have 
judgment against all or any defendant, according to the facts
of the case. 
§ 3245. The plaintiff may recover any specific part or share
of the premises embraced in the declaration, though less than 
he claims.
§ 3246. The verdict may be for the plaintiffs, or such of them 
as appear to ave rig t to t e possession o t e premises, or
any part thereof, and against such of the defendants as were 
in possession thereof, or claimed title thereto at the com­
mencement of the action . 
§  3247. The verdict may specify the extent and quality of
the plaintiff's estate, and the premises to which he is entitled, 
with reasonable certainty, by metes and bounds, or other suf-
ficient description, according to the facts as proved. 
§ 3248. And if the right of the plaintiff expire after the
commencement of the suit and before trial, the verdict shall 
be -according to the facts, and judgment shall be entered
for damages for the withholding of the premises by the
defendant; and as to the premises, the judgment shall be
that the defendant go thence without day. 
§ 3249. A general verdict in favor of the plaintiff, without
such specifications, entitles the plaintiff to the quantity of 
interest, or estate, and the premises, as set. forth and de­
scribed in the declaration. 
§ 3250. The judgment for the plaintiff is that he recover the
possession of the premises according to the verdict, or, ·if by 
default or on demurrer, according to the description in the
declaration. 
§ 3251. The judgment is executed by a writ of possession
issued to the sheriff, and directing him to put the plaintiff in
possession of the premises. 
§ 3252. Any such judgment is conclusive upon the party
against whom it is recovered, not under disability at the time 
of the recovery, and all persons claiming under him by title
accruing after the commencement of the action. 
§ 3253. If the v.erson against whom the recovery is had is
under the disability of infancy, coverture, or unsoundness of 
mind at the time of the recovery, the judgment is no bar to
an action commenced within three years after the removal
of such disability. 
§ 3254. Nothing in the last section shall be held to affect the
general provisions of this Code, touching the limitation of
actions, or to extend the time within which suits must be in-
stituted by those provisions. 
§ 3255. The death of either party does not abate the action,
but it may be revived in favor of the heirs or devisees of the 
plaintiff; and against the heirs and terre-tenants of the de-
fendant. . 
§ 3256. If the heirs are non-resident, the court may order
publication to be made for them, as in the case of other non­
resident defendants; and if they fail to appear and defend,
judgment by default may be taken, subject to the rules and
regulations of this Code, touching judgments against non­
resident defendants. 
§ 3257. If any of the defendant's heirs are infants, either
resident or non-resident, without regular guardian in this
State, the court may appoint a guardian ad litem for such
infants after suit has been revived against them by service of
process, or publication as aforesaid. 
§ 3258. Should such non-resident heirs appear, the court
may, at any time before the trial, upon satisfactory ground
shown, change the guardians, and appoint others to defend in
behalf of such defendants. 
§ 3259. Nothing in this chapter contained deprives the plain-
tiff of his right to an action for mesne profits, a.ft.er verdict
and judgment in his favor, nor the defendant of the right to
file a bill in equity for the value of his improvements, but
those rights are suhject to the general provisions of this Code
regulating actions. 
§ 3260. A tenant in possession in good faith, under a. lease
or license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in
arrear at the time of suit brought for the recovery of the land,
and that which may afterwards accrue during the continuance
of his possession. 
§ 3261. Persons holding possession in good faith under color
of title, are entitled to have the value of their permanent 
improvements set off against the rents and profits which the
plaintiff may recover. 
CHAPTER 2 . 
OF PARTITION. 
ARTICLE I. By whom, for what Estates, and in what Courts
Partition may be had. 
II. Mode of Application, and Proceedings thereon.
III. Commissioners of Partition, and their Duties.
IV. Effect of Partition, 
V. Sale for Partition .
VI. Proceedings in relation to Encumbrances. 
VII. Disposition of Proceeds of Sale. 
BY WHOM, FOR WHAT ESTATES, AN!) IN WHAT COURTS PARTITION
MAY DE HAD. 
8BCTION 
ARTICLE I. 
· 8262. Joint owner in possession, hav­
ing an estate of inheritance,
for life, . or years, entitled to
partition. 
8263. Right not affected by dower or
courtesy, or encumbrance. 
3264. Nor that some of the joint
owners are· infants. 
3266. Shares in severalty or in com­
mon as desired : court to act
for infants. 
8ECTI01' 
8266. The County, Circuit, and Chan­
cery Courts have concurrent
jurisdiction. 
8267. Without affecting rightful juris­
diction of Chancery Court. 
8268. Petition may be filed where any
part of land lies, or any de­
fendant resides. 
8269. Or in any court, ·when all join
as petitioners. 
§ 3262. Any person having an estate of inheritance, or· for
life, or for years, in lands, and holding and being in posses- 
sion thereof, as tenant in common or otherwise, with others,
is entitled to partition thereof, or sale for partition, under the
provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3263. The fact that the premises are subject to a life estate
by dower or courtesy, or to an encumbrance by mortgage or:;:! 
otherwise, will not affect the right.
§ 3264. Nor will' the fact that some of the joint owners are 
infants, and that it is to their interest that the property
should not be partitioned; nor that the several estates and 
interests of the parties are altogether different and distinct.
§ 3265. In these cases, the partition shall be made according 
to the respective rights of the parties, setting apart to such
as desire it their shares in severalty, and leaving the shares 
of others, if desired, in common; and if there are minors, the
court may, in its discretion, leave their shares in common, or 
set them apart to each in severalty, as may appear to be just
and right, upon the proof introduced. · 
§ 3266. The· County, Circuit, and Chancery Courts of this
State have concurrent jurisdiction of partition cases under
the provisions of this chapter, by bill or petition, as herein·
after prescribed. 
§ 3267. Nothing in this chapter contained, shall deprive the
Chancery Court of the jurisdiction rightfully belonging to 
that court over the subject of partition, and sales of realty
for the purposes of division. 
§ 3268. The petition may be filed in the court of the county
in which the land or any part of it lies, or in which the de- 
fendants reside.
§ 3269. If all the claimants join in the petition, or assent to 
the partition, it may be filed in any county in the State,
whether any of the land lies therein or not. 
§ 3270. The bill or petition shall set forth, as far as known,
the names of the owners, their residence, which of them are
infants or married women, and to whom married; describe
the property, its situation, the title by which it is held and
possessed, and such other facts as may be deemed necessary;
and pray the court to cause it to be divided among the claim-
ants according to their respective ris-hts and titles. 
§ 3271. Every person having such interest, whether in pos­
session or otherwise, and every person entitled to dower, if
the same has not been allotted, shall be made a party. 
§ 3272. In case any one or more of such parties, or the share
or quantity of interest of any of the parties be unknown to 
the petitioner, or be uncertain or contingent, or the owner­
ship of the inheritance shall depend upon an cxecntory de- 
vise, or the remainder shall be a contingent remainder, so
that such parties cannot be named, the facts shall be set forth
in such petition. 
§ 3273. Notice of this petition, stating the time it is intended
to present it, and the court at which it is to he presented,
shall be served upon the parties who do not join in the pe­
tition, at least five days before its presentation, or given l~v
publication, as hereinafter provided. "' 
§ 3274. The action may, however, be commenced by filing
the petition or bill, and issuance and service of copy and sum­
mons, or making publication as in other Chancery cases. 
§ 3275. If any of the parties defendant are non-residents, or
unknown, or of unknown residence, the court or its clerk
may order and make publication for them, under the provis­
ions of this Code in like cases in Chancery, where personal
service of process is dispensed with. 
§ 3276. The court may allow any amendment of the plead-
ings or proceedings, so as to make a party thereto any person
who appears in the course of the cause to be interested in
the premises, and who might originally have been made de-
fendant, if his interest hacl then existed or been known. . 
§ 3277. The court, on appearance or default, shall declare
the rights, titles, and interests of the parties in the pre­ 
mises, and give judgment that partition be made between
such of them as have any right therein, according to such 
right.
§ 3278. The court may, in a proper case, where there are 
un nown parties or un nown s ares, give JU gmen t a
partition be made, so far as the rights or interests of the
parties or shares arc known and ascertained, and the residue
of the premises shall remain for the parties whose interests
have not been ascertained, subject to division at any future 
time. .
§ 3279. Whenever the judgment of partition is rendered, 
the court will appoint three or more respectable freeholders,
an~" three of whom may perform the duty, to make the par- 
tition so adjudged, according to the respective rights and
interests of the parties, as the same are ascertained and
determined. 
§ 3280. The commissioners, before proceeding to the execu-
tion of their duty, shall be severally sworn, by the clerk, the
officer summoning them, the county surveyor, his deputy, or
ant Justice of the Peace, to do justice among the parties, to
the best of their skill and abilities, according to the direc­ 
tions of the court.
§ 3281. In making partition, the commissioners shall divide 
the premises, and allot the several shares to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according 
to the respective rights and interests of the parties as ad-
judged by the court, designating the several shares by posts, 
stones, marked trees, or other permanent monumeuts; and
they may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, 
to aid therein. 
ARTICLE III. 
tioned with residue. 
§ 3282. The commissioners shall make report in writing,
signed by at least three of them, of what they have done,
and describing the land divided, and the shares of each
party, by metes and bounds, or other sufficient destgnation. 
§ 3283. If the commissioners are satisfied that exact parti­
tion cannot be made without material injury to the parties, 
or some one of them, they may make the partition as nearly
equal as they can, and charge the larger shares with the
sums. necessary to equalize all the shares, and report the
facts. 
§ 3284. Upon the coming in of the report, unless. set aside
for good cause shown, upon exception, the court shall con­
firm the same, and divest and vest title according to its
terms, giving a decree in proper cases in favor of those to
whom smaller shares have been allotted against those having
the larger shares, for the amounts reported, which decree is
a lien on such larger shares until paid. 
§ 3285. Where there are infants whose shares are thus
charged, the court shall direct the money to be. paid out of
their personal estate, if any. . 
§ 3286. The expenses of the commissioners, including the
expenses of a surveyor and his assistants, when they have
been employed, will be ascertained and allowed by the court;
the said expenses to be paid by the claimants in the propor­
tion of their interests, br equally as the court may direct, to
be collected as other costs. 
§ 3287. If the lands lie in different counties, the court may
appoint separate sets of commissioners for each county, or 
one set for all the lands, as may seem best for the interest of
'the parties. 
§ 3288. The partition may be made by tracts, or by the division of each tract into shares, as may seem right to the 
commissioners and the court.
§ 3289. If <lower has never been allotted to the person enti­ 
tled, upon. petition for partition, the same may, on motion,
be allowed, and set apart by commissioners as in other cases. 
§ 3290. In such case, the entire tract or tracts, including the
part in which dower is assigned, may be partitioned among
the claimants, as hereinbefore provided. 
SECTION I SECTION 
8291. U~on whom partition is eonclu- 3292. Upon whom not conclusive. 
SIVe. 
ARTICLE IV. 
EFFECT OF PARTITIO~. 
§ 3291. The partition thus made is conclusive-
1. On all parties named in the proceedings, who have, at 
the time, any interest in the premises divided, as owners in 
fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion,
remainder, or inheritance of such premises after the termi­
nation of any particular estate therein ; or who, by any con­
tingency in any will, conveyance, or otherwise, may be or
may become entitled to any beneficial interest in the
premises; or who shall have any interest in any individual
share of the premises, as tenants for years, for life, by the
courtesy, or in dower. 
2. On all persons interested in the premises who are un-
known, to whom notice has been given by publication as 
herein before directed.
3. On all persons claiming from such parties, or persons, 
or either of them.
§ 3292. Such judgment and partition will not affect any 
tenants, or persons having claims as tenants, in dower, by
the courtesy, or for life, to the whole of the premises, nor pre-
clude any person, except those specified in the last section,
from claiming any title to the premises, or from controvert-
ing the title or mterest of the parties between whom the
partition has been made. 
ARTICLE V. 
SALE FOR PARTITION. 
. 8298. Sale for partition may be had,
if partition cannot be made,
or if for the interest of par­
ties. 
3294 • .Application to be by bill or
petition, as for partition. 
3296. The court may order sale of
land in another county. 
3296. Application may be in alterna­
tive for partition, or sale. 
8297. But court may order sale upon
answers and proof. 
8298. And 'prayer for sale may be
added by amendment. 
8299. Sale may be ordered upon re­
port of commissioners. 
3800. Sale may be for cash or on
credit. 
SECTION 
8801. Notes to be secured, and lien
retained. 
3302. Rights settled by decree.
3303. Title vested as in other oases of 
sale.
3304. Lien for purchase-money con­ 
tinues notwithstanding omis­
sion. 
8305. Life estate may be sold with
estate to be partitioned. 
3306. Court to act for person under
disability. 
3807. Value of life estate may be
paid over, or invested. 
8308. Court may assent for person
unknown. 
§ 3293. Any person entitled to a partition of premises under
the foregoing provisions, is equally entitled to have such 
· premises sold for division, in the following cases:
1. If the premises are so situated that partition thereof 
cannot be made. •
2. Where the premises are of such description that it 
would be manifestly for the advantag-e of the parties that the
same should be sold instead of partitioned. 
§ 3294. The a:pplication for a sale of the premises is made
by bill or petition, under the same rules and regulations that 
govern the application for partition.
§ 3295. When the estate to be divided is situated in several 
counties, the court may decree a sale of all the land, as well
that situated in the county where the bill is filed as in any
other county in the State. 
§ 3296. The application may be in the alternative for parti­
tion, if practicable or advisable, and if otherwise, for a sale. 
§ 3297. Even if the application is for partition only, the
court may, upon the answers of the defendants asking a 
sale, and satisfactory cause shown, decree a sale for division.
§ 3298. The petition or bill may also be amended at any 
stage of the cause, so as to pray a sale, if the parties think it
for their interest. 
§ 3299. If the commissioners appointed to make partition,
report that the premises, or any portion thereof, are so situ­
ated that a partition cannot be .made without great prejudice
to the owners, the court may, if satisfied that the report is
just and correct, order a sale of the premises, whether prayed
for or not in the petition, or asked by the defendant. 
§ 3300. The court may direct the sale to be made for cash,
or on such credit as may be deemed most for the interest of
all the parties. 
§ 3301. The instalments of purchase-money shall be secured
by note, with good personal security, and a lien retained on 
the land until the whole amount is paid.
§ 3302. The rights of the parties shall be settled by the 
judgtnent or decree of the court, and the proceeds divided
in accordance therewith. · 
§ 3303. The court, upon confirmation of the sale, divests title and vests it as in other cases of sale of real estate by
decree of court, under the provisions of this Code. 
§ 3304. The lien for the purchase-money subsists until the
whole is paid, notwithstanding any omission to reserve
such lien, either in the decree or titles made in compliance
with the orders of court. 
§ 3305. The court may, with the assent of the person entitled to an estate in dower, or by courtesy, or for life, to the
whole or any part of the premises, who is a party to the pro­
ceedings, sell such estate" with the rest. 
§ 3306. If such person is incapable of giving assent, the
court may determine, under all the circumstances, and
taking into view the interest of all the parties, whether such
estate ou zht to be excepted from the sale, or sold. 
§ 3307. When such interest is sold, the value thereof may be·
ascertained and paid over in gross, or the proper proportion
of the fund invested, anfl the income paid over to the party
during the continuance of the estate. 
§ 3308. If the person entitled to. any such estate in dower
hy the courtesy' or for life, be unknown, the court may deter- 
mine whether the estate shall be sold or not, .as in the case
of persons under disability ; and, in the event of sale, make
such order for the protection of the rights of such person in
the same manner, as far as may be, as if the person were 
known and had appeared. 
§ 3309. It is the duty of the. parties, when a sale is applied
for or ordered, to disclose any encumbrance upon the pre- 
mises, or any part thereof. .
§ 3310. Either party, or the purchaser after sale, may ·have 
a reference to ascertain whether there are any encumbrances
on the premises; the costs of which reference will be borne 
by the person appl1.ing, unless an encumbrance is discovered
which the party failed to disclose as required in the last sec-
tion, and then by the party failing to disclose. 
§ 3311. If it appears by the report that there are any exist-
ing encumbrances upon the estate, or interest in the premises 
of any party named in the proceedings, the court may direct 
the same to be paid out of the share of the party in the
funds, or order n. credit to be given the purchaser for the
amount of such encumbrance. 
§ 3312. If the party dispute the validity of the supposed
encumbrance, the purchaser may, by petition, compel such
party and the supposed encumbrancer to interplcad, unless
the party produce and file a disclaimer or receipt from such
supposed encumbrancer. 
§ 3313. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the amount
of encumbrances as herein provided, shall not affect any 
other party in the suit, nor delay the paying over or invest-
ing of moneys to, or for the benefit of any party, upon whose
estate in the premises there appears to be no encumbrance. 
§ 3314. Sales made without reference to the encumbrances
are subject thereto, and do not affect the right of such en­ 
cumbrancers in any way. 
ARTICLE VI. 
and supposed encumbrancer
to interplead. 
3313. Proceedings not to delay other
parties. 
3314. Sale does not affect encum­
brancer. 
8315. Purchaser not deprived of any
right to relief. 
§ 3315. Nothing herein contained shall be held to deprive a
purchaser of any rights he may have to be relieved of a sale,
by reason of an encumbrance not made known at the sale. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE VII. 
DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE. 
8316. Sharee of persons not under
disability to be paid over to
them. 
8317. Sharee of infants to be paid to
guardian, or invested by court. 
8318. Sharee of other persons under
disability, to be disposed of by
court. 
SECTION 
8319, 8320. Married woman may re­
ceive in person, or direct dis­
position of her share. 
3321. Court may direct disposition of
shares of non-resident or un­
known parties. 
3322. Court may require refunding
bonds whenever necessary. 
§ 3316. The shares of adults not under any disability, in
the proceeds of sale made for partition, after deducting the
proportion of costs to be borne by such shares, shall be paid
over to such parties or their order. 
§ 3317. If any of the parties are infants, the court shall
direct the disposition of the shares of such parties, and may
order that the money be paid over to the genera] guardian,
upon his giving bond, with good security, to cover the fund,
or laid out in the purchase of other lands for such minors,
or otherwise permanently invested. 
§ 3318. The court shall, in like manner, direct the disposi­
tion of the shares of other parties laboring under the disa­ 
bilities of coverture or unsoundness of mind, and, upon
proper application, order a re-investment in other property,
for the benefit of such parties. 
§ 3319. A married woman may, in person, receive the
money, or, upon privy examination by the court, or by any
person commissioned to take such examination, direct how
the same shall be paid or invested, which direction shall be
reduced to writing, and entered on the minutes of the court. 
§ 3320. She may also, by power of attorney, duly executed
by her with her husband, upon privy examination as in other
cases, authorize and direct the money to be paid or invested
as they may see proper, which power of attorney shall be
filed with the papers, and form a part of the record of the
cause. 
§ 3321. Where any of the parties are absent from the State,
are without legal representatives in this State, or are not 
known or named in the proceedings, the court will direct
the shares of such parties to be invested in permanent secu­
rities at interest, for the benefit of such parties, until claimed
by them or their legal representatives. 
§ 3322. The court may, whenever the nature of the case
demands, require all, or any of the parties, before they shall 
receive any share of the moneys arising from a sale under
the provisions of this chapter, to give approved security, in
such sum as the court may direct, to refund such share, with
interest thereon, in case it should thereafter appear that such
party was not entitled thereto. 
SECTION 
OF THE SALE OF PROPERTY OF PERSONS UNDER DISABILITY. 
3323. Chancery may consent to so.le
of property of infants and
married women. 
8324. Application to be by guardian
or husband against person
under disability. 
3325. Infant over fourteen, and mar­
ried woman, to answer in per­ 
son.
8326. Bill may be filed where the 
property, or person under
disability, is . 
. 8827. Jurisdiction extends to any
kind of property. 
8328. The interest in expectancy of
person of unsound mind may 
also be sold.
8829. The pleadings must state the 
facts fully.
8880. The court may appoint counsel 
for defendant, and fix his com­ 
pensation. 
CHAPTER 3. 
SECTION 
8381. Proof to be of facts, not opin­
ions. 
3832. Questions may be prescribed by
court. 
8888. Sale may be made, if necessary,
or manifestly for the party's
interest. 
8334. The court should see that re­
quirements are complied with. 
8835. Applicant may be charged with
costs, if unsuccessful. 
3886. Purchaser will get a good title
although proceedings errone­
ous. 
8337. Property limited so that per­
sons not in being may take,
may be sold. 
8888. Court to see to investment of
proceeds of sale. 
8889. No guardlan, next friend, or
witness, shall purchase at sale. 
8840. Property not to be sold when
will directs otherwise. 
§ 3323. The Court of Chancery may, for and on behalf of
persons a ormg un er t e isa 1 ity o coverture an m- 
fancy, consent to and decree a sale of the property, real or
personal, of such persons, under the provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3324. The application may be made by bill or petition,
filed by the husband or regular guardian, to which the
person under disability is a defendant, to be represented by
next friend or guardian ad litem, as the case may be ; and 
the court is authorized, in a1l cases, to appoint such repre-
sentatives as guardians ad litem are appointed, and to take 
euch security from them as may be deemed, necessary to pro­
tect the interests of the parties to the action. 
§ 3325. The infant, if over fourteen years of age, and the
married woman, shall answer the bill in person. 
§ 3326. Such bill or petition may, in all cases, be filed where
the property, real or personal, sought to be disposed of, is, 
or where the person laboring under disability at the time
resides, at the option of the party commencing the action. 
§ 3327. The jurisdiction may be exercised as to any kind
of property, and whether the interest or estate of the party
under disability, or any of the parties litigant, is in :pos­ 
session, reversion, or remainder, or subject to any limitation,
restriction, or contingency whatsoever. · 
§ 3328. The interests of persons of unsound mind in expect­
ancy, may also be sold, as provided in regard to their other 
property in sections 3716-3719.
§ 3329. In all such cases, the pleadings shall set forth fully 
and particularly, the age, circumstances, and condition of the
party under disability, what other property, if any, such 
person owns, or is in any way entitled to, and the causes or
reasons why a sale of the particular property is sought; and
such pleadings shall be sworn to. 
§ 3330. If the person under disability is not represented by 
counsel, the court shall appoint counsel for such person, and
fix the compensation, wluch shall be the same, whether a sale 
is ordered or not, and shall in no event exceed one hundred
dollars. 
§ 3331. The propriety of the relief sought shall appear to the
satisfaction of the court, by proof of facts established by un­ 
exceptionable and disinterested witnesses, and not by state­
ments of opinion. 
§ 3332. The questions put to the witnesses shall be such as
to elicit the whole truth, and may, if necessary, be prescribed
by the court; and the testimony shall be full, ample, and
satisfactory, and leave no reasonable doubt on the mind of
the court as to tho proprietv of granting the relief sought. 
§ 3333. Such sale may be ctecreed-
1; "When it is necessary for the. SU{>'()Ort, education, and 
mamtenance of the person under disability. ·
2. When it is manifestly for the interest of such person. 
§ 3334. It is the duty of the court, in all such cases, to see
that the requirements of this chapter are fully complied with,
and not to give consent, or order the sale of the property of
any person under disability, without a full understanding of
the circumstances and condition of such person, and without
being fully satisfied that the case for a sale is clearly made
out. . 
§ 3335. In order to prevent unnecessary or wrongful appli­
cations, the court may charge the next friend, guardian, or
committee, or other person voluntarily making the applies­
cation, personally with the costs of an unsuccessful applies- 
tion, including the counsel fees of any counsel appointed by
the court under she provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3336. If the provisions of this chapter have been substan-
tially complied with, the purchaser of the property will get a 
good title, although the court may have erred in its conclu-
sions from the facts, and the decree may subsequently be
reversed or set aside upon any proceeding for the correction
of errors. 
§ 3337. Property so limited that persons not in being may
have an estate or interest therein, may also be sold under the 
provisions of this chapter, if all those mterested then in being
are before the court, and it is satisfactorily shown to be
necessary, or manifestly for the interest of such persons then
in being, having a common interest with those who may
come into being. 
§ 3338. In sales made under the provisions of this chapter,
the court shall see that the proceeds of sale are re-invested 
in lands, bonds of this State or of the United States, or
loaned on good mortg-ages on realty, for the benefit of the
persons under disability or not in being, and held in the
same manner and subject to the same rules of descents and
distributions as the property which was sold. 
§ 3389. No guardian, next friend, or witness in such cause,
shall purchase at such sale, or at any time afterwards, until 
five years from the removal of the existing disabilities; and
if any such person should make such purchase, the original
sale shall become void, and the infant or married woman
may bring ejectment for the land, as if no sale had been
made. 
§ 3340. In no case shall property be sold if it be claimed under a will which expressly directs otherwise.
SECTION 8341. No person shall enter upon
land except by law, and peace­
ably. 
8842. Definition of forcible entry and
detainer.· 
8348. Forcible detainer.
3344. Unlawful detainer.
8845. Terms for yee.rs, and all estates 
. embraced.
8846. Three Justices may try. 
" 
under a will which expressly directs otherwise. 
CHAPTER 4. 
8KCTIOR 
8847. Th!-ee years' possession bars
action. 
8848. Plaintiff to give bond for costs
and damages. 
8849. Form of warrant. 
3360. Need not set forth species of 
entry, and may be amended.
8851. No notice to quit necessary .
8362. Warrant to be served six days 
before trial. 
SECTION 
8858. Cause tried without interven­
tion of jury. 
8854. And upon its merits.
8355. Continuance not exceeding fif­ 
teen days, on cause shown.
3366. Subprena for witnesses to any 
county.
8357. Judgment to be endorsed on 
warrant. Form.
8358. Signed by two Justices. Entry 
on docket of either Justice.
8359. Writ of possession.
3860. Appeal in two days allowed. 
3861. No execution until five days
from judgment. 
8862. Certiorari at any time before
writ of possession executed. 
8368. Rent to be ascertained when
defendant takes case up. 
8BCTIOl!I 
3864. Also when plaintiff' takes it up. 
3865. Fees of officers and witnesses.
&;166. Suit may be brought in Circuit 
Court.
3367. Pleadings may be ordered by 
court. Proceedings.
8368. Heir or representative of de­ 
ceased 19ay bring suit.
3369. Suit may'be r~vived in case of 
death as in real actions.
3870. Misdemeanor to resume posses­ 
sion, after writ of restitution
executed. 
8871. Only evidence admitted on pros­
ecution for this offence. 
8372. Judgment no bar to actio.n for
trespass. 
8378. Penalty for neglect to serve
process. . • 
§ 3341. No person shall enter upon or into any lands, tene­
ments, or other possessions, and detain or hold the same, but
where entry is given by law, and then only in a peaceable
manner. 
§ 3342. A forcible entry and detainer is where a person, bv 
force or strong hand, or with weapons, or by breaking open
the doors, windows, or other parts of the house, whether any
person be in it or not, or by any kind of violence whatso­
ever, enters upon lands, tenements, or possessions in the
occupation of another, and detains and holds the same; or by
threatening to kill, maim, or beat the party in possession; or
by such words, circumstances or actions as have a natural
tendency to excite fear or apprehension of danger; or by
putting out of doors .or carrying away the goods of the party 
in possession; or by entering peaceably and ·then turning or 
keepin~ the party out of possession by force or threats or
other circumstances of terror. 
§ 3343. A forcible detainer is where a person enters lawfully
or peaceably, and holds unlawfully, and by any of the means
enumerated in the foregoing section as constituting a forcible 
entry. .
§ 3344. Unlawful detainer is where the defendant enters by 
contract, either as tenant or as assignee of a tenant, or as
personal representative of a tenant, or as sub-tenant, or by
collusion with a tenant, and in either case, wilfully and with­
out force, holds over the possession from the landlord, or the
assignee of the remainder or reversion. • 
§ 3345. The preceding sections extend to and comprehend
terms for years, and all estates, whether freehold, or less
than freehold. . 
§ 3346. All cases of forcible entry and detainer, forcible 
detainer, and unlawful detainer, may be tried before any
three Justices of the Peace of the county in which the acts
are committed, a majority of whom shall decide the particular 
~e, and all questions of law and fact arising, 
§ 3347. The uninterrupted occupation or quiet possession of
the premises in controversy by the defendant, for the space 
of three entire years to~ether, immediately preceding the
commencement of the action, is, if the estate of the defendant 
has not determined within that time, a bar to any proceeding
under this article. 
§ 3348. The party complaining is required, before the is-
suance of the writ, to give bond, with good security, to pay 
all costs and damages which shall accrue to the defendant
for the wrongful prosecution of the suit. 
§ 3349. The warrant may be issued by a single Justice, in
the following form: 
STATE OP TENNESSEE, } . . 
--- county. ·
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County: 
Whereas, complaint is made to me by A. B., of a certain
forcible and unlawful entry and detainer, made by E. F. 
into a certain tract or lot of land, situated in the county
aforesaid, and bounded (or known and described) as follows,
(insert boundaries or description,) which land A. B. alleges
he is entitled to the possession of, and K F. unlawfully
detains the same . from him, we therefore command you
to summon E. F. to appear before three Justices of the
Peace, in and for said county, to answer the above complaint. 
This day of 18 . 
E. F., J.P.
§ 3350. The warrant need not set forth the particular species 
of entry or detainer, but may be in the form given in the last section in all cases, and any defect therein, or in any of the 
proceedings, may be amended as other process and pleadings
m court. · 
§ 3351. No notice to quit need be given by the plaintiff to
the defendant, other than the service of this warrant. 
§ 3352. The officer serving the warrant will notify the de-
fendaut of the time and place of trial, the time to be not less
than six days from the date of the service. 
§ 3353. The cause will be tried, at the time and place desig-
nated, by three Justices, without the intervention of a jury,
and in all respects like other civil suits before Justices of the
Peace. 
§ 3354. The Justices will. try every case upon its merits, 
without regard to matters of form, and ascertain whether the 
plaintiff or defendant is entitled to the possession of the pre-
mises agreeably to the laws governing such cases, and give 
judgment accordingly. But the estate or merits of the title
shall not be inquired into. 
§ 3355. The Justices may, at the request of either party, and 
on good reason being assigned, postpone the trial to any time
not exceeding fifteen days, the party making the application 
paying the cost. '
§ 3356. The Justice before whom the complaint is made, anitl 
the Justices before whom the cause is to be tried, may issue
subpconas for witnesses into any county of the State. 
§ 3357. The judgment for the plaintiff should be endorsed
on the warrant, or annexed thereto, substantially, to the fol·
lowing effect: 
A. B.} Judgment for plaintiff that be be restored to the 
rs. possession of the land described in· the within war- 
e. D. rant, and that a writ of possession or restitution issue
therefor, and also for the costs of suit. This day of 
18 . E. F., J. P.
G. H., J.P.
J. K., J.P. 
§ 3358. The judgment will be effectual and valid, if only
signed by two of the Justices; and the proceedings may be 
entered on the docket of any one of the magistrates trying
the cause, who may issue the execution and writ of possession
or restitution prescribed by the next section. 
§ 3359. The execution for costs will issue in the usual form,
d h . f . f 11 
an t e writ o possession as o ows: 
STATE OF TENNESSEE, } 
--- county.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County: 
Whereas, at a trial of forcible and unlawful entry and de­
tainer had in said county, on the day of 18 ,
before E. F., G. I-I., and J. K., three of the Justices thereof,
judgment was given that A. B. recover from C. D. possession
of a certain tract or parcel of land, bounded ( or known and
described) as follows: (insert the description in the warrant:)
We, therefore, command yon, that you take with you the
force of the county, if necessary,. and cause the said A. B.,
the plaintiff in said judgment, to have and be restored to
the possession of said tract or parcel of land, and that you
remove the said E. F., the defendant in said judgment, there­
from, and give the said plaintiff peaceable possession of said
premises, and make return to me in twenty days how you
have executed this writ. This day of 18 . 
E. F., J.P. 
§ 3360. An appeal will also lie in suits commenced before
Justices under the provisions of this chapter, within the two
days allowed by law as in other cases, the appellant, if the
defendant, giving bond as in the case of a certiorari. 
§ 3361. No execution or writ of possession shall issue against 
I l f d . d d } . . 
t ie l e en ant upon any JU .~mcnt un er t iese provisrons,
until after the lapse of five days from the rendition of the
judgment. 
§ 3362. At any time hefore the writ of possession is executed,
either party may take the cause to the Circuit Court by cer- 
tiorari, on giving bond and security in double the value of
one year's rent of the premises, conditioned to _prosecute the
certiorari with effect, or pay all costs and damages which may
arise from wrongfully suing it out. 
§ 3363. If the defendant obtain the certiorari, and, upon the
trial in the Circuit Court, the jury find that the plaintiff is 
entitled to the possession of the land, they shall also ascer-
tain the value of the rents during the time the plaintiff has
been kept out of possession, and such other damage as the
plaintiff is entitled to, and the court shall give Judgment 
against the defendant and his sureties for the amount.
§ 3364. Should the cause be taken to the Circuit Court by 
the plaintiff and a verdict be found in his favor, the jury shall,
in like manner, ascertain the value of the rents, and the dam-
ages they may consider the plaintiff entitled to, and return
the amount in their verdict, upon which the court shall give 
judgment accordingly.
§ 3365. Each Justice of the· Peace is entitled to one dollar 
per day for trying cases of forcible entry and detainer. The
officer shall be entitled to one dollar for each defendant
named in the original process, twenty-five cents for summon-
ing each Justice, and for each witness summoned; and the
witnesses shall receive fifty cents for each day's attendance. 
§ 3366. The action for the recovery of the possession of land
given m t e prece mg sections, may a so e origma y m-
stituted in the Circuit Court, the same forms being substan-
tially pursued as those prescribed, the process bemg issued 
by the clerk, the plaintiff first giving bond and security to
answer costs and damages as before provided. 
§ 3367. The court may, if deemed best, direct a declaration 
to be filed, and pleadings made up, showing the issues that
are to be submitted to the jury, and the cause will stand for
trial at the first term. The jury, if they find for the plaintiff,
will ascertain the damages be has sustained, including rent,
and judgment shall be given accordingly. 
§ 3368. The legal heir or representative of the person who
m1g t ave eeu p aintitt, 1 a ive, may rmg t e suit a ter 
his death. .
§ 3369. If either party die during the pendency of the suit, it 
may .be revived by or against the heirs or legal representa-
tives of the decedent, in the same manner and to the same 
extent as real actions.
§ 3370. A person, once dispossessed by action, who again 
illegally possesses himself of the premises, is guilty of a mis-
demeanor, and, on conviction, shall be fined not less than five
nor more than fifty dollars, and be imprisoned not less than
two nor more than ten days. 
§ 3371. The onlv evidence required or admitted on the trial 
o e cnrruna c arge, is t at t e eten ant was turne ou
of possession by action brought for the purpose, and that he
has again taken possession of the premises. · 
SECTION 
3374. Lie for good wrongfully eized 
or detained.
3375. In any county where any of the 
prop rty or either defendant 
i found.
33iG. Preliminary affidavit required 
from plaintiff.
3377. Bond to be given by plaintiff in 
double the value of the pro­
perty. 
:13i . lerk will fix the value of the
property. 
3379. ub tance of ihc writ of replc­
vin. 
33 0. ounterparts may is rue to any
county. 
33 1. Alia and pluries writs may 
i ue.
33 2. Writ executed by seizure of 
good and ummon of defend­
ant. 
33 3. If goods not seized, plaintiff 
3 7 4. Where go 1 or chatt I nr wr ngfully seized or
detain d, the owner mny institute au action of replevin
in th Circuit Court, again. tth per on o eizingordetaining 
the ·am . 
t in a 
r ~n 
CH PT R ~ 
OF REPLE I 
ARTI LE I. 
REPLEVI~ I~ TIIE CIRCUIT COURT. 
ECTIO.'. 
forcible entry and
ainst the defendant 
may proceed in case or det·
inuc. 
33 4. If <let ndant not found, alias
writ ay issue. 
38 3. If defendant non-resident, pub­
licati n may be ordered. 
33 G. Declar tion filed on return of
writ served. Judgment by
d fault. 
33 7. When there is no personal ser­
vice, jury empanelled. 
33 . Defend nt may plead not guilty
or pecially. 
33 9. Jury to ascertain plaintiff's
damages. 
33 0. J udgm nt in favor of defendant
for the goods or their value,
and d mages. 
3391. Exemplary damages niay be 
given in all proper cases.
3392. Defect in bond may be remedied 
by order of court.
3393. But clerk liable for such defect, 
§ 3372. The judgment in a case of forcible entry and detainer, shall be no bar to an action against the defendant for trespass.
§ 3373. Any officer neglecting or refusing to execute any process under this article, shall forfeit two hundred and fifty dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered with costs before any tribunal having jurisdiction thereof.
§ 3374. Where goods or chattels are wrongfully seized or detained, the owner may institute an action of replevin in the Circuit Court, against the person so seizing or detaining the same.
§ 3375. The action may be brought 'in any county in which
the goods and chattels, or any part of them, are, or in which 
either of the defendants may be found.
§ 3376. The plaintiff bis agent or attorney, shall file with 
the clerk of the court an affidavit, sworn to before said clerk,
statinu- · 
1. That, according to the affiant's information and belief,
the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the property
proposed to be replevied, describing it with reasonable 
certainty;
2. That the defendant has seized, or that he detains the 
same;
3. That said property was not subject to such seizure, 
detention, or execution; and demanding the writ of replevin.
§ 3377. He shall also, at the same time, give bond in double 
-the value of the property, payable to the defendant, and con­
ditioned to be void if the plaintiff abide by and perform the 
judgment of the court in the premises.
§ 3378. The clerk will value the property according to the 
description in the affidavit, for the purpose -of fixing the
penalty of the bond. 
§ 3379. The writ of replevin will direct the proper officer to
summon the defendant to answer the plaintiff wherefore he 
detains his goods and chattels, describing them as in the
affidavit, and also to take the property out of the possession of
the defendant and deliver the same to the plaintiff 
§ 3380. Counterparts of the writ of replevin may issue,
upon suggestion of the plaintiff, to any other county, to be 
executed upon goods, or served upon defendants found in
such county. 
§ 3381. The court has power to order the issuance of alias
and pluries writs of replevin, and the necessary counterparts
thereof, as often as may be necessary. 
§ 3382. The writ may be executed by seizing the goods or
summoning the defendant, at any time before the first day 
of the term of the court to which it is .returnable.
§ 3383. If the officer's return is, that he has summoned the 
defendant, but could not get possession of the goods and
chattels sued for, the plaintiff may elect to proceed in case 
or detinue, and then the cause shall be conducted as if the
leading process had been in one of those forms; or, the
plaintiff may sue out an alias and pluries writ of replevin, in
order to get possession of the goods. 
§ 3384. If the officer's return is, that he has taken posses-
sion of the goods and chattels sued for, but that the defend- 
ant is not to be found, the plaintiff may sue out an alias and
pluries writ of replevin, directed to the county where the 
defendant resides, to have service upon the defendant.
§ 3385. Should the defendant, or any defendant, be a non-resident of the state, the officer shall return the fact, and the court shall order publication to be made, four successive weeks, in some newspaper published in the division of the state in which the suit is pending; which publication shall state teh names of the parties, and briefly set forth the nature of the writ.
§ 3386. The plaintiff may file his declaration when the writ is returned duly served on the defendant or the alias and plries writs are returned without service, or publication has been duly made. On personal service, if the defendant fails to enter his appearance, the plaintiff may have judgment by default and writ of inquiry as in other cases.
§ 3387. If there be no personal service, the court shall empanel a jury and try the cause as though the defendant had filed his plea.
§ 3388. The defendant may plead not guilty in which case all special matter of defence may be given in evidence, or he may plead specially.
§ 3389. On the issue being found for the plaintiff, or, in case of default, upon writ of inquiry, the jury will ascertain the plaintiff's damages for the seizure and detention, and judgment will be rendered therefor with costs.
§ 3390. If the issue is found for the defendant, or the plaintiff dismises or fails to prosecute his suit, the judgment shall be that the goods be returned to the defendant, or, on failure, that the defendant recover their value, with interest thereon, and damages for the detention, the value of the property and damages to be assessed by the jury trying the cause, or, where the plaitniff fails to prosecute, by a jury empanelled for the purpose.
§ 3391. The jury may, in proper cases, give exemplary damages in favor of either party; and, in all cases where the plaitniff fails to prosecute his suit with effect, they may make such valuation as will be likely to effect a return of the property to the defendant, if the character of the property is such as to make the return of the specific property important.
§ 3392. After the return of the writ, if it appear that the bond is insufficient in form, amount of penalty, or in respect to the solvency of the sureties, the court may remedy the defenct by such orders as are necessary, and may hold the plaintiff in custody till said orders are complied with; and the court may make such other orders as may be considered expedient to secure the rights of the plaintiff or defendant.
§ 3393. The clerk shall not be exempt, by reason of such orders made by the court, from liability for any damages proceeding from his failure to take good and sufficient security.
§ 3394. Whent he property taken or detained does not exceed the value of fifty dollars, the suit may be brought before any justice of the peace.
§ 3395. The method of obtaining the writ shall be the same as when the suit is prosecuted in court; and the following shall be the form of the writ:
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
I command you to summon to appear before me or some other justice of said county to answer the complaint of for unlawfully taking otu of his possession and detaining from him describe the property the property of the said. And I also command you to take said property out of the prossession of the said and deliver the same to the said he having given bond and security as requred by law. This day of.
§ 3396. Any constable may execute this writ; and in exercising this power, shall be governed by the laws regulating sheriffs in teh execution of a writ of replevin issued by a court.
§ 3397. If the justice adjudge the property to belong to the defendant, and the plaintiff fail or refuse to deliver it up to the defendant, the justice shall render judgment against the plaitniff and his sureties for double the value of the property replevied, and execution shall forthwith issue fo rhte same and the cost of suit.
§ 3398. Eithe rparty may appeal fromt he jstuice's judgment to the circuit court within two days after the jdugment is rendered, on giving bond in dobule the value of the property replevied, payable to the opposite party, conditioned to prosecute the papeal with effect, and to abide by and perform the judgmetn of the circuit court.
§ 3399. The followign fees shall be allowed in such suit: to the justice for issueing the writ, for rendering the judgment, to the ocnstable for executing the writ.
§ 3400. Any words written, spoken, or printed of a person, wrongfully and maliciously imputing to such person the commission of adultery or fonication, are actionable, without special damage.
§ 3401. If a person challenged to fight a duel, decline to accept the challenge, and the other or bearer charge him with being a coward, poltroon, or use other words insinuating such charges, whether spoken to a  third paerson or published in a newspaper or printed notice, such words are slanderous, on which an action may be supported against the speaker or publisher.
§ 3402. Where the verdict in slander is under five dollars, the plaintiff shall recover no more costs than damages.
§ 3403. In all suits brought for the recovery of damages re-
sulting from any nuisance, and the :finding that the matter 
complained of is a nuisance, •the court may immediately,
upon petition of the plaintiff in writing, order the nuisance
to be abated, in the same manner and to the same extent as
the Chancery Courts, without resort to a court of equity for
that purpose. . 
§ 3404. In all suits for the recovery of damages occasioned
by the overflowing of water, by the erection of a dam for a 
grist or saw-mill, or other water-works of utility, the plaintiff, 
if successful, shall be entitled to full costs; unless his damages
do not exceed :five dollars, in which case he shall not recover
more costs than damages. 
§ 3405. Any person going into possession. of land under a
parol agreement to purchase, which agreement is subsequently 
avoided by such purchaser, is liable for waste committed
during his possession, as well as for reasonable rent. 
§ 3406. Nothing in this chapter contained shall deprive the
person entitled to redress for waste, of the right to enjoin the 
commission thereof at any time, and recover damages for the
waste actually committed. 
§ 3407. Any railroad contractor, who, by himself, agent, or
operatives, shall wrongfully eut down, appropriate, or other- 
wise destroy any growmg timber or wood, or any fence rails,
on ground not belonging to the railroad company, shall be 
liable in damages to the party injured, whether the wrong be
committed by such contractor, his agent, or 'operatives. 
§ 3408. It is a good plea to an action for trespass on land,
that the defendant disclaims all title to the land, that the
trespass was by negligence or involuntary, and that he ten-
dered sufficient amends for the same before action brought. 
CHAPTER KOF PROCEEDINGS IN THE NAME OF THE 81.,ATE AGAINST
CORPORATIONS, AND TO PREVENT THE USURP AT ION OF
OFFICE. 
Bxcno• 
 
8409. When an action lies under pro­
Tiaions of this chapter: 
8410. Against trustees of public funds
or charity. 
3411. The suit is by bill in the Circuit
or Chancery Court. 
SECTION 
8412. Brought by the District Attor­
ney under direction. 
8413. Or on information of third per­
son as relator. 
8414. Who is liable for costs.
8416. Dill without technical form, and 
CTIO 
e ndu led a other nit in
quity. 
416. I ue of fact mny b mad up.'
341 t. traordin ry 
u d in criminal pro ccution.
3419. In act ion for us urpnlion of 
offi , rightful claimant to be 
nam d. 
3420. If judgm nt for claimant. court 
may order delivery of book ,
tc. 
342 . TI may al o sue for damages.
3422. When th re arc vernl claim­ 
ants, they may all b made
part ie . 
8423. Elections not tried under this chapter. 
§ 3409. An a tion lies, under the provi ion of this chapter,
in th nuni of the 'tat , again t th per n or corporation
off ndincr, in the following cas 
1. Whcnev r any per, on uulawfully holds or tercises any 
public oflic or fra nchis within this State r any office in
any orporation created l,y the lawr of thi tat . 
~. -·whenever any pn l.lic oflic .r ha don or u ered to be 
lone any net which works n forfeitur of hi offi e . 
. ,rhen any I' rson act as a corporation within this State,
without boinrr authoriz d Irv law. 
4. r if 1eing incorporated they do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender r forfeiture of their rirrbts and privi­
legc as a corporation. 
f-. Or cxcrci 'C pcnrnrs not conferred by law.
G. Or foil to exercise l" wcrs conferred by law and essen­ 
tial to th corporate xistcnco. 
342i.
342 . 
m n of exclusion from
offic . 
8425. Ju gment of di solution of cor- 
but may b revived in name
of another. 
3420. On abat m nt by death, judg­ 
ment again t ureties for costs. 
!'.1430. A ppc 1 a in other cases.
3131. Corporn.tion not dissolved by 
non-us r or assignment of
frnnchi , unless property
approprint d to debts. Cred­
itor may .file bill without
judgment. 
§ 3410. 'I'he action. also, lie to bring- the dir ctors, man­
ager. nnrl offi .ers of a corporation, or the tru te s of funds 
gi,cn for a public or charitable pnrpo~e to an account for 
the managc'mc11t mul <li~11<>:-.itio11 of property intrusted to 
their care; to remove such officer or trn. tees on proof of 
miscondur-t ; to prevent mulvcrsa t iou, P culation and waste; 
to set a. i.Io .uul rcst ruiu i11111rop r uli -nations of such pro­ 
perty or funds, nnrl to secure them for the Len fit of those 
interested; and g ... ncrully to compel faithful I rformnnce of
duty. 
§ 3411. The. nit i:-; brought lJy hill in equity fil d either in
the Circuit or Chancerv Court of the .ouutv or district in 
whicl: the office is 11. m·i~c,1 or held, or the cori oration or sup-
1,o~(·<l corporation holds its rucetiugs, or has it I rincipal place
of busiues s. 
§ 3412. The suit is brought by the Attorney General for the
district or county, when directed so to do by the General As- 
sembly, or by the Governor and Attorney General of the State
concurring. 
§ 3413. It is also brought on the information of any person,
upon such person giving security for the costs of the proceed- 
in~s, to be approved by the clerk of the court in which the
bill is filed. 
§ 3414. When the suit is brought at the relation of a private
individual, it shall be so stated in the bill and proceedings, 
and such individual is responsible for costs in case they are
not adjudged against the defendant. 
§ 3415. The bill will set forth briefly, and without technical
forms, the grounds upon which the suit is instituted, and the
suit will be conducted as other suits in equity. 
§ 3416. Such issues of fact as it may become necessary to try 
by jury in the progress of the cause, win be made up under
the direction of the court, and submitted to a jury empanelled
forthwith. 
§ 3417. The court is authorized, upon the filing- of tho bill,
proper y veri e , m a proper cases, to grant a tac ments 
and injunctions, and appoint receivers to effect the ends of
justice;and to make all such orders, rules and decrees, ac- 
cording to the practice of a Court of Chancery, as. may be
necessary to accomplish the objects had in view. 
§ 3418. The defendants appear and answer the bill in the
usual way, and such answer shall not be read against them in 
any criminal prosecution brought against them, or either of 
them.
§ 3419. Whenever the action is brought against a person for 
usurping an office, in addition to the other allegations, the
name of the person rightfully entitled to tho office, with a 
statement of his right thereto, may be added, and the trial
should, if practicable, determine the right of the contesting
parties. 
§ 3420. If judgment is rendered in favor of such claimant,
the court ~ay order the defendant to deliver to him, upon 
his qualifying as required by law, all books and papers be-
longing to the office, in his, the defendant's custody, or under
his control, and such claimant may thereupon proceed to
exercise the functions of the office. 
§ 3421. Such claimant, in this event, may also, at any time
within one year thereafter, bring suit agamst the defendant,
and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of the
act of the defendant. 
§ 3422. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, they may be all made defendants, 
so as to determine their respective rights.
§ 3423. The validity of any election which may be contested 
under this Code, cannot be tried under the provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3424. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, is adjudged guilty of usurping, unlawfully holding, or exercising any office or franchise, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the office or franchise and that he pay th ecosts.
§ 3425. If it be adjudged that a defendant corporation has, by beglect, non-user, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, judgment will be rendered that the defendant be altogether excluded from such rights and be dissolved; and also that the corporation, its directors or managers, as the case may be, pay the costs.
§ 3426. Such judgment of dissolution does not extinguish the debts due to or from the corporation; but th ecourt shall appointa  receiver, with full power to take possession of all the debts and property, and sell, dispose of, collect, and distribute the same among the creditors and other persons interested, under the orders of the court.
§ 3427. IF such action is at the suit of the state alone, and judgment is for the defendant, or the defendants are insolvent, the costs are paid as in othe rstate cases.
§ 3428. Should the relator die pending the action, teh suit abates, unless by the second term thereafter it is revived in teh anme of some person who, on aplpication, and giving security for csts, is substittued in the place fothe deceased relator. IF there are several relators, the suit abates only on teh death of all.
§ 3429. On the abatement of the action as above, judgment is rendered aginst the sureties of the relator for the costs.
§ 3430. Either party is entitled to taket he case to the surpeeme court fo rth correction of errors, as in other chancery cases.
§ 3431. A corpaotion is not dissolved by the non-use or assignment toothers, in whole or in part, of its powers, franchises, and privileges, unless all the corporate property has been appropriated to the payment of its debts; and any creditor, for himself and other creditors, whether he has recovered judgment or not, or any sotckholder, for himself and other stockholders, may file abill under the provisions of this chapter, to attach the corpoate proeprty, and have such property applied to the paymetn of the debts and the coporation, and any surplus divided among the stockholders.
§ 3432. All causes of action, whether there be a suit pending
therefor or not, may be submitted to the decision of one or
more arbitrators, as hereinafter provided. 
§ 3433. The submission may be made by anJi party in inte- 
rest, or by .a.». executor, adnumstrator, guar ian, trustee, or
assignee for creditors, or it may be made by a trustee for a
married woman, with her consent made in open court and
entered of record, or by writing proved by privy examina-
tion as in case of conveyance. 
§ 3434. The submission shall be by written agreement, spe-
cifying what demands are to be submitted, the names of the 
arbitrators, and the court by which the judgment on their
award is to be rendered. 
§ 3435. The submission may be of some particular matters
or demands, or of all demands which one party has against 
the other, or of all mutual demands.
§ 3436. The agreement may specify that the submission be 
entered of record in any court of law or equity, or, in cases
within· their jurisdiction, before a Justice of the Peace. 
§ 3437. On proof of such agreement, or by consent of parties
in person, or by counsel, it shall be entered in the proceed- 
ings of the court, or on the docket of the Justice, and an
order made that the parties submit to the award which shall
be made in pursuance of such agreement. 
§ 3438. Upon such proof or consent, the Judge may, in vaca-
tion, make upon the agreement the order mentioned in the
last section, and such order shall have the same force and 
effect as if made in term. 
§ 3439. No such submission shall be revocable after the agreement is signed by the parties, or entered of record, without leave of the court or justice, except by mutual consent entered of record.
§ 3440. If the time within which the award is to be made is fixed in teh submission, no award made after that time shall have any legal effect, unless made upon a recommitment by the court; the court may, however, enlarge the time within which an award is to be made.
§ 3441. IF the time of filing the award is not fixed in teh submission, it shall be filed within eight months from the time such submission is signed, unless by mutual consent the time is prolonged.
§ 3442. The arbitrators shall give notice of the tiem and place of final hearing, which notice shall be served at least five days before the day of trial.
§ 3443. In all submission cases, depositions may be taken to be used before the arbitrators, and witnesses may be summoned by subpoena, to be issued by the clerk fo the court or justice, as in other cases.
§ 3444. These witnesses may be sworn by the arbitrator, and if guilty of false swearing, they are liable to allt he penalties of perjury, asif sworn in court.
§ 3445. Witnesses are also subject to allt he penalites prescribed by law, for failing toa ttend and give testimony, in pursuance of the subpoena, as well as in damages to the party injured by their default; and, on the other hand, they are enttilted to like privileges and like compensation as other witnesses.
§ 3446. The award shall be in writing, and should be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in teh agreement, or it may be englosed and sealed by them, and transmitted to the court, and not opened until the court orders.
§ 3447. The cause will be entered on teh docket and called up and acted upon in its order; but hte court may requried actual notice to be given either party, when it appears necessary and procper, before proceeding to act on the award.
§ 3448. The award may be rejected by the corut for any legal and sufficient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a re-hearing to the same, or any other arbitrators agreed upon by the parties.
§ 3449. When the award is adopted, it is filed and entered on teh records, and judgment will be rendered, and execution, or other necessary process, awarded accordingly. 
§ 3450. The same :parties who are entitled to enter into an
agreement of submission to arbitration, may, in like manuer,
with or without action brought, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and submit
the same to the Circuit or Chancery Court of the county in
which either of the parties resides, or in which a snit might
have been brought to determine such controversy. 
§ 3451. It must appear by the affidavit of the parties or their
attorneys, that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in
good faith, to determine the rights of the parties . 
§ 3452. The judgment or decree will be cptcred as in other
cases, and no objection will lie to the jurisdiction of the Cir-
cuit or Chancery Court, whether the matter be of legal or
equitable cognizance. . 
§ 3453. The parties will give bond and security for the costs
of an agreed case, unless they pay the clerk's foes and State 
tax in advance; and all costs incurred will he borne equally
by the parties, unless they agree that the costs shall abide the 
event of the cause .
§ 3454. The parties to submission and agreeJ cases, arc entitled to all the benefits of the proceedings for the correction
of errors. 
CHAPTER 10. 
OF ATTACIDIENT. 
ARTICLE I. For what Causes an Attachment may Issue,
in whose Favor, by whom Granted, and to
what Tribunals Returned. 
II. Mode of Suing out an Attachment, aud Form
of ,vrit. 
ID. Attachment by Garnishment. 
ARTICLE IV. Levy of an Attachment.
V. Replevy of Property Attached. 
FOR WHAT CAUSES AN ATTACHMENT MAY ISSUE, IN WHOSE FAVOR,
BY WHOM GRANTED, AND TO WHAT TRIBUNALS RETURNED. 
SxcTION 
VI. Mode of Procedure in Attachment Cases. 
ARTICLE I. 
8455. In what cases attachment lies.
3456. May be sued out on debts not 
due, except against non-resi­
dent. 
8467. Surety may have against prin­
cipal, whether debt due or
not. 
3458. But no final judgment before
• debt due. 
8459. Such attachment discharged
upon bond of indemnity. 
3460. Attachment lies before any tri­
bunal having cognizance of
cause of actiob. 
SECTION 
8461. And in Chancery, upon legal
demands, except torts. 
3462. Ancillary attachment returned
where suit pending. 
8468. Attachment may be granted by
any Judge, Chancellor, or
Justice, and by the clerk of
the court to which returnable. 
3464. It issues to any county.
3465. And counterparts may also 
issue.
3466. Attachment may issue on re­ 
turn of summons not found.
346i. And proceeds a.s in other cases.
3468. Judicial attachment. 
§ 3455. Any person having a debt or demand due at the
commencement of an action, or a hlaintiff after action for 
any cause has been brought, and eit er before or after judg-
ment, mny sue out an attachment at law or in equity, against
the property of a debtor or defendant, in the following cases: 
1. Where the debtor or defendant resides out of the State.
2. Where he is about to remove, or has removed himself or 
property from the State.
3. Where he has removed, or is removing himself out of 
the county privately.
4. Where he conceals himself, so that the ordinary process 
of law cannot be served upon him.
5. Where he absconds, or is absconding or concealing him­ 
self or property.
6. Where he has fraudulently disposed of, or is about 
fraudulently to dispose of, his property.
7. Where any person liable for any debt or demand, resid­ 
ing out of the State, dies, leaving property in the State.
§ 3456. An attachment may, in like manner, be sued out 
upon debts or demands not due, in any of the cases mentioned
in the preceding section except the first, when the debtor or
defendant resides out of the State. 
§ 3457. Any accommodation endorser or surety may, in like
manner, sue out an attachment against the property of his 
principal, as a security for his liability, whether the debt on
which he is bound be due or not. 
§ 3458. But no final judgment or decree shall be rendered
upon such attachment, until the debt or demand upon which 
it is based becomes due; nor shall any property levied upon
thereby be sold, until final judgment or decree, except pro- 
perty of a perishable nature, which may be sold as in other
attachment cases. 
§ 3459. And the attachment by endorser or surety shall be
discharged, if the principal will give bond and security, to be 
approved by the court, in term time, or its clerk in vacation,
· to indemnify the plaintiff. 
§ 3460. Suits by original attachment may be brought in any
court, or before any magistrate, having jurisdiction of the
cause of action. 
§ 3461. Any person may also sue out an attachment in the
Chancery Court, upon debts or demands of a purely legal 
nature, except causes of action founded on torts, without first
having recovered a judgment at law, whenever the amount in
controversy is sufficient to give the court jurisdiction. 
§ 3462. Attachments sued out in aid of a suit already brought,
shall be made returnable to the court or Justice before whom 
the suit is pending. 
§ 3463. The attachment may be granted by any Judge of the
Circuit, Criminal or Special Court, by any Chancellor or J us- 
tice of the Peace, or by the clerk of the court to which the
attachment is made returnable. 
§ 3464. The process of attachment issues against the property
of the defendant wherever the same may be found. 
§ 3465. The 'officer granting the attachment may direct, upon
proper application, that counterpart writs of attachment issue 
to any county in which property of the defendant may be
found, or such counterparts may be subsequently applied for
and obtained upon good cause shown, 
§ 3466. In any civil action, when the summons has been re-
turned "Not to be found in my county," as to all or any one 
of the defendants, residents of the county, the plaintiff may
have an alias and pluries summons for the defendant, or, at 
his election, sue out attachment against the estate of such
defendant. 
§ 3467. Upon the return of the attachment levied on any
property of the defendant, the cause proceeds against such 
defendant, in all respects, as if originally commenced by at­
t.achment. 
§ 3468. No judicial attachment shall issue against the estate
of any person residing without the limits of the State, unless 
such process is grounded on an original attachment, or unless
the leading process in the suit has been executed on the per-
son of the defendant when within the State. 
SECTION
MODE OF SUING OUT ATTACHME~T. 
3469. Affidavit required bef'ore is­
suance of attachment. 
84 iO. No objection that more than
one cause is stated. 
3471. Bond to be given in double the
amount claimed. Condition. 
3472. Affidavit and bond filed, a.nd
part of record. 
§ 3469. In order to obtain an attachment, the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, shall make oath in writing, stating the
nature and amount of the debt or demand, and that it is a
just claim ; and, also, that one or more of the causes enume­
rated in section 3455 exists. 
§ 3470. It is no objection to the, attachment, that the bill,
affidavit, or attachment states in the alternative, or other­
wise, more than one of the causes for which attachment may
be sued out. 
§ 3471. The officer to whom application is made, shall, before
granting the attachment, reqmre the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, to execute a bond in double the amount claimed to
be due, with sufficient security, payable to the defendant, and
conditioned that the plaintiff will prosecute the attachment
with effect, or, in case of failure, pay the defendant all costs
that may be adjudged against him, and, also, all such damages 
as he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the attach­
ment. 
§ 3472. The affidavit and bond shall be filed by the officer
taking them, in the court to which the attachment is return­
able, and shall constitute a part of the record in the cause. 
§ 3473. The writ shall be addressed to the sheriff of the
county, unless the suit be before a Justice of the Peace, and
then it may be addressed to a constable; and it shall com­
mand him to attach and safely keep, repleviable upon security,
the estate of the defendant, wherever the same may be found
in the county, or in the hands of any person indebted to or
havin~ any of the effects of the defendant, or so much thereof
as shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the debt or demand,
and the costs of the complaint. 
3474. It may be substantially in the following form: 
STATE OF TJ<;NNESSEE,} 
ARTICLE II. 
SECTION 
8473. Directions of the writ.
§ 3474. Form of the writ.
To the Sheriff of County, greeting : 
if defect supplied. 
Whereas, A. B. ( or C. D ., as the agent or attorney of A. B.) 
hath complained on oath to me, E. F., Judge, (Chancellor, 
Justice of the Peace, or clerk,) that G. H. is justly indebted
( or liable) to the said A. B. in the sum of dollars ;
and affidavit having also been made in writing, and bond 
given as required by law in attachment cases, you are hereby
commanded to attach so much of the estate of the said G. H.
as will be of value sufficient to satisfy the debt and costs
according to the complaint; and such estate, unless reple­
vied, so to secure that the same may be liable to further
proceedings thereon to be held at the Court, to be
held for the county of on the day of
next, (or before a Justice of the Peace of county, on
the day of ) when and where you will make
known how you have executed this writ. 
Witness, E. F., Judge of the Court, (Chancellor,
Justice of the Peace, or clerk,) this day of 
18 . E. F. 
§ 3475. No objection will lie to the form of the attachment,
if the essential matters in the foregoing precedent be set
forth in such attachment. 
§ 3476. Attachments issued without affidavit and bond, as
herein prescribed, may be abated by plea of the defendant. 
§ 3477. The attachment law shall be liberally construed, and
the plaintiff, before or during trial, shall be permitted to
amend any defect of form in the affidavit, bond, attachment,
or other proceedings ; and no attachment shall be dismissed
for any defect in, or want of bond, if the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, will substitute a sufficient bond. 
8EC.TION 
ATTACHMENT BY GAR~ISHMENT. 
3478. When garnishment attachment
lies. 
3479. Mode of attachment by garnish- I 
ment. I 
8480. Substance of notice.
8481. Copy of notice to be returned I 
with writ.
8482. Examination of garnishee. 
3488. Garnishee may pay over money
or property. 
8484. Judgment against garnishee.
8486. Upon debt not due, execution 
suspended.
8486. Conditional judgment on fail­ 
ure to appear.
8487. Notice thereof to garnishee. 
ARTICLE III. 
11 
SEC TIO~ 
3.J88. Final judgment thereon.
8489. New process against third per­ 
son.
3490. Privileges of garnishee.
8491. Suit may be revived on death 
of garnishee.
3492. Appeal lies by plaintiff', defend­ 
ant, or garnishee.
3498. Judgment conclusive between 
garnishee and defendant.
3494. Garnishee may stay judgment 
of Justice.
8496. Garnishee to be exonerated 
from liabflity on negotiable
paper. 
§ 3478. Where property, choses in action, or effects of the
debt.or are in the hands of third persons, or third persons are
indebted to such debtor, the attachment may be by garnish­
ment. 
§ 3479. Attachment by garnishment is effected by inform-
ing the debtor of the defendant, or person holding the
property of the defendant, that the pro:perty in his hands is 
attached, and by leaving with him a written notice that he
is required to appear at the return term of the attachment, or
before a Justice of the Peace at a time and place fixed, to
answer such questions as may be asked him touching the
property and effects of the defendant. 
§ 3480. The notice should also require the defendant not to
pay anv debt due by him, or thereafter to become due, and
to retain possession of all property of the defendant, then or·
thereafter in his custody or under his control, to answer the 
garnishment.
§ 3481. A copy of the notice served upon the garnishee 
should be returned by the officer, with the attachment and
levy, duly executed. . 
§ 3482. The garnishee shall be examined as prescribed in sections 3088, 3089. 
§ 3483. A garnishee may, at any time after answer, exone­
rate himself from further responsibility, by paying over and 
delivering to the officer before, or court after, the return of
the attachment, the money and property of the defendant, or
so much thereof as may be equal to the property directed to 
be attached; and such property or money delivered o! paid
over, may afterwards be treated as though attached m the
usual manner. 
§ 3484. If it appears that the garnishee is indebted to the
defendant, or has property and effects of the. defendant, 
subject to the attnchmeut, the court may, in case recovery is
had by the plaintiff against the defendant, give judgment
against the garnishee for tho amount of the recovery, or of the
indebtedness and property. 
§ 3485. If tho debt of the garnishee to the defendant is not
due, execution will be suspended until its maturity. 
§ 3486. If, when duly summoned, the garnishee fail to appear
and answer the garnishment, he shall be presumed to be
indebted to the defendant to the full amount of the plaintiff's
demand, and a conditional judgment shall be entered up
against him accordingly. 
§ 3487. 1J pon this conditional judgment, a scire facias shall
issue to the garnishee, returnable to the next term of the 
court, or to a day and place :fixed before a Justice, to show
cause why final j udgmcnt should not be entered against him. 
§ 3488. Upon the return of this scire facias duly served, or
two returns of "Not to be found in my county," the con­
ditional judgment will be made final, and execution issued
accordingly. 
§ 3489. If, upon the examination of any garnishee, it appears
that there is any of the defendant's estate in the hands or
under the control of any person not summoned, the court or
Justice shall, u:pon the motion of the plaintiff, grant attach-
ment, to be levied on the estate in the hands or under the 
control of such person, who shall be summoned and made
liable as other garnishees. 
§ 3490. The s-arnishee is allowed the pay and privileges of a 
witness, for his attendance and answer, and all costs to be
paid by the plaintiff, subject to the provisions of section 3102. 
§ 3491. If the garnishee die after he has been summoned in
garnishment and pending the litigation, the proceedings may
be revived by or against his heirs or legal representatives. 
§ 3492. An appeal lies, in all garnishment cases, at the
instance of the plaintiff, the defendant, or the garnishee. 
§ 3493. The judgment in the garnishment suit, condemning
the property or debt in the hands of the garnishee to- the 
satisfaction of the plaintiff's demand, is conclusive as between
the garnishee and defendant. 
§ 3494. The garnishee against whom a judgment for money
is rendered by a Justice of the Peace, is entitled to, the stay
of execution allowed by law on Justice's judgments. 
§ 3495. The garnishee shall not be· made liable upon a debt
due by negotiable or assignable paper, unless such paper is 
delivered, or the garnishee completely exonerated or indem-
nified from all liability thereon, after he may have satisfied
the judgment or decree. 
ARTICLE IV. 
LEVY Oll' ATTACHMENT. 
3496. Constables ma.y levy attach­
ment, when. 
8497. Writ should direct sufficient
property to be attached. 
3498. Personalty to be first levied,
then realty. 
8499. Oftice:r91iable for excessive levy.
8500. Property which may be at­ 
tached.
8601. No final judgment on choses in 
action until due.
8500. Officer nia.y collect them until 
return of writ. 
SECTION 
8508. Then receiver may be appointed.
8604. Perishable property sold by 
order of court or Justice.
8606. And by officer, if so perishable 
or expensive as to make sale
necessary. 
8606. Money to be paid over to clerk
of court. 
8507. Any transfer of property after
suit void. 
8608. Payment of debt, secreting of
eff'e91,6, or purchase of set-off',
no defence after service. 
§ 3496. Constables may execute attachments returnable be- 
fore Justices of the Peace, and in cases where the defendant
is about to abscond or remove. The provisions of this chap-
ter in relation to the duties of attaching officers, embrace
constables whenever they are authorized to serve attachments. 
§ 3497. The writ of attachment should direct so much of the
property of the defendant to be attached, as will be sufficient
to satisfy the plaintiff's debt or demand and all costs. 
§ 3498. The officer to whomthe writ is delivered, shall attach
and take into his possession, in the first instance, so much of 
the personal property of the defendant as may be necessary
to meet the exigency of the writ, and shall levy the attach­ 
ment, when necessary, upon the defendant's real estate.
§ 3499. If the officer make an excessive levy, he shall be lia- 
ble as in case of excessive levy by- execution. 
§ 3500. Attachments may be levied upon any real or personal
property of either a legal or equitable nature, debts or choses
in action, whether due or not due, in which the defendant
has an interest. 
§ 3501. If debts or choses in action not due are levied upon,
no final judgment or decree shall be rendered until they be-
come payable. 
§ 3502. In all cases where choses in action are attached, the
officer evymg the attac ment may col ect t e same until the
writ is returned, unless otherwise ordered. 
§ 3503. The court or Justice before whom the suit is pend-
ing, may, at any time, appoint a receiver to take possession of
property attached under the provisions of this chapter.and to
col1ect, manage, and control the same, and pay over the pro­
ceeds according to the nature of the property, and exigency
of the case. 
§ 3504. Perishable property may be sold by order of the court
or Justice before whom the suit is pending, unless replevied 
by the defendant.
§ 3505. If any or a~l of the propderty is 1of so perish£ableha 
nature, or so expensive, as to ren er a sa e necessary or t e
interest of the parties, before the officer can make his return,
he may sell the same, upon advertisement as in the case of
execution sales, and make return of the facts with the pro­
ceeds of sale. 
§ 3506. Money attached by the officer, or coming to his hands
by virtue of the attachment, shall forthwith be paid over to 
the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, to. be by
him retained until the further action of the court. • 
§ 3507. Any transfer, sale, or assignment, made after the
filing of an attachment bill in Chancery, or after the suing
out of an attachment at law, of property mentioned . in the
bill or attachment, as against the plaintiff, shall be inoperative
and void. - 
§ 3508. If after the service upon him of copy of the bill, or
levy of the attachment at law upon debts or effects in his
hands, any person should pay or secrete the debt or effects,
or purchase in any other claim against the defendant, he shall
be liable to the same extent as before the payment, secreting, 
or purchase. 
SECTION 
REPLEVY OF PROPERTY ATTACHED. 
3509. Defendant may replevy proper­
ty attached. 
3510. Officer may take replevy bond,
before return of writ. 
3511. Justice or clerk after return.
8512. Replevy bonds. 
§ 3509. The defendant to an attachment suit may always
replevy the property attached, by giving bond with good
security, payable to the plaintiff, in double the amount of the
plaintiff's demand, or at defendant's option in double the 
value of the property attached, conditioned to pay the debt,
interest and costs, or the value of the property attached, with
interest, as the case may be, in the event he shall be cast in
the suit. 
§ 3510. The officer levying the attachment shall take the
bond, if tendered, at any time before he has made sale of the 
property, or return of the process, in which case he will fix 
the value of the property, and judge of the sufficiency of the
security. 
§ 3511. After the return of the attachment, and at any time
before sale of the property attached, the Justice to whom the 
writ is returned, or the clerk of the court to which return is
made, shall take the replevy bond and fix the value of the
property, and judge of the sufficiency of the security. 
§ 3512. Replevy bonds are subject to the rules prescribed in sections 773, 774. · 
§ 3513. The bond, if given to the officer levying the attach-
ment, shall be returned by him with the attacliment; and, 
whether given to such officer, to the clerk or Justice, it con-
stitutes a part of the record. 
§ 3514. The court may enter up judgment or decree upon
the bond, in the event of recovery by the plaintiff, against the 
defendant and his sureties for the penalty of the bond, to be
satisfied by delivery of the property or its value, or payment
of the recovery, as the case may be. 
§ 3515. The death, or destruction of the property, without any
fault of the defendant, after the replevy, is llO defence to the 
liability on such bond. 
ARTICLE V~ 
8BOTION 
8618. Replevy bond part of record.
3514. And judgment may be rendered 
thereon.
8615. Death, or destruction of pro­ 
perty, no answer to liability
on bond. 
811:CTIOlC 
MODE OF PROCEDURE IN ATTACHMENT CASES. 
8516. Affidavit and bond to be re­
turned to tribunal t.o which
writ returnable. 
8617. Alia.a writs may be issued with­
out new bond or affidavit. 
8518. Officer granting attachment
may order publication. 
8519. So may clerk, court, or Just.ice.
3620. Order to be entered on docket.
3521. And memorandum thereof pub- 
lished.
3522. Substance of memorandum. 
ARTICLE VI. 
8528. Publication for four consecutive
weeks. 
3524. Proceedings as upon summons.
8525. Pleadings not required to be 
filed before debt due.
3526. If defendant appears, proceed­ 
ings as on summons. If not,
judgment by default. 
3527. Court may, and Justice must,
stay judgment by default not
less than six months. 
8528. Stay allowed if defendant a
non-resident, unless cause
shown. 
SECTION 
3629. Non-resident may appear and
defend, in twelve months after 
judgment by default.
8580. In all other cases, remedy on 
bond.
3531. Jury may give vindictive dam­ 
ages, if attachment malicious.
8582. Persons under disability have 
si:r. months after disability to
appear. 
8538. Death of defendant no abate­
ment, but heirs may appear 
in three years.
3534. The judgment, if executed, 
will give good title, and pro­
tect officer. 
3535. Judgment may be given on re­
plevy bond. 
3586. Property attached subjected by
judgment, if not replevied. 
3537. If land is levied on by Justice's
attachment, papers returned
to court. 
8538. Execution may issue for resi­
due, not satisfied by property
attached, as in other cues.. 
§ 3516. The affidavit and bond shall be returned, by the
officer granting the attachment, to the tribunal to which the
attachment is made returnable. 
§ 3517. Alias writs of attachment, or new writs of garnish­
ment may issue, without new bond or affidavit, when no
property has been found, or not sufficient to satisfy the debt,
or when, pending the suit, the plaintiff wishes to garnishee
other persons. 
§ 3518. The officer granting the attachment may, at the time,
direct that as soon as the attachment is levied, publication be
made in some newspaper, requiring the defendant to appear,
at a time and place to be mentioned in such publication, be­ 
fore the court or Justice having cognizance of the attach­
ment, and defend the action thus commenced, otherwise the
cause may be proceeded with ex parte. 
§ 3519. If the order of publication is not then made, the
clerk of the court, the court itself, or the Justice before whom
the attachment is returned, may make such order at any time
thereafter. 
§ 3520. The order should be entered upon the Justice's
docket, as well as endorsed upon the papers, in all attachment 
cases returned before a magistrate. In all other cases, the
entry should be upon the minutes or rule-aocket of the court. 
§ 3521. As soon as the attachment is levied upon property
of the defendant, the Justice, or clerk of the court, shall make 
out, in pursuance of the order of publication, a memorandum
or notice thereof, and cause the same to be published forth-
with in some convenient newspaper according to law. 
§ 3522. This memorandum or notice shall contain the names
of the parties, the style of the court to which the attachment 
is made returnable, the cause alleged for suing it out, and
the time and place at which the defendant is required to ap-
pear and defend the attachment suit. 
§ 3523. The publication shall be made for four consecutive
weeks in a newspaper published in the county in which the 
suit is brought, if any, and, if not, in some convenient news-
paper to be designated in the order, the last publication to
be at least one week before the time fixed for the defendant's
appearance. 
§ 3524. The attachment and publication are in lieu of personal
service upon the defendant, and the plaintiff may proceed, 
upon return of the attachment duly levied, as if the suit had
been commenced by summons. 
§ 3525. If the debt or demand on which the attachment suit
is brought, is not due at the time of the service of the attach- 
ment, the plaintiff is not required to file any pleadings until
the maturity of such debt or demand. 
§ 3526. Should the defendant appear in time, be may make
defence, and the cause proceed as if the suit had been com- 
menced by personal service of process. If he fail to appear,
or make defence, the plaintiff may take jud~ment at law, or 
obtain a decree in equity, in like manner as if the defendant
bad failed to appear and defend upon personal service of
process. 
§ 3527. Where the defendant does not appear, the court may,
and a Justice shall, stay final judgment or decree, not ex-
ceeding twelve nor less than six months from the time of the
return. 
§ 3528. Where the attachment is sued out because the defend-
ant is a non-resi ent, tie stays a ea owe , un ess su cieut
cause appear to the contrary. 
§ 3529: Ii:t all cases of attachment sued out because th~ defend-
ant resides out of the State, or has merely removed himself or 
-property from the State, the judgment or decree by default
may be set aside, upon application of the defendant and ~ood 
cause shown, within twelve months thereafter, and defence
permitted upon such terms as the court or Justice may im-
pose. 
§ 3530 In all other cases of judgment or decree by default 
the defendant cannot deny or put m issue the ground upon 
which the attachment was issued, but may at any time there­
after, and within one year after the suing out of the attach­
ment, commence an action on the attachment bond, and may
recover such dama~es as he has actually sustained for wrong-
fully suing out the attachment. 
§ 3531. If sued out maliciously, as well as wrongfully, the
jury may, on the trial of such action, give vindictive damages. 
§ 3532. Persons laboring under the disabilities of coverture, 
infancy, or unsoundness of min at t e rendition of the judg- 
ment or decree by default, have six months after the removal
of such disability, to appear and show cause against such 
judgment or decree.
§ 3533. The death of the defendant proceeded against by 
attachment, without personal service, whether the death occur
before or after the commencement of the action, does not
render the proceedings void, but his heirs or representatives, 
as the case may be, have the right, within three years from
the rendition of final jud~ment or decree, to make themselves
parties by petition showing merits verified by affidavit, and
contest the plaintiff's demand. 
§ 3534. The judgment or decree, if executed before it is set 
asi e, un er any o t e .1oregorng prov1s10ns, wi e a pro- 
tection to all persons acting under it, and will confer a good title to all property sold by virtue thereof. 
§ 3535. If the property attached has been replevied by the
defendant, the Justice or court, upon recovery by the plain­ 
tiff~ is authorized to render judgment against the defendant
and his sureties in the roplovy bond, for the penalty of such
bond, but to be satisfied by the payment of the value of the
property, with interest from the date of the bond, or by the
payment of the plaintiff's demand as ascertained, with interest
and costs, or by the forthcoming of the property, as the case
may be. 
§ 3536. The property attached, if not replevied, with its pro­
ceeds or increase from the date of levy, wi1l be subjected to 
the satisfaction of the judgment or decree by sale upon such
terms and conditions as may, in the discretion of the court,
be deemed most for the interest of all parties, by order of
sale, or by other process necessary to effect the object. 
§ 3537. In all attachment cases returnable before a Justice of 
the Peace, when land has been levied upon, either by the at­
tachment or by execution under the judgment, and it is neces­
sary to sell the land to satisfy the judgment, the papers shall
be returned to the Circuit Court, and the land condemned, aa
in other cases of1evy upon land by Justice's execution. 
§ 3538. When the property attached is not sufficient to sat­
isfy the recovery, execution may issue for the residue as in 
other cases. 
8BCT105 
§ 3539. Any debt by note, account, or otherwise, created for
the rent of land, is a lien on the crop growing or made on 
the premises, in preference to all other debts, from the date
of the contract. 
§ 3540. The lien continues for three months after the debt
becomes due, and until the termination of any suit commenced
within that time for such rent. 
§ 3541. The lien may be enforced:
1. By original attachment issued on affidavit that the rent 
is due and unpaid, or, before due, on affidavit that the de-
fendant is about to remove or sell the crop. 
2. Or by judgment at law against the tenant, and execution
bl 
ied h . l h ds i b
to e evie on t e crop m w iosesoever an s it may e. 
§ 3542. And the person entitled to the rent may recover from
the purchaser of the crop, or any part of it, with notice of the
lien, the value of the property, so that it does not exceed the
amount of the rent and damages. 
SECTION
CHAPTER :11. 
OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS1 
ARTICLE L Landlord's Lien. 
II. Mechanic's Lien.
ill. Lien on Boats.
IV. Vendor's Lien. 
LANDLORD'S LIEN. 
.MECIIA.Nic's LIEN. 
8643. Mechanic's lien enforced by &t­ 
tachment at law or in equity.
8644. Several may join in one bill, 
or come in by petition. 
ARTICLE I. 
8589. Rent, lien on growing crop from
date of contract. 
8640. Until three months after debt
becomes due. 
8BOTION 
8641. Enforced by attachment, or by
judgment and execution. 
3542. Purchaser with notice, liable. 
ARTICLE II . 
SECTION 
85!5. The court will adjust rights
and enforce priorities. 
8546. Separate suits in same court
shall be consolidated. 
SECTION 
364 7. Lien enforced before a J us­
tice for sums in hie juris­
diction. 
8548. But execution no lien, unless 
§ 3543. The mechanic's lien is enforced by attachment at law
or in equity sued out, upon bill or petition under oath setting 
forth the facts, and proceeded with under the provisions of
the preceding chapter. 
§ 3544. Where there are several persons en titled to the lien
given by this article, all or any number of them may join in 
one attac ment suit in equity, or, upon t e mg of one 1 , 
the rest may come in by petition without suing out new at­
tachment, by giving bond and security as if the attachment
had been taken out by the petitioner. 
§ 3545. The court is authorized to adjust, in such suit, the
conflicting rights of the parties claiming liens among them­ 
selves, and to enforce the same according to priorities.
§ 3546. If separate suits are brought in the same court, they 
shall be consolidated; and if in different courts, the suits last
brought may,. upon application, be removed into the court in
which the first suit was instituted, or vice versa, at the option
of the parties. 
§ 3547. The lien of mechanics, foundrymen, and machinists,
may be enforced by suit before a Justice of the Peace, for all 
sums within a Justice's jurisdiction; and when an attachment
has been levied on the land and a judgment rendered, and
execution also levied th.ereon, the papers shall be returned to
the Circuit Court, there to be proceeded upon as in other
cases of levy of Justice's execution on land. 
§ 3548. No Justice's execution in any such case shall be a
lien on the land, unless, within twenty days after the ren- 
dition of the judgment, an abstract thereof, showing the
name of the plaintiff and defendant, the date and amount of 
the recovery, be registered in the office of the register of the
county in which the judgment is rendered. 
§ 3549. The register shall index such abstract as be is
required to index deeds, and for the registration he shall 
receive the sum of twenty-five cents. 
SECTION 
3550. Lien on boats enforced by ap-
plication to Judge. 
8551. By petition in writing.
3552. Verified by oath.
3553. And giving bond. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE III. 
LIEN ON BOATS. 
SECTION 
abstract of judgment regis­
tered in twenty days. 
8549. Duty and fees of register. 
3554. Directions of warrant.
3555. Sheriff to retain property un­ 
less replevied.
3556. If debt over fifty dollars, war­ 
rant returned to Circuit Court. 
SECTION 
3657. Several may join.
3568. After eae warrant, others to 
make themselves parties.
3559. Judgment by default on replevy 
bond. 
SECTION 
8560. Judgment subjecting property.
8661. Seizure to be made subject to 
prior liens.
8562. Proceeds of sale to be divided 
pro rata. 
§ 3550. The liens provided by section 1991 on steam and
keel boats, may be enforced as follows : 
Any person to whom such debt is due, may make applica­
tion to any Justice of the Peace, or Judge of the Circuit or
Chancery Court, in the county in which the boat then is, for
a warrant to enforce and collect the same. 
§ 3551. The application shall be made by petition, in writing,
stating- 
1. By whom and for what boat the debt was contracted.
2. The items composing the debt.
3. That it is justly due, and unpaid.
4. And that demand has been made of some one of the 
defendants, or of the captain or agent of the defendants,
being at the time in the county. 
§ 3552. And the petitioner, or person applying in his behalf,
shall verify his petition upon oath. · 
§ 3553. Before issuing the warrant against the boat, the
Judge or Justice shall take bond, with security, from the
plaintiff in the penalty of two hundred and fifty dollars,
payable to the defendant, conditioned to prosecute the suit
with effect, or to pay all costs and damages to the defendant;
and all claimants subsequently applyin~ to be made parties
to the suit, shall first be required to sign said bond before
being admitted as plaintiffs. 
§ 3554. The Justice or Judge shall thereupon issue the war-
rant, in the name of the petitioners a~ainst the owners of the
boat, or some of them, and direct it to the sheriff .of the
county, commanding him to attach the boat, her furniture
and tackle, or so much thereof as may be necessary, and
safely keep the same until security is given, or further order
of the court. 
§ 3555. The sheriff, after seizing the property, shall retain
possession of it until the termination of the suit, unless bond 
and security is given in a penalty of double the amount of
the debt claimed, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned to
abide by and perform the judgment of the court, if it is ren-
dered in favor of the plaintiff. 
§ 3556. If the amount of the debt exceed fifty dollars, the
sheriff shall return the warrant and the bond, if one be 
~iven, into the Circuit Court of the county for trial before a
Jury; if not, it shall be returned and tried before any magis- 
trate of the county, subject to appeal from bis judgment to
. the Circuit Court. , 
§ 3557. Any two or more of such creditors may join in the 
same warrant as plaintiffs; and any such creditor who has not
joined in the warrant may be· made a party plaintiff in the
suit, on motion, before the trial ; and in such case he shall
be liable in all things, just as he would have been had he
originally joined in the suit. 
§ 3558. After a warrant and seizure of a boat at the suit of
one or more such creditors, no other such creditor shall have
or obtain a warrant to attach or seize the boat, but all of them
may have themselves made parties, as prescribed in the pre­ 
ceding section. 
§ 3559. Where the warrant is returned before a magistrate,
if the defendants do not appear at the time of trial; or, when
it is returned into the Circuit Court, if they do not appear at 
the return term and plead, judgment by default shall be
entered for the amount of the claims filed by all who have
made themselves parties to the suit; and, upon motion, the
court or magistrate shall enter judgment against the sureties
in the defendant's bond for the amount of the judgment and 
costs.
§ 3560. But if no bond has been given, the court shall then 
order the boat, or such part of her furniture and tackle as
may be sufficient, to be sold for the satisfaction of the judg­
ment; and the sheriff shall accordingly sell the same, first
advertising the time and place of sale at least ten days. 
§ 3561. Where there are prior liens on said boat by judg­
ments obtained by the general creditors of the owners, the
sheriff shall attach the boat, subject to such prior liens; and
when the boat is sold to satisfy such prior liens, the surplus,
if any, shall be paid into court, where the attachment is
pending, to be paid to the attaching creditors, if they obtain
judgment. 
§ 3562. If the proceeds of the boat, tackle and furniture, are
not sufficient to pay off all the creditors who have joined in
the suit, said proceeds shall be divided amongst them
ratably. 
SECTION 
3563. Enforced for each payment.
3564. Against so much land as suffi­ 
cient to pay debt. 
.ARTICLE IV. 
LIEN OP VENDORS. 
SECTION 
3666. By consent, or, if land cannot
be divided, all may be sold. 
8566. Defendant has right to redeem,
as in other cases. 
§ 3563. The vendor ofland, as each payment of the purchase­
money becomes due, may bring his suit to enforce his lien as 
vendor, and may have so much of the land sold as may be
necessary to pay the money then due. . 
§ 3564. The suit shall be retained in court, and as each of 
the payments becomes due, the court shall direct a sufficient
quantity of the land to be sold to satisfy the same. 
§ 3565. If the land cannot be divided without great 1njury
to the parties, or if the vendee so direct, the court shall order
it all to be sold at one time, making the payments to fall due
at such times as the purchaser has agreed to pay the vendor ;
and the money, as collected, shall be applied to the payment 
of the instalments due the vendor. ·
§ 3566. Whether the land is all sold, or is sold in parcels, 
the defendant shall have the right of redemption, as in other
cases. 
CHAPTER 12. 
OF MANDAMUS. 
3567. Issued by Circuit Judge upon
petition and affidavit. 
3668. Returnable to Circuit Court.
What county. 
8669. The writ alternatil'e or peremp-
tory. . 
8670. Answer and issue upon the first. 
SECTIOK 
8571. Third person may defend.
· 3572. Issues tried by court, or sub­ 
mitted to jury.
3578. Publication may be made for 
non-resident.
85i4. Judgment.
8576. Costs as in Chancery Court. 
§ 3567. The Circuit Judges of this State have power to issue
writs of mandamus, upon petition, supported by affidavit 
made before any Judge, Justice of the Peace, or clerk of any
Circuit Court. 
§ 3568. The writ is returnable to the Circuit Court of the
county in which the land lies, in all cases where land is the 
subject of controversy; and in all other cases to the Circuit
Colfrt of the county where the defendant resides, or if against
a rmblic officer or corporation, in the county in which the
office is kept or corporation does business. · 
§ 3569. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ commands the defendant to do the act 
required. to be performed, or show cause before the court
forthwith, or at a specified time and place, why he has not 
done so, and that he then and there return the writ.
The peremptory writ commands the defendant to do tho 
act, and return the writ accordingly. .
§ 3570. On the return day of the alternative writ, or on 
such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom
the writ has been served, may show cause by a sworn answer,
and issue may be made thereon, and tried accordingly. 
§ 3571. The defendant in the writ shall notify any third
person claiming title to or interest in the matter in contro­
versy, and such third person may, upon application, be made
a defendant, and permitted to file an answer, upon giving
security for costs. 
§ 3572. If the answer deny any material facts stated in the
petition, the court may determme the issues upon evidence,
or cause them to be submitted to a jury. 
§ 3573. If such third person is a non-resident or unknown,
publication shall be made as in other cases against non-resi­
dents; and, on his failing to appear and answer according to
the requirements of the order of publication, the petition may
be taken for confessed, and proceeded with ex parte. 
§ 3574. When the defendant makes default, or a decision is
made against him after appearance, the court will direct a
peremptory mandamus to issue forthwith; should the deci­
sion be adverse to the petitioner, the petition will be dismissed
with costs. 
§ 3575. The costs and fees in mandamus cases are the same
as those prescribed by law for similar services in Chancery
proceedings. 
SECTION 
CHAPTER 13. 
OF SCIRE F ACIAS. 
8578. Form of application by party
not of record. 
8579. Na.me of such party to be en­
dorsed. 
SECTION 
8580. Clerk or Justice neglecting,
liable for costs. 
8581. Penalty for fraudulently en-
. dorsing a name. 
3582. Writ served by reading or of­
fering to read it. 
§ 3576. The several Justices of the Peace in this State have
power to issue a scire facias in all cases before them, when
1t may be necessary, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules as such writs issue from courts of record. 
§ 3577. Scire facias is issued by the Justice having legal
possession of the papers in a cause. 
§ 3578. A scire facias shall not issue on the application of
any person other than the party of record, or his attorney,
except an administrator de bonis non in the case of a judg­
ment recovered by a previous executor or administrator,
unless such application be in writing and signed by the
applicant, to be filed and preserved with the other papers. 
§ 3579. When sci re facias issues upon the application of any
person other than the party of record, or his attorney, the 
clerk or Justice shall endorse on the back of the scire facias 
the name of the applicant, who becomes thereby liable for
costs. 
§ 3580. The Clerk or Justice who fails to make such en-
dorsement, is himself liable for costs, in the event judgment 
is against the party suing out the scire facias. 
§ 3581. If such clerk or Justice falsely and fraudulently
endorse the name of any person on a wnt of scire facias by 
him issued, under the foregoing provisions, he is guilty of a
misdemeanor in office, and may be punished accordingly,
and is also liable to an action for damages at the suit of such 
person. 
§ 3582. The writ of scire facias is served by reading, or
offering- to read, the contents of such writ to the person on
whom It is to be executed. 
ARTICLE I. General Provisions. ..
II. Motion against Sheriffs, Coroners, and Consta­ 
8:&CTI01' 
CHAPTER 14. 
OF SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS. 
bles.
ill. In favor of Sheriffs, Coroners, and Constables.
IV. Motion against Clerks and Special Commis­ 
sioners.
V. Against County Trustee, Tax Assessor, Tax Col­ 
lector, etc.
VI. Motion against Attorneys at Law. 
VII. In favor of Sureties, Stayors, and Accommoda­
tion Endorsers. 
ARTICLE I. 
GENER.AL PROVISIONS. 
8683. Motion lies against party in
default, and others liable with
him then living. 
8684. On informal bond.
.3o5o, No notice at return t.erm, or 
within six months after de­
fault. 
SECTI01' 
8586. Except constables, who are entitled to notice. 
3587. Five days' notice to defendant
in circuit of residence. Ten
days in other cases. 
8588. Plaintiff required to give se­
curity for costs. 
811:CTIOlf 
3689. Local jurisdiction of motions.
8590. Motion lies before Justice.
8691. But Circuit Court has concur- 
rent jurisdiction in all cases. 
8SCTI01' 
8692. Twelve and oae h&li' per eeat,
damages, unleea otherwise
provided. 
8598. TM remedy by motion is cumu­
lative. 
§ 3583. A motion may be made by the party aggrieved,
or his legal representatives, against the person in default,
and such other persons made liable with him as may be in
existence at the time of the motion. 
§ 3584. And whenever by this chapter a motion is given
against an officer, or other person acting under the orders 
of court, it carries with it the right to move against him
and the sureties on his official. bond, or other bond executed
in the discharge of the particular duty, although ·such bond
may not be in strict compliance with the law. , 
§ 3585. No notice of the motion is required, if niade at the
return term of the process in a court of record, where the
cause of motion is official delinquency, or within six months
after the right to the motion has accrued in any other case. 
§ 3586. The provisions of the foregoing section do not apply
to constables, who shall be entitled to notice in all cases of 
motion azainst them for official delinquency.
§ 3587. five days' notice of the time and place of motion, 
if ip. the judicial circuit of the defendant's residence, and
ten days if in another circuit, is sufficient notice in all cases. 
§ 3588. The plaintiff in any motion may be required to give
security for the costs of suit as in other cases. 
§ 3589. The motion shall be made, unless in cases where
otherwise provided by this Code, as follows: 
1. Where the motion is against an officer for official de-
fault, it may be made in the court in which the officer was 
acting officially at the time, or in the court to which the pro­
cess was returnable, when the default consists in the failure 
to execute or return process, or to pay over money collected
thereon. 
2. Where the motion is by a surety, it may be made in the 
court in which judgment has been rendered against him, or
in the county in which any one of defendants reside. 
3. In all other cases the motion should be made in the
county in which the defendants, or some one of them, reside, 
and if none of them have any permanent residence in the
State, then in any county. 
§ 3590. The word court in the foregoing section embraces
Justices of the Peace, and a motion lies in all cases before 
the Justice having jurisdiction of the case on which the 
motion is based,
§ 3591. But the Circuit Court shall have concurrent juris- 
iction o a motions cogmza e erore a ustice.
§ 3592. Whenever damages on a motion are given, in the 
absence of any specific amount mentioned, the plaintiff wilt
be entitled to recover twelve and one half per cent. on the
whole amount, principal and interest, due at the time of
the rendition of judgment. 
§ 3593. The remedy by motion is cumulative, and does not
deprive the plaintiff of any other remedy allowed by law for 
his redress. 
SECTION MOTION AGAINST SHERIFFS, CORONERS, AND CONST.ABLES. 
8BCTION 
ARTICLE II. 
359f. Lies for non-return or fiuee
return of execution, and fail­
ure to pay money. 
8696. For exceas of sale, money en­
joined, or otherwise belonging
to defendant. 
"3596. For coats in favor of the party
entitled, 
8697. Motion re'rived as a suit.
8698. Copy of exec~tion and certifi­ 
cate of clerk evidence.
3599. Certificate evidence of receipt 
of execution, unless denial
under oath. 
SECTION 
8600. Motion lies for money received
on debt cognizable by Justice,
before warrant issued or judg­ 
ment had.
8601. Deposit of process in the mail, 
when a defence.
8602. Inability to return Justice's ex­ 
ecution by sickDem, etc., nf­
fioient defence. 
8608. Motion lies for failing to exe­
cute and return process. 
8604. But officer of another county
may make defence on seire 
facial. 
§ 3594. Judgment by motion may be had against any
sheriff, coroner, or constable, or other executive officer, to 
whom an execution is directed and by him received, for the
amount due upon such execution, and twelve and one half
per cent. damages, in the following cases : 
1. When he fails to make due and proper return of such
execntion. 
2. When he makes a false or insufficient return.
3: When he fails to pay over money collected on such exe- 
cution.
§ 3595. Such officers are in like manner liable to the defend- 
ant in an execution, upon motion-
1. For the failure to pay over, on demand, any excess ofExce11 
money which may remam upon a sale by execution, after
the satisfaction thereof, and all commissions and costs ; the
amount of such excess, with interest and damages. 
- 2. For failing to pay over, on demand, money paid or col-
lected on an execution, the whole or any pan of which is 
enjoined in Chancery, or to which the defendant is otherwise
legally entitled; the amount so enjoined, or to which the
defendant is entitled, with interest and damages. 
§ 3596. Such officers are also liable to judgment by motion
in favor of clerks, other executive officers, and witnesses, for 
the amounts, with interest, respectively due them in the bill
of costs endorsed on an execution, m the same cases in
which the plaintiff or the defendant in the execution might
recover judgment by motion for the principal, or any part
thereof. 
§ 3597. In case of the death of an officer or either of his
sureties, pending a motion against them, it may be revived 
against the personal representative of the deceased in the
same manner as other suits are revived. 
§ 3598. On the trial of the motion, a copy of the execution
made and certified by the clerk, with the return thereon, if
any was made, or a statement that no return was made,
if such be the fact, together with his certificate that the exe­
cution was received by the sheriff, or sent to him by mail,
is evidence of the facts so certified, without producin~ a
transcript of the entire record, or compelling the clerk him­ 
self to attend.
§ 3599. So1 also, the certificate as aforesaid that the exe- 
cution was sent to the officer by mail, will be prima facie
evidence that the writ was received by the officer, unless he 
states, under oath in writins-, that he never received the
writ. In such case, the officer shall have notice of the 
motion.
§ 3600. Sheriffs, coroners, and constables, are liable to judg­ 
ment by motion before a Justice of the Peace, in favor of
the party interested, for any money collected or received by 
them upon any debt or demand cognizable before a Justice
of the Peace, and put into their hands for collection, whether
such money was received before or after· the issuance of a
warrant for such debt or demand, and with or without judg­
ment or execution. The judgment will be for the amount so
received, with interest and dama~es. 
§ 3601. It shall be a good defence to a motion against
an officer residing in any county other than that from which 
an execution issued, for the officer to show by proof that he,
in due time, placed the process in the regular mail, at the
court-house of the county to which the execution was
directed, with the proper return thereon, sealed up in the
presence of the postmaster, directed to the clerk of the court
from which the same issued. 
§ 3602. The inability to make the prescribed return of a 
ustice's execution, on account o sic ness, 1g water, 
or engagement in executing any precept in behalf of the
State, will be a sufficient reason to authorize a Justice of
the Peace, before whom the motion has been made, to
discharge the officer for his failure to make return as re­ 
quired.
§ 3603. Any sheriff or other officer failing to execute and 
make return of any process issued from any court of record,
and delivered to him twenty days before the return day, is 
liable to a penalty of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, to 
be · recovered by the party aggrieved on motion before the
court to which the process is returnable. 
§ 3604. If the process lias been issued to an officer of another
county, the officer shall have until the next term to show 
cause against such judgment, on scire facias made known to
him. 
ARTICLE ill. 
IN FAVOR OF SHERIFFS, CORONERS, AND CONST.ABLES. 
~606. Encutive officers may move on
indemnity bond, and against
deputy or clerk. 
SECTION 
3606. Jurisdiction of motion on· in­
demnity bond. 
8607. J urisdiction of motion against
deputy. 
§ 3605. Judgments may, in like manner, be recovered sum-
marily on motion, in favor of sheriffs, coroners, constables, 
and other executive officers:
1.· A~ainst the obligors on bonds given to indemnify the 
offieer for levying an execution or attachment, or for making
sale of property so levied on or attached, after. judgment 
against such officer for making such levy or sale; the
judgment to be for the amount recovered against such officer, 
with interest.
2. Against the deputy of the sheriff and his sureties, for 
the amount of any judgment which may be rendered against
the sheriff for the default of such deputy. 
3. Against clerks, for the amount of costs due such officers
paid to such clerks. 
§ 3606. The motion on an indemnity bond may be made in 
any court, or before any Justice of the Peace, having juris-
diction of the amount, in the county in which the bond is"' 
given, or in which the court is held from which the process
issued for the levy whereof the bond was given, or in the
county of the residence of any of the obligors. 
§ 3607. The motion against the deputy sheriff may be·
made in any court, or before any Justice of the Peace,
having jurisdiction of the amount, in the county in which
the bond was executed, or in which judgment has been
recovered against the principal for the default of the deputy,
or in any county in which the deputy, or _any one of his sure-
ties, may reside. 
AGAINST CLERKS, JUSTICES OF 'J'.IIE PEACE, :AND SPECI.AL COM­ 
SBCTIO?f 
8608. Lies against clerks for failing
to pay over money' and for 
§ 3608. Judgment may be had summarily by motion against
the clerk of any court in this State, in the following cases : 
1. For failing to pay over to the party entitled, on de­
mand, money received by him on any judgment or execu­ 
tion, or· paid into court upon a plea of tender or a:ny other
plea, or under an order or rule of court, judgment for the
sum so received, with interest, and twelve and one half pe~
cent. damages. 
2. For delinquencies in regard' to revenue, as provided in
this Code in Part I., Titles 4 and 5. 
§ 3609. The word "clerk," in this article, includes Justices
of the Peace, who are, so far as the provisions of this article 
are concerned, clerks of their own courts.
§ 3610. A special commissioner appointed by the court to 
sell property, or to receive and collect funds, is, in all cases,
liable on motion, in the same way and to the same extent as
the clerks of the courts. 
§ 3611. The like remedy lies against a deputy clerk in favor
of the party aggrieved, as a~ainst the clerk himself, • 
§ 3612. So, also, the clerk is entitled to recover by motion
•against his deputy and sureties, in the same way the sheriffs 
are entitled to recover against their deputies. 
AGAINST COUNTY TRUSTEES, TAX COLLECTORS, TAX ASSESSORS,
REVENUE COMMISSIONERS, ETC. 
8BCTI01' 
revenue. 
3609. Against Justices ,of the Peace, 
aa clerks. 
ARTICLE IV. 
MISSIONERS OF COURT. 
ARTICLE V. 
3618. Against county trustees for
money not paid over accord­
ing to law. 
3614. Age.inst tax collectors, etc., for
same. 
8BCTI01' 
3610. Against special commissioners,
aa clerks. 
8611. Against deputy clerk, as against
clerks. 
8612. By clerk against deputy clerk. 
SBCTION 
3615. Recovery tor amount not paid 
over, with interest, and dam­ 
ages. 
§ 3613. County trustees are required to pay over all just
claims against the county as they are presented, if they have 
money in their hands not otherwise specially appropriated
and on failure so to do, the party aggrieved may recover 
judgment by motion against such trustee and his sureties, 
for the amount due, with interest and damages, in the Coun,ty
· Court of the county in which such trustee resides. 
§ 3614. A motion lies in favor of the party aggrieved,
State, county, corporation, or individual, against any tax col. 
Iector, tax assessor, revenue collector or commissioner, for
moneys in their hands officially, and not paid over, or
accounted for, according to law. 
SECTION 
3616. For money officially collected
and not paid over. Five days'
notice. 
. 3617. Recovery for the amount, in­
terest, and damages. 
§ 3616. Judgment may, in like manner, be had in favor of
the party aggrieved against any attorney in this State, uton 
fi 
§ 3615. The recovery on such motion shall be the amount 
not paid over, with interest, and twelve and one half per cent.
damages on the gross amount, and all costs. 
ve ays notice, tor any money co ecte or receive y rm 
in that capacity, and not paid over on demand by the person
entitled, his agent, or attorney. 
§ 3617. Judgment will, in such case, be given for the 
amount so collected or received, with interest, and twelve
and one half per cent. damages, and all costs. 
§ 3618. Motions against attorneys may be made in the
Circuit Court of any county in which such attorney resides,
or in which the money was collected ; and if he neither re­
sides nor practices in the State, then in the Circuit Court of
any county, and, in the latter case, without notice. · 
§ 3619. Upon the return by the proper officer of an exeeu- 
ti<;>n issued on the Judgment recovered under this article,
with the endorsement that the money cannot be made, or 
not sufficient property of the defendant to be found to make
the same, it is the duty of the court to strike such delinquent
from the roll of attorneys, who shall thenceforward be dis·
qualified to practice in the courts of this State until the debt 
is paid. 
ARTICLE VI . 
.AGAINST ATTORNEYS· AT LA,V. 
SECTION 
3618. In what court the motion may
be made. 
8619. When attorney stricken from
roll. 
IN FAVOR OF SURETIES, STAYORS, AND ACCOMMODATION ENDOR­
SERS. 
8BCTIOl'f 
ARTICLE VII. 
. 8620 • Lies by sureties against princi­
pal upon judgment had, or
money paid. 
8621. And may be joint or several.
8622. Recovery for the amount, with 
interest and costs.
3623. Suretyship not appearing, jury 
• to try the fact.
8624. No surety shall confess judg­ 
meat, if principal will indem­
nify. 
8625. Surety may have judgment
against co-sureties. 
8626. The motion lies for or against
personal representati TeB, 
8scT101' 
3627. But repreeentatlre may defend
on scire facies, 
8628. Joint suretysblp not appe~ring,
jury to try fact. 
8629. Stayors entitled to same reme-
dies as sureties. 
8680. Accommodation endorsers also.
8681. Evidence required.
8682, 8688. Jurisdiction of these mo­ 
tions.
8634. Recovery includes commissioDB 
and coste,
8686. Provisions extend to suretyship 
by acknowledgment or confes­
sion. 
§ 3620. Sureties are entitled to judgment by motion against
their principals- 
1. Whenever judgment has been rendered against them as
such sureties. 
2. Whenever such judgment, or any part thereof, has been
paid by the surety. 
§ 3621. And such motion may be joint or several, at the
option of the sureties. 
§ 3622. The judgment will be for the amount of the re­
covery, or payment, as the case may be, with interest and
costs. 
§ 3623. If the fact of suretyship does not appear upon the
face of the proceedings on which judgment has been _had or 
payment made, or of the instrument on which the motion
under this article is founded, a jury shall be immediately
empanelled to try the fact. 
§ 3624. No surety will be permitted to confess judgment, or
allow judgment to go by default, if the principal will make 
himself a defendant to the suit, and tender to the surety for
his indemnity sufficient collateral security, to be approved
by the court or Justice before whom the suit is pending. 
§ 3625. A co-surety against whom judgment has been ren-
dered for the whole debt, or who has paid more than his
ratable share of such judgment, may have judgment ou
motion against all the other parties to the instrument not
included m the original judgment, for the ratable share of
each. 
§ 3626. The remedies given by this article lie both for and
against the personal representatives of deceased parties. 
§ 3627. Where a jud.sment by motion is rendered against
an executor or administrator without notice, founded on a 
demand against the deceased, on scire facias to make the
defendant liable out of his own estate, he shall be permitted
to make any defence he might have made to the original
motion. . 
§ 3628. In all cases of motions by sureties against co-sure-
ties, if the fact of the joint suretyship does not appear on 
the face of the papers, or judicial proceedings, on which the
motion is based, the fact will be ascertained by a jury to be
immediately empanelled. ·. · 
§ 3629. Stayers may move against their principals and co-
stayers in the same way, and subject to the same rules and 
regulations, as sureties, ·
§ 3630. Accommodation endorsers may move against their 
principals in the same way as, and subject to all the rules
and regulations that govern motions by sureties against 
their principals.
§ 3631. On the trial of any of the motions provided for in 
this article, the plaintiff shall produce the mstrument cre-
ating the suretyship, or a certified copy thereof, and a copy of
the record showing the recovery of judgment. 
§ 3632. Motions under this article may be made in any
court, or before any Justice of the Peace, having cognizance
of the amount. 
§ 3633. They may also, in all cases, be made in the court or
before the Justice by whom the judgment was rendered
against such surety, stayor, or accommodation endorser. 
§ 3634. The recovery under this article shall include interest
and costs of the original judgment, and commissions for
collecting the same, if collected, and the costs of the motion,
unless otherwise directed. 
§ 3635. The provisions of this article extend to all cases
where the suretyship is uppn any acknowledgment or confes-
sion of judgment in any court. 
CHAPTER 15. 
CHANGING NAMES, LEGITIMATION AND ADOPTION. 
3636. Circuit and County Courts have
concurrent jurisdiction. 
3637. Application to change name.
8638. Judgment of the court thereon.
8639. Eff'ect thereof.
8640. Application to legitimate.
8641. Judgment of the court. 
SBOTION 
8642. Eff'ect thereof.
8643. Application to adopt another.
8644. Judgment of the court.
8646. Eff'ect thereof.
8646. Prayer to change name in these 
easee.
8647. Clerk's fees. 
§ 3636. The Circuit and. County Courts of this State have
concurrent jurisdiction to change names, to legitimate, and
authorize the adoption of children, on the application of a
resident citizen of the county in which the application is
made. 
§ 3637. The application to change the name shall be by peti­
tion in writing, signed by the applicant and verified by affi­ 
davit, stating that he is a resident of the county, and giving
his reasons for desirin~ the change. · 
§ 3638. If the court is satisfied with the reasons given, it
may order the name to be changed by entry of record recit-
ing the petition, and the reasons therein given. . 
§ 3639. Any person whose name is thus changed, may
thereafter be known and designated, sue 'and be sued, by the
new name. 
§ 3640. The application to legitimate a child not born in
lawful wedlock is made by petition in writing, s~ned by 
the person wishing to legitimate such child, and setting forth
the reasons therefor. 
§ 3641. The court, if satisfied with the reasons, may, by
order embodying the petition in full, and entered upon the
minutes of the court, declare such child legitimate. 
§ 3642. The effect of the legitimation is to create the relation
of parent and child between the petitioner and person legiti­
mated, as if the latter had been born to the former in lawful
wedlock. 
§ 3643. Any person wishing to adopt another as his child,
shall apply by petition, signed by the applicant, and setting
forth the reasons therefor, and the terms of the aforesaid
adoption. 
§ 3644. The court, if satisfied with the reasons given, may
sanction the adoption by decree, entered upon the minutes,
embodying the petition, and directing the terms of adop­
tion. 
§ 3645. The effect of such adoption, unless expressly re-
strained by the decree, is to 'confer upon the person adopted
all the privileges of a legitimate child to the applicant, with
capacity to inherit and succeed to the real and personal estate
of such applicant as heir and next of kin; but it ~ves to
the person seekin~ the adoption no mutual rights of mherit­
ance and suoccssion, nor any interest whatever in the estate
of the person adopted. 
§ 3646. In cases of legitimation and adoption, the name of
the person sought to be legitimated <fr adopted, may be
changed by proper prayer for that purpose inserted in the
petition. 
§ 3647. The clerk's foe for services in applications for chang­
ing names, adoption or legitimation of children, shall be one
dollar, to be paH! by the party petitioning. 
SECTION OF THE RESIGNATION, REMOVAL, AND APPOINTI\IENT OF
TRUSTEES: 
Sscr1ox 
8648. Chancery, Circuit, and County
Courts have concurrent juris­ 
diction.
8649. Looal jurisdiction, where.
8650. Trustee may resign on motion, 
§ 3648.· The Chancery, Circuit, and County Courts have con-
current jurisdiction to accept the resignation of trustees, or
to remove and appoint trustees under the provisions of this chapter. . 
§ 3649. The proceedings, "in either case, sha1l be had in the
county or district in which the trustee or beneficiary, or some 
one of them resides, or in which some portion of the trust-
property is found, and in the court having charge of the
fund, or before whom the trustee has qualified or given 
bond. 
with assent of beneficiary. 
3661. Or on petition stating facts.
3662. Upon ten days' notice.
8668. Accounts shall be examined 
and pused upon.
8664. Judgment of resignation, if 
right.
3665. Trustee may be remored on 
motion, when. 
§ 3650. AJJy trustee may resign his trusteeshif by mere
motion, in open court, by ahd with the assent of the bene- 
ficiaries under the trust, the motion and assent being entered
on the minutes of the court. 
§ 3651. Such trustee may also resign his trust by petition in
writing, presented to the court, stating the facts of the trus-
teeship, condition and character of the property, and the
state of his accouuts, .and offering to pass his accounts and 
deliver up the property. 
CHAPTER 16.· 
Sscr10N 
8656. Upon petition, when.
8657. The petition should state the 
grounds, and copy be served.
8668. Publication may be made for 
non-resident.
8fi9. Defence may be made.
8660. The court may requite bond, 
instead of removing.
8061. Or appoint a aucceseor, taking 
bond when proper.
8662. And d!vest and nst property.
8663. New trustee in case of death, 
upon petition.
3664. Fees of trustees. 
§ 3652. The court shall, in such cases, require ten days'
notice to be given to the beneficiaries, and appoint guardians
ad litem, for infants, and may appoint counsel for such
infants. 
§ 3653. The court shall also have. the accounts of the trus-
tee examined and passed upon, according to the nature of 
the case, and may order an execution to issue against the
trustee and his sureties, upon five days' notice to the sureties,
unless the balance of money in the hands of the trustee is 
paid, and the trust property delivered over under the decree
made. 
§ 3654. If satisfied that it is right and proper to permit the
resignation, under the provisions of the last two sections, the
·court may order accordingly. . 
§ 3655. A trustee may be removed upon mere motion,
where he is present in person or by counsel, and offers no
sufficient objection. 
§ 3656. He may also be removed upon application by peti-
tion, by any one or more of the beneficiaries- 
. 1. Wheu he fails or refuses to act as trustee .
. 2. When he has violated, or threatened to violate his 
trust. 
3. When he has removes! from the State. 
4. When he is insolvent, and there is reason to fear loss on
that account. 
5. For other good cause.
§ 3657. The petition should state the grounds on which the 
removal is sought, and a copy thereof shall be served upon
the trustee, if within the State, five days before the matter is 
h~rd. .
§ 3658. If the trustee is a non-resident, or absent from the 
State, so that notice cannot be personally served, publication
shall be made in such paper as the court or clerk may direct,
for four weeks, as in attachment cases against non-residents. 
§ 3659. The defendant may be permitted to answer, if he
sees proper; and evidence may b~ heard orally, or by deposi­
tion. 
§ 3660. The court may, on the trial, instead of removing the
h a: 11 
trustee, require of him sue bond as will etfectua y protect
the interest of the parties, which bond shall be approved by
the court. 
§ 3661. In all cases of the resignation or removal of trustees,
or where they fail or refuse to act, the court may appoint a
successor, taking; whenever it is proper to reqmre it, bond
and security, as in the last section. 
§ 3662. The court shall divest and yest title to the property,
enforce the delivery thereof to the new trustee, arid the
payment of money found due upon statement of accounts,
according to the course of the Chancery· Court. 
§ 3663. Upon the death of a trustee, a new trustee may always
be appointed, on application by the beneficiaries by petition,
making all necessary parties defendants. 
§ 3664. Trustees receive the same fees for selling and col­
lecting, as are allowed to clerks and masters in Chancery . 
CHAPTER 17. 
PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES. 
8665. Sureties tor prosecution, re­
leased upon petition and no­
tice. 
3666. Proceedings under the applica­
tion. 
3667. Plaintiff' may prosecute as poor
peraon, 
3668. Surety on replevy bond, may
apply for indemnity. 
3669. An.d may ban the property
replevied, or attached. 
3670. New rep levy bond payable to
surety. 
3671. And filed with original, subject
to same remedies thereon. 
3672. Surety of guardian, personal
·representative, or trustee may 
be released on petition. 
SECTION 
8678. Proceedings under the applica­
tion. 
867 4. The applicant surety must take
place of principal, when. 
8675. New bond good without formal
proceedings. 
8676. Exoneration of sureties.
8677. Does not exons,rate other obli­ 
gors, nor applicant from past
liability. 
3678. Sureties on these bonds entitled
to contsibution among each
other. • 
8679. Officer hearing application may
administer oaths, summon 
. wi.tnesses, etc.
3680. Costs, how paid. 
§ 3665. Sureties for the prosecution or defence of any snit in
law or equity in this State, may be released from such surety-
ship, by giving five days' notice to the plaintiff, if in the
State, and to his attorney, if out of the State, of his intention
to move for a rule upon him, to give counter security to
indemnify him against his liability as such surety. 
§ 3666. tJ pon notice thus given, the court or Justice shall
make a rule requiring the plaintiff, within a ~iven time, to 
give such counter security; and on failure of the plaintiff to
comply with the rule, the court will dismiss the suit, and
give judgment against the plaintiff and his surety· for the
costs already accrued. 
§ 3667. The plaintiff may, however, prosecute his suit in the
manner prescribed for poor persons, in which case the surety 
will be bound only for the costs accruing up to the giving of
notice.: 
§ 3668. The surety upon any bond for the replevy of pro-
perty, given in any cause pending- in the judicial tribunals 
of the State, may, by notice in writing, require his princi{>al
to give him sufficient counter security to indemnify him
against liability on such bond. • 
§ 3669. If the principal fail to give such counter security
within five days after the service of notice, the Justice or 
clerk of the court, as the case may be, is authorized, upon
affidavit of the facts, to issue a writ to the sheriff, command- 
ing•him to seize and hold such . property, according to the 
terms of the original seizure or attachment, subject to the
defendant's right to again replevy; and in case he fails so to
do, then subject to such disposition as the lu.w makes of
property so seized. . 
§ 3670. The new reflevy bond, if given, will be made
payable to the origina surety, and such surety is authorized 
to act in reference to the property. as if he had been the
plaintiff in the action. . 
§ 3671. The new bond will be filed with the original replevy
bond, and may be enforced by judgment or decree, upon a
breach of the original replevy bond, in favor of either the
plaintiff or of the original surety. . 
§ 3672. The sureties of any guardian, executor, or adminis­
trator, trustee, or assignee for creditors, who conceives him­
self in danger of suffering by his suret~·shie, and desires to
be relieved therefrom, may file his petition m writing in the
County Court, or the court having cognizance of the- estate
or fund. 
§ 3673. Upon such petition and notice, the court may compel
the principal to give other sufficient security, or counter
security, to be approved by the court, or to deliver up the
estate to the petitioner, or such other person as may be
directed, and may niake such other orders and decrees for
the relief of the petitioner and better security of the estate
as may be just and equitable . 
§ 3674. And should no person be found will ing to accept
the office, and give the security required, the applicant surety
shall qualify in the place of his principal, otherwise the liabil­
ity will continue until a successor is appointed and qualified. 
§ 3675. Upon public or private application of any surety, if
the principal conseuts to give a new bond, with satisfactory
security, it may be taken without further proceedings, with
the same effect as if executed upon order. 
§ 3676. On the execution of the additional bond as required,
or the qualification of a successor, the applicant sur~ty is
exonerated from all liability accruing subsequently. 
§ 3677. The exoneration of the applicant surety does not
affect the previous liability of any of the obligors in the
original bond; nor are any of the obligors, who have not
joined in such application, discharged from any liability
accruing after the filing of such additional bond; and the
obligors, who are not exonerated, are liable to any person
injured by a breach of such bonds, in the same or separate 
actions. ·
§ 3678. The sureties in either bond, who have been com­ 
pelled to make payments thereon for the principal, have the
same remedies against the sureties in all the bonds in force
at the time of default, as co-sureties in the same bond have
against each other, the recovery being properly proportioned
according to the penalties of the several bonds. 
§ 3679. The officer authorized to hear and dispose of such
application's, may administer oaths and summon witnesses 
in the same way and under the same penalties as the courts
of the State. 
§ 3680. The costs of the application, if unsuccessful, will be
paid by the applicant; if successful, by the principal, and 
judgment may be given and execution issued therefor. 
SECTION PROCEEDINGS IN RELATION TO PERSONS OF UNSOUND MIND. 
ARTICLE I. -Inquisition of Unsoundness of Mind in the
County Court. 
INQUISITION OF UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND IN THE COUNTY COURT. 
SECTION 
8681. Jurisdiction over person and
property, eoncurrent in Coun­
ty and Chancery Courts. 
8682. Upon information, County Court
shall order a jury of inquisi­
tion. 
8688. Form of the writ. 
§ 3681. Jurisdiction over the persons and estates of idiots,
lunatics, and other persons of. unsound mind, is intrusted to
the County and Chancery Courts. 
§ 3682. Upon information made to the County Court, that
any idiot or lunatic resides within the jurisdiction thereof, 
the court shall order the sheriff to summon a jury of twelve
freeholders, to ascertain by inquisition the idiocy or lunacy,
and the property and estate of the idiot or lunatic, and make
return thereof to the court at that or the next succeeding 
term. 
CHAPTER II. Inquisition of Unsoundness of Mind in the
Chancery Court. 
ill. Proceedings in relation to the Property of Per­
sons of Unsound Miµd. 
8ECTI01' 
8686°. Informer liable for costs.
8687. Upon finding of jury, court to 
appoint a guardian. .
8688. Or make provision for lunatic, 
if no property.
8689. Bond required from person to 
whom intrusted.
8690. Any Justice may commit dan­ 
ger~us lunatio to jail.
868.4. May be returnable to the nme 
term.
8686. Clerk or any Justice may sub­ 
p<ena witnesses . 
CHAPT-ER 18. 
ARTICLE I. 
§ 3683. The followin} may be the form of the writ: · 
STATE OP TENNESSEE, 
---county.
To the Sheriff of County, greeting: 
You are hereby commanded to inquire, by the oath of
twelve freeholders, summoned by yourself, whether --­
of in the county of is an idiot or lunatic, or is 
otherwise of unsound mind, so that he has not capacity suffi­
cient for the government of himself and his property; and
if so, from what time, after what manner, and how; and if
the said , being in the same condition, hath alienated
any lands or tenements or not; 'and if so, what lands and
what tenements, to what person or persons, where, when,
after what manner, and how; and what lands and tenements,
goods and chattels yet remain to him; how much they are
worth by the year ; whether he has a wife and children, and
their names and ages. And you are further commanded,
that, at certain days and places, appointed by yourself, you
dili~ently make inquisition in the premises; and the same,
distinctly and plainly made, return into the County Court of
said county at its next session, together with this writ. Wit-
ness , clerk of said court, at office in , the 
day of 18 .
§ 3684. The writ of inquisition may be returnable to the 
same term of the eourt from which it issues, if the court
so direct ; and, in such case, the same proceedings shall be 
had as if the return w.ere made to the next succeeding term.
§ 3685. The Clerk of the County Court, or any Justice of 
the Peace, may, on application of either party, issue subpcena
for witnesses to attend the inquisition, and such witnesses
are subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges of
other witnesses. 
§ 3686. The person on whose application the inquisition
issued, is liable for costs in case the defendant is not declared
a lunatic ; and if so declared, the costs shall be paid out of
the lunatic's estate. 
§ 3687. Upon the return of the jury that the person is an
idiot or lunatic, and that he has property, the court shall
appoint a guardian for the person and property of such idiot
or lunatic, who shall give bond and account as other
guardians. 
§ 3688. 1f the idiot or lunatic has no property, or not suffi­
cient for his maintenance, he may be let out for the term of 
one year to the lowest bidder, as other poor persons, or other-
wise provided for as the court may direct. 
§ 3689. If let out to the lowest bidder, bond and sufficient
security, to be approved by the court, shall be taken for the 
safe keeping, providing with sufficient diet, washing, and
apparel, and proper treatment for the term of letting. 
§ 3690. Any Justice of' the Peace, in the recess of court, if
satisfied from the finding of a jury, or otherwise, that there 
is apP.arent danger of violence being offered by such i~iot.or
lunatic to the person or property of others, may commit him 
to jail until the next term of the court. 
ARTICLE INQUISITION OF 
SECTION 
 II. 
0UN~OUNDNESS
OF MIND IN THE CHANCERY COURT. 
8691 • .Application to be by petition
under oath. 
8692. No application unless estate
exceeds $500. 
3698. Chancellor to make order for
writ, upon petitioner giving
bond. 
8694. Directions of the writ.
3695. Defendant, to be served with 
copy of petition, and notice.
3696. Clerk, or deputy, to be present 
at the inquisition.
8697. And issue process for witnesses. 
Jury to examine defendant.
8698. Testimony and examination to 
be reduced to writing, and re­
turned with verdict. 
8699. Jury to find value of estate,
and defendant's heirs. 
8ZCTI01' 
8700. Upon finding, clerk may at,point
guardian until court. 
8701. If the jury cannot agree, clerk
may issue new writ. 
8702. If the second jury cannot agree,
. .evidence of both trials to be 
submitted to Chancellor.
8708. And either part.y may, on re­ 
§ 3691. The application to the Chancery Court shall be by
petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the facts in regard 
to the person and property of the supposed idiot or lunatic.
§ 3692. No application shall be made to the Chancery Court, 
unless the estate exceeds five hundred dollars, and the fact
shall be so stated in the petition. · 
§ 3693. Upon this 'petition, the chancellor shall direct the
clerk to issuea writ of inquisition, on the petitioner giving
bond with good security in a sum to be fixed by the chan-
cellor, conditioned to pay costs, .and all such damages as the 
defendant may sustain, in consequence of the petition having
been wantonly and maliciously filed and prosecuted. · 
§ 3694. The writ directs the sheriff to summon a jury of
twelve freeholders, to meet at a day and place to be desig­
nated by him, to inquire and ascertain by their verdict,
whether the defendant be an idiot, a lunatic, or pe~on of
unsound mind. 
§ 3695. The clerk and master shall ·cause the defendant to 
be served with a copy of the petition, and notice of the time
aud place of holding the inquest, at least five days previous 
thereto. · 
§ 3696. The clerk and master, or a deputy by him appointed,
shall be present and preside over the deliberations of said 
jury, and receive their verdict.
§ 3697. Both parties shall have process of su bpcena, and 
attachment if necessary, to _be issued by the clerk, to compel
the attendance of witnesses; and the jury shall hear the 
testimony o ere , an mspect an examme t e e.1en ant
himself in making a verdict. 
§ 3698. The testimony of the witnesses, and the examination
of the defendant, ·if made, shall be taken down by the clerk 
in writing, and returned, with the verdict, to the chancellor
in court. . 
§ 3699. If t.hfe jury :findd th_e ddefehndanthto11be an id_iot,blunahti~,
or person o unsoun mm , t ey s a ascertain y t err 
verdict the value of his estate, nnd of what it consists, and
who would be his heirs and next of kin, were he to die in­
testate. 
§ 3700. Upon such finding by the jury, the clerk will appoint
a guardian to take care of the defendant, and manage his
estate until the next term of the Chancery Court, at which
time the court will appoint a regular guardian as herein­
before provided. 
§ 3701. If the jury cannot agree, the clerk may issue a new
writ to the sheriff, who shall summon twelve other free­
holders, before whom the matter shall be again tried. 
§ 3702. In case the second jury do not agree, the evidence
on both trials will be returned to court, and submitted to 
the chancellor.
§ 3703. Either party may a:ppear at the first term of the 
court, after the return of the mquisition, and move the court
to set it aside. 
§ 3704. Upon this motion, the court shall hear the evidence
and the examination of the defendant, as taken down and
returned by the clerk and master, and also such other affi­ 
davits as may be competent and proper; and the chancellor
may, upon such motion, grant or refuse a new trial. 
§ 3705. Upon setting aside the verdict of the jury, the chan­
cellor may, at his discretion, order another inquest to be
held, or decree upon the facts. 
§ 3706. In like manner, when a jury fails to agree, the chan­
cellor may order a new inquisition, or decide the case for
himself upon the testimony returned, and such other testi­
mony as may be offered. 
§ 3707. The court may make such order for the pttl"{)ose of
having the defendant present for inspection and examination 
by him, as he may think proper. 
SECTION PROCEEDINGS IN RELl\TION TO THE PROPERTY OF PERSONS OF 
8BCTI01' 
AnTICLE Ill. 
UNSOUND MIND. 
8708. The guardian may make pro­
vision for children. 
3709. Or application may be made to
the Chancery Court. 
8710. Court may make divisiott of
estate, as in case of death. 
8711. If satisfied there is no will, and
that it is manifestly for the
interest· of all. 
3712. Reserving ample support for
the defendant and wife. 
3713. And taking a refunding bond
from the p~rties. 
811:CTION 
8714. Which bond shall be given by
guardian of minor. 
8715. Court may make orders during
defendant's life. 
3716. The court may sell property' 011 
petition of guardian. 
8717. And dispose of proceeds for the
interest of lunatic. 
8il8. The applicant ~ust give bond.
8719. Court may sell and re-invest, if 
manifestly for interest of lu­
natic. 
§ 3708. The guardian appointed under this chapter, is
authorized, upon the coming of age or marriage of any
child of the lunatic, in case of long standing or confirmed
mental unsoundness, to make such settlement or provision
for such child as the situation of the estate, the age and con-
dition of the lunatic and his wife, if any, and the number of
his children, and other circumstances, mar render reasonable
and just; and the guardian and his sureties are liable on his
bond, for any intentional fraudulent abuses by them com-
mitted. 
§ 3709. To avoid which risk, the guardian himself, or the
child coming . of age or marrying, may file a bill in the 
Chancery.Court of the county in which either the guardian
or the lunatic resides, making all necessary parties, and
proceed as in other Chancery cases. 
§ 3710. The court may, in such cases, decree the partition
and division of a reasonable portion of the real and personal 
estate of the person laboring under confirmed mental un­
soundness, among his children or descendants, as in case of
death and intestacy, charging such portion as an· advance-
ment. 
§ 3711. The court shall, before making such a decree, be
fully satisfied, · 
1. That there is in existence no last will or testament, that
might be valid after the death of such person of unsound 
mind. · ·
2. That it is manifestly for the interest of such person of 
unsound mind, and his family, that the partition and divi-
sion should be made. 
§ 3712. And the court shall see, 
1. That ample means are retained undivided for the sup­ 
port, maintenance, care, and comfort of such person. 
2. If he is married, that the like ample means are retained 
for the support, maintenance, care, and comfort of his wife, 
and to provide her year's support, dower, and distributive
share in case she survives him. 
§ 3713. Upon rendering a decree for partition and distr-ibu­
tion as aforesaid, the court shall take bond and security from
the person to whom such partition or distribution is made, 
in a sufficient penalty, payable to the State of Tennessee,
conditioned, if it should become necessary, to refund the
property so assigned to him, as and when ordered by the
court, and to perform whatever orders or decrees the court
may make, touching the property so partitioned or distri­
buted to him. 
§ 3714. If any party to whom such partition or distribution
has been made, is a minor, the refunding bond shall be 
given by his guardian.
§ 3715. The court may, at any time during the life of the 
idiot, lunatic, or person of unsound mind, or after his death,
make orders in the cause, till the refunding bonds have been 
complied with.
§ 3716. Upon the petition of the guardian of an idiot, or 
lunatic, or person of unsound mind, the Chancery Court
may, if it appear manifestly for the interest of the idiot or
lunatic, decree the sale of his property, real or personal. 
§ 3717. The court shall dispose of the proceeds of such sale
by reinvestment or otherwise as shall in its opinion · be 
most for the interest of the owner. 
§ 3718. The court shall take from the person, on whose
application the sale is made, bond with security, in a penalty
double the amount of such proceeds, payable to the State of
Tennessee, conditioned to perform the decree of the court,
and whatever orders the court may make touching said pro­
ceeds. 
§ 3719. The Chancery Court is also vested with power,
upon application by guardian, to sell and reinvest any
portion of the lunatic's property, real or personal, where it
ia manifestly for the interest of such lunatic and family. 
SECTION. 
3720. Any person DlllY have writ.
3721. Except persons detained by pro­ 
ce88 of United States. court.
3722. Application by petition under 
oath.
3723. Writ granted by any Chancel­ 
lor, or Judge of Circuit, Com­
mon Law, or Criminal Court. 
3724. Application should be made to
nearest Judge. 
8726. Statements of petition.
3726. If writ refused, refasal to be 
endorsed.
8727. Form of writ, if granted.
3728. To be Issued by clerk in term, 
by Judge in vacation.
3729. Judge to act instanter, and 
liable for wilful refusal
3730. Judge may issue writ on his 
own information.
3731. Writ served by executive officer, 
or any person appointed.
3782. Served by leaving a copy with 
defendant.
3733. Or any person having plaintiff 
in custody.
3734'. Defendant may be arrested for 
resistance, concealment, etc.
3785. Power of officer same as in ar­ 
resting a felon.
8736. If no one appear to have custo­ 
dy of plaintiff, officer may
take him. 
3737. Precept to bring up plaintiff
forthwith, in case of irrepar­ 
able injury.
3738. Or to arrest defendant, when 
eTidence sufficient.
3739, Executed by bringing parties 
before Judge. 
37 40. Defendant may be proceeded
with according to the nature 
of the case. 
CHAPTER 19. 
OF HABEAS CORPUS. 
3741. Writ not discht.rged for defects
of form. 
81:0TIOllf 
87 42. Any person served presumed
defendant, although misde­
scribed. 
3743. Defendant must appear and
answer the writ. 
8744. What he must state in his an­
swer or return. 
87 46. Which must be under oath,
unless official. 
3i46. Defendant must produce plain­
tiff, or show cause for not
doing so. 
37 47. By affidavit, and other evidence
if required. 
87 48. The court may proceed without
plaintiff, or adjourn to where
he is. 
87 49. IBSue may be taken on return,
and tried. 
8760. Plaintiff may be proceeded with
as Justice may require. 
8761. He may be discharged, if cause
of detention not sufficient. 
3752. Or committed, although . pre­
vious commitment irregular. 
8768. Plaintiff' may wain his right
to be present. 
8754. Penalty for disobedience of
writ. 
8765. For attempt to elude service, or
avoid effect of writ. 
876~758. Provisions for enforcing
attendance of witnesses. 
8769. Penalty 011 officer, for refusing
to deliver copy of process
under which he detains a
person. 
8760. Proceedings to be returned to
court. 
3761. Plaintiff remanded to custody,
when. 
8762-3766. Prooeedings in relation to
costs. 
§ 3720. Any person imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, 
under any pretence whatsoever, except in cases specified in
the next section, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, to 
inquire into the cause of such imprisonment and restraint. 
§ 3721. Persons committed or detained by virtue of process
issued by a court of the United States, or a Judge thereof, in
cases where such Judges or courts have exclusive jurisdiction
under the laws of the United States, or have acquired exclu­
sive jurisdiction by the commencement of suits in such courts,
are not entitled to the benefits of this writ. 
§ 3722. Application for the writ shall bb made by petition,
signed either by the party for whose benefit it is intended, or 
some person on his behalf, and verified by affidavit. 
§ 3723. The writ may be granted by any Judge of the Cir­
cuit, Common Law, or Criminal Courts, or by any Chancellor 
in cases of equitable cognizance. 
§ 3724. The application shall be made to the court or Judge
most convenient in point of distance to the applicant, unless 
a sufficient reason be given in the petition for not applying to
such court or J udge. 
§ 3725. The petition shall state- 
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is sought, is
illegally restrained of his liberty; and the person by whom
and place where restrained, mentioning the name of such
person, if known, and, if unknown, describing him with as 
much particularity as practicable. 
2. The cause or pretence of such restraint according to the
best information of the applicant; and, if it be by virtue of
any legal process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or a satis­ 
factory reason given for its absence.
3. That the legality of the restraint has not already 
been adjudged upon a prior proceeding of the same char­
acter, to the best of the applicant's knowledge and belief. 
4. That it is the first application for the writ; or, if a pre­
vious application has been made, a copy of the petition and
proceedings thereon shall be produced, or satisfactory rea­
sons given for the failure so to do. 
§ 3726. If, from the showing of the petitioner, the plaintiff
would not be entitled to any relief, the writ may be refused,
the reasons for such refusal being briefly endorsed upon the
petition, or a~pendcd thereto. 
§ 3727. But if the petition show a sufficient ground for re­
lief, the writ shall be forthwith allowed, and may be substan­
tially as follows : 
STATE OF TENNESSEE, } 
--- county.
To the Sheriff; etc., ( or to .A. B., as the case may be : ) 
You are hereby commanded to have· the body of C. D.,
who is alleged to be unlawfully detained by you, before the 
Court, ( or before me, or before E. F ., Judge,
etc., as the case may be,) at on (or 
immediately after being served with this writ.) to be dealt
with according to law, and have you then and there this
writ with a return thereon of your doings in the premises. 
This day of 18 . 
G. II., Judge, etc. 
§ 3728. When the writ is allowed by a court in term, it is
issued· by the clerk, but, in other cases, the Judge or Chan- 
cellor issues thewrit himself, signing it officially. 
§ 3729. It is the duty of the court or Judge to act upon such 
app ications mstanter, an a wrong u an wi u re usa to
grant the writ, when properly applied for, is a· misdemeanor 
m office, besides subjectim.g the Judge to damages at the suit
of the party aggrieved. 
§ 3730. Whenever any court or· J udge, authorized to grant
hi it h id f • a· 9 l di h 
t is wri , as evi ence, rom a JU icia procee mg, t at any
person within the jurisdiction of such court or officer 
is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the
duty of such court or Judge to issue, or cause to be issued,
the writ as aforesaid, although no application be made there-
for. 
§ 3731. The writ may be served by the sheriff, coroner, or
constable, or any other person appointed for that purpose by 
the court or Judge by whom it is issued or allowed. If 
served by any other person than the sheriff, he possesses the
same power, and is liable to the same penalty for nonper­
formance of his duty, as though he were the sheriff. 
§ 3732. The proper mode of service is by leaving a copy of
the original writ with the defendant, and making the return 
upon the original. 
§ 3733. If the defendant cannot be found, or if he have not
the plaintiff in custody, the service may be made upon any
person having the plaintiff in his custody, in the same manner,
and with the same effect, as though he had been made a de- 
fendant therein.
§ 3734. If the defendant refuse admittance to the person 
attempting to serve the writ, conceal himself, or attempt
wrongfully to carry the plaintiff out of the county or State, 
he may be arrested by the person having the writ, and
brought, together with the plaintiff, immediately before the
officer or court before whom the writ is returnable. 
§ 3735. In order to make such arrest, the sheriff, or other
person having the writ, has the same power as is given to a 
sheriff for the arrest of a person charged with a felony. 
§ 3736. If the person in whose name the application is 
made, can be found, and no one appear to have the charge
or custody of him, the person having the writ may take him 
into custody, and make return accordingly; and to get pos-
session of the plaintiff's person in such case, he possesses the
same power as is given by the last section for the arrest of 
§ 3737. The court or Judge to whom the application for the 
writ is made, if satisfied that the plaintiff is likely to suffer
irreparable injury before he could be relieved by the pro­
ceedings as above authorized, may issue a precept to the
sheriff or other person selected, commanding him to bring
the plaintiff forthwith before such Judge or court. 
§ 3738. When the evidence is further sufficient to justify the
arrest of the defendant, for a criminal offence committed in 
connection with the ille~al detention of the plaintiff, the
precept shall also contam an order for the arrest of the 
defendant. 
§ 3739. The officer, or person to whom the precept is directed,
shall execute the same by bringing the defendant, and also 
the plaintiff if required, before the court or Judge issuing it,
and thereupon the defendant shall make return to the writ
of habeas corpus, in the same manner as if the ordinary
course had been pursued. 
§ 3740. The defendant may also be examined and committed,
.bailed, or discharged, according to the nature of the case. 
§ 3741. The writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for
any defect of form, or misdescription of the plaintiff or 
defendant, provided enough is stated to show the meaning
and intent of the writ. 
§ 3742. Any person served with the writ is presumed to be
the person for whom it is intended, although it may be directed 
to him by a wrong name or description, or to another person.
§ 3743. Service being made in any of the modes herein­ 
before provided, the defendant shall appear at the proper
time, and make due return of the writ, and answer the peti­ 
tion, if required.
§ 3744. The person served with the writ, shall state in his 
return, plainly and unequivocally,
1. Whether he then has, or at any time has had, the party 
in his control or restraint, and, if so, the authority and cause
thereof, setting out the same fully. 
2. If the party is detained under a writ, warrant, or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the re­
turn, and the original shall be produced and exhibited to the
court or Judge, if required. 
3. If the person on whom the writ has been served, has
had the plaintiff in his custody or power, or under his re­
straint, at any time before or after the date of the writ, but
has transferred him to another person, he shall state the facts
explicitly, and to whom, at what time, for what cause, and
by what authority such transfer was made. 
§ 3745. The return shall be signed by the person making it,
and verified by his oath; unless he is a sworn public officer,
and makes the return in his official capacity. 
§ 3746. At the time of making the return, the person on
whom the same has been served shall also produce the body
of the person detained, according to the command of the
writ, or show good cause for not doing so. 
§ 3747. If the cause shown for not producing such person
be sickness or infirmity, the fact shall be verified by affidavit, 
and other evidence if required. 
§ 3748. The court may thereupon proceed as if the party were
produced, or adjourn to the place where such party then is, or 
to some other time and place, according to circumstances. 
§ 3749. The plaintiff may demur or reply to the return, and
all issues shall be tried b, the court or Judge in a summary 
way, the examination bemg adjourned from time to time, if
necessary to the proper administration of justice, and all such
orders being made for the custody of the plaintiff, in the 
meantime, as the nature of the case requires.
§ 3750. The plaintiff may also, in any case, be committed, 
let to bail, or his bail diminished or increased, as justice may
require. 
§ 3751. If no sufficient legal cause of detention is shown,
the plaintiff shall be discharged. 
§ 3752. Although the commitment of the person detained
may have been irregular, still, if the court or Judge is satis- 
fied, from the examination, that he ought to be held to bail,
or committed, either for the offence charged, or any other,
the order should be made accordingly. 
§ 3753. The plaintiff, in writing, or his attorney, may waive
his right to be present at the examination, in which case the 
proceedin~s may be had in his absence.
§ 3754. Disobedience of the original writ, or any subsequent 
order thereon, subjects the defendant to commitment for
contempt, and also to a forfeiture of one thousand dollars to
the party aggrieved, besides rendering him liable for all dam­ 
ages sustained in consequence of such disobedience.
§ 3755. The attempt to elude the service of the writ ofOrattemp~to 
habeas corpus, or to avoid the effect thereof by transferring
the plaintiff to another, or by concealing him, is a high mis­ 
demeanor, for which the guilty person, and any one know- 
ingly aiding or abetting him therein, shall be fined, on con-
viction, not more than one thousand dollars, and imprisoned
not more than one year. 
§ 3756. Subpama for witnesses in all proceedings under this chapter, may be issued by the court or Judge granting the
writ, or before whom the same is returnable, or by any
Justice of the Peace. 
§ 3757. Witnesses thus summoned are subject to the same
penalties, and entitled to the same privileges and fees, as
other witnesses. 
§ 3758. Upon failure of the witness to attend, the fact shall 
be noted by the officer before whom the subpcena is returned,
on the back thereof, and transmitted to the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county, who shall issue scire facias as
in other cases. 
§ 3759. Any officer refusing to deliver a copy of any legal
process by which he retains a party in custody, to a person 
who demands such copy, and tenders the fees therefor, for­
feits two hundred dollars to the person so detained. 
§ 3760. The proceedings under a writ of habeas corpus, in­
eluding all the papers in the cause, and the final order, shall
be returned by the Judge to his nearest court, to be there
filed by the clerk as other records, a brief memorandum
thereof duly indexed, being made upon the judgment or
execution docket, and such clerk taxing the costs and issuing
execution therefor, as in other cases. 
§ 3761. The party detained shall be remanded to custody, if 
it appears he is detained, 
1. By virtue of process issued by a court or Judge of the
United States, in a case where such court or Judge has ex­
clusive jurisdiction. 
2. Where the time during which such party may be legally
detained has not expired. 
3. In every case in which the detention is authorized by
law. 
§ 3762. The costs of proceedings under this chapter, except
when -otherwise expressly provided, shall be adjudged as the
court or Judge may think right, and taxed and collected 
as in other cases.
§ 3763. Where the defendant in a criminal prosecution, is 
brought before any Circuit or Criminal Judge on a writ
of habeas corpus, and discharged by the Judge, the costs
shall be paid as in other State cases, when the defendant is
tried and acquitted by a jury. 
§ 3764. When the defendant in the cases provided for in the
preceding section is charged with a felony, the Judge shall 
make out and certify the bill of costs, and deliver the same
to the Clerk of the Circuit Court before which the defendant
is bound to appear, by whom the costs shall be collected and
paid out as in other cases. 
§ 3765. If the defendant is charged with a misdemeanor,
the J udgc shall deliver the bill of costs, made out and certi­ 
fied as before, to the County Court of the county in which
the defendant was charged with committing the offence, by
whom the same shall be allowed as in other cases. 
SECTION OF IXJL"NCTIOX, .APPOINT:\IENT OF RECEIVERS, AND OTHER
EXTRAORDINARY PROCESS. 
SECTIO~ 
3iGt3. Provisions relating to extraor­
dinary process, npply to all 
equity proceedings. 
CHAPTER 20. 

8i6i. Court may restrain injury, re­
moval, or destruction of pro­
perty pending suit. 
8BCTI01'
SECTION 
3768. And appoint receivers when­
ever necessary. 
3769. Any court may use extraordi- 
§ 3766. The provisions of this Code relating to injunctions,
appomtment o receivers, an ot er extraor mary process,
apply equally to equity proceedings in any of the courts of
this State. 
§ 3767. In real actions, and in actions for the recovery of
personal property in specie, the court in which the suit is 
pending may restrain the injury, removal, or destruction of
the property by [rocess of injunction, until the cause is
finally disposed o . 
§ 3768. The courts of this State are all vested with power to
appoint receivers for the safe keeping, collection, manage-
ment, and disposition of property in litigation in such court,
whenever necessary to the ends of substantial justice, in like
manner as receivers are appointed by Courts of Chancery. 
§ 3769. In all proper cases, also, any of the courts may use
all other extraordinary process of the Court of Chancery, and 
in the same way as that court, when necessary to effect the
ends of justice. · 
CHAPTER 21. SBCTI01' 

OF SUITS FOR FREEDO~I. 
3770. Defendant, in suits for freedom,
may be required to give bond
not to remove plaintiff. 
§ 3770. When any person has commenced, or may wish to
commence an action for the purpose of trying his title or 
ng t to rec om, t e court, or any u ge m vacation, or any 
two Justices of the Peace, at any time pending such suit, if
satisfied by the affidavit of some respectable person, or other-
wise, that the plaintiff or person about to sue is entitled to 
his freedom, shall require of the defendant good and suffi-
cient security that the plaintiff shall not be run off, removed,
taken, or sent out of the limits of the State, but shall be
kept within the limits of the county until the cause is finally 
determined. ·
§ 3771. Whenever an order has been made for such bond 
an security, t e s en s ia ta e t e p ainti mto is cus-
tody, and take care of him until the bond and security has 
been given, or the case determined. 
SECTION 
nary process, when necessary
to justice. 
8771. In which case, the sheriff will
take charge of plaintiff until
bond is given. 
CH.APTER 1. Of the Form and Method of Administering
Oaths. 
CHAPTER 2. Of Certain Kinds of Evidence, and the Effect
thereof. 
CH.APTER 3. Of Documentary Evidence.
CHAPTER 4. Of Witnesses.
CHAPTER 5. Of Depositions.
CH.APTER 6. Of Perpetuating Testimony.
CHAPTER 7. Of the Examination of Parties.
CHAPTEa 8. Of Lost Instruments, Papers, and Records. 
OF THE FORM AND METHOD OF ADMINISTERING OATHS. 
SECTIOJf 
TITLE 3. 
OF EVIDENCE. 
CHAPTER 1. 
8i72. Form of book oath.
8778. Form of oath with uplifted 
hand.
877 4. Persons scrupulous of taking 
an oath, may make solemn
affirmation. 
SEOTIOJf 
3776. Persons may also be sworn ac­
cording to the form of their
country or creed. 
8776. Oath effective in either mode,
unless objected to at the time. 
§ 3772. Persons empowered to administer oaths, except
when otherwise expressly provided, shall require the party
to be sworn, to lay his hand upon the New Testament, and
solemnly swear, upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God,
to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth, or other oath prescribed in the particular case, and
kiss the book as a seal of confirmation of the engagement. 
§ 3773. If the person to be sworn is conscientiously scrupu- 
Ious of taking the book oath, he may be sworn with the
right hand uplifted, in the following form: 
"I (or you) do solemnly appeal to God as a witness of the
truth, and avenger of falsehood, as I shall answer for the
same at the great day of judgment, when the secrets of all
hearts shall be known, that," etc., (as the nature of the case
may be.) 
§ 3774. All persons conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, may make solemn affirmation in the words of the oath 
required.
§ 3775. Persons may also be sworn according to the-forms 
ot their own country, or particular religious creed, when
required. 
§ 3776. In whatever mode the oath or affirmation is admin- 
istere , it wi e e ega y m mg, an t e person swear-
ing or affirming will be subject to all the pains and penalties 
of perjury as if administered in the mode prescribed by this chapter, unless the form is objected to at the time. 
ARTICLE I.OF CERTAIN KINDS OF EVIDENCE, AND THE EFFECT THEREOF. 
 Written Instruments required to be denied
under Oath. 
WRITTEN INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE DENIED UNDER OATH. 
SBCTIOK 
CH.APTER 2. 
II. Accounts from another County or State, and
Book of Accounts. 
III. Settlements of Guardians and Personal Repre­
sentatives, Certificate of Notary, Copy of
Corporation Books. 
IV. Receipts, and Settlements for the Composition
of Debts. 
ARTICLE I. 
8i77. Written instrument, constitut­
ing the foundation of an
action, conclusive unless de­
nied under oath. 
8778. Oath of personal representative 
8BCTIOK 
may be to the best of his
knowledge.' 
8779. Similar instruments offered by
defendant, equally conclusive,
unless denied under oath. 
§ 3777. Every written contract, instrument, or signature pur-
porting to be executed by the party sought to be charged,
hie partner, agent; or. attorney in fact, and constituting the
foundation of an action, is conclusive evidence against such
party, unless the execution thereof is denied under oath. 
§ 3778. If the party be dead, the personal representative
may make the denial under oath "according to the best of 
his knowledge, information, and belief." . 
§ 3779. The execution or assignment of instruments offered
in evidence by the defendant, when allowed by law, is 
equally conclusive as when introduced by the plaintiff, unless
denied under oath. 
ARTICLE II. ACCOUNTS FROM ANOTHER COUNTY OR STATE, AND BOOK OF
ACCOUNTS. 
SECTION 

8i80. Account from another county
or State, when conclusive. 
3781. Book of accounts, when evi­
dence. 
3782. In favor of personal represent­
ative. 
SECTION 
8i83. Copy from the book sufficient,
unless book required. 
3784. The defendant may contest the
evidence. 
3i85. And if personal representative,
produce decedent's books. 
§ 3780. An account on which action is brought, coming
from any other county or State, with the affidavit of the 
plaintiff to the correctness of the account, and the certificate
of a State commissioner annexed thereto, or the certificate
of a Justice, with the clerk's certificate that such Justice is
an acting Justice within his county, is conclusive evidence
against the party sought to be charged, unless he shall, on
oath, deny the account. 
§ 3781. On the trial of actions for goods, wares, and mer-
chandise, sold and delivered, or for work and labor done and 
performed, or on executing a writ of inquiry in such action,
the plaintiff's book of accounts shall be admissible evidence
of the sale and delivery of articles not exceeding seventy­
five dollars in value, which were delivered within two years
before the action brought, if the plaintiff make oath- 
That the matter in dispute is a book account;
That he has no means to prove the delivery of such articles 
as he shall then propose to prove by his own oath, but by his
book; 
That the book contains a true account of all the dealings,
or last settlement of accounts between them; 
That all the articles therein contained, and by him so
proved, were really delivered ; and, · 
That he has given the defendant all just credits.
§ 3782. Where the creditor who delivered the goods, wares, 
and merchandise sued for, or performed the work and labor, 
is dead, his personal representative may ~ve his book of
accounts in evidence, on making oath or affirmation- 
That he verily believes the account as there charged is just
and true; 
That there are no witnesses, to his knowledge, capable of
proving the delivery of the articles, or performance of the
work and labor proposed to be proved by the book; 
· That he found the book with the account so stated; and,
That he knows of no further or other credit to be given, 
except what is therein mentioned.
§ 3783. A copy from the hook of accounts, proved in manner 
aforesaid, may be given in evidence in said actions, and shall
be as available as if the book had been produced, unless the
defendant or his attorney give notice to the plaintiff or his
attorney, at the joining of the issue, that he will require the
book to be produced on the trial. 
§ 3784. The defendant may contest the plaintiff's evidence,
and oppose the same by other legal evidence. 
§ 3785. And if the defendant and plaintiff are both executors
or administrators, the book of the defendant's testator or 
intestate may be given in evidence against the book of the
plaintiff's testator or intestate, for such articles as shall be
proved in manner aforesaid. 
SECTION SETTLEMENTS OF GUARDIANS AND PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES,
CERTIFICATE OF NOTARY, COPY OF CORPORATION BOOKS. 

§ 3786. Official settlements, when prima
facie evidence. 
§ 3787. The certificate of a notary public in or on his protest, 
that he has given the parties to negotiable paper notice of
the dishonor, is prima facie evidence of the facts stated in
the certificate ; and in like manner, entries in his books to 
the same effect, are prima facie evidence, in case of his death,
of the facts therein stated. 
§ 3788. In actions between corporations and their stock-
holders, a copy of the proceedings of the board of directors, 
and the subscription and other books of the company, cer-
tified by the secretary under the corporate seal, shall be evi- 
dence. 
ma facie evidence. 
ARTICLE III. 
SECTIOY 
8788. Certified copy of corporation
books, when evidence. 
RECEIPTS, AND SETTLEMENTS FOR THE COMPOSITION OF DEDTS. 
8.ICTI01' I 8BCTI01' 
8789. Receipts, ete., have effect in- 8790. Compromise of debts good ac-
tended. cording to intent. 
§ 3789. All receipts, releases, and discharges in writing,
whether of a debt of record or a contract under seal, or
otherwise, shall have effect, according to the intention of the
parties thereto. 
§ 3790. All settlements in writing, made in good faith, for
the composition of debts, shall be taken as evidence, and 
held to operate· according to the intention of the parties,
although no release under seal is given, and no new con­
sideration has passed. 
SECTION 
OF DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE. 
8i91. Certified copies of public re­
cords, evidence. 
8792. Officer in custody to give copy,
on demand, and payment of
fees. 
8793. Certificate of public officer that
he has made search, evidence. 
8i94. Judicial record or this State,
how proved. 
8795. Of another State, or of any of
the federal courts, how proved. 
8796. Certified copy of proceedings
before a. Justice, evidence. 
8797. Records of a foreign country,
how authenticated. 
8798. Executive acts, how proved.
8799. Legislative proceedings, how 
proved. 
ARTICLE IV. 
CHAPTER 3. 
SBOTION 
3800. Printed copy of statute laws,
when evidence. 
8801. May be used in appellate court,
without being copied in re­ 
cord.
3802. Copy of law under seal of State, 
evidence.
8803. Certificate of the head of any 
department of general govern­
ment, evidence. 
8804. Private acts need not be spe­ 
cially pleaded.
3805. Copy from State library, certi­ 
fied by Secretary of State,
evidence. 
3806. Fees of Secretary of State for
such copies. 
§ 3791. Duly certified copies of all records and entries,
official bonds, or other papers belonging to any public office, 
or by authority of law filed to be kept therein, are evidence
in all cases. 
§ 3792. Every officer having the custody of a public record
or writing, is bound to give any person, on demand, a cer- 
tified copy thereof, on payment of the legal foes ; and if no
fee has been fixed by law, on payment of reasonable com­
pensation. 
§ 3793. The certificate of a public officer that he has made
diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his office, is of 
the same efficacy in all cases as if such officer had personally
appeared and sworn to such facts. 
§ 3794. A judicial record of this State is proved by the pro-
duction of the original, or by a copy thereof, certified by the 
clerk or the person-having the legal custody thereof, authen-
ticated by Lis seal of office, if he have one. 
§ 3795. A judicial record of a sister State, or of any of the
federal courts of the United States, may be proved by a copy 
thereof, attested by the clerk, under his seal of office, if he
have one, together with a certificate of a Judge, Chief Justice,
or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form of
law. 
§ 3796. The official certificate of a Justice of the Peace of
this State, or of any of the United States, to any judgment, 
and the preliminary proceedings before him, with the official
certificate of the clerk of any court of record within the
county in which such Justice resides, stating that he is an
acting Justice of the Peace of that county, and that the sig-
nature to his certificate is genuine, is evidence of such pro-
ceedings and judgment. . 
§ 3797. Copies of the records and proceedings in the courts
of a foreign country, may be admitted in evidence, upon 
being authenticated as follows:
1. By the official attestation of the clerk or officer in 
whose custody such records are legally kept; and,
2. By the certificate of one of the Judges or magistrates of 
such court, that the person so attesting is the clerk or officer
legally intrusted with the custody of such records, and that
the signature to his attestation is genuine. 
3. By the official certificate of the officer who has the
custody of the great seal of the government under whose
authority the court is held, attested by said seal, stating that
such court is duly constituted, and has jurisdiction of the
subject of the record, and that the seal of the court is genuine. 
§ 3798. Acts of the executive of the United States, or of this
or any other State of the Union, or of a foreign government,
are proved by the records of the State department of the
respective governments, or by public documents purporting
to have been printed by order of the Legislatures of those
governments respectively, or by either branch thereof. 
§ 3799. The proceedings of the Legislature of this State, or
any other State of the Union, or of the United States, or of 
any foreign government, are proved by the journals of those
bodies respectively, or of either branch thereof, either by 
copies officially certified by the officer having custody of the
originals, or by a copy purporting to have been printed by
the order of such Leg-islature, or either branch thereof. 
§ 3800. Printed copies of the statute laws of this State, or
any other of the United States, or of Congress, or of any 
foreign government, purporting or proved to have been pub­
lished under the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts of
such State or government, shall be admitted in the courts of
this State as presumptive evidence of such laws. 
§ 3801. And it shall not be necessary, in a ease carried from
an inferior to a .superior court, to have the statutes of a State 
read as evidence in the inferior court, transcribed into the
record, except where it is directed to be done by the inferior
court; but the superior court may take judicial notice of
such laws and statutes, and decide upon them accordingly. 
§ 3802. A copy of a written law, or other public writing of
any State or government, authenticated by the great seal of 
such State or government, is also evidence of such law or
writing. 
§ 3803. The certificate of the head of any- department or
bureau of the general government, is a sufficient authenti­ 
cation of any paper or document appertaining or belonging
to his office. 
§ 3804. Private acts of the Legislature of this or any other
State, may be given in evidence without pleading them
special1y. 
§ 3805. A copy of any executive act, legislative proceedings,
public or private law, of any State of the Union, or of the 
general government, taken from any of the printed books
m the library of the State made evidence by the foregoing sections, and certified by the Secretary of State to be a cor­ 
rect copy from such book, will be evidence as if the book
it.self had been produced. 
§ 3806. The Secretary of State will be allowed for such
copy at the rate of ten cents for every hundred words, and 
twenty-five cents for the certificate. 
CHAPTER 4. 
OF WITNESSES. 
ARTICLE I. Competency of Witnesses.
II. Mode of procuring the Attendance and Testi­ 
mony of Witnesses.
III. Privileges and Compensation of Witnesses. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE I. 
COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES. 
3807. Person capable of understand­
ing obligation of oath, com­
petent. 
8808. Person of mixed blood, incom­
petent except for or against
each other. 
8809. Person liberated from slavery,
not competent within twelve
months agaillSt o. white man. 
3810. Nominal plaintiff, or naked
trustee, competent. 
SxcTION 
8811. The Judge of the court is a. 
competent witness in case be­
fore him. 
8812. Crimes for which, on convic­
tion, a person becomes incom­
petent. 
3818. Stockholder competent in suits
between corporation and other
stockholders. 
§ 3807. Every person of sufficient capacity to understand
the obligation of an oath, is competent to be a witness. 
§ 3808. A negro, mulatto, Indian, or person of .mixed blood,
descended from negro or Indian ancestors, to the third gene- 
ration inclusive, though one ancestor of each generation
may have been a white person, whether bond or free, is
incapable of being a witness in any cause, civil or criminal,
except for or against each other. . 
§ 3809. No person of mixed blood of any degree whatever,
who has been liberated from slavery within twelve months 
previous, shall be admitted as a witness against a white
person. 
§ 3810. A nominal plaintiff, or naked trustee, shall not be
incompetent as a witness on account of his being a party to 
the record.
§ 3811. The Judge of the court is a competent witness for 
eithe! ~arty, in any cause tried before him, either of a civil
or criminal. nature. 
§ 3812. Persons are rendered incompetent by conviction
and sentence for the following crimes, unless they have 
been restored to full citizenship, under the law provided for
that purpose, viz. : 
Abuse of female child, arson and felonious burning,
bigamy, burglary, felonious breakin~ and entering mansion
house, bribery, buggery, counterfeitmg, or violating any of
the provisions to suppress the same, destroying will, for1sery,
house-breaking, incest, larceny, perjury, robbery, receiving
stolen property, rape, sodomy, stealing free person of color,
stealing slave, stealing bills of exchange or other valuable
papers, subornation of perjury. 
§ 3813. In all suits between corporations and one or more
of the stockholders, any other stockholder is a competent
witness for either party. 
ARTICLE OF PROCURING THE ATTENDANCE AND TESTIMONY OF
WITNESSES. 
8BCTIOK 
8814. Attendance of witnesses pro­
cured by subpoena, Form. 
8815. Bubpoena issued at any time by
clerk or Justice. 
8816. Subpoena returnable instanter,
to be served personally on
witness. 
8817. Other aubpcenas may be served
by leaving copy, when. 
8818. Justice may issue, after grant­
ing appeal. 
8819. To be obeyed as in other eases.
8820. Witness must attend until dis­ 
charged. 
ARTICLE II. 
8BCTI01' 
8821. In default thereof, he forfeits
$125, and is liable for dam­
ages. 
8822. Unless he show sufficient cause
on seire faeias. 
8828. If witness refuse to testify, he
may be committed. 
8824. Witness procured in same way
in criminal cases, except the 
penalty is $250.
8825, 8826. How penalty enforced in 
cases before Justice.
8827. Justice may issue subpcena to 
adjoining county. 
§ 3814. The attendance of witnesses to give testimony, is
procured by subpcena or summons, requirmg the witness to
be present at a prescribed time and place, to give testimony
in a case, or matter therein stated, mentioning the names of
the parties litigant, and the party at whose instance he is to
be summoned, and, if necessary, requiring him also to bring
with him any books, documents, or other writings under his
control, and which he is not excused by law from producing
in evidence. 
§ 3815. The subpcena is issued by the Justice or clerk of the
court, as the case may be, at any time on the request of the
party wishing the process. 
§ 3816. A subpcena returnable instanter issues only in term
time, or while a case is being tried before a Justice, and
shall be served personally on the witness. 
§ 3817. If issued in vacation, it may be served, in case the
witness cannot be found, by leaving a copy at his usual 
place of residence.
§ 3818. Any Justice of the Peace granting an appeal, shall, 
on application of either party, issue subpcenas, directed to
the sheriff or other lawful officer, in any county within the 
State, for witnesses to a{)pear and give testimony at the
court to which the appeal is taken. 
§ 3819. Due respect shall be paid to said subpcenas ; and
the officer to whom they are directed, and every witness 
thereon summoned, shall be under the same rules, and
subject to the same penalties, and entitled to the same pay
and privileges, as if such aubpcena had issued from the clerk
of the court to which the appeal is taken. 
§ 3820. Every witness legally bound to appear as herein
directed, shall appear accordingly, and continue to attend 
from day to day, and from term to term, until discharged by
the court, or the party at whose instance he is summoned. 
§ 3821. In default thereof he forfeits to the party at whose
instance the subpcena issues, the sum of. one hundred and 
twenty-five dollars, to be recovered by scire facias; and he is
further liable to the action of the party for the full damages 
sustained for want of his testimony.
§ 3822. Upon return of the scire facias issued for the penalty, 
the witness may be relieved by showing sufficient cause for 
failing to attend; otherwise, on motion, jud~ment will be
given against him, and execution issue accordmgly. 
§ 3823. If any witness refuse to give testimony when legally
bound, he shall be committed to the common jail, by the 
court, J usticc, or commissioner, before whom he is bound
to testify, there to remain without bail or mainprize, until
he is willing to testify as the law directs. 
§ 3824. The attendance of witnesses in criminal cases is
enforced in the same way, subject to the same rules, except 
that the penalty for failing to attend is two hundred and
:fifty dollars. 
§ 3825. If a witness fail to appear when summoned before
a Justice of the Peace, or commissioner, the subpoena is 
returned to the Circuit Court of the county, with the
endorsement of such failure made thereon by the Justice
or commissioner, and scire facias issues, as in other cases. 
§ 3826. The party at whose instance a witness is sum-
moued before a Justice of the Peace, on the trial of a. 
cause, may, at his election, instead of having the subpcena
returned to court as in the foregoing section, move before
the Justice for judgment against the witness, in which case,
a conditional judgment shall be given for twenty-five dollars,
and scire facias shall issue to the witness to show cause why
final judgment should not be entered, and on failure to show
cause, final judgment shall be rendered for the penalty and 
costs.
§ 3827. Justices of the Peace may issue subpcenas for 
witnesses in an adjoining county, and such witnesses thus
summoned are required to attend under the usual penalties. 
ARTICLE III. 
PRIVILEGES AND COMPENSATION OF WITNESSES. 
· 8828. Witness privileged from service
of process during attendance. 
3829. Compensation for attendance at 
8KCTI01' 
8880. Mileage only once at same
term. 
8831. Compensation for attendance
before a Justice.
court. 
SECTION 
8882. May have judgment by motion,
when. 
8883. Probateofwitnesses' attendance
taken at any time. 
8sCTIOl.'f 
8834. In how many cases witness may
claim attendance. 
8836. May claim one day's attendance
after case settled, when. 
§ 3828. During the attendance of any person summoned
as a witness, and during the time that he is going to and 
returning from the place of such attendance, allowing
one day for every thirty miles of travel, no writ, process,
warrant, order, judgment, or decree in any civil cause, sub­
peens to testify as a witness only excepted, shall be served
upon him. 
§ 3829. Witnesses attending in a court of record, are
entitled to seventy-five cents for each day's necessary attend­ 
ance, and four cents a mile for each mile of travel, going and
coming, over ten miles, and tolls and ferriage. 
§ 3830. But no witness can claim mileage more than once
in the same suit at any one term. 
§ 3831. Every witness summoned before a Justice of the
Peace, is entitled to fifty cents for each day's attendance, and
when summoned to attend in another county from that of
his residence, to four cents a mile for his travel. 
§ 3832. Whenever a party in a court of record recovers
a judgment or decree against another for costs, and it 
appears from the return of the execution that such costs
cannot be made out of the person against whom they have
been adjudged, the witnesses summoned by the successful
party may have judgment by motion against such party for 
their costs.
§ 3833. The clerks of the different courts in this State may 
ta ce pro ate o witnesses' atten ance, at any time etween 
the commencement and the final decision of a cause, either
in vacation or in term time. 
§ 3834. No witness shall prove his attendance in more than
four suits, where one of the parties is the same, and the 
question to be tried is the same.
§ 3835. If the suit in which the witness is summoned 
is settled in vacation, and the party summoning him neglects
to discharge the witness from further attendance, and he, for
want of such discharge, should attend at the next term, he is
entitled to prove one day's attendance. 
ARTICLE L When Depositions may be taken.
II. How and by whom Depositions are taken. 
81:CTIOl'f 
8886. When depositions may be taken.
8887. Deposition of person residing 
8836. The efidence of witnesses may be taken by deposi-
tion, in civil actions, by either party- 
1. When the witness from age, bodily infirmity, or other
cause, is incapable of attending, to give testimony at the 
~tl 
CHAPTER 5. 
OF DEPOSITIONS. 
ill. Filing Depositions, and Exceptions thereto.
IV. Depositions taken in this State to be used in 
Foreign Tribunals. 
ARTICLE I. 
WHEN DEPOSITIONS MAY BB TAKEN. 
in the county in which suit is
pending. 
8888. Depositions which may be taken
at any time after suit brought. 
3839. Witness may claim exemption,
when summoned. 
8BOTIOJI 
3840. Or on application to court.
8841. Effect of false claim to exemp­ 
tion. 
8842. Adverse party may compel at­
tendance of. witness, unless
exempt. 
8843. And cross-examine after deposi­
tion taken, on notice. 
§ 3836. The evidence of a witness may be taken by deposition, in civil actions, by either party-
1. When the witness from age, bodily infirmity, or other case, is incapable of attending, to give testimony at the trial.
2. When he resides out of the State.
3. When he resides in the State, but not within the limits 
of the county in which the suit is pending, in which
case the adverse party may, if he desires to have the witness 
examined in open court, cause him to be subpcenaed.
4. When he is under the necessity of leaving the State 
before the cause is tried, or even before it is at issue.
5. When he is about to leave the county in which the 
suit is pending, and will probably not return until after the
trial. 
6. When be is the only witness to a material fact.
7. When he is an officer of the United States, an officer 
of this State, or of any county in the State, the clerk
of any court of record other than that in which the suit
is pending, a member of the General Assembly while
in session, or clerk or officer thereof, a practicin~ phy- 
sician or attorney, a jailer or keeper of a public prison in
any county other than that in which thesuit is·pending. 
8. ,Vhen he is a notary public, whether a suit be pending
or not; to be evidence between the same parties in any suit
then or thereafter depending, should the notary die or remove
out of the State before the trial. 
9. When the suit is brought by a party in forma pau­
peris. 
§ 3837. The deposition of any person residing in the county
in which the suit is pending, may also be taken by either
party, but the opposite party may summon the witness, in
which case, he shall be examined as if summoned· by the
party taking his deposition. 
§ 3838. The depositions of witnesses in the cases enume­
rated in subsections one, four, five, and six, may be taken
at any time after action brought, upon such notice as the
court or Justice may order, or upon giving the usual notice
as hereinafter provided. 
§ 3839. The witness, if he occupies any of the positions,
or is employed in any of the capacities enumerated in
subsection seven, is exempt from the penalties provided for
the non-attendance of witnesses summoned by subpc:ena,
provided he claim such exemption at the time the subpcena
is served, stating the ground thereof, in which case the
officer will return the facts according to the claim. 
§ 3840. If the witness fail to claim exemption at the time
mentioned, he may be allowed the benefit of it, by applica­
tion to the court. 
§ 3841. A false claim set up by the witness, shall in no
way affect the right of the party summoning, the witness, to
proceed against him under the provisions or this Code, and
the burden of proof is on the witness, upon scire faeias, to
show the fact entitling him to exemption. 
§ 3842. If the adverse party should desire to have any wit­
ness examined in open court, whose deposition has been
taken under the provisions of this chapter, he may compel
the attendance of such witness as in other cases, unless the
witness is exempted by law from the usual penalties. 
§ 3843. After a deposition has been taken without cross-ex­
amination at the time, the witness may subsequently be
cross-examined, upon notice to that effect. 
SECTION
now AND BY WHOM DEPOSITIONS ARE TAKEN. 
8844. Court or Justice may make
order and issue commission, 
when necessary.
3845. So may clerk or deputy. 
ARTICLE II. 
SECTION 
3846. The court or Justice m1ty also
prescribe notice. 
8847. But deposition may be taken
without order or commission. 
8.BCTI01' 
8848. The caption and certificate of
deposition. 
8849. Last clause of certificate may
be endorsed on deposition. 
3850. The court or clerk may direct
upon whom notice shall be
sen ed. 
3851. Notice to take deposition in
the county in which suit is
pending. 
8852. Notice to take deposition out
of the county. 
8863. And west of Rocky Mountains,
or in foreign country. 
8864. Notice served by leaving copy.
3856, 8856. Deposition may be taken 
on interrogatories, when. 
8J:OTI01' 
8867. Justice has all the power of 
8858. Power of commissioner while
taking deposition. 
8869. His duties in taking deposition.
8860. After taking, should envelope, 
seal, and send.
8861. Affidavit, when sent by private 
conveyance.
8862. Commissioner may summon 
witness.
8868, 8864. Liability of witness who 
fails to obey summons.
8866. Who may take depositions.
8866. Deposition taken before Justice 
§ 3844. Any court or Justice of the Peace, before whom an 
action 18 pen mg, may make or ers, an issue comnnesrous 
to take depositions, upon the application of either party, in
any of the cases enumerated in the preceding article, when-
ever the facts are made to appear, by oath or otherwise, and
an order or commission is necessary. 
§ 3845. The clerk or deputy clerk of any court of record,
may, in like manner, make the order, or issue the commis- 
sion to take depositions, upon a proper case made out.
§ 3846. The court or Justice may also, on good cause shown, 
prescribe the notice to be given to the opposite party of the
time and place of taking the deposition. 
§ 3847. But either party litigant before any Justice of the
Peace, or in any of the courts of this State, may, without 
:any order or commission, take the depositions of witnesses
in all cases allowed by law, upon giving the opposite party
legal notice of the time and place, or by filing interrogatories
as herein provided. 
§ 3848. The caption and certificate shall be substantially as
follows : 
A. B.} In the Court, }
vs. county, Tennessee: 
clerk. 
as in other cases. 
C. D. Depositions of and ---, witnesses for
plaintiff ( or defendant) in the above case, taken upon notice,
( or interrogatories,) on the day of 18 , at 
, in the presence of the plaintiff and defendant, (show
the fact.) 
The said witness , aged , being duly sworn, de-
posed as follows: 
The foregoing depositions were taken before me, as stated
in the caption, and reduced to writing by me, ( or by the wit-
nesses.) And I certify that I am not interested in the cause,
nor of kin or counsel to either of the parties, and that I 
sealed them up and delivered them to , ( or put them
in the post-office,) without being out of my possession, or
altered after they were taken. Given under my hand the 
day of 18 .
§ 3849. The last clause may be written across the back of 
the envelope on the sealed side, instead of inserting it in the
certificate. 
§ 3850. In all cases in which more than one person is plain­
tiff or defendant, the court or clerk may determine whether 
not.ice shall be given to each person, and, if not, to whom 
notice shall be given ; a memorandum of the order being
kept among the papers. 
§ 3851. The notice required to take depositions, shall be
served on the opposite party at least five days beforehand, 
when the depositions are to be taken in the county in which
the suit is pending. 
§ 3852. When the depositions are to be taken out of the
county, t e notice s a be as fol ows: for fifty mi es or
under, five days; from fifty to one _hundred miles, ten days;
over one hundred and not exceedrng two hundred and fifty
miles, fifteen days; if over two hundred and fifty and not
exceeding five hundred, twenty days; if over five hundred,
thirty da vs. 
§ 3853. When the deposition is to be taken in any State or
territory of the United States, west of the Rocky Mountains, 
such time as the court or clerk may order, not exceeding
forty days ; in foreign countries, such time as the court or 
clerk may order.
§ 3854. The sheriff coroner, or constable of any county in 
this State, into whose hands a notice to take depositions has
been put, shall deliver a copy of such notice to the proper
person in due time, and return the original notice, with the
time of delivery marked thereon, to the court or Justice
before whom the suit is pending. 
§ 3855. When the witnesses resido out of the State, or over
one hundred and fifty miles from the place of trial, either 
party may take depositions by filing interrogatories with the
clerk, giving the opposite party notice thereof, who shall
have ten days thereafter to file cross interrogatories, to which
rebutting interrogatories may then be put; at any time after
which the deposition may be taken upon a certified copy of
the interrogatories, to be issued by the clerk. 
§ 3856. If the opposite party is a non-resident, or if judg­
ment by default or pro confesso has been taken for want of 
appearance and defence, the depositions may be taken by
filing with the clerk a copy of the interrogatories, with a 
memorandum of the time and place of taking the depositions,
for twenty days before taking the same. 
§ 3857. The word "clerk" in the preceding sections includes
Justices of the Peace, who are, for the purposes of this article, clerks of their own courts. 
§ 3858. Any person authorized to take depositions, is, while
engaged in the discharge of his duties, vested with all the 
powers of a court to preserve order, prevent interruption,
and control the conduct of the parties in the examination of
the witness. 
§ 3859. The commissioner, having first sworn the witness
according to law, should require the questions to be reduced 
to writin~ before being :eut, and then read to the witness,
and should take down his answers in writing, or cause the
same to be done by the witness himself, as near as may be
in the witness's own words. 
§ 3860. The deposition, when complete, shall be enveloped,
oget er wit t e comrmesion, 1 any, an a ocuments 
which may have been deposed to, sealed, with the com mis-
sioner's name written across the seal, and directed to the
clerk of the court where the cause is pending, with the title
of the cause endorsed thereon, and may be sent by mail or 
private conveyance. 
§ 3861. If sent by private conveyance, the person delivering
it shall make affidavit before the clerk, that he received the 
deposition from the commissioner, that it has not been out
of his possession, or opened by him, or while in his posses- 
sion.
§ 3862. The commissioner, or person authorized to take 
depositions, has power to issue subpama for witnesses, which
may be served by the sheriff or any constable; and the cer-
tificate of the commissioner, or person authorized, that the
witness failed to appear, together with the return of the
officer, is proof of the facts. 
§ 3863. Any witness who fails to appear in such cases, ac-
cording to the terms of the subpcena, or to answer the ques-
tions which may be lawfully put .to him, is subject to the
penalties provided for enforcing the attendance of witnesses to
give testimony in court, and compelling them to testify. 
§ 3864. The penalty for non-attendance may be enforced by
the tribunal having cognizance of the suit, upon scire facias
as in other cases. 
§ 3865. Depositions may be taken by any Judge, Justice ofWho1;11!lytake
the Peace, mayor or chief magistrate of a town or city, the 
clerk of any court, or any other person properly commis-
sioned or appointed by the court or clerk, not being inter-
ested, of counsel, or related to either of the parties within
the sixth degree, computing by the civil law. 
§ 3866. Depositions may be taken in all cases pending before
Justices of the Peace, under the same rules, regulatigns, and 
restrictions, as in cases pending in the courts of record. 
SECTION 
3867. Date of filing deposition to be
endorsed, and entry made on 
docket.
8868. All exceptions to be made and 
§ 3867. The clerk will endorse upon the deposition the day 
it is filed, and make an entry upon the docket, giving the
style of the cause, the names of the witnesses, and the date 
of filing.
§ 3868 . .All exceptions to depositions for want of notice, be- 
cause not e in reasona e time, or ror ot er causes gomg 
to the admissibility thereof, except objections to the compe-
tency of the witness or his evidence, shall be made and dis­ 
posed of before the commencement of the hearing or trial,
otherwise they will be considered as waived. 
§ 3869. It is the duty of the clerk to act upon the exceptions
made before the hearing forthwith; and from his decision an
appeal lies to the Chancellor or Judge, to be disposed of be­
fore the cause is heard or tried. 
§ 3870. Depositions .may ·be opened by the clerk at any time
after they are filed, at the request of either of the parties or
his attorney, and copies furnished the parties on demand.
The clerk shall note on the deposition the fact that it is
opened by him. 
ARTICLE III. TAKING OF DEPOSITIONS IN THIS STATE, TO BE USED IN FOREIGN
TRIBUNALS. 
SECTION 

FILING DEPOSITIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS THERETO. 
disposed of before hearing,
except as to competency. 
ARTICLE IV. 
88il. Person refusing to testify on
foreign commission, may be
coerced. 
8872. By application to Judge or Jus­
tice for a subpoona. 
SECTION 
8869. Clerk to act upon exceptions
forthwith, and appeal lies to
court. 
3870. Deposition may be opened by
the clerk at request of either
party. 
SECTION 
3873. Requisites of subpoona.
3874. Witness liable on failure to 
obey, as in other cases.
8875. And is entitled to same fees as 
other witnesses. 
§ 3871. If the testimony of any person within this State, is
required in any suit pendin~ before a judicial tribunal of the
United States, or of any of the States or territories of the
Union, or of any foreign government, and such person re­
fuses to appear or give testimony before a commissioner
legally authorized to take his examination, under a commis- 
sion properly issued and authenticated according to the rules
and laws of the court from which it issues, his testimony may
be procured in the following mode: 
§ 3872. The commissioner, or the person upon whose appli- 
cation the commission issued, may apply to any Judge of the
superior courts of this State, or to any Justice of the Peace
of the county within which the witness resides, who shall,
upon production of the commission and satisfactory proof of 
the refusal of the witness to appear or give testimony a~
above, issue a subpama, in the usual form, for such witness,
requiring him to appear before the commissioner at a cer-
tain time and place, to answer such interrogatories as may be
legally propounded to him under the commission. 
§ 3873. The subpcena shall not command the witness to ap-
pear within less than two days after the service, nor out of
the county where he resides. 
§ 3874. Upon due service of the subpcena, it shall be re-
turned by the officer, with the proper endorsement of service,
on or before the time appointed for the examination; and,
on the refusal or neglect of the witness to comply with its
mandate, certified by the commissioner thereon, and returned
to the Circuit Court of the county in which he resides, such
witness shall be subject to all the pains and :penalties he
would have been subject to, for a similar default many cause
pending in the courts of this State. 
§ 3875. The person whose evidence is required under a for-
eign commission, is entitled to the same fees as a person
summoned to give testimony in the Circuit Courts of this
State. 
CHAPTER 6. 8BCTI01' 
OF PERPETUATING TESTIMONY. 
8876. Any person may have testimony
perpetuated. 
8877. By petition to Judge showing
cause. 
88i8. Upon which, order for opposite
party to show cause against. 
8879. Notice to non-resident by pub­
lication. 
8880. If no cause shown, deposition
may be taken. 
8881. Attendance of witness enforced.
8882. Deposition to be sealed and sent 
to register. 

SBCTION 
8883. Judge may prescribe in what
county. 
8884. Register to enter on records at
length. 
8885. Copies evidence, when.
8886. Costs paid by applicant.
8887. Fees of officers same as for 
similar services.
8888. Register entitled to twenty cents 
for each one hundred words.
8889. Evidence of notary taken with­ 
out petition. 
§ 3876. Any person may have evidence taken conditionally, 
to be used in pending or expected litigation, and have the
same perpetuated, under the provisions of this chapter. 
§ 3877. He shall present a petition in writing to a Judge of
the Circuit or Chancery Court, setting forth the reasons for 
the application, the subject-matter of controversy, the names
of the parties interested, and the names of the witnesses,
and praying that their depositions be taken aud perpetuated. 
§ 3878.1 The Judge will, thereupon, make an order appoint­ 
ing a time and place for the opposite party to appear and 
show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be 
granted, prescribing reasonable notice to the party. 
§ 3879. The notice may be given to a non-resident by publi­
cation in such newspapers, and for such length of time, or in 
such other manner, as the Jud~e may direct. 
§ 3880. If, after notice, no sufficient cause is shown to the
contrary, the deposition of the witness shall be taken by the 
Judge, or some other person by him appointed, and at such
time and place as he may prescribe. 
§ 3881. The Judge, or other person appointed by him to
take the deposition, is authorized to enforce the attendance
and testimony of witnesses by subpcena and otherwise, as in
other cases, and to adjourn from time to time as necessity or
convenience may require. 
§ 3882. Depositions taken under the foregoing provisions
shall be sealed up, and directed to the ref!rlster of the county 
in which the petitioner or some one o the petitioners re~
sides; and if none of the petitioners reside in the State, to
the register of the county in which some one of the opposite
party resides. 
§ 3883. The Judge may direct the county in which the pro­
ceedings shall be registered in all cases, the foregoing section
applying when no such order has been made. 
§ 3884. The register to whom the deposition and other pro­
ceedings are sent, shall spread the same at length upon the
records of his office, and furnish copies when required, upon
payment of legal fees. 
§ 3885. Copies of depositions taken as aforesaid, duly certi-
fied by the register, shall be received in evidence at any time
thereafter, in any suit between the parties mentioned in the
petition, or their privies in interest, upon proof of the death,
insanity, or departure -to some place unknown, of the wit­
ness at the time of the trial. 
§ 3886. The person at whose instance the depositions are
taken, shall pay the costs of taking and registering the same,
and of all the attendant proceedings, and security may be
required by the Judge for such costs upon presentation of 
the petition. 
§ 3887. The usual fees for similar services, may be charged
by any officer whose services are required in the course of
the proceedings. 
§ 3888. The register for registering the proceedings and de-
positions, and for each copy made out by him, is entitled to
demand and receive at the rate of twenty cents for each
hundred words. 
§ 3889. Tlie evidence of a notary public in any matter offl-
eially done by him, may be taken and perpetuated, without 
petition, upon notice to the other side by actual service or
publication, as provided in section 1802, as if suit were 
pending. 
SECTION
8890. May be taken on notice, when­
ever party entitled to evi­ 
dence.
8891. Either party may have discov­ 
ery from adversary.
8892. By petition on oath stating 
facts.
3893. Which should be presented five 
days before trial term.
8894. The court may make order for 
answer.
8895. And stay cause until answer 
made. 
CHAPTER 7. 
OF THE EXAMINATION OF PARTIES. 
SBOTIOJI' 
3896. Copy of petition and order to
be served on opposite party. 
8897. Answer sworn to aa answers in
Chancery. 
8898. Answer is evidence, as an an­ 
swer in Chancery.
8899. If not full, petition may be 
taken for confessed, or answer
enforced. 
8900. On pro confesso, petition evi­
dence. 
§ 3890. In all Chancery causes, and proceedings in the
na ure o ancery causes, e epositions o parties may e 
taken by the opposite side, or by a co-party on the same side
when the latter is entitled to such evidence, upon notice
simply as in the case of other witnesses. 
§ 3891. Either party to a suit at law, is entitled to a discovery
from the other party of any matters material to the issue of 
such suit, in all cases where the same party would, by the
rules of equity, be entitled to a discovery in aid of such suit. 
§ 3892. To obtain such discovery, he shall present his peti-
tion, verified by affidavit, to the court, Judge, or Just.ice, 
setting forth the matter upon which his claim to discovery
is founded, the facts sought to be discovered, and such in­
terrogatories in relation thereto as he may think necessary
to exhibit, in order to obtain full discovery. 
§ 3893. This petition, in all cases pending in courts ofTimeofpr&­
record, should be presented at least five days before the trial 
term, or a sufficient excuse given, by affidavit, for not thus
presenting it. , 
§ 3894. The court, Judge, or Justice, may, upon such peti-
tion, grant an order requiring the party from whom such
discovery is sought: to answer the petition and interroga­
tories, or such of them as it may appear to the court or
officer ought to be answered, or show cause why tbey should
not be answered. 
§ 3895. The order should prescribe the time within which
the petition and interrogatories should be answered, or cause
shown against the rule ; and the trial of the cause will be
stayed until the order is complied with, or vacated. 
§ 3896. The petition and order will be filed with the other
papers in the cause, and a copy served upon the party from 
whom discovery is sought, or his counsel, and such proceed­
ings may be had as are had by a court of equity upon a bill
of discovery in aid of a suit at law. 
§ 3897. The answer to the petition and interrogatories may
be sworn to before the same oflicers, and in the same way,
as answers in Chancery to bills of discovery. 
§ 3898. The answer of the party to the petition and interro­
gatories, is evidence on the trial of the suit, in the same
manner, and with the like effect, as an answer to a bill in
equity for discovery. 
§ 3899. If the answer is not filed in the time prescribed,
or if it is not full, or is evasive, unless further time is
given, the party filing the petition is entitled to take the
same for confessed, or to proceed by process of contempt to
enforce a full and satisfactory answer, as in the Court of
Chancery. 
§ 3900. If the petition is taken for confessed, the facts stated
in the petition may be given in evidence as admitted by the
person from whom the discovery is sought. 
SECTION 
CHAPTER 8. 
OF LOST INSTRUMENTS, PAPERS, AND RECORDS. 
8901. Lost instrument may be sup­
plied by affidavit, 
8902. So may instrument wrongfully
in possession of opposite par­
ty. 
8908. If instrument denied under
oath, evidence may be intro­
duced. 
SECTION 
3904. In case of recovery, indemnity
bond may be taken. 
8905. Unless two years have elapsed
since maturity of instrument. 
3906. True owner may intervene and
defend. 
3907. Lost record may be supplied.
8908. Depositions may be ordered to 
be retaken. 
§ 3901. Any lost instrument may be supplied by affidavit of
any person acquainted with the facts, stating the contents 
thereof, as near as may be, and that such instrument has
been unintentionally lost or mislaid, and is still the property
of the person claiming under it, unpaid and unsatisfied. 
§ 3902. So, also, if such instrument is wrongfully in the
possession of the opposite party, who fails to produce it upon 
notice, its place may be supplied by the affidavit of any
person acquainted with the facts, stating the contents as
near as may be, the wrongful possession of the opposite 
party, notice to produce, and that such instrument rs the
property of the person claiming under it, unpaid and unsatis- 
fied. 
§ 3903. If the instrument is one which the law requires should
be denied under oath, the affidavit produced before or at the 
trial, will be sufficient to establish the claimant's right,
whether he is plaintiff or defendant; and, if denied under
oath, or otherwise legally put in issue, may be established
by competent evidence of its contents. 
§ 3904. The court or Justice before whom the action is
tried, may, in case recovery i9 had upon a lost instrument, 
require the party claiming under it, to give bond with good
security, in double the amount of the claim, payable to the
opposite party, and conditioned to indemnify such party
against any demand by action on such lost instrument; and
execution shall be stayed until such bond is given. 
§ 3905. The person recovering on such lost instrument may,
however, after the lapse of two years from the maturity of 
such instrument, enforce his recovery without giving the
bond prescribed in the last section ; in which case the per- 
son from whom the recovery is had, may plead the judg-
ment in bar of an action by the actual holder of such lost
instrument. 
§ 3906. If the actual holder of such lost instrument brings
his action thereon after the recovery had as aforesaid, the 
true owner may intervene, and defend the action.
§ 3907. Any record, proceeding, or paper filed, in an action 
either at law or equity, if l?st or mislaid un~ntcntionally, ~r
fraudulently made away with, may be supphed, upon appli-
cation, under the orders of the court, by the best evidence
the nature of the case will admit of. 
§ 3908. If the lost papers consist of depositions, the court
may, in its discretion, order the testimony to be retaken, if
the witnesses are alive. 
TITLE 4. 
Or THE OFFICERS or CouRT • 
• 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Judges and Chancellors.
CHAPTER 2. Of the Attorney General and Reporter.
CHAPTER 3. Of the District Attorneys.
CHAPTER 4. Of Attorneys and Counsellors.
CHAPTER 5. Of Jurors and Juries.
CHAPTER 6. Of the Clerks of Court.
CH.APTER 7. Of Sheriffs. 
CHAPTER 1. 
OF TllE JUDGES AND CHANCELLORS. 
ARTICLE I. Eligibility, Qualification, Competency, and
Jurisdiction. 
IT. Power to Interchange.
III. Provisions for Incompetency.
IV. Special Judges. 
V. Judges of Supreme Court.
VL Power of Chancellors to make Rules. 
VII. Judges and Chancellors must hold their
Courts. 
VIIT. Special Terms of Court.
IX. Ex Officio Powers of Judges and Chancellors. 
ELIGIBILITY, QUALIFICATION, COMPETENCY, AND JURISDICTION. 
8BCTI01' 
8909. Must be citizen of the State for
three years. 
3910. Supreme Judge must be thirty­
five, Judge of other courts
thirty years of age. 
8911. Oaths of qualification. 
ARTICLE I. 
SECTION 
8912. Prohibited from practicing as
attorney. 
8918. Cause, of incompetency.
3914. l\lust reside in judicial district.
8915. Are Judges for the State at 
§ 3909. No person shall be eligible to, or exercise the office
of Judge of the superior courts, or Chancellor, who has not
been a citizen of this State three years immediately preced-
ing his appointment or election. 
§ 3910. A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be thirty-five
years of age, of other courts thirty years of age. 
§ 3911. Before entering upon the duties of his office, each
Judge or Chancellor shall take the oath or affirmation pre­
scribed in sections 309 and 752. 
§ 3912. No Judge or Chancellor shall practice law, or per-
form any of the functions of attorney or counsel, in any of 
the courts of this State, except in cases in which they may
have been employed as counsel, previous to their election, 
§ 3913. No Judge or Chancellor shall be competent, except
by consent of all parties, to sit in the following cases : 
1. Where he is interested in the event of any cause. 
2. Or connected with either party, by affimty or consan-
guinity, within the sixth degree, computing by the civil law. 
3. Or has been of counsel in the cause. 
large. 
4. Or has presided on the trial in an inferior court.
5. Or, in criminal cases for felony, where the person upon 
whom, or upon whose property the felony has been com­
mitted, is connected with him by affinity or consanguinity
within the sixth degree, computing by the civil law. 
§ 3914. Each Judge and Chancellor is required to reside in
the judicial district or division for which he is elected, and 
a removal therefrom shall create a vacancy in the office. 
§ 3915. The Judges and Chancellors are, however, Judges
and Chancellors for the State at large, and as such, may, 
upon interchange, and upon other lawful ground, exercise
the duties of office in any other judicial circuit or division
in the State. 
SECTION
SECTION 
8916. Circuit Judges may interchange
with each ot.her. 
3917. Chancellors may interchange 
3916. The Circuit Judges may interchange with each
h f h 
ot er one or more courts, or parts o courts, w en causes
exist making an interchange necessary, or for mutual con­
venience; and in the absence of the Judge of any circuit,
his death, or inability to hold court, any Circuit Judge may
hold court in his stead. 
§ 3917. Chancellors may also interchange with each other
and with Judges of the Circuit, Criminal, or other special
Courts, under the same circumstances and to the same
extent. 
§ 3918. And in all such cases, the Judge or Chancellor hold­
ing court in the circuit or division of another, shall have the
same pow-er and jurisdiction as the Judge or Chancellor in
whose place he is acting. 
8BCTION 
ARTICLE II. 
POWER TO INTERCHANGE. 
ARTICLE ID. 
PROVISION IN CASE OF INCOMPETENCY. 
3919. Judges of Supreme Court to
certify to Governor cases in
which either is incompetent. 
3920. Special Judge to hear causes
in. which Judge incompetent. 
8921. Parties may select a Judge in
case of incompetence. 
8922. Chancellor may notify Circuit
Judge of case. 
8EOTI01' 
with each other, and Circuit
Judges. 
8918. With same powers arid jurisdic­
tion as regular Judge. 
3923. Circuit Judge may preside wit.b­
out formal notice. 
8924. Case may be transferred to
another court, when. 
3925. These provisions apply to Coun­
ty Judges. 
8926. County Judge may notify Cir­
cuit Judge, or transfer case. 
§ 3919. The Judges of the Supreme Court, within the first
week of each term, or as soon thereafter as the fact shall
come to their knowledge, shall certify to the Governor all
cases upon the docket in which either of them is incompe­
tent to sit, upon the receipt of which certificate, the Gover­
nor shall appoint and commission the requisite number of
competent men of law knowledge to dispose of said causes. 
§ 3920. The special Judges so commissioned shall hear and
determine the causes in the commission set forth, and all such 
other causes as may be certified during the same term; and
shall have the same power and authority in those causes as
the regular Judges of the court. 
§ 3921. The. parties may, by consent, select some member of
the bar to preside as Judge or Chancellor in all civil cases, 
where the regular Judge or Chancellor is incompetent; and
this consent, entered of record, shall vest the person selected
with the full power and authority of the regular Judge or 
Chancellor in the particular case.
§ 3922. When any Chancellor is incompetent to t6i any 
cause m is court, e may nob y any one o e ircuit 
Judges, whose duty it shall be, at the next term of the Cir-
cuit Court of the county in which the incompetency exists,
and while holding said court, to hear and determine the
cause as Chancellor, for which purpose the Clerk of the
Chancery Court shall bring before him all the papers in the
cause, and the necessary entries shall be made on the min-
utes of the Chancery Court, and signed by the Circuit Judge
presiding. 
§ 3923. Any Circuit Judge may, also, during the sittings of
a Chancery Court, upon notification of a cause in which the 
Chancellor is incompetent, as provided in the foregoing sec-
tion, take the place of the Chancellor on the bench and hear
and determine the cause as Chancellor, the necessary entry
being made on the minutes of the court, and signed by him. 
§ 3924. As a further provision to prevent delay in cases of
mcompetency, it s a e t e uty o t e ircuit u ges an
Chancellors in this State, whenever there is a cause before 
them, by appeal or otherwise, in either of their courts, in
which they are interested, at the request of the opposite
party, to transfer such cause to ~my court in an adjoining
district or circuit which such adverse party may choose; and
the original papers, with a certified copy of all orders, shall
be immediately transmitted to the court to which the venue
is changed. 
§ 3925. The provisions of this Code in relation to the incom-
petency of Judges and Chancellors, and to the disposition of 
causes in which they are incompetent, shall equally apply to
County JudO'es; and such Judges may interchange with
each other when necessary for the dispatch of business. 
§ 3926. When a County Judge is incompetent to try any
cause in his court he may notify any one of the Circuit 
Judges or Chancellors, who may, as soon as practicable, sit
in the case instead of the County Judge, and dispose of the
same according to law; or the County Judge may, in such
case, certify the cause into the Circuit Court of the county,
or Chancery Court of the district, when the same shall be
disposed of according to law. 
SECTION 
8927. Governor to commission special
Judge. 
8928. Who has same power as regular
Judge. 
§ 3927. When any of the Judges of the Circuit or County
Court, or either of the Chancellors, is unable, from sickness or 
other physical debility, to attend and hold any of the courts
at the time and place required by law, such Judge or Chancel­
lor, or, in case of his inability to do so, the clerk of the court,
shall certify the facts to the Governor, who shall commission
some person of competent law knowledge to attend and hold
said courts. 
§ 3928. The person so commissioned shall have all the
power and authority of the regular Judge or Chancellor in 
whose place he is appointed, and shall continue to hold the
courts, and exercise the duties of the office, until notified by 
the regular officer that he is in a condition to resume his
functions. 
§ 3929. They shall also have the same power to interchang-e
with other Judges and Chancellors, as the regular officers m
whose place they are commissioned to act. 
§ 3930. Special Judges and Chancellors shall, in all cases,
be allowed six dollars per day for the time employed in the
discharge of the duties of the office, and the like sum for
every twenty-five miles' travel to and from the place of hold­
ing court. 
8EOTION 
ARTICLE IV. 
SPECIAL JUDGES. 
ARTICLE V. 
JUDGES OF SUPREME COURT. 
8931. Judges of Supreme Court shall
give written opinions. 
8932. Reasons of reversal to be filed
in writing. 
SECTION 
8929. And may interchange with other
Judges. 
8980. Compensation. 
SECTION 
8938. Supreme Court, or a Judge
thereof, may supersede inter­
locutory decree. 
8934. Copy of petition to be trans­
mitted to court below. 
§ 3931. The Judges of the Supreme Court shall give written
opinions, stating the points of law on which the action of
the court is based, in all cases determined by them, except
actions in which there is no defence. 
§ 3932. If the judgment of the inferior court is reversed
and the cause remanded, the Judges shall :file in writing, 
with the clerk, the reasons of reversal, and the points of law
in the judgment of the inferior court in which the error
existed, to be copied by the clerk and certified to the infe­
rior court as part of the record of reversal. 
§ 3933. The Supreme Court in term, or either of the Judges
in vacation, may grant writs of supersedeas to an interlocu-
tory order or decree, or execution issued thereon, as in case of
final decrees, and may require the party applying to give bond
with good security, payable to the opposite party, conditioned
to paythe amount of the interlocutory order or decree if so
required upon final hearing, and further, to pay all such costs
and damages as the opposite party may sustain. 
§ 3934. The Clerk of the Supreme Court, upon issuing
supersedeas in such case, shall transmit to the Chancery
Court a copy of the petition and supersedeas, to be :filed in
the cause, and to constitute a part of the record. 
§ 3935. The Chancellors of the State, or a majority of them,
may make such rules as they may deem beneficial and 
proper to regulate the practice of the Chancery Courts, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Code; and the rules
thus agreed upon shall be obligatory on all the Chancery 
Courts.
§ 3936. In the absence of any such action by the Chancel- 
lors as a body, each Chancellor may make rules and regula-
tions of practice for the purpose of expediting business in
his own Chancery division. 
SECTION JUDGES AND CHANCELLORS MUST HOLD THEIR COURTS. 
8EOTI01' 
ARTICLE VI. 
POWER OF CHANCELLORS TO MAKE RULES. 
ARTICLE VII. 
8987. Judges must hold the terms of
their courts. 
8938. And certify the fact before
drawing salary. 
SECTION 
8989. And forfeit $100 a day for
failure. 
§ 3987. Every Judge and Chancellor is required to hold the
terms of his courts at the regular times appointed by law, 
unless prevented by sickness of himself or family, or by
some other unavoidable necessity. 
§ 3938. Before he can draw any portion of his salary, each
Judge and Chancellor shall certify that hehas held his courts
regularly since the last payment, or that he was prevented
by sickness or other necessity, as the case may be. 
§ 3939. Any Judge or Chancellor who fails to open his court
within the first three days of each regular term without suf­
ficient excuse, shall have one hundred dollars of his salary
deducted for the failure. 
SECTION
8940. Special terms of court may be
appointed. 
8941. Either in term or vacation.
8942. Officers and suitors required to 
attend. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
SPECIAL TERMS OF COURT. 
81:CTIOK 
8948. Judge may appoint three Jus­
tices to make list of jurors. 
8944. Justices shall make list, and
sheriff' summon jurors. 
3945. Judges ban same powers at
special as at regula.r term. 
§ 3940. The Judge or Judges, and Chancellor of any court,
may appoint a special term of court whenever it is necessary 
for the dispatch of business.
§ 3941. The special term may be appointed, either at the 
regular term by entg of record to that effect, designating
the time, or, in vacation, by/ublication in some newspaper 
in the circuit or district, an giving notice in writing to the
clerk of such court, at least thirty days before the commence- 
ment of the special term.
§ 3942. It shall be the duty of sheriffs, clerks, attorneys, and 
suitors, and of all other persons concerned, to attend such
special terms in the same manner as the regular terms. 
§ 3943. The Circuit Judge in appointing a special term shall,
at the same time, make an order in writing, certified by the
clerk, appointing three of the Justices of the county in which
the court is to be held, to make out a list of twenty-five jurors 
for such special term.
§ 3944. The Justices appointed shall, within ten days after 
notice, make out the list of jurors, and deliver the same to
the sheriff, who shall summons them without delay to attend
at such special term, in the same manner as if summoned to
a regular term. 
§ 3945. The Judges and Chancellors shall have and exercise
the same powers at such special terms, and all the business of 
the court, of every nature and kind, shall be conducted as at
the regular terms. 
SECTION 
39-46. Interchangeable and concurrent
jurisdiction to grant process. 
8947. To be sealed up and transmit­
ted, and opened only by clerk. 
§ 3946. The Judges and Chancellors shall have interchange-
a e an concurren JUMB ic ton o gran injunctions, attac - 
ments, and all other extraordinary process, issuable out of,
and returnable to any of the Circuit or Chancery Courts of 
this State.
§ 3947. Upon making the requisite fiats for, and granting 
such extraordinary process, it shall be the duty of the Judge
or Chancellor to enclose the papers accompanying the appli- 
cation and the order made, in a sealed envelope, directed to
the clerk of the court to which the fiat is directed, which
envelope shall be opened only by the clerk or his deputy, 
§ 3948. The Judges of the Circuit Courts, and Chancellors,
may a so concurrent y appomt receivers in vacation, w en- 
ever necessary in the proceedings of either the Circuit or
Chancery Courts, and the clerks of said courts, when re-
quired b,r the fiat, shall take bond, with good security, from
the receiver or applicant, as the case may be, for the faithful
discharge of the duties of receiver. 
§ 3949. The several Judges and Chancellors of this State are
authorized to solemnize the rites of matrimony. 
ARTICLE
OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND REPORTER. 
3950. Disabilities and liabilities of.
3951. Misdemeanor to take fee from 
defendant in lower court.
3952. Duties of his office.
3963. Compensation of printers for 
publishing decisions.
8954. What opinions of court to be 
reported.
3955. Name of Judge below to be 
given. 
ARTICLE IX. 
BX OFFICIO POWERS. 
8BOTIO!f 
3948. l\Iay appoint receivers.
8949. May perform marriage cere­ 
CHAPTER 2. 
SECTION 
mony. 
8956. :May state points made by coun­
sel. 
3957. Copies of reports to be fur­
nished by him. 
3958. To be sent to Clerk of Supreme
Court for each division. 
8969. Penalty for neglect.
8960. Clerks of Chancery Court to be 
furnished with reports. 
§ 3950. The Attorney General for the State shall be under
the disabilities restrictions and disqualifications of the At- 
torueys General for the circuits, and shall be subject to be
proceeded against for misdemeanors in office, in the same
manner that the Judges of the courts are proceeded against. 
§ 3951. It is a misdemeanor in office for the Attorney General
to take or receive a fee for defending any supposed offender 
in the inferior courts.
§ 3952. It shall be the duty of the Attorney General for the 
State-
1. To attend to all business of the State, both civil and 
criminal, in the Supreme Court. 
2. To give to the Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer,
and Comptroller, when called on, any legal advice required
in the discharge of their official duties. 
8. To examme and certify all bills of cost in the Supreme
Court, in whieh the State is concerned, before they are
ordered to be paid by the State. 
4. To report the decisions of the Supreme Court, under
the rules and regulations provided by law, for which purpose
he is entitled to a copy of the original opinions from the
clerk of the court, 
5. To furnish to the printers of the newspapers who publish
the public acts, in each grand division of the State, abstracts
or copies of the opinions of the Supreme Court for publica­
tion, within one month after the adjournment of each session. 
6. To attend to any other duty which may devolve upon
him. 
§ 3953. The newspapers publishing such opinions or ab-
stracts, shall be paid therefor at the same rate now fixed for 
publishing the laws of the State.
§ 3954. He shall report and publish every written opinion of 
the Supreme Court that may be delivered by the court, or
any Judge thereof, in which an,;y other points of law are
decided than such as are settled in some previous reported 
decision.
§ 3955. It shall be his duty, in the report of each case, to 
eive the name of the Judge or Chancellor deciding the case 
p- 
m the court below.
§ 3956. He may also state the positions assumed by counsel 
in argument on the points passed upon by the court, and the
authorities cited and relied on, but no more. 
§ 3957. He shall furnish each Judge and Chancellor in the
State, and each Circuit, Criminal, and Common Law Court 
of the State, a copy of every volume of his reports, gratis;
and he shall, in like manner, deposit with the Secretary of
State twenty-five copies of each volume, to remain in his
office, subject to the direction of the General Assembly, and
also a sufficient number of copies to exchange with the de­
partments and libraries of the U nited States, and of the
several States and Territories, as directed in section 34, 
in relation to the acts and journals ; and the Secretary of
State shall immediately distribute the same, as there directed,
at the expense of the State. 
§ 3958. The number of copies to which each grand division
of the State is entitled, under the foregoing section, shall be 
sent at the expense of the State, immediately after the pub-
lication of each volume, to the Clerk of the Supreme Court
of that division, to be by them distributed to the parties 
entitled.
§ 3959. Should the Attorney General fail to furnish a copy 
of said reports to said clerks as prescribed, he shall forfeit
and pay the sum of five hundred dollars, for the use of the 
State, to be recovered in any Circuit Court, by action brought
by the officer entitled to receive the same, whose duty it shall
be to institute suit accordingly. . 
§ 3960. The Secretary of State shall furnish the clerks and
masters of the different Chancery Courts in this State, here- 
after, with the reports of the Supreme Court. 
SECTION 
O F T H E DI ST RI C T A T TOR N E Y S. 
3961. Duties of District Attorneys.
8962. Attorney pro tem. may be ap­ 
pointed. 
CHAPTER 3. 
SECTION 
3963. Who has powers and fees of
regular attorney. 
3964. Compensation consists of fees
of office. 
§ 3961. It shall be the duty of each District Attorney-
1. To attend the Circuit Courts in his district, and every 
other court therein having criminal jurisdiction, and prose-
cute; on behalf of the State, in every case in which the State
is a party, or in any wise interested. 
. 2. To have an indictment, against any person in court by
warrant, already prepared, on the second day of the court, 
and forthwith send it before the grand jury, together with
the witnesses, that the same may be, on said second day,
found a true bill or ignored, at as little cost as possible. 
8. To dismiss all witnesses, if the bill is ignored; and if
found to be true, then to dismiss all witnesses that live 
.within ten miles of the seat of justice till State's day.
4. To send indictments, ex officio, in the cases prescribed 
in section 5097.
. 5. To ad vis~ the Clerk of t~e Circuit and Criminal Court 
m, and superintend the making out of a full and perfect 
cttption, to be prefixed to the proceedings of said courts in
criminal cases, at eaeh term, on the first day of the same, 
6. To give an opinion, without charge, whenever called
upon by any county officer in his district, upon any question
of law relating to the duties of his office. 
7. To call upon the Clerk of the County, Circuit, Chancery,
and Supreme Court, on the second day of every term, for his 
execution docket, to ascertain whether any execution placed
in the hands of a sheriff has not been returned, and if not, to 
move for judgment against said sheriff and his sureties, in
favor of the State, or county, or any other party, for such sums 
as appear from the docket to be due the State, or county, or
school fond, or other party, upon such execution. . 
8. To institute suits for the recovery of escheated property.
9. To move the Circuit Court for judgment against any 
Justice of the Peace or sheriff, of whose failure to pav 
moneys collected under the small offence law into the county
treasui;_r:, he is notified by the trustee. 
d 10. do ca1U up~n tfihe Clhe~k oh~ the. 9ou1nty Court,b andd
eman anc receive rom rm is or1gma revenue on , 
and forward the same to the Comptroller, upon notification
from the Comptroller that said clerk has not forwarded said
bond to him, within ten days after its date. 
11. To notify said clerk, if said bond has not been ex­
ecuted and recorded, that, on a given day, he will move the
court to cause said bond to be executed. 
12. To prosecute all motions against delinquent collectors
of public taxes, when made, or ordered to be made by the
Comptroller or county trustee, without any charge therefor. 
13. To make to the Comptroller, on the first of August,
every year, a detailed statement of all claims placed in his 
hands for collection.
14. To move against any collector of taxes for judgment 
for double the amount of taxes collected from any taxpayer,
for whose taxes he has obtained a credit, by representing him
to have become insolvent, or to have removed from the
county. 
15. To call on every clerk in his district, at the first court
after the first day of November, every year, for his receipts
for the public moneys by him collected; and for the Comp­
troller's receipt for the clerk's statement of moneys by him
collected. 
16. To prosecute any person reported to him by the Clerk
of the County Court, for a breach of the revenue laws in 
relation to licenses, except hawkers, peddlers, and exhibitors
of shows. 
17. To inquire into the unlawful conversion, use, invest­
ment, or lending, by the clerk of any court, of any money, 
property, or effects belonging to any party, witness, officer,
or other person in any snit pending in any court; and to
prosecute said clerk without a prosecutor. 
J 
18. To prosecute suit, in the name of the State of Ten-
nessee, against the agent of any foreign bank, for.transacting 
banking business in this State without license.
19. To attend to all suits brought by overseers of roads, 
when the same are brought into the Circuit or Criminal
Courts, by certiorari, appeal, or otherwise. 
20. To report to the Comptroller and Treasurer the
escheated property belonging to the State in his. district, in 
order that the same may be appropriated to the use of the
common schools. 
§ 3962. If the Attorney General for a district fails to attend
any term of the Circuit Court, or is disqualified from acting,
or if there is a vacancy in the office, the court shall appoint
some other attorney to supply his' place. 
§ 3963. The acts of such Attorney General pro tem shall be 
as valid as if done by the regular officer, and he shall be
entitled to the same fees, privileges, and emoluments. 
§ 3964. The compensation of the Attorney General consists
exclusively in the fees of office. 
CHAPTER 4. 
OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELWRS. 
3966. No person to practice as attor­
ney without license and oath. 
8966. Before license, must produce
certificate of County Court of
his age and character. 
3967. Two Judges or Chancellors may
examine and license. 
8968. Persons from other State, how
licensed. 
3969. Persons who may not practice
as attorneys. 
8970. Court may strike from the rolls
for improper conduct. 
8971. Charge of improper conduct to
be in writing. 
8972. If stricken from rolls, not to
practice in any other Court'.
Appeal. 
8KOTI01' 
8978. Not to disclose confidential com­
munications. 
897 4. Nor to give eTidence in. certain
cases. 
8976. Penalty for Tiolating two pre­
ceding sections. 
8976. May be moved against for
money collected. 
3977. And stricken from rolls for
failing to pay. 
8978. May execute prosecution bonds
in name of client. 
8979. Any person may be attorney in
his own case. 
8980. Court may appoint counsel for 
poor persons. 
§ 3965. No person shall practice as an attorney or counsel
m any of the courts of this State without a license, obtained 
for that purpose, and without first having taken an oath, in
open court, to support the Constitution of the State, and of 
the United States, and to truly and honestly demean himself
in the practice of his profession, to the best of his skill and
abilities. 
§ 3966. The applicant for a license to practice law in the
courts of this State, shall produce the certificate of the County 
Court of the county where he has usually resided, that he
has attained the age of twenty-one years, and is a man of
good reputation. 
§ 3967. Any two Judges or Chancellors of this State may
examine the applicant touching bis legal acquirements; and 
if satisfied of his qualification, and that he is of good charac­
ter, shall grant him a license to practice law in the different
courts of the State. 
§ 3968. Persons from other States may be licensed in like
manner, upon examination, and satisfactory evidence to the 
Judges of age and moral character. If already licensed in
another State, they may be permitted to practice upon pro­
ducing such license, and satisfactory evidence of good cha­
racter. 
§ 3969. Judges and Chancellors are prohibited from prae­
ticing law in any of the courts of this State. 'I'he clerks of 
the several courts, and their deputies, are also prohibited
from practicing in their own courts, or in any causes com­
menced, brought to, or carried from their courts, or com­
menced in any- court from which an appeal lies to their
court. Sheriffs and other executive officers shall not practice
law in the county for which they are elected, or in any cause
originating or pending in the courts of that county. 
§ 3970. The several courts of this State may strike from
their rolls any person not authorized to practice in such 
courts, and also any practicing attorney or counsel, upon
evidence satisfactory to the court that he has been guilty of
such misdemeanor, or acts of immorality or impropriety, as
are inconsistent with the character or incompatible with the
faithful discharge of the duties of his profession. 
§ 3971. If charges are preferred against an attorney or coun­
sel to any court, they shall be reduced to writing, and a copy
furnished the person accused, who may appear and show
cause against the charges. 
§ 3972. The person stricken from the rolls under either of
the foregoing sections, or for other good cause, shall not be
permitted to practice the profession in any court of record
in this State. He may, however, appeal from the decision
of the inferior court to the Supreme Court, as in other cases. 
§ 3973. No attorney or counsel shall be permitted, in giving- 
testimony against a client, or person who consulted him pro-
fessionally, to disclose any communication made to him as
attorney by such person, during the pendency of the suit,
before or afterwards, to his inj urv. 
§ 3974. Nor shall any attorney or other person, under pre-
text of having transferred his interest in real estate, or obli- 
gations for the performance of contracts, or notes for money,
during the pendency of any suit at law, be permitted to give
testimony in favor of those who held a joint interest with
him at the commencement of said suits, or by which he
would be released from any liability to perform contracts or
pay money. 
§ 3975. Any attorney offering to give testimony in any of
the cases provided for in the two preceding sections, shall be 
rejected by the court, and is guilty of a misdemeanor, for
which, on conviction, he shall be fined not exceeding one
thousand dollars, to be assessed by the jury, and imprisoned
not exceeding two years, and, if a practicing attorney, shall 
also be stricken from the rolls.
§ 3976. Any lawyer collecting or receiving money in his pro- 
ressiona capaci y, y suit, or ot erwise, an 1a1 mg to pay t 10 
same to the party entitled on demand, may be moved against
by the party aggrieved, as prescribed in sections 3616-3619. 
§ 3977. If the execution issued upon the judgment recovered 
y mo 10n, is returne unsatis e as to any part o e prm-
cipal or costs, it shall be the duty of the court to strike the 
name of such delinquent lawyer from the list of attorneys;
and he shall be disqualified from practicing in any court in
this State until the judgment and costs are paid. 
§ 3978. An attorney and counsel has power to eiecute, in the
name of his client, all bonds or other papers necessary and
proper for the prosecution of the suit at any stage of its 
progress.
§ 3979. Any persc~m may conduct and manage his own case 
m any court of this State.
§ 3980. At the return term of the process, the court shall 
appoint counsel for the plaintiff in actions prosecuted in the
manner prescribed for paupers; and also for the defendant, 
if he make oath that, owing to his poverty, he cannot em-
ploy counsel. 
CHAPTER 5. 
OF JURORS AND JURIES. 
ARTICLE I. Appointment and Summons.
II. Qualification and Exemption. 
ID. Challenging Jurors.
IV. Grand Jury. 
V. Petit Jury.
VI. Compensation of Jurors. 
BBCTION 
3981. County Court to appoint twen­
ty-five jurors for Circuit 
Court. 
APPOINTMENT AND SUMMONS. 
3982. Or thirty-seven, if required.
8983. Appointment may be made at 
any term.
3984. County Court to appoint also 
two constables to wait on
Circuit Court. 
8986. One juror should be selected
from each civil district. 
8986. Justices from each district may
designate juror. 
8987. Mistake as to residence shall
not disqualify. 
8988. Court not to appoint person
who has served in twelve 
months: or who has case pend­
ing. 
8989. If appointed, court shall dis­
charge him. 
8990. Who should be appointed. 
ARTICLE L 
SzcTI<>N 
8991. Clerk to make out list, and
sheriff to execute. 
8992. Juror failing to appear, forfeits 
twenty dollars.
8993. If County Court fail to appoint, 
Circuit Court may appoint.
8994. Talesmen may be discharged 
from day to day, or kept for
term. 
8995. Fined for non-attendance not
exceeding 525. 
8996. Jurors for other courts, sum­
moned instanter on order of
court. 
8997. Special jurors summoned in­
stanter. 
8998. Whose attendance enforced as
in other cases. 
8999. Duty of sheriff in summoning.
4000. Neglect is a contempt of court.
4001. Juror may make excuse on 
scire fa.cias. 
§ 3981. The County Court of each county shall, at the first
session after each term of the Circuit Court, designate twenty­
:five good and lawful men, to serve as jurymen at the next
succeeding court. 
§ 3982. If, in the opinion of the court, the interests of the
county require it, thirty-seven men may be thus designated, 
instead of twenty-five.
§ 3983. Should the duty be omitted at the first session of 
the County Court as prescribed, it may be performed at any
subsequent session. 
§ 3984. The County Court shall, at the same time, designate
two constables of the county, to wait upon the court and
jurors at the next succeeding term of the Circuit Court. 
§ 3985. One of the jurors thus designated shall reside in each
civil district into which the county is divided; and where the
number of districts and the number of jurors do not coin­
cide, the selection should be made with as much equality as 
practicable.
§ 3986. The Justices from each district may designate the 
juryman from that district, if present; otherwise the other
members of the court.shall make the appointment. 
§ 3987. No mistake or omission, however, in complyin~ with
the above provisions in regard to the residence of the Jurors 
designated, shall amount to a disqualification.
§ 3988. No court shall aps:oint anJ person to serve as a juror  
more than one time m eac peno of twelve 1nonths, either
on the original panel or to fill a vacancy therein ; nor any 
person who has an action pending in the court at the term
to which he is nominated. 
§ 3989. And should any juror in violation of the above pro.
visions be apnointed the court shall discharge him and ap- 
point a juror in his stead free from exception. 
§ 3990. In making the selection, moreover, such persons
only as they know, or have good reason to believe, possess 
the qualifications specified in this chapter, and are esteemed
in the community for their integrity, fair character, and 
sound judgment, shall be selected. 
§ 3991. A list of the jurors designated shall be made out by
the clerk and delivered to the sheriff who shall summon the
persons designated to serve as jurors at the court at least five
days before the sitting of the court, by personal service, or
by leaving a note or summons in writing at the dwelling­
house of the juror. 
§ 3992. Every person thus appointed and summoned, who
fails to appear according to summons, shall forfeit and pay
twenty-five dollars, to be adjudged by the court to which he
is summoned. 
§ 3993. If the County Court fail to nominate, or the persons
nominated fail to attend, the court shall designate other good 
and lawful men, and direct the sheriff to summon them as
jurors, and the persons so summoned shall act as such. 
§ 3994. Persons summoned in this way, may be discharged
from day to day, and others daily summoned, if necessary, 
or may be retained for the term, at the discretion of the
court. 
8995. Every person so summoned, who fails to appear and
serve, may be fined at the discretion of the court, not ex- 
ceedins- twenty-five dollars, and compelled to pay the fine by
execution issued instanter, unless he can show sufficient
cause, to be approved of by the court. 
§ 3996. Jurors required to try issues of fact in the Chancery
Court, or other courts of the State not supplied with regular 
jurors; JllRY be summoned instanter, by the order of the court,
as in 'section 3~93. · 
§ 3997. So, also; where special juries are allowed by law, the
sheriff shall summon the jurors instanter from the body of
the county, inthe manner prescribed in section 8993. 
§ 3998. The attendance of such jurors is enforced, and any
neglect or refusal punished in the same way as in the case of 
• 
regular Jurors.
§ 3999. The sheriff, in summoning jurors under the forego· 
ing provisions, when the selection devolves upon him, shall 
be governed by the rules hereinbefore prescribed for the
regulation of the County Court in selecting jurors. 
§ 4000. A wilful neglect on the part of the sheriff of these
rules, and of knowingly selecting incompetent or exception­
able jurors, i~ a contempt of the court, and punishable
accordingly. 
§ 4001. Any person summoned as a juror who fails to attend
y reason o sic ness or aeci ent, or ot er cause, may ma e
his excuse at the next succeeding term, on scire facias made
known, and, if the excuse is sufficient, the fine shall be re­ 
mitted, and the costs paid out of other fines or forfeitures
arising in the court. 
SECTION 
-QU.ALIFIC.ATION A.ND EXEMPTION. 
4002. Who may be a juror.
4003, 4004. Who may not be.
4006. Persons exempted from service 
on juries.
4006. Persons may be excused on 
good cause. 
ARTICLE IT. 
SECTION 
4007. Or discharged for any proper
cause. 
4008. Not to be served with process
during attendance. 
§ 4002. Every white male citizen, who is a freeholder, or
householder, and twenty-one years of age, is legally quali­ 
fied to act as a grand or petit juror, if not otherwise incom­
petent under the express provisions of this Code. 
§ 4003. No person can act as a juror in any case in which he 
is interested, or when either of the parties is connected
with him by affinity or consanguinity within the sixth de­
gree, computing by the civil law, except by consent of all the
parties. 
§ 4004. Persons convicted of certain infamous offences
specially designated in this Code, persons of unsound mind,
persons not in the full possession of the senses of hearing
and seeing, and habitual drunkards, are incompetent to act 
as jurors.
§ 4005. The following persons are exempt from liability 
to act as jurors: All persons holding office under the laws
of the United States.vor of this State; all practicing attor­
neys, physicians, and clergymen ; all acting professors or
teachers of any college, school, or institution of learning;
all persons over sixty-five years of age, disabled by bodily
infirmity, or specially exempted by any other positive law. 
§ 4006. Any person may be excused from serving as a juror,
when the state of his own health, or that of his family,
requires his absence, or when, for any reason, his own
interests, or those of the public, will, in the opinion of the
court, be materially injured by his attendance. 
§ 4007. The court may discharge a grand or petit juror
from service, who does not possess the requisite quali­
fications, or who is exempt or disqualified from such service,
or for any other reasonable or proper cause, to be judged of
by the court. 
§ 4008. Service of process on any juror, during his attend-
ance on, gomg to, an returmng rom t e court to w ic 
he is summoned, is void, and the defendant may, on
motion, be discharged. 
SECTION 
4009. Either party may challenge
juror for incompetence. 
4010. Because he has suit pending,
adverse interest, or has served
in twelve months. 
4011. Or has applied to sheriff to be
guard. 
4012. Either party may challenge two 
§ 4009. Either party to an action may challenge for cause
any person presented as a petit juror, in either a civil or 
criminal proceeding, who is incompetent to act as a juror
under the provisions of the foregoing article. 
§ 4010. Or any person who has a suit then pending for
trial at the same term of the court, or who has an adverse 
interest in a similar suit involving like questions of fact
or with the same parties ; and any person who has served 
as juror for one term within the twelve months next pre-
ceding. · 
§ 4011. The defendant in a criminal case may, also, chal-
lenge any person who has ~pp lied to the sheriff to be one of 
the guard to take the prisoner to the penitentiary in the
event of conviction. 
§ 4012. Either party to a civil action tried in the courts
of this State, may challenge two jurors without assigning 
any cause. 
ARTICLE III. 
CHALLENGING JURORS. 
jurors without cause in a civil
action. 
4018. In prosecutions under petit lar­
ceny, five jurors. 
4014. In other prosecutions, the State
bas ten challenges, and the
defendant thirty-five if crime
punishable with death, other­
wise twenty-four. 
§ 4013. In the trial of all prosecutions for crime under the
grade of petit larceny, the State and the defendant may 
each challenge peremptorily five jurors without assigning any
cause. 
§ 4014. In the trial of all criminal prosecutions above the
grade of petit larceny, the State is entitled to ten peremp- 
tory challenges, and the defendant, if the charge is of felony
punishable with death, to thirty-five challenges, and in all
other cases to twenty-four, 
SECTION 
4015. Formed by lot.
4016. Out of panel and bystanders.
4017. Or bystanders altogether.
4018. To attend court until dis­ 
charged.
4019. Vacancy may be supplied.
4020. Court appoint.a foreman. 
ARTICLE IV. 
GRAND JURY. 
8J:OTI01' 
4021. Oath of foreman.
4022. Oath of other grand jurors.
4028. Grand jury ma.y be appointed 
at special term.
4024. Dismissed when business fin­ 
ished.
4025. May act as petit jurors. 
§ 4015. To form the grand jury, the court shall direct the
names of the jurors in attendance to be written on scrolls,
and placed in a box or other suitable receptacle, and
drawn out by a child under ten years of age, and the thirteen
jurors whose names are first drawn shall be a grand jury for
the term. 
§ 4016. Whenever a sufficient number of the jurors of the
original panel fail to attend before the grand jury is 
formed, the court may empanel the grand jury of so many
of the original panel as may attend, and the rest of by­
standers. 
§ 4017. And if none of the original panel attend, or no
jurors have been appointed, the grand jury may consist 
entirely of bystanders.
§ 4018. In either case, the jurors composing the grand jury 
shall attend the court until discharged by the Judge, or the
term expires. 
§ 4019. When any grand jurors empanelled in the mode
pointed out, become unable, from any cause, to serve out the 
term, or may be excused on any ground, the court may sup­
ply the vacancy from the original panel, if any, and from by­ 
standers if none.
§ 4020. The court appoints the foreman of the grand jury, 
and if he is discharged, or excused after the jury is sworn,
his place may be supplied by the court. 
§ 4021. The following oath shall be administered to the fore­
man of the grand .i ury : 
"You, as foreman of the grand jury, do solemnly swear
( or affirm) that you will dili~ently inquire, and true present­
ment make, of all offences given you in charge, or otherwise
brought to your knowledge, committed or triable within this
county; that you will keep secret tlie State's counsel, your
fellows' and your own ; that you will present no person from
hatred, malice, or ill-will, nor leave any unpresented through
fear, favor, or affection, or for any reward, or the promise or
hope thereof, but that you will present the truth, the whole 
truth, and nothing but the truth, accordin~ to the best of
your skill and understanding: so help you God." 
§ 4022. The following oath shall thereupon be administered
to the other grand jurors present : 
"The same oath which your foreman has now taken
before you on his part, you and each of you shall weJl
and truly observe and keep on your part, so help you God." 
§ 4023. The Judge presiding at any special term of the
court, may, if he deems it necessary, empanel a grand 
jury, in the same way, and of like powers, as at a regular
term. 
§ 4024. The court may dismiss the grand jury whenever
they have finished all the business before them, and, in his 
opinion, performed their duty as a public inquest.
§ 4025. The grand jury may act as petit jurors in either civil 
or criminal cases, when not engaged in the business more
particularly devolving upon them. 
SECTION 
4026. Petit jurors selected by ballot,
if required. 
4027. And, if panel exhausted, from
bystanders. 
§ 4026. Either party in a civil action may require the jury
to be selected by ballot, in which case, the clerk shall write
the names of all the jurors not otherwise occupied, on scrolls
or pieces of paper, and place them in a box or other suitable
receptacle, and a child under ten years of age, or some per-
son agreed upon, shall, in open court, draw out the names,
one by one, until the jury is made up. 
§ 4027. If the scrolls are exhausted before the jury is com-
plete<l, the court may order such additional number of jurors 
to be summoned, as may be thought just and proper, whose
names shall, in like manner, be drawn until the full jury is
obtained. 
§ 4028. Should a juror, either in a civil or criminal action,
dnring the progress of a trial, become so unwell that, in 
the opinion of the court, he is unable to serve, he may be
discharged, and another juror· summoned instanter, empan-
elled and sworn, and the trial recommenced. 
§ 4029. On motion of either party, in any civil action, a
special jury may be ordered and summoned, if, in the opinion
of the court, it is proper, the additional cost to be taxed to
the losing party. 
ARTICLE V. 
PETIT JURY. 
SECTION 
4028. May be discharged for sick­
ness during trial. 
4029. Special jury ordered on motion
of either party. 
4080. Talesmen ordered at o.ny time. 
§ 4030. When, by reason of challenges, or any other cause,
it is rendered necessary, the court may cause petit jurors to
be summoned from the bystanders, or the county at large,
either to supply the deficiency in juries, or to form one or
more entire juries, as the occasion requires . 
SECTION 
.ARTICLE VI. 
COMPENSATION OF JURORS. 
4081. Compensation of regular juror&.
4082. When kept together under 
rule.
4038. Compensation of tales jurors.
4084. If detained over night. 
BzcT1011 
4035. Probate of attendance made at
the term. 
4086. Clerk to certify list to County
Court, and warrant to issue. 
4037. Warrant receinble for county
tax, when. 
§ 4031. Every regular juror is entitled to receive one dollar
and fifty cents for each day's attendance, and to be allowed 
all fernages and tolls necessarily incurred in going to and
returning from court, to be paid out of the county trea­
sury. 
§ 4032. In all cases, where a jury is kept together under
rule more than one day by order of the court, a reasonable 
allowance, not less than six nor more than nine dollars, in
the discretion of the presiding Judge, may be made to the
person boarding or finding the jury while thus confined, to
be taxed and paid like other costs, any expense over the
amount a1lowed to be paid by the jurors. 
§ 4033. Tales jurors receive no compensation unless they 
serve more than one day, in which case they receive the
same pay for each day's service as the regular jurors. 
§ 4034. The grand and traverse jurors, and talesmen, de- 
tained over night, are allowed one dollar and fifty cents
per day for their services. 
§ 4035. Jurors prove, under oath, at the term of the court
at which they serve, and before the clerk of said court, the 
ferriages or tolls necessarily incurred in going t-0 or return­
ing from their place of residence to the court-house. 
§ 4036. The clerk of the court shall, when the jury is dis­
charged, make out and certify a list of the jury, with the 
number of days they have respectively served, and the
amount due to each, and deliver the same to the Clerk of
the County Court, who shall record it in the revenue docket,
and the Judge or Chairman of the County Court shall issue
separate warrants to the jurors for the amount due to each 
of them.
§ 4037. These warrants shall be received by the sheriff in 
the payment of the county tax, unless the tax laid is insuffi- 
cient to pay all the jurors' certificates, in which case· the
warrants shall be filed with the county trustee, and shall be
paid in the order in which they are filed. 
ARTICLE I. General Provisions.
II. Clerk of the County Court. 
SscTION 
OF THE CLERKS OF COURT. 
Ill. Clerks of the Circuit, Criminal, and Special
Courts. 
IV. Clerk of the Chancery Court.
V. Clerk of the Supreme Court. 
G E N E R A L P R O V I S I O N S. 
4088. Must reside in county, and
keep office at county seat, 
4039. Cannot practice law except aa
provided, nor go aecurity on
bonds in his court. 
4040. The duties of clerks generally.
4041. Upon appeal, clerk must make 
out and transmit record.
4042. Certificate of postmaster evi­ 
dence of deposit in mail.
4048. Every clerk must pay money to 
party entitled, without delay. 
4044. Failure subjects him to motion
and removal. 
4046. Must make report of sales and
moneys, each term. 
4046. Exceptions may be filed to re­
port. 
404 7. The report and action of court 
to be embodied in decree.
4048. Persons interested may appeal 
as in other cases.
4049. Clerks must note at whose in­ 
stance process issues.
4060. Authority of clerks of the sev­ 
eral courts.
4061. Powers in equity causes, those 
of clerk and master. 
CHAPTER 6. 
ARTICLE I. 
8:SCTION 
4052. How funds of married woman
paid out. 
4058. Of infants, to be paid to guar­ 
dian.
4064. Of infant feme covert, only on 
order of court.
4066. Of persons of unsound mind.
4066. Court may order examination 
of office and books. 
406i. To be made by District Attor­
ney. 
4058. Whose report shall be regis­
tered. 
4069. Compensation of District Attor­
ney for this service. 
4060. Clerks to deliver to successor
books, etc, 
4061. Cauaes for which court may
remove a clerk. 
4062. Court may suspend him on in­
dictment found. 
4068. Causes of removal, how proved.
4064. Court may order District Attor­ 
ney to prosecute.
4066. What is a misdemeanor in office.
4066. What is a high misdemeanor. 
§ 4038. The clerk of each of the several courts of this State
shall reside in the county wherein the court is held, shall 
keep his office at the county seat of said county, and give due
attendance at office for the performance of official duties. 
§ 4039. He cannot practice law in any of the courts of
this State, except as provided in section 3969 ; neither
can he become security for the prosecution of suits in his 
courts, nor upon any bonds, or other obligations, required to
e execute y t e parties m t e progress o sue suits, 
§ 4040. It is the d uty of the clerk of each of the several
courts of this State- 
1. To sign all summons, writs, subpccnas, executions, and
process issued from his courts, and to endorse on the back
thereof the date of issuance. 
2. To keep the several dockets required by law in the
respective courts. 
3. To keep an execution docket, in which shall be entered,
within the time after the adjournment of each court pre­
scribed for issuing executions, all judgments or decrees, in
the order of their rendition, with the names of all the plain­
tiffs and defendants in full ; the day and year of rendition ;
the amount of the recovery, and the amount of the costs;
the character and number of the execution; the date of its
issuance, and to what county issued; the person to whom
delivered, and the date of delivery; the date and substance
of the return; and the dates and amounts of money paid into,
and paid out of office. 
4. To keep a well-bound book, in which shall be entered
the minutes of each day's proceedings during the session of
the court, in the order in which they are made. 
5. To record in well-bound books, within six months after
the final determination of any suit or prosecution, such pro­
ceedings as he is required by law to enroll. 
6. To make and keep indexes, direct and reversed, for all
books and dockets required to be kept by him. 
7. To keep all the papers, books, dockets, and recor<ls,
belonging to his office, with care and security; the papers 
filed, arranged, numbered, and labelled, so as to be of easy
reference ; and the books, dockets, and records properly
lettered; and to allow parties to inspect the records free of
charge. 
8. To attend court, during the session thereof, with all
the papers belonging to the term, so :filed as to be of easy
reference; to keep in the court-house, during such session,
the execution docket for the two preceding terms; and to
administer all oaths and affidavits in relation to causes or
proceedings pending therein. 
9. On application and payment of the legal fees therefor,
to make out and deliver to any person applymg for the same, 
a correct transcript, properly certified, of any paper or record
in his office. 
10. To perform such duties in regard to the State and
county revenue, as are prescribed by law, under the provi- 
sions of this Code. ·
11. To issue execution within the time prescribed by sections 3002--3007. 
12. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by law
required of him. 
§ 4041. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the several
courts, when a cause is taken by appeal in the nature of a
writ of error, to the Supreme Court, to make out and trans-
mit by mail, to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of his divi-
sion, a transcript of the record, within forty days after the
entry of appeal, unless the entry has been made within forty
days of the regular term of the Supreme Court or during
such term, and then forthwith, and transmit without delay
to the Clerk of the Supreme Court. 
§ 4042. The certificate of the postmaster of his county, that
the transcriJ?t has been deposited in the post-office within the 
time prescribed in the preceding section, is presumptive evi-
dence of the transmission required. 
§ 4043. It is the duty of each of the clerks of the several
courts, upon application of the party entitled, his agent, or 
attorney, made at the office of the clerk, to pay and deliver
to the applicant without delay any money or property in his
hands, received by virtue of any decree, judgment, or order
of the court, or any Judge thereof, or by virtue of his office. 
§ 4044. A failure to comply with the requirements of the
preceding section is a misdemeanor in office, and, moreover,
subjects the clerk to motion against himself and his sureties. 
§ 4045. It is the duty of the clerk, whenever property has
been sold by him under order of his court, or any Judge 
thereof, at each term to make out and submit to the court a
report, showing the property sold, the amount of the sale,
the principal and interest collected, the aggregate fund on
hand, the disbursements made, to whom and when, specify-
ing separately the fees allowed to the clerk and other officers
of court. 
§ 4046. Any person interested in the report may except
thereto, as in other cases. 
§ 4047. The report and the action of the court thereon shall
be embodied in a decree to be entered on the minutes of the
court, and the clerk shall be entitled to no other fees or 
allowances than those specified and fixed by the decree of
the court. 
§ 4048. The action of the court is subject to the right of
appeal by the persons interested, as in other cases. 
§ 4049. The clerks of court, in all cases where there are two
or more defendants in any case, civil or criminal, and a sub- 
pcena for witnesses or other process issues on application of
part only of the defendants, shall mark thereon at whose in- 
stance issued. 
§ 4050. The clerks of the several courts in this State have
authority- 
1. To administer oaths and take affidavits in all cases in
which the authority to administer such oath is not confined
to some other officer, and such power may be exercised either
in vacation or term time. 
2. To take depositions to be read as evidence in any judi­
cial proceeding in this or any other State. 
3. To take probate of the attendance of witnesses, and
issue tickets, as well in vacation as term time, and in civil as
well as criminal cases, at any time between the commence­
ment and decision of a cause. 
4. To appoint deputies, with full power to transact all the
business of such clerk ; such deputy first taking an oath to
support the constitution and laws of this State, and faithfully
to discharge the duties of deputy clerk of the court for which
he acts. 
5. To receive the amount of any judgment or decree ren­
dered in the court of which they are clerks, either before or
after the issue of execution thereon. 
6. To exercise such other powers as are, or may be, con-
ferred upon them by law. 
§ 4051. The clerks of the several courts, in all equity causes
in their courts, are vested with the powers of clerks and 
masters of the Chancery Courts.
§ 4052. T_he proceeds of real or personal property belonging 
to a marned woman, sold by order of any of the courts of
this State, shall not be paid out by the clerk or any commis­
sioner, except as provided in sections 3319, 3320. 
§ 4053. The proceeds of the real or personal property of an
infant can only be paid to a guardian who has given bond
with good security, as such, to the satisfaction of the court. 
§ 4054. If the infant is also a feme covert, the funds can
only be paid out upon the order of the court directing how 
and to whom the same shall be paid.
§ 4055. So, also, if the person entitled to the proceeds of 
either realty or personalty, sold by order of court, is of un­
sound mind, the funds can only be paid to a guardian or 
committee duly appointed, who has given bond and security,
according to law, satisfactory to the court making- the sale. 
§ 4056. Any court in this State may, in term time, and as
often as the public interest requires, direct the Attorney 
General of the district to examine the office, books, records,
and papers of the clerk, and report their condition and the
manner in which the clerk discharges his official duties in
relation thereto. 
§ 4057. Upon such order made, the Attorney General shall,
during the vacation after such court, carefully examine the
office, books, records, and papers of such clerk, and report
in writing their condition and the manner in which the clerk
discharges his official duties in relation thereto, specifying 
particularly any neglect of duty, or any thing, in his judg­
ment, done wrongfully, ignorantly, or corruptly, in relation 
to such office.
§ 4058. The report, when made, shall be recorded in the 
r~gister's office of the county, and is subject to the inspec-
tion of all persons free of charge. 
§ 4059. The compensation of the .Attorney General for this
service shall be fixed by the court, not exceediug twenty-five 
dollars, and paid by the county in the case of the County,
Circuit, and Chancery Courts, and by the State in the case
of the Supreme Court, on the certificate of the court order-
ing the inquiry. 
§ 4060. Upon the suspension or removal from office of any
clerk, he shall, on demand of his successor or order of the
court, deliver over to such successor the books, papers, and
other articles belonging to the office; such delivery to be
enforced as provided in sections 805-811. 
§ 4061. The court may remove its clerk npon conviction of
a rnisdemea~or in. office, or of a felony; for no~-~esidenc~ in 
the county in which the court is held; for failing to give
security as required by law; for failing to pay over public
moneys, or, moneys collected officially; for incapacity, neg-
lect of duty, or misbehavior in office; and for any other
cause to which the penalty of removal from office is attached
by law. 
§ 4062. Immediately upon indictment found against any
clerk, for a felony or misdemeanor in office, the court of 
which he is clerk may suspend him from office, and appoint
a clerk pro tempore, until a final decision can be had, who
shall be entitled to the fees and perquisites of office during
the suspension. 
§ 4063. The failure to pay over money collected officially,
incapacity, neglect of duty, and misbehavior in office, may 
be shown by the record of a suit, by motion or otherwise
founded upon one of the causes, and decided adversely to
the clerk; or, charges may be exhibited to the court in writ-
ing, by any person, and satisfactorily established by proof,
the clerk having a right to be heard in defence, and to an
appeal as in other cases. 
§ 4064. The court may direct the Attorney General for the
district to file and prosecute the charges, if thought proper,
and may suspend the clerk, and appoint a clerk pro tempore,
until the proceedings are finally terminated, as provided in
the section next preceding the last. 
§ 4065. Any clerk who wilfully or corruptly does any act
contrary to the duties of his office as prescribed by law, or, 
in like .manner, omits or refuses to perform any service or
duty required of him, unless some other penalty is expressly
provided, .is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may, on convic-
tion, be fined not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars ;
and may be removed from office. 
§ 4066. Any clerk who knowingly and wilfully makes a false 
entry, or knowingly and wilfully foils to make an entry re­
quired by law to be made, or knowingly and wilfully makes 
out an imperfect or incorrect transcript of the proceedings
had in his court, with the intent to affect the result of any
cause, is guilty of a high misdemeanor, and, upon comic­
tion, shall be fined and imprisoned. 
SECTION 
4067. Duties of County Court Clerk
generally. 
4068. Duties in regard to revenue.
4069. Duties as to administration of 
estates.
4070. Duties as to guardians.
4071. Duties as to apprentices.
4072. Duties as to probate of instru­ 
ments. 
ARTICLE II. 
CLERK OF THE COUNTY COURT. 
SBCTION 
4073. Duties as to marriages.
407 4. Record of letters of adminis­ 
tration.
4075. To perform other duties pre­ 
scribed by law.
4076. To report strength and condi­ 
tion of militia. 
§ 4067. The Clerk of the County Court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by the preceding article, is required, as
clerk: 
1. To act as Clerk of the County Court when held by the
quarterly or quorum court, or by the County Judge. 
2. To keep a docket of all the causes to be tried in the
court. 
3. To enter upon said docket every suit, motion, and
action that may come before the court for trial. 
4. To produce to the Judge of the Circuit Court for his
examination, at the first Circuit Court in his county after
the first Monday in April in each year, on the second day 
of the term, the bonds of all officers taken during such year 
by the County Court.
5. To spread on the records of court every bond required 
to be recorded.
6. To receive and preserve the Journals of Congress, 
statutes, and other public documents in trusted to him by 
law, and deliver the same to his successor. 
§ 4068. Duties in regard to revenue:
1. To list in a book provided for the purpose all appropri­ 
ations and allowances made by the court, all claims of jurors
and officers for attendance, or other claim chargeable against
the county, setting forth the character, description, and for
what purpose made, including the date and amount of the
allowance, and the book and page of the minutes where the
order may be found. 
2. To issue orders or certificates to the parties entitled, and
endorse thereon that they have been registered in his office; 
and such endorsement shall be necessary to authorize the
Judge or Chairman of the County Court to issue his warrant
for the amount. 
3. To make out, at the first court in each year, a balance
sheet of the revenue and disbursements of the county for 
the preceding year, giving the several sources of revenue
and items of disbursement plainly, and post the sheet on the
outside wall of the court-house. 
4. To perform the acts in relation to State revenue pre- 
scribed in Part I., Title 5. 
§ 4069. Duties as to administration of estates: 
l. To administer to every administrator or executor an
oath to perform the will of the deceased, or for the faithful
performance of his duty. 
2. To take from every such representative, a bond, with
two or more able sureties, in double the value of the estate
of the deceased, payable to the State of Tennessee, condi­
tioned as is shown in section 2223. 
3. To issue to said representative letters of administration
or testamentary, authorizing him to administer the estate
of the deceased. 
4. To receive of every administrator or executor the in-
ventory he may return of the decedent's estate, and cause
him to verify it by his oath, and present the same to the 
court.
5. To record said inventory, if it be found regular by the 
court, in the book of inventories.
6. To receive from every personal representative his ac- 
counts of sales, and cause him to verify them by his oath,
and present them to the court, and record them if the court 
find them regular.
7. To take and state, once every year, in vacation, at his 
office, the accounts of every personal representative of anr
deceased person, after the lapse of two years from his quali-
fication. 
8. To compel such accounting party, by subpeena, to come
before him once every year for the purpose of settling his 
accounts.
9. To present to the court in writing the names of those 
personal representatives and guardians who refuse to answer
the subpoena, or who fail to settle; and also the names of 
the minors in their county, of his knowledge, whose guardians
are in default, and the sureties of whose guardian are dead,
removed out of the State, or become insolvent. 
10. To examine such accounting party, when it seems
necessary, upon oath touching his receipts and disbursements. 
11 . To continue the settlement, from time to time, on
cause shown by affidavit. 
12. To charge such party with all such sums as he has
received, or might have received by using due diligence ; 
and credit him with such disbursements as he supports by 
lawful vouchers, and with a reasonable compensation for his
services. 
13. To report said account to the next County Court for
confirmation or rejection. 
14. To record the said settlement when it is finally adjusted
by the court. 
15. To serve every party, resident in his county, that is
interested in said account, or the agent or attorney of such as 
reside elsewhere, with five days' notice of taking such account,
and to take no account of any administration until such notice
has been given. 
16. To record all refunding bonds lodged with him by any
personal representative, taken from distributees, and file and
preserve the originals in his office. 
17. To perform all the duties required of him in the ad­
ministration of insolvent estates of deceased persons. 
§ 4070. As to guardians:
To enter in particular books to be provided and kept for 
that purpose only, every guardian's first account of his ward's
estate, received into his hands and possession, and each
annual account of profits and disbursements afterwards ex·
hibited by such guardian. 
§ 4071. As to apprentices:
To record indentures of apprenticeship, and receive and 
preserve counterparts of the same for the benefit of the ap­
prentice. 
§ 4072. To take the probate or acknowledgment of all deeds
and other instruments that are entitled to registration by
law, and certify the same for registration, and demand and
receive the State tax thereon, as specified in section 671. 
§ 4073. As to marriages :
1. To endorse on, or append to marriage license the form 
of the return.
2. To register, in a well-bound book, the names of the par­ 
ties, and the date of the issuance of a marriage license, and
to copy immediately, under or opposite thereto, the return of
the proper functionary who solemnized the rites of matri­
mony, with the date thereof, and file and retain the license
and return thereof in his office. 
§ 4074. To record in well-bound books all letters test.ament­
ary and of administration, all guardian appointments, and all
settlements made by them with guardians and personal repre­
sentatives. 
§ 4075. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by
law required of him. 
§ 4076. To make out a statement of the strength and con­
dition of the. militia, and transmit a copy to the A<ljutant
General by the first of September each year. 
ARTICLE CLERKS OF THE CIRCUIT, CRIMINAL, AND SPECIAL COURTS. 
SBOTIOM 
40i7. Duties of Clerk of the Circuit
Court. 
4078. Penalty for failing to apply for
State reports. 
4079. May adjourn court, if Judge
fa.Us to attend. 
4080. And enter forfeitures on recog­
nizances. 
4081. Or take new recognizances. 
ARTICLE III. 
8BOTIOM 
4082. Defendant failing to give new
recognizance, to be in cus­
tody. 
4088. Proceedings on !orf eitures same
as if taken in court. 
4084. These provisions apply to clerks
of Criminal and other special
courts. 
§ 4077. The Clerk of each Circuit Court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by Article I. of this cha:pter, is required- 
1. At each term of the court, when the JUr}" is discharged,
to make out and certify a list of the jury, with the number!~
of days they have served, and the amount due to each, and
deliver the same to the County Court Clerk, to be by him
registered, and certificates issued thereon as prescribed by section 4068. 
2. To make out and transmit to the Clerk of the Supreme
Court transcripts of the record, in all cases in which appeals 
in the nature of writs of error have been taken from his
court, within forty days after the rendition of the judgment,
unless the case has been determined within forty days of the
session of the Supreme Court, or during such session, and in
that event forthwith. 
3. To enter up judgment of the court on its records, after
the verdict of a jury. 
4. To apply to the Clerk of the Supreme Court, in his division, and receive and receipt for the reports of the deci- 
sions of the Supreme Court, and keep the same in his office
for the use of the court. 
5. To note on every execution or order of sale of land or
s aves, t e eren ant s irection to a vertise t e same in a 
newspaper.
6. To furnish the District Attorney, on the first day of the 
term, the names of the prosecutors and defendants under
recognizance to appear at said term. 
7. To rresent to the Judge of the Circuit or Criminal
Court, al bills of costs, in criminal cases, in which the State
or county is liable for the costs, for his certificate. 
8. To call on the District Attorney on the first day of the
term of his court, to advise him in making out a full and
perfect caption, to be prefixed to the proceedings of said court
in criminal cases. 
9. To record, at full length, on the minutes of his court,
the papers returned into the co art by a Justice of the Peace, 
for the purpose of having a condemnation of land levied on
by execution from such Justice, and order of sale. 
10. To enter, at full length, upon the minutes of the court,
the presentment or indictment in cases of felony. 
11. To perform duties in relation to revenue, as prescribed
in sections 708-711. 
12. The Clerk of the Circuit Court is the only proper
person for his county, to receive from delinquent revenue
collectors money due from them to the State. 
13. Upon all moneys by him received from such collector,
and reported to the Comptroller, and paid into the treasury,
he shall receive at the rate of six per cent. for compensation. 
14. To perform such other duties as are, or may be re­
quired by law. 
§ 4078. For failing to apply to the Clerk of the Supreme
Court of his division, for the reports of the decisions of the 
Supreme Court, within two months after the receipt of the
same is advertised by said clerk, the Clerk of the Circuit 
Court shall be liable to a penalty of ten dollars, to be entered
by the court, at the next term of the court after default, in a
summary way. 
§ 4079. Whenever the Circuit Judge fails to hold his court,
as required by law, the clerk may, at the expiration of the
prescribed time, adjourn the court until the next term. 
§ 4080. And the clerk is authorized, in such case, to enter
forfeiture of all recognizances previously taken, for the ap­
pearance of parties or witnesses, where the parties or wit­
nesses on being called by the sheriff fail to appear in pur­
suance of the recognizances. 
§ 4081. Orto take newreco~nizances from such of the parties
as do appear, according to law, for their appearance at the 
next term of the court.
§ 4082. If any person bound in a recognizance to appear, 
appears accor mg y, ut 1a1 s or re uses to enter mto a new 
recognizance, similar to and of the purport and effect of the
previous recognizance, for his appearance at the next term,
he shall be deemed to have surrendered himself to the sheriff,
and shall be in custody until he enters into such recog­
nizance as is by law required upon surrender by bail in like
cases. 
§ 4083. The same proceedings shall be had in all cases for
forfeitures entered by the clerk, in pursuance of these pro- 
visions, as if the same had been entered by order of court.
§ 4084. The provisions of this article apply to clerks of the 
rmnna an ot ier spccial courts established by law. 
SECTION 
4086. Duties of Clerk of the Chan­
cery Court. 
4086. Has all the powers of masters
in Ch&ncery. 
§ 4085. The Clerk of the Chancery Court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by article first of this chapter, is required- 
1. To keep a rule docket, in which shall be entered the
names of the plaintiffs and defendants in full; the names of
the attorneys and counsel; a minute of the date of the issu-
ance and return of process, with the return thereon ; and a.
note of all the orders and proceedings made at office. 
2. To keep a. well-bound book, in which shall be entered,
under the name of each case, the depositions ,taken and filed
in the case, the names of the witnesses, and the date of the
filing and by whom. This book may be dispensed with, by
keeping the rule docket in such way as to enable the entries
here required, to be made therein, without interfering with
the entries regularly belonging to that docket. 
3. To issue all original, mesne and final process from the
court; make orders of publication for defendants; grant
decrees pro confesso for want of answer; hear exceptions to
bills, answers, and reports, subject, at all times, to the con-
trol, direction, and supervision of the Chancellor. 
4. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by law
required. 
§ 4086. He is authorized to administer oaths, and perform
all the functions of masters in Chancery; unless restrained 
by the provisions of law ; and to exercise all such other
powers as are or may be conferred by law. 
§ 4087. He may adjourn court in the absence of the Chan-
eellor, from day to day, for three days in succession, or longer, 
if, in his judgment, the interest of the public requires it, and
then adjourn it to the court in course, or to the time fixed by
the Chancellor for holding a special term. 
SECTION 
4088. Duties of ci-k ot Supreme 
Court. 
ARTICLE IV. 
·~LERK OF THE CHANCERY COURT. 
· ARTICLE V. 
CLERK 01' THE SUPREME COURT. 
4089. Compensation for certain ser­
vices. 
4090. Record books paid tor out of
State treasury. 
SECTION 
4087. May adjourn court, in absence
of Chancellor. 
SECTION 
4091. Clerk m&y be removed from
office, when. 
4092. Reasons of removal to be en­
tered on minutes. 
§ 4088. The Clerk of the Supreme Court, in addition to
the duties prescribed by article first of this chapter, is re­
quired- 
1. To preserve the written opinions of the Judges as other
records of his office, subject to the inspection of all persons
wishinf. to examine them, and to furnish certified copies 
thereo , on demand, to any person applying and paying the
lawful fees. 
2. To make out and deliver to the reporter for the State,
copies of the opinions of the court within ten days after the
decision. 
3. To issue to the inferior courts, within sixty days, and
before the next term of such inferior court, after the adjourn­
ment of the Supreme Court, certified copies of the opinion
and judgment or decree in all cases reversed and remanded. 
4. To J)ay over costs incurred in inferior court.s, as pro­
vided in section 3217. 
5. To note on the execution docket, executions not re­
turned at the time specified in such execution. 
6. On receipt of each volume of the decisions of the Su­
preme. Court, to advertise the fact in some newspaper of the division. 
7. To deliver to each of the clerks of the Circuit Court in
his division, upon application by said clerk, the number of
each volume of the reports of the decisions of the Supreme
Court to which his county is entitled, and take said clerk's
receipt for the same. 
8. To deliver to each of the clerks of the Circuit Courts of
the new counties, a full set of the reports of the decisions of
the Supreme Court, and take their receipts for them ; and if
he has not in his possession a sufficient number of said re­
ports to furnish the new counties, to procure the same, to be 
paid for by the State.
9. To perform such other duties as are or may be required 
of him by law.
§ 4089. To obtain compensation for the service provided in 
subsections 6, 7, and 8, the clerk shall present to the At­
torney General and reporter his account, settin&' forth the
items of the same and the amount charged for each; and the
said Attorney General shall, thereupon, certify that the
amount charged is correct and ought to be paid. Upon pre­
senting the account so certified to the Comptroller, he shall
issue his warrant for such amount as appears to be due the
clerk, and the Treasurer shall pay the same, as other public
dues are paid. 
§ 4090. The record books of the Supreme Court shall be 
paid for out of the State treasury. The Comptroller shall 
issue his warrant for the same to the clerk, upon his exhibit­
ing his account for the books bought and paid for by him, 
duly sworn to.
§ 4091. The Clerk of the Supreme Court may be removed 
from office by· the court for malfeasance, incompetency, or
neglect of duty. 
§ 4092. The reasons for removal shall be entered on the
minutes of the court at the term when made, if made in 
term time ; and at the next succeeding term, if made in
vacation. 
SECTION 
4098. Duties of sheriff'. 
CHAPTER 7. 
OF SHERIFFS. 
§ 4093. It shall be the duty of the sheriff- 
1. To mark on all :process placed in his hands to be exe-
cuted, the day on which he received the same. 
2. To execute· all writs and other process, to him legally
issued and directed, within his county, and make due return 
thereof, either by himself or his lawful deputy.
3. To execute every notice to take depositions, which is 
placed in his hands, for any party residing in his county, by
delivering a copy thereof to such party in due time; and 
mark on the original notice the time of delivering such copy,
and return the same to the clerk of the court in which the
suit is pending. 
4. To serve, in due time, any delinquent officer or principal
debtor with a copy of any notice of motion placed in his 
bands to be served on such officer or debtor, and return the
original notice in due time to the clerk of the court in which
the motion is to be made, with his endorsement of service. 
5. To go to the house or place of abode of every defendant
against whom he has process in his hands, before returning
on the same that the defendant is not to be found. 
6. To specify in his return in what county of the State the
defendant resides, when he is a known inhabitant .of any
other county than that of the sheriff to which the process is 
directed.
7. To use, in the execution of process, a degree of dili- 
gence exceeding that which a prudent man employs in his
own affairs. 
8. To give a receipt, if required by the party, for execution
placed in his hands. 
9. 'I'o receive nothing but money, or, unless otherwise in-
strueted, current convertible bank notes, in satisfaction of 
any writ of execution placed in his hands.
10. To levy every writ of execution first on the defendant's 
goods and chattels, if there be any.
11. To levy the same upon lands to the amount of the 
whole debt, or of so much as may remain more than the
value of the goods and chattels, if there are not, or to the
best of his knowledge, there be not, goods and chattels, or
not sufficient to answer the plaintiff's demand. 
12. To exhaust the property of a principal before he sells
the property of a surety, as provided in section 3028. 
13. To take from a defendant on whose personal property
he has levied an execution, a delivery bond, if requested,
with surety, for double the amount of the execution, payable
to the plaintiff, conditioned for the delivery of the property
at the day and place of sale. 
14. To levy said execution, if the bond be forfeited, upon
so much of the property of the defendant, if to be found, as
shall be sufficient to satisfy it; and, if there be a deficit, then
upon the surety's property, sufficient to satisfy so much of
the debt as the property not delivered was valued at. 
15. To summon a jury to ascertain the value of the unde­
livered property of the principal, if the value is not set forth 
in the delivery bond.
16. To return the execution and the bond with it to the 
tribunal from which it issued, if satisfaction of the execution
cannot be had before the return day. 
17. To have personal property that he sells under execu­
tion present at the time of sale, unless the defendant agree
that it may be sold without being present. 
18. To describe land levied upon by execution or attach­
ment, so as to identify it and distinguish it from other lands. 
19. To serve the defendant in possession of land with
twenty days' notice of the levy, and of the time and place of 
sale.
20. To advertise the sale of any land or slave levied on by 
execution, as prescribed in sections 2145-2149.
21. To pay the expense of such advertisement out of the 
proceeds of the sale.
22. To return every execution which comes to his hands, 
on or before the day of return mentioned therein, with a
sufficient response endorsed thereon, or attached thereto. 
23. To pay to the party entitled to the same, or his agent
or attorney, on demand, any moneys collected by him on any
execution from a court of record. 
24. To return with such execution any money collected
thereon. 
25. To make out, if required by the defendant, on levying
any debt, damag-es or costs by virtue of an execution, a bifi 
of his fees due m the case, and set down, under said bill, a
true copy of the clerk's and other endorsed fees separately
and distinctly, and give a receipt for the same to the defend-
ant in the execution. 
26. To endorse on the execution the amount of his own
fees taken on the same, to be entered by the clerk on the 
execution docket. 
27. To pay to the party entitled thereto, or to his agent or
CHAPTER 1. Of the Judicial Tribunals and their Relative
Rights. 
CHAPTER 2. Of the Power to Preserve Order by Process
of Contempt. 
OF THE JUDICIAL TRIBUNALS AND THEIR RELATIVE RIGHTS. 
8SOTI01' 
OF THE JUDICIAL POWER OF THE STATE. 
4094. Distribution of Judicial power
by the Constitution. 
4096. By acts of the General Anem­
bly. 
4096. Courts may be held anywhere
in county town, if necenary. 
4097. In case ot oontlict between 
courts. 
TITLE 5. 
CHAPTER 1. 
4098. Incompetence ot court, how
waived by parties. 
. b • f 
. attorney, any money co ecte y rm, y virtue o an execu-
tion from a Justice of the Peace, on or before the return ·day 
of the execution.
28. To pay to the party entitled to receive the same, or to 
his agent or attorney, any money collected by him upon any
debt or demand placed in his hands for collection, whether 
he collects or receives the money before or after the issuance
of any summons, or before or after the rendition of a judg-
ment, or the issuance of an execution. 
29. To return every execution issued by any Justice of the
Peace and placed in his hands, with a sufficient response 
thereon, within thirty days after the issuance of the same,
either to the Justice who issued it, or to the Justice having
possession of his papers. 
8ZOTIOK 
4099. Powers of courts.
4100. Forthe exercise :of its powers, 
may punish for contempt.
4101. Minutes of court read each day, 
and signed by Judge. 
4102. Court having jurisdiction of 
cue, may sell lands in any 
part of State.
4108. And may divest and vest title 
by decree; or clerk'e deed., 
SscTiolf 8.BCTIOR 
4104. Which shall be registered.
4106.. If sale at voluntary instance of 
parties, decree or deed im-. 
plies covenants of aeisin and
warranty. 
§ 4094. By the constitution it is provided that: "The judicial
power of this State shall be vested in one Supreme Court; 
m such inferior courts as the Legislature shall, from time to 
time, ordain and establish, and the Judges thereof; and in
J ustices of the Peace. The Legislature may also vest such
jurisdiction as may be deemed necessary in Corporation
Courts." 
§ 4095. The judicial power of the State is vested in Justices
of the Peace, Recorders of certain towns and cities, County 
Courts, Circuit Courts, the Criminal Court of the counties
of Montgome11., Davidson, and Rutherford, the Criminal
Court for the city of Memphis, the Common Law and Chan­
cery Court of Memphis, Chancery Courts, and the Supreme .
Court. 
§ 4096. If for any cause, in the opinion of the court deemed
sufficient, it shall be impracticable or inconvenient for any 
court to hold its session at the court-house, or place desig­
nated by law, it shall be lawful for the court to hold its
session, or any part thereof, at any other room within the
limits of the county town, and all its proceedings at such
place, whether in civil or criminal cases, shall be as valid as
if done at the court-house. 
§ 4097. In case of conflict among the courts, the use of the
court-room may be regulated by consent, in which case the 
court yielding the room may hold its sessions in any other
room within the limits of the county town. If no agree­
ment be made, the County Court shall be entitled to the
court-room on the first Monday of the month over either of
the other courts, but no longer, and the Circuit Court shall
be preferred to the Chancery Court. If excluded from the
court-room on Monday, the Circuit Court shall try no jury
causes on that day, except by consent of. parties. 
§ 4098. No Judge of any court, Chancellor, or Justice, shall
sit in any cause or proceedings in which he is interested, or
has been of counsel, or where he is related to either party
by consanguinity or affinity, within the sixth degree, com­
puting by the civil law, except by consent of the parties
entered of record, or put in writing, if the court is not a
court of record . 
§ 4099. Every court has power-
1. To enforce order in its immediate presence, or as near 
thereto as is necessary to prevent interruption, disturbance,
or hindrance to its proceedings. 
2. To enforce order before a person or body acting under
its authority. 
3. · To compel obedience to. its judgments, orders, and 
process, and . to the orders of a Judge out of court, in an
action or proceeding therein. 
4. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
officers, and all other persons connected with a judicial pro­
ceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto. 
5. To administer oaths wherever it may be neceBBary in the
exercise of its powers and duties. · 
6. To control its process and orders. 
7. To appoint guardians ad litem for infants. • 
§ 4100. For the effectual exercise of its powers, every court
is vested with power to punish for contempt, as provided for
in this Code. 
§ 4101. The minutes of the court shall be read each morn-
ing in open court, and signed by the Judge. · 
§ 4102. In all suits, instituted according to law, to sell the
real estate of decedents for the payment of debts, or to sell
lands for partition, the court may decree a sale of lands
lying in any part of the State. . 
§ 4103. The courts of this State having jurisdiction to sell
lands, instead of ordering parties to convey, may divest and 
vest title directly by decree, or empower the clerk to make title. 
§ 4104. The decree or .deed of the clerk, as the case may be,
shall have the same force and effect as· a conveyance by the
party, and shall be registered. 
§ 4105. And, in such cases, where the sale is made at the
voluntary instance of parties, the decree or deed of the clerk
shall imply a covenant of seisin and warranty of title, by the 
parties whose interest is sold, their heirs and representatives,
unless otherwise provided in the face of the decree. 
SECTION 
4106. What shall be a contempt of
court. 
. 4107. Punishment of contempt.
4108. When the contempt is for omit­ 
ting to perform an act.
4109. Or doing a forbidden act. 
CHAPTER 2~ 
8&0TI01' 
4110. Sheriff" may take bail on exe­
cuting process, when. 
4111. Penalty of bail.
4112. Any officer authorized to punish 
for contempt, is a "co-urt." 
§ 4106. The power of the several courts of this State to
issue attachments, and inflict punishme~ts for contempts of 
court, shall not be construed to extend to any except the
following cases : 
1. The wilful misbehavior of any person in the presence
of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administra­
tion of justice. 
2. The wilful misbehavior of any of the officers of said
courts, in their official transactions. 
3. The wilful disobedience or resistance of any officer of
the said courts, party, juror, witness, or any other person, to
any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of
said courts. . 
4. Abuse of, or unlawful interference with, the process or
proceedings of the court. 
5. Wilfully conversing with jurors in relation to the
merits of the cause in the trial of which they are engaged,
or otherwise tampering with them.
· 6. Any other act or omission declared a contempt hr law. 
§ 4107. The punishment for contempts may be by fine or
imprisonment; or both; but where not otherwise specially
provided, the Circuit, Chancery, and Supreme Courts are
limited to a fine of fifty dollars, and imprisonment not
exceeding ten days, and all other courts are limited to a fine
of ten dollars. 
§ 4108. But if the contempt consists in an· omission to per­
form an act which it is yet in the power of the person to
perform, he may be imprisoned until he performs it. 
§ 4109. If it consist in the performance of a forbidden act,
the J>erson may be imprisoned until the act is rectified by
placmg matters and person in statu quo, or by the payment
of damages. 
§ 4110. Upon an attachment to answer for a contempt,
except in not performing a decree, the officer executing the
process shall take bail from the defendant as in other cases;
and the court ordering the attachment shall specify the
penalty of such appearance bond. · 
§ 4111. If the penalty is not fixed by the court, it shall be
two hundred and fifty dollars. • 
§ 4112. Any officer authorized to punish for contempt, is a
court within the meaning of this. chapter. 
CHAPTER 0.F PROCEEDINGS BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, IN CIVIL
ACTIONS. 
CH.APTER 1. Of the Jurisdiction, Powers, and Duties of
Justices of the Peace in Civil Actions. 
CHAPTER 2. Of the Justice's Warrant, and by whom
'executed. 
CHAPTER 3. Of the Trial before Justices, and its Incidents.
C~TER 4. Of Special Proceedings before Justices of 
the Peace.
CHAPTER 5. Of the Presumption in favor of Justice's 
OF THE JURISDICTION, POWERS, AND DUTIES OF JUSTICES OF
THE PEACE IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
ARTICLE I. Jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace.
II. Powers of Justices of the Peace. 
8BCTIOK 
TITLE 6. 
Proceedings. 
CHAPTER 1. 
ill. Duties of Justices of the Peace .
. IV. When one Justice may act for another. 
ARTICLE I. 
JURISDICTION OF JUSTICES OF THB PEACE. 
4113. Jurisdiction geographically co­
extensive with county . 
. 4114. Warrant returnable to plain­
tiff's district, when. 
SBOTION 
4115. To defendant's district, when.
4116. When there are several defend­ 
ants. 
4117. When defendant has no resi- 
SECTION 
dence in county, or is about
to remove. 
4118. When Justices of district in­
competent, to adjoining dis­
trict. 
4119. Returnable by consent to any
Justice. 
4120. Objections to local jurisdiction,
to be ma.de before hearing. 
4121. RepleTi.n and attachment, tried
in any district in which pro­
perty found. 
4122. Forcible entry and detainer,
anywhere in county. 
§ 4113. The jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace, when not
otherwise provided, is geographically coextensive with the 
limits of their respective counties.
§ 4114. In all actions brought for the collection of any· debt, 
t e warrant, or summons issued by a Justice of the Peace, 
shall be returned in the district in which the plaintiff resides,
unless the defendant acknowledges, in writing, the plaintiff's 
claim, and that he has no offsets. .
§ 4115. In all other cases the warrant shall be returned in 
the district where the defendant resides, or in the adjoining
district, if the office of the Justice in such adjoining district
is nearer to the residence of the defendant than the office of
the Justice in bis own district. 
§ 4116. If there are more defendants than one, the warrant
may: be returned in the district in which either· of them 
resides, or the adjoining district, as in the preceding section,
unless the defendants sustain towards each other the relation
of principal and surety, on the face of the contract, or maker
and endorser of ne~otiable paper; in either of which cases,
the return shall be m the district in which one of the prin­
cipals or makers resides, or in the adjoining district as in the
preceding section. • 
§ 4117. When the defendant has no fixed residence, or is  
about to remove or abscond, or does not reside m the county,
the warrant may be returned in the district in which it is 
served, or before the most convenient magistrate. · 
§ 4118. Ifbt1he ma~istrates of the districtbto which ~lf1e wh arrabnt
is returna e are mcompetent, or are a sent, or 1 t ere e 
no ma~istrate of the district, the warrant may be returned in
any adjoining district, free from like exception. 
§ 4119. By consent of the parties, the warrant may be re-
turned, or the cause tried without warrant, before any Justice 
of the Peace in the county. 
SECTION  
4123. Jurisdiction in respect to
amount of demand. 
1. Notes, etc., $500.
2. Accounts, etc., $250.
8. Damages, $50.
4. Rcplevin, $50.
6. Under stray laws, $100.
6. Mechanics' lien, a.ny sum 
within jurisdiction.
7. Equity causes, $60.
8. Forcible entry, &11 cases.
9. Motions.
10. Other cases. 
4124·; Full equity jurisdiction to $50. 
§ 4120. Objections to the jurisdiction of the Justice before
whom the warrant is returned, shall be made before the 
hearing, or they will be considered as waived. 
§ 4121. Actions of replevin, or suits commenced by attach-
ment, may be tried in any district in which any portion of 
the property is found.
§ 4122. The action of forcible entry and detainer shall be 
tried anywhere in the county in which the property, or any
part of it, is. 
§ 4123. The jurisdiction -of Justices of the Peace, in civil
cases, extends- 
1. To five hundred dollars, upon all notes of hand indis-
criminately, whether calling for dollars and cents- simply, or
for an amount to be· discharged in other means than money,
or for an amount of any article or multiplicity of articles
whatever; and upon endorsements of negotiable paper, where
demand and notice are expressly waived in the endorsement, 
2. To all unsettled accounts, obligations, contracts, or
-other evidences of 'debt, not embraced in the preceding sac- 
tion, when the amount claimed does not exceed two hundred
and fifty dollars. 
3. To all cases of damages arising from contract or tort,
except for slander, where tlie damages claimed do not exceed 
fifty dollars. .
4. To all actions of replevin, when the amount in, contro- 
versy does not exceed fifty dollars.
5. To all penalties, forfeitures, and fines, incurred· under 
. the estray laws, and tor the recovery of a.Dy sums of money
due under said laws, when the amount does not exceed one 
hundred dollars.
6. To enforce mechanic's lien for any samwithin his juris- 
diction. . .
7. To all equity causes, where the subject-matter does not 
exceed fifty dollars.
8. To all cases of forcible entry and detainer. 
9. To give judgment by motion, under the provisions of sections 4167--4171. 
10. To all other cases where jurisdiction is or may lSe ex-
pressly given by law. 
§ 4124. Any Justice of the Peace, and any court of this State,
before whom any cause may be pending, by appeal or other- 
wise, where the subject-matter does not exceed fifty dollars,
shall hear and determine such cause upon principles of
equity, and render such judgment or decree as the merits of
the case may require, as fully, and in the same manner, as 
'Oourta of Chancery. . 
SECTION 
04126.
Powers of Justices of the Peace. 
§ 4125. Justices of the Peace are vested with power- ·
1. To grant writs of attachment, returnable to the Circuit 
Court, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
Circuit Judge. 
2. To enter up judgment by confession of a defendant to
.any amount within his jurisdiction in the particular case. 
3. To issue an execution in his county upon a certified exe­
cution from another county. 
4. To issue a subpcena for witnesses, in any matter to be
tried before him, to his own or an adjoining county. 
5. To issue scire facias to revive judgments against the per­
sonal ,representatives and heirs of deceased parties, to any
county .in the State. 
6. To issue alias and pluries executions. whenever neces­
sary. 
7. To issue counterpart writ to any county in the State for
the principal maker of any bill, bond, pr note, at the instance
of the surety or endorser, who is sued thereon. 
8. To grant writs of certiorari and supersedeaa to carry up
proceedings of Justices to the Circuit Court, within twenty
days after judgment. 
9. To punish persons disturbing them in the discharge of
their official duties. 
10. And to do and perform. all such other acts and duties
as are, or may ,\1e, conferred upon them \y law. 
SECTION 
4126. Detail of duties of Justices.
4127. Justice to designate a day, each 
month, to hear causes.
·4128. But may try causes at any time 
· or place in the county.
4129. To keep judgment docket.
4180. And execution docket, in same 
book. 
POWERS 011' JUSTICES OP THE PE.ACE. 
DUTIES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
4126. It is the duty of a Justice of the Peace- .
1. To keep a judgment and execution docket, as herein­ 
after particularly described. 
ARTICLE II. 
ARTICLE III. 
SBCTION 
4181. Order of entries to be me.de
therein. 
4132. Substantial compliance Sllfli.
cient between parties. . 
4183. But neglect is a misdemeanor,
and subjects Justice to a pen­
alty. 
4134. And renders him liable in dam­
ages to any person injured. 
§ 4126. To issue no process upon less than half a page of writ-
Ing-paper, 
3. To retain, preserve, and file away in order, and properly
marked for easy reference, all the papers in civil cases before 
. them, unless returned or transmitted, in pursuance oflaw, to
the Circuit Court upon appeal, or otherwise, . 
4. To transmit all the papers relative to the trial of a cause
in which an appeal has been taken, to the Circuit Court on or
before the second day of the term to which the appeal is re­ 
turnable.
5. To transmit copies of such papers in the same way, in 
cases where only a portion of the parties have appealed.
6. To return such papers, when an execution has been 
levied on real estate of the defendant, to the Circuit Court,
on the second day of the term next after the levy. 
7. To return all marriage licenses, under which he has
solemnized the rites of matrimony, to the office of the Clerk 
of the County Court, within six months. 
8 •. To deliver over, in case of resignation, removal, or
expiration of his term of office, all his official books and 
papers, according to law. · .
9. Not to sign a warrant or summons until written out 
in full.
10. Not to issue an alias or pluries execution until the 
execution previously issued is returned, or affidavit made
accounting for its absence, and showing that it is unsatisfied. 
11. To safely keep for public inspection, and deliver over
according to law, any statutes or public documents received
by him officially, under a. penalty of twenty-five dollars, to
be sued for by the County Court Clerk, and a sufficient
amount thereof applied to the purchase of the missing books,
and the residue to the county treasury. 
12. To perform all other duties which are, or may be, pre-
scribed by law. 
§ 4127. Every Justice of the Peace should designate some
one day in every month, when he will attend at his usual 
place of residence, or at some other 'convenient place in his
district, to hear and determine all matters cognizable before
him. 
§ 4128. He is authorized, however, to try any cause that
may be brought before him at any time and at any place 
within the county, unless expressly prohibited by some
positive provision of this Code. . 
§ 4129. Every Justice of the Peace shall keep in a well-
bound book, properly ruled for that purpose, a docket of all 
jud~ments rendered by him, showing m whose favor and
agamst whom each judgment is rendered, the names of the
parties in full, and the date and amount of the judgment. . 
§ 4130. He shall also keep, in the same book, an execution
docket, showing the amount of each execution, in whose 
favor and against whom issued, the date of issuance, to whom 
delivered, the date of return, and by whom returned, and
the substance of the return, specifying particularly whether
satisfied in whole or in part. 
§ 4131. And the Justice shall enter therein, in continuous
order, and in distinct columns, with proper date to each act, 
1. The number of each case.
2. The date of trial, and of each continuance, if any.
3. The names of the parties in full.
4. The amount of the judgment.
5. The name of the stayor, if any.
6. The name of the officer who returns the warrant. 
7. The date of the issuance of such execution, and to
whom delivered. 
8. The bill of costs, the items written in words, with the
amounts in figures. . · 
9. The date of the return of the execution, by whom re­
turned, and the substance of the return. 
§ 4132. A substantial compliance with these requirements
will be sufficient to render the proceedings and entries valid 
for all purposes, so far as the parties litigant are concerned,
and all persons claiming under them. · 
§ 4133. But it is a misdemeanor in the Justice not to keep
the dockets and make the entries required, for which, upon 
conviction, he may be removed from office, and subjects him,
moreover, to a penalty of fifty dollars for each omission, to
be recovered by any one who sues therefor. 
§ 4134. He is also liable in damages to any person injured,
for failing to preserve and keep his papers or dockets. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE I'V. 
WHEN ONE JUSTICE MAY ACT FOR ANOTHER. 
4185. Justices may interchange, on
request. 
4186. One Justice may take any step
in a. cause before another, in
case of vacancy, absence, or
interchange. 
4137. Justice, in case of absence,
should deposit papers with
nearest Justice. 
4188. Presumption is in favor of reg­
uluity of proceedings. 
SECT-IO~ 
4189. In case of vacancy, books, pa,­
pers, etc., should be delivered
to successor, or nearest Jus­
tice. 
4140. To nearest Justice, if judg­
ments ngninst successor. 
4141. Person having possession should
deliver them. · · 
4142. Penalty for neglect.
4148. Justice in possession bas same 
powers as original J uetice. 
§ 4135. In case· of sickness, other disability, or necessary
absence of a Justice at the time fixed for the trial of a cause 
or other proceeding, any other Justice of the county may, at
his request, attend and transact the business for him, with­
out transfer to another office. The entries, in such case, will 
be made in the docket of the Justice at whose office the
business is transacted. 
§ 4136. Any Justice of the Peace, may. issue execution on a
judgment rendered· by another, and take any other step 
necessar,r in the cause, to the enforcement of the rights of
the parties- . 
1. Where the office of the Justice who rendered the judg­
ment is vacant. 
2. Where the Justice absents himself from the district for 
three months together, · 
3. Where he is temporarily absent.
4. By interchange as in the foregoing section.
§ 4137. In case of temporary absence of a Justice from 
his district for more than three months, he shall· deposit his
dockets and papers, to the extent of all unsettled business, 
with the nearest Justice, to be kept and acted upon by him as
provided in the two preceding sections. 
§ 4138. If the judgment be rendered by one Justice, and
execution be issued by another, and in all other cases where 
steps appear to be taken by one Justice instead of another,
the presumption, in the absence of proof to the contrary, is
that the execution WSB issued and steps taken re~ularly. 
§ 4139. Whenever the office of any Justice of the Peace
becomes vacant, by death, removal, or otherwise, all the 
dockets, papers, books, and public laws or statutes pertaining
to the office, shall be delivered over to his successor, if chosen
and qualified, and, if not, to the nearest Justice in the dis-
trict or county, as the case may be, to be kept until a suer
cessor is qualified, and then delivered to such successor on
request. 
§ 4140. If there are any judgments in a magistrate's office 
against t e successor, t e prece mg ustice, 18 . personaa
representatives, or the person in possession of the official 
books and papers, should deliver to the nearest competent
Justice in the district or county all the papers relating to 
those judgments.
§ 4141. Any person into whose possession such books and 
papers may come, shall deliver them to the pro{>er Justice
entitled to their custody, who shall give a receipt accord·
ingly to the person delivering them to him. 
§ 4142. Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with
either of the provisions of the last three sections, may be
proceeded against as prescribed in sections 805-811 ; is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is, moreover, responsible to any party
injured by his neglect or refusal, in damages, 
§ 4143. The Justice having the possession of the official
books and papers of another Justice, by way of succession
or otherwise, may issue executions and other process, and
give transcripts m the same manner and with like effect as
the Justice who rendered the judgment. 
CHAPTER OF THE JUSTICE'S WARRANT, AND BY WHOM EXECUTED. 
8BCTI01' 
CHAPTER 2. 
4144. Justice may require plaintiff' to
give security, or take pauper
oath. 
4146. Should sign no leading preeeas
until written out in full. 
4146. Form of summons or warrant.
4147. Constable proper officer of a 
Justice's court, but sheriff'
may perform duties. 
8BCTl01' 
4148. Justice may depute suitable
person, ·when. 
4149. Who has the powers, and is
subject to liabilities, of a con­ 
stable.
4160. Officer should notify defendant 
§ 4144. Before issuing original process in any civil action,
the Justice may require the plaintiff to give security for the 
prosecution of the action, or take the oath entitling him to
sue without security. 
§ 4145. No Justice of the Peace shall sign any leading pro-
cess or attac ment, un ess written out at en , so as to e
complete. 
§ 4146. Civil actions before a Justice of the Peace are com-
menced by summons, to be signed and issued by a Justice, in
substance as follows : 
STATE OF TENNESSEE, } • 
county.
To any lawful officer to execute and return : 
of' time and place of trial, if
not in warrant, and return
accordingly. 
Summon A. B. to appear before me, or some other Justice
of the Peace for said county, to answer C. D. in a civil action
by note, ( or upon an account, or otherwise, as the case may
be,) under dollars, this day of 18 . 
. E. F., Justice.
§ 4147. The constable is the proper executive officer ot a 
Justice's court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties
required. 
§ 4148. A Justice may, in writing, specially depute any dis­
creet person, of full age, not being a party, to perform any 
particular duty devolving upon a constable, if no constable 
rs at hand and the business urgent.
§ 4149. The person thus deputized is vested with all the 
powers of a constable for the occasion, and is subject to the
same obligations and penalties. 
§ 4150. If the time and place of trial is not fixed in the war­
rant, the officer serving it shall notify'the defendant of the 
time and place, and make his return accordingly. 
CHAPTER 3. 
OF THE TRIAL BEFORE JUSTICES, AND ITS INCIDENTS. 
8.CTIOB
8BCTION 
4151. Parties entitled to one hour
after time fixed for trial. 
4162, 4163. Provisions in regard to
continuances. 
4164. If neither party appear, and no
evidence filed, suit dismissed
at plaintiff's costs. 
4165. If defendant fail to appear,
Justice shall hear plaintiff's
proof and give judgment. 
4166. If the plaintiff' fail to appear,
Justice shall hear defendant's
proof and give judgment. 
4167. Plaintiff' must file evidence ot 
debt.
4168. If he fails, and appeals, 0&oh 
required.
4169. Or judgment stayed by tour, 
without security, as if no
appeal. 
4160. Defendant may have judgment
for excess of set-oft'. 
4161. Either party may remit excess
over Justice's jurisdiction. 
4162. It excess of set-oft' exceed
jurisdiction, defendant may
credit plaintiff' and have coets, 
4163. Justice shall read over entries,
if required. 
4164. He shall also furnish transcript
on demand. 
4166. Which shall be evidence.
4166. To be used out of county, must 
be aceompanied by .certificate 
ot clerk. 
§ 4151. The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour in
which to appear after the time fixed for trial, and neither 
party is bound to wait longer for the other.
§ 4152. Continuances may be had, for the purpose of obtain- 
in~ evidence not then in reach, upon good cause shown by
affidavit, specifying the testimony relied on, and filed with the
papers; but no second continuance, by the same party, shall
be allowed except on payment of all costs; nor third con-
tinuance unless the party applying shall give bond, with good
security, in a sufficient sum, to abide by and perform the 
judgment. The continuance shall in no case exceed sixty
days. 
§ 4153. Either party applying for a continuance, shall, if
required by the opposite party, consent that the testimony
of any witness in attendance be then taken, to be used on
the trial of the cause. 
§ 4154. If neither party appears at the time and placed fixed
for trial, or demands a trial, and no evidence has been filed 
with the Justice, the suit shall be dismissed at the plaintiff's
cost. 
§ 4155. If the defendant does not appear, the Justice shall
proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the plaintiff
and shall render judg:ment thereon for the amount to which
he shows himself entitled under the warrant. 
§ 4156. If the plaintiff fails to appear or file the evidences
of his claim, the Justice may hear the allegations and proofs 
of the defendant, and render such judgment-as, in his opin-
ion, the nature of the case requires. • 
§ 4157. In all causes.for the collection of a debt, by note or
otherwise, before Justices of the Peace, the plaintiff shall file 
with the warrant the evidences of his claim on or before the
day of trial. . 
§ 4158. If he fails to comply with this requirement, and the
Justice renders judgment against him for the costs, the plain­ 
tiff shall, in case he appeals, make oath before the Justice,
or the court to which the appeal is taken, that the evidence
of indebtedness was not withheld from the trial with a view 
to deprive the defendant of the benefit of the stay allowed
by law. 
§ 4159. Should he appeal, and fail or refuse to make the
oath, the court, if satisfied that the plaintiff intended to evade 
the provisiona of section 3059, shall enter stay of execution
on the face of the judgment until the expiration of eight
months from the date of the trial below, and without secu- 
rity. .
§ 4160. If the· defendant pleads a set-off to the plaintiff's 
debt, and it appears that there is a balance due in favor of
the defendant, the Justice shall enter up judgment in favor
of the defendant, and against the plaintiff for such balance. 
§ 4161. If the sum found for either plaintiff or defendant
exceed the jurisdiction of the J ustice, such party may remit
the excess, and take judgment for the residue; but he cannot
afterwards sue for the amount so remitted. 
§ 4162. If the residue upon the defendant's set-off, after
satisfying the plaintiff's debt, exceed the magistrate's ~·uris- 
ietion, t e e en ant may enter on t e usttce s oc et a
satisfaction of so much of his claim as the amount of the 
plaintiff's demand as ascertained by the Justice, and tender
the plaintiff a receipt for the amount thus set off, in which
case judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant
for costs . 
§ 4163. After a suit is decided and disposed of, the Justice
shall, if required, read over to the parties the entries made 
by him on his docket.
§ 4164. He shall also furnish a transcript of the proceedings 
in any cause, including the process and written evidence
filed, and the entries on his docket, duly certified under his
hand, to any person applying therefor, and paying the legal
fees. 
4165. Such transcript shall be evidence. ·
4166. The transcript, if used. out of the county in which 
the proceedings are had, shall be accompanied by the certi­
ficate of the Clerk of the County Court of the county, under
his seal of office, if he have one, of the official character and 
signature of the Justice. 
§ 4167. Sheriffs, coroners, and constables, and their sureties,
are liable to judgment bl. motion for the amount to which
the plaintiff is entitled, with interest, and dam~es at the rate
of twelve and one half per cent., in the following cases: 
1. Before any Justice of the county, where such officer,
by virtue of his office, collects or receives money upon any
debt or demand, under a magistrate's jurisdiction, put into
his hands for collection, and fails to pay it over to the person
entitled, whether he collected or received the money before
or after the issuance of a warrant, or before or after the rendi-
tion of judgment. · 
2. Before the Justice having legal custody of the papers,
where an. execution from a Justice having come to his hands,
he fails to return it within thirty days after its issuance. 
3. Or where, having collected money on execution issued
by a Justice, he fails or refuses to pay it. 
4. Ile is also liable before any Justice of the county, to 
motion by any Justice or. witness, for failing to pay over
costs on execution, collected and due him, or failing to re­
turn execution issued for such cost; and any number of cases
in favor of one Justice or witness may be Joined in one mo­
tion. 
§ 4168. The inability of the officer to make due return of an
execution, under the ~rovisions of the preceding section, on .
account of sickness, high water, or engagement in executing
any precept on behalf of the State, will be a sufficient excuse
to discharge the officer from the penalties prescribed. 
§ 4169. The officer, if to be found in the county, shall have
five days' notice, in writing, of the time and place of motion. 
§ 4170. And the plaintiff, before he is entitled to judgment
against the sureties, shall produce to the Justice a certified 
copy of the official bond or such officer.
§ 4171. When any surety or stayor is compelled to pay a 
Justice's judgment against a principal debtor, for which he
is liable, he may, by motion before the Justice having legal
custody of the judgment, recover judgment against the prm­
eipal debtor for the judgment with interest and costs, or
against a co-surety or stayor, for his ratable part thereof,
which judgment is not liable to be stayed, except by consent 
of the surety in writing. · 
SECTION 
41 i2. Replevin. 
4172. Proceedings in replevin may be conducted before
Justices, as prescribed in sections 3394-3399. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE IL 
ARTICLE III. 
41i8. Justice may proceed by attach­
ment. 
41 i 4. To the extent of hie jurisdic­
tion of cause of action. 
REPLEVIN. 
ATTACHMENT. 
SECTION 
41 i5. Proceedings, after attachment,
same as in other cases. 
4173. Justices of the Peace have jurisdiction to proceed
by attachment against the property of the defendant, in the 
same way as the courts of record, under the rules, regula­
tions, and provisions in this Code prescribed in regard to
proceedings by attachment, as far as the same are applicable,
and not controlled by other express provisions. 
417 4. The jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace in such
cases, is limited to the amount of their jurisdiction over the
subject-matter of suit, or cause of action. 
4175. The proceedings after the issuance and service of
attachment, and on the trial and enforcement of the plain­
tiff's claim, are the same as if the suit had been commenced
in the ordinary way, the rights acquired by the attachment
being governed by the provisions of this Code regulating
attachments. · 
CHAPTER OF THE PRESU~IPTION IN FAVOR OF JUSTICE'S PROCEED~NGS .: 
8BCTIOR 
CHAPTER 5. 
4176. Every intendment in favor of
validity of Just.ice's proceed­
ings. 
4177. Nor shall any case, if taken up,
be dismissed for want of form, 
§ 4176. Every intendment is in favor of the sufficiency and
validity of proceedings before Justices of the Peace, when
brought in question, either directly or collaterally, in any of 
the courts of the State, where it appears on the face of the
proceedings that the Justice has jurisdiction of the subject­ 
matter and of the parties.
§ 4177. No civil case originating before a Justice of the 
Peace and carried to a higher court, shall be dismissed by
such court for any informality whatever, but shall be tried
on its merits; and the court shall allow all amendments in 
the form of action, the parties thereto, or the statement of
the cause of action, necessary to reach the merits, upon such
terms as may be deemed just and proper. 
§ 4178. An appeal bond returned with other papers to
the Circuit Court, is prima facie evidence that an appeal was
prayed and granted, but the presumption may be rebutted
by proof that an appeal was not prayed and obtained within 
. the time allowed by law. 
SECTION 
TITLE 7. 
OF THE COUNTY COURT·. 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Organization and Order of Business·
of the County Court. 
CHAPTER 2. Of the County Judge and his Court ..
CHAPTER 8. Of the Jurisdiction, Powers, and Duties of 
the County Court. 
but heard on merits, and
amendments allowed. 
4178. Appeal bond presumptive of
appeal prayed and granted. 
OF THE ORGANIZATION AND ORDER OF BUSINESS OF THE 
8J:OTI01' 
41 i9. County Court consists of the
Justices, and is held monthly. 
4180. It is divided into the quarterly
and quorum court. 
4181. Quarterly courts are held fint
Mondays of January, April, ·
July, and October. 
4182. Justices, at first term each
year, to appoint three Justices
to hold the quorum court. 
4188. And fill vacancy in quorum at
next quarterly court. 
4184. Three J ustieea necessary to any
business, unless there · is a
County Judge. 
4185. Provision for adjournment from
day to day. 
4186. No discontinuance for failing to
hold court. 
4187. Chairman elected at tint term
each year. 
§ 4179. The County Court consists of the Justices of the
county, and is held monthly on the first Monday of each
month for the transaction of business, and may be continued
from day to day until the public business before the court is
disposed of. 
§ 4180. It is divided into a quarterly and a quorum court,
the first being held by all or any number of the Justices neces­
sary to transact business, the latter by any three or more of
the J usticcs. 
§ 4181. All business in the County Court required to be
done by more than three Justices of the Peace, shall be
done at the quarterly sessions, to be held on the first Mon­
days of January, April, July, and October of each year; and
it is the duty of all the Justices to attend at these sessions. 
§ 4182. The Justices of each county, at the first term of
every year, shall appoint three of their body to hold the
County Court on the first Monday of every month, the quar­
terly court taking precedence for the dispatch of business
when in session. 
§ 4183. In case or' vacancy in the quorum, the court at its
next quarterly term shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired 
time. · 
CHAPTER 1. 
COUNTY COURT. 
8BCTI01' 
4188. All business presented by Chair­
man or County Judge. 
4189. Chairman pro tem. ma1 be
elected. 
4190. Majority of all the Justices re­
quired to le-,y tax, or appro­
priate over $50. 
4191. One-third, or twelve, may
transact all other business. 
4192. Three Just.ices may transact all
business f~ which a larger
number ia not expressly re­
quired. 
4198. County tax should be levied at
first term. 
4194. Elections should be on first day
of term. 
4195. The vote on appropriations
shall be by ayes and noes. 
4196. Procedure, ~hen jurisdiction
concurrent. 
§ 4184. It requires three Justices at least to constitute a
County Court for the transaction of business, except in 
counties in which a County Judge is provided for by law.
§ 4185. When a sufficient number of Justices do not attend 
on any day for the dispatch of business, the Justices attend-
ing may adjourn from day to day, until a sufficient number
attend; and if no Justice attend, the sheriff, or, in his
absence, the clerk, may adjourn the court in the same
manner. 
§ 4186. No discontinuance of process, or any matter or
thing depending in said court, shall be produced by a failure 
to hold court at any regular session. .
§ 4187. The Justices of the Peace of said court, a majority 
being present, at their first term in every year, except in
counties where a County Judge is provided for, shall elect a
chairman, who holds his office for one year and until his suc-
cessor is appointed; and who presides over the deliberations
of the court, and performs such other duties as now are or
may be assigned him by law. 
§ 4188. All business for the action of the court shall be pre-
sented to the Judge or Chairman, who shall announce the 
same to the court and take the vote thereon; and no busi-
ness shall be acted on by the court unless presented as herein
required, except by the consent of a majority of the Justices
present. 
§ 4189. In the absence of the Judge or Chairman at any
term, the court may appoint a Chairman pro tempore, who 
is vested with all the powers, for the time being, of the regu-
lar Chairman. 
§ 4190. A majority of all the magistrates of the county is
required to levy a tax, or to appropriate public money to an 
amount over fifty dollars.
§ 4191. One-third or twelve of the acting Justices in each 
county mar appropriate p~blic money for county purposes,
not exceedmg fifty dollars m any one case, and may do and 
transact all other business not embraced in the preceding section. . 
§ 4192. Three Justices of the Peace, at their sessions, con-
stitute a court, and may transact all business for the per- 
formance of which a larger number is not expressly provided.
§ 4193. The County Courts are required, at the first term in 
every year, to impose and provide for the collection of the
tax for county purposes, and fix the rate thereof; but if they
omit such duty at the first term, it shall be performed at the
April, or any subsequent quarterly session. 
§ 4194. The elections for county officers devolving on the
County Courts, should be made on the first day of the term;
but the Justices present may, in their discretion, adjourn
any election to the following day. 
§ 4195. In making appropriations of money, the vote of the
~ ustices present shall be taken by ayes and noes, the clerk 
calling and recording the name of each Justice, together
with his vote, aye or no, as it is given, which shall be entered
on the minutes, together with the items of allowance. 
§ 4196. The mode of procedure in the County Court, where
the jurisdiction is concurrent either with the Circuit or Chan­
cery Court, shall be, as near as may be, according to the rules
and regulations laid down for the conduct of similar business
in those courts. 
SECTION 
CHAPTER 2. 
OF TUE COUNTY JUDGE AND HIS COURT. 
4197. County Judge has the jurisdic­
tion and power of quorum
court. 
4198. Holds regular aessions on the
first Monday of each month. 
§ 4197. The quorum court of the several counties authorized
to elect a County Judge, is abolished, and the Judge shall
have and exercise all the jurisdiction and powers now belong-
ing to the said quorum court. . 
§ 4198. The County Court to be held by the County Judge,
shall have its regular sessions on the first Monday of each
month; but on the Mondays of the quarterly sessions of
the County Court, the business requiring the presence of
all, or any of the Justices of the county; shall be first dis­
posed of; and the court shall sit from day to day, so long as
the business thereof may require. 
§ 4199. The County Clerk shall be the Clerk of the County
Court to be held by the County Judge. 
§ 4200. The County Judge is not precluded from practicing
in the Supreme, Chancery, Circuit, and Criminal Courts of 
but shall not act as counsel in any case going up
from his court. · 
CHAPTER 3. 
OF THE JURISDICTION, POWERS, AND DUTIES OF THE COUNTY
COURT. 
SECTION I SBOTIO• 
SECTION 
4199. County Court Clerk, clerk of
this court. 
4200. County Judge may practice in
higher courts, but not in any
case from his court. 
4201. Original jurisdiction of the 4202. County Judge Tested with this
County Court. jurisdiction. 
8•CTIOlf 
4203. Vested with · all nece88&ry
power. 
4204. And with power of court with
which it hu concurrent juris­
diction. 
4205. Examples.
4206. Jurisdiction over local improve­ 
ments.
4207. To appoint commissioners for 
towns, turnpikes, etc.
4208. Over bastards and bastardy.
4209. To give consent of State to 
emancipation of slaves.
4210. Over free negroes desiring to 
§ 4201. The County Court has original jurisdiction in the
following cases : 
· 1. The probate of wills.
2. The granting of letters testamentary, and of adminis- 
tration, and the repeal and revocation thereof. 
3. All controversies in relation to the right of executorship
or of administration. 
4. The settlement of accounts of executors or adminis- 
trators. 
5. The partition and distribution of the estates of dece-
dents ; and for these purposes, the power to sell the real and 
personal property belonging to such estates, if necessary to
make the partition and distribution, or if manifestly for the
interest of the parties. 
6. The settlement of insolvent estates; and for this purpose
to sell real or personal property belonging thereto,. at the 
instance of the personal representative, or the creditors, 
where the amount of the estate does not exceed three thou- 
sand dollars.
7. The appointment and removal of guardians for minors, 
and persons of unsound mind, and all controversies as to the
right of guardianship, and the settlement of guardian ac-
counts. · 
8. The allotment of dower in lands.
9. The partition, sale or division of land and slaves. 
10. The changing of names, and the ]egitimation and
adoption of children. 
11. The issuance of inquisitions of unsoundness of mind.
12. The binding out of apprentices, and all controversies 
between master and apprentice. ·
13. All other matters of which jurisdiction is conferred 
by law.
§ 4202. And in such counties as have a County Judge, he 
shall have the powers above enumerated.
§ 4203. Such courts are expressly vested, over all subjects 
enumerated in the foregoing section, with all the power and
authority necessary and proper to the exercise of the juris­
diction therein conferred. 
§ 4204. The County Court is, moreover, in cases of con­
current jurisdiction, vested with all the incidental powers
belonging to, or conferred by law upon the court with which
its jurisdiction is concurrent, for the purpose of exercising
and effectuating such jurisdiction. 
§ 4205. The court may, accordingly, appoint commissioners
to make sale of real or personal property, taking bond and
security for the faithful performance of duty, when deemed
necessary; may revise, set aside, or confirm the proceedings
of such commissioners, as other courts; give judgments or
decrees upon notes and obligations taken in the progress of
a cause; and relieve, upon petition, any purchaser or party,
or person interested, hy opening biddings, setting aside sales,
or otherwise, like the Circuit or Chancery Court in similar
cases. 
§ 4206. The establishment and general supervision of roads
and ferries, water-courses and local improvements, is intrusted 
to the County Court, as provided in sections 1241-1273. 
§ 4207. They have power to appoint commissioners for
towns, turnpikes, toll-bridges, and other public. improve­
ments, and to fill all vacancies that may at any time occur
among the commissioners, as prescribed in sections 1277 and 
1314, etc. 
§ 4208. The court has also original jurisdiction over bastardy
and bastards, and general supervision of the latter. 
§ 4209. The power to give the consent of the State to the
emancipation of slaves, when allowed by law, is intrusted to 
the Countv Court.
§ 4210. The quarterly courts have power over emancipated 
slaves and free negroes desiring to remain in the State, as 
provided in this Code. 
§ 4211. They have also full power to lay any tax, from time 
to time, and at any time that they may think proper, to
build any court-house, jail, ·or public office for county pur­
poses. 
§ 4212. They may exempt any indigent, decrepit, or other
persons, unable by manual labor or physical exertion to ob­
tain a living, from working on the public roads, or paying 
poll-tax, or both, as provided in section 1620; or allow 
persons to hawk and peddle, without license, as provided in section 1619. ' 
§ 4213. They may release from double taxes, when they have
been incurred, and correct errors in the tax list. 
§ 4214. They have power to erect or control, and dispose of
public county buildings, as provided in sections 408-414. 
§ 4215. The County Court may appropriate mone):s as fol­
lows: 
1. For the payment of jurors. 
2. For the payment of the costs of criminal prosecutions,
chargeable, ·by law, to the county. 
3. For the support of the poor, lunatics, and idiots.
4. For the burial expenses of any poor person dying in the 
county, leaving no means to pay for the same.
· 5. For the purchase of record books for the use of the 
County, Circuit, and Chancery Court Clerks, and the County
Register. 
6. To pay Justices of the quorum court.
7. To pay solicitors, sheriffs, and clerks, for ex officio 
services.
8. To pay clerks for making out tax lists.
9. To pay County Judge or Chairman for his services as 
financial agent of the county.
10. To pay County Judge for other services.
11. To pay commissioners for settling· with the officers 
intrusted with the collection of the public or county revenue. 
12. For building, repairing, and taking care of court-
houses, jails, and other county buildings. 
18. For purchasing tools for overseers of roads. 
14. To erect stray pens.
15. For weights and measures.
16. For building bridges. 
17. To compensate a Justice of the Peace and officers
concerned in the arrest and examination of a person charged
with a felony, as provided in this Code. 
18. For compensation of assessor and clerk for making
out statement of the strength of militia. 
§ 4216. But not for any other purpose, unless specially pro-
vided for by law. 
§ 4217. No money shall be drawn out of the county treasury
except upon a warrant signed by the Chairman of the County
Court, or by the County Judge where provided for. 
TITLE 8. 
O F T HE C I R c u IT C o'n R T. 
CHAPTER 1 .. Of the Terms of the Circuit Court, and Ad-
journments thereof. · 
CHAPTER 2. 'Of the Jurisdiction and Powers of the Circuit
Court. 
CHAPTER 3. Of the Practice of the Circuit Court. 
OF THE TERMS OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, AND ADJOURNMENTS
THEREOF. 
8ZCTION 
CHAPTER 1. 
4218. Term to continue until business
dispatched, unless Judge com­
pelled to bold other court. 
4219. But trial commenced, to be fin­
ished before adjournment • 
4220. The clerk authorized to adjourn
the court, when. 
4221. Eff'eot of such adjournment on
process. 
8BCTION 
4222. No discontinuance, because
court not held any day after
term begun. 
4223. Nor on account of non-attend­
ance, or death of Judge. 
. 4224. Parties may make up pleadings,
although Judge fail to attend. 
§ 4218. Each of the Circuit Courts shall continue until the
business of the term is dispatched, unless the Judge is sooner
comrelled to leave in order to arrive in time at the next sue­
ceedmg court of the circuit. 
§ 4219. But in no case, after the trial of a cause is com­
menced, shall the Judge adjourn the court until the cause is
tried, except in cases where the jury cannot agree, or, from
some other cause, a mis-trial is ordered. 
§ 4220. It is the duty of the Circuit Judge to attend and
hold his court at the time appointed by law ; but if, for any 
reason, he fails to appear, the clerk may open and adjourn
the court for the first three days of the term ; and if no
Judge attend by four o'clock on the fourth day of the term, 
the court shall }2e adjourned by the clerk to the court in
course. 
§ 4221. All recognizances, process, and other proceedings,
returnable to the term, and not acted upon by the clerk 
under the provisions of this Code, shall be considered as re-
turnable to the next succeeding term. . 
§ 4222. If, from any cause, the court is not held on any day·
of the term after it has been opened, there shall be no dis­
continuance, but, so soon as the cause is removed, the court
may proceed to business as before. 
§ 4223. None of the proceedings pending in the Circuit
Courts of this State shall be 'discontinued by the non-attend­
ance of the Judge at any term, or his death at any time ;
but, in such cases, all matters depending shall stand con­
tinued to the next succeeding term. 
§ 4224. The non-attendance of the Circuit Judge shall not
prevent the parties from · making up their pleadings in the
appearance causes. 
CHAPTER OF THE JURISDICTION AND POWERS OF THE CIRCUIT COURT. 
SBCTIO. 
CHAPTER 2. 
4225. Circuit Courts are courts or
general jurisdiction. 
4226. And ban exclusive original
jurisdiction of State cases. 
4227. Exclusive jurisdiction of issues
to try validity of wills. 
4228. Of applications to be restored
to citizenship. 
4229. Jurisdiction to enter judgments
on awards and agreed cases. 
4280. Concurreni jurisdiction with
Justices of demands over $50. 
4281. With County Court, to change
names, and over legitimation
and adoption. 
SsoTION 
4282. With Chancery Court, to grant
divorces, and over trustees. 
4288. With Chancery and County
Court, over dower, partition,
and distribution. 
4284. Appellate jurisdiction of all
actions instituted before any
inferior tribunal. 
4285. May abate nuisances like -a 
Court of Chancery, when.
4286. May hear, or transfer, equity 
causes. 
4287. May make rules of practice. 
§ 4225. The Circuit Courts of this State are courts of
general jurisdiction, and the Judges thereof shall administer
right and justice according to law, in all cases where the
jurisdiction is not conferred upon another tribunal. 
§ 4226. They have exclusive original jurisdiction of all pleas
of the State for crimes and misdemeanors, either at common
law or by statute, unless otherwise expressly provided by this
Code. 
§ 4227. They have exclusive jurisdiction to try and deter-
mine all issues made up to contest the validity of last wills 
and testaments.
§ 4228. They have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and deter- 
mine applications to be restored to citizenship, made by per-
sons who have been rendered infamous by the judgment of
any court of this State. 
§ 4229. They have jurisdiction to enter judgments on awards
of arbitrators, and to hear and determine agreed cases. 
§ 4230. The Circuit Courts have jurisdiction concurrent with
Justices of the Peace, to the extent of the jurisdiction of the 
latter, of all debts and demands on contract over fifty dollars.
§ 4231. They have concurrent jurisdiction with the County 
Courts, to change and alter the names of persons, to legiti-
mate children, and to authorize the adoption of children. 
§ 4232. They have concurrent jurisdiction with the Chancery
Courts to grant divorces, to release testamentary and other
trustees, and to appoint trustees in the place of those re-
leased or dead, and also to decree on petitions of trustees, by 
will or otherwise, for the sale of property real or personal. 
§ 4233. They have concurrent jurisdiction with the Chancery
and County Courts to allot dower, to make partition and 
distribution, and, for this purpose, to sell property, real or
personal, if necessary, or manifestly to the interest of the
parties ; and to sell negroes or land to pay debts of decedents 
personal assets are insufficient.
§ 4234. Theh have an appellate jurisdiction of all suits and 
actions, of' w atsoever nature or description, instituted before
any inferior jurisdiction, whether brought before them by 
appeal, certiorari, or in any other manner prescribed by law.
§ 4235. They are clothed with all the powers of the Chan- 
cery Court to abate nuisances, in an action brought for the
recovery of damages resulting from a nuisance, upon the
finding of a jury that the subject-matter of complaint is a
nuisance, and judgment entered thereon. 
§ 4236. Any suit of an equitable nature, brought in the
Circuit Court, where objection has not been taken by de­
murrer to the jurisdiction, may be transferred to the Chan­ 
cery Court of the county or district, or heard and determined.
by the Circuit Court, upon the principles of a court of equity,
with power to order and take all proper accounts, and other-
wise to perform the functions of a Court of Chancery. 
§ 4237. They may make all such rules of practice as may be
deemed expedient, consistent with law, and may revise the
same as often as thought proper. 
§ 4238. The declaration of the plaintiff shall be filed within
the first three days of the term to which the writ is returns- 
ble, otherwise the suit may, upon motion of the defendant,
be dismissed at plaintiff's cost. 
§ 4239. The defendant shall appear and demur or plead
within the first two days after the time allotted for filing the 
declaration, otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment by
default. 
§ 4240. The plaintiff and defendant shall, within the first
two days after each subsequent step taken by the other in 
making up an issue, demur or plead thereto, on penalty of 
having the suit dismissed, or judgment taken by. default, 
according as the failure is by the plaintiff or defendant. 
§ 4241. The court may, however, enlarge the time for plead-
ing, upon application of either party, in proper cases, or 
excuse the failure to plead within the time prescribed, upon
good cause shown. 
§ 4242. In cases where either party appears in person, and
the cause of action is founded upon a specialty, note, or
liquidated account, signed by the party to be charged, the 
cause may be tried in a summary way, without pleadings in
writing. 
§ 4243. A demurrer stands for argument at the term at
which it is filed. 
§ 4244. If the demurrer of the defendant is overruled, a writ
of inquiry is awarded and returned at the same term, unless
good cause for continuance be shown. 
§ 4245. Continuances are regulated by the provisions of sections 2941-2944, and may always be granted by the court,
upon good cause shown, in any stage of the action, for 
argument or trial.
§ 4246. The plaintiff may, at any time during the pendency 
of an action, dismiss as to any one or more of the defend-
ants, and proceed against the others. 
§ 4247. A general verdict, although it may not in terms
answer every issue .joiued, is nevertheless held to embrace 
every issue, unless exception is taken at the term at which
the verdict is rendered. 
§ 4248. If the verdict, in an action for specific personal
property, omit to find the value of the articles, the court 
may award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the value. 
§ 4249. If, however, on an issue embracing several articles,
the verdict be for part only, it is not error, but the title or 
claim to those articles omitted is barred. · 
CHAPTER OF CERTAIN SPECIAL COURT& 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Criminal Court of Davidson, Ruther­
ford, and Montgomery, and of the City of
Memphis. 
CHAPTER 2. Of the Common Law and Chancery Court
of Memphis. 
CHAPTER 3. Of the Common Law and Criminal Court of
Obion County. 
CHAPTER 4. Of the Law Court at Chattanooga. 
OF THE CRIMIN AL COURT OF DAVIDSON, RUTHERFORD, A1'"D
MONTGOMERY, AND OF THE CITY OF MEMPHIS. 
8BOTI01'
8KCTIOH 
4250. Jurisdiction of crimes and of- 
fences. 
TITLE 9. 
CHAPTER 1. 
4261. Circuit Courts of Davidson, etc.,
may empanel grand jury. 
4252. Officers required to attend these
courts, 
4253. Judge appoints juries.
4254. Provisions of Code in relation 
to Circuit Courts, apply to
these courts. 
4256. Sheriff' and clerk to give bond.
4256. Clerk of Criminal Court of l\lem­ 
phis.
4257. Clerk of Criminal Court of 
Davidson elected by people.
4258. Bond required. 
§ 4250. The Criminal Courts for the counties of Rutherford,
Davidson, and Montgomery, and the Criminal Court of
Memphis, have all the jurisdiction given to the Circuit
Courts, for the trial and puuishment of crimes and offences 
against the Stare, within their respective limits, to the exclu­
sion of the Circuit Courts, except so far as it is otherwise
expressly provided. 
§ 4251. The Circuit Courts of Davidson, Montgomery, and
Rutherford, still retain jurisdiction of criminal matters, so
far as to empanel a grand jury at their regular terms to find
bills of indictment and presentment, to be transferred imme­
diately, with all the papers, by the clerk of said courts, to the 
Clerk of the Criminal Courts.
§ 4252. The Attorneys General, sheriffs, and Circuit Court 
clerks, (in case there is no clerk elected for the special court,)
of the several counties, shall attend the terms of said court, 
and perform the duties by law required of them respectively,
in relation to the criminal business of the Circuit Courts,
receiving the same compensation therefor. 
§ 4253. The Judge of each of these courts shall, from time
to time, appoint a grand jury and two petit juries, to attend 
its regular and special terms.
§ 4254. The provisions of this Code in relation to the Circuit 
Courts and their officers, shall apply to the special courts in
this Title in like cases, unless otherwise directed. 
§ 4255. The sheriff and clerks (where there is no clerk
elected for the particular court) shall be required to give
bond and security, J?ayable to the State, to the satisfaction
of the Judge of said court, in the sum of five thousand
dollars each, for the faithful discharge of their duties under
the provisions of this Code. . 
§ 4256. The Clerk of the common law side of the Common
Law and Chancery Court of the city of Memphis, is the 
Clerk of the Criminal Court of Memphis.
§ 4257. A clerk for the Criminal Court of Davidson county 
is elected by the voters of said county, at the same time and
for the same term as Clerks of the Circuit Court. 
§ 4258. He shall execute bond with good security to be
approved by the court, in the sum of five thousand dollars,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his
office, and the payment to those entitled, of all fines, for­
feitures, and other moneys, which may come to his hands
as such clerk, and be liable on said bond by motion or
otherwise, as Circuit Court Clerks. 
SECTION OF THE COMMON LAW AND CHANCERY COURT OF MEMPIDS. 
81:0TIOlf 
CHAPTER 2. 
4269. Has general jurisdiction of
caaee at law. 
4260. Judge may •dopt rules of prac­
tice. 
SmcTioH
4261. Appoint clerk.
4262. Appoint jurors.
4268. County officers required to at­ 
tend court. 
8.ICTIOl!I' 
4264. Court may bear cues brought up 
by persons tried and convicted 
by recorder.
4266. Evidence to be taken down and 
certified to court. 
S~OTIOM 
4266. Cost of appeal.
4267. Appeal lies to no other court.
4268. Trial of cause ; new testimony 
heard.
4269. Certiorari in such eaees limited. 
§ 4259. The Common Law and Chancer, Court of the city
of Memphis, has general common law jurisdiction of all cases
at law of a commercial or civil nature. 
§ 4260. The Judge of this court may adopt rules of practice
both on the common law and Chancery side of the court,
in the same manner as other Judges and Chancellors have
power to do in similar cases. 
§ 4261. The clerk of the Chancery side of said court shall
be appointed by the Judge of said court, as clerks and
masters of Chancery Courts are appointed, and he shall
give bond, qualify, discharge his duties, and receive com-
pensation as other clerks and masters, with like privileges,
and subject to like penalties. 
§ 4262. The Judge shall issue a venire for twenty-four jurors
to attend each term of the common law side of said court.
and may enforce their attendance by fine and otherwise, as 
the Circuit Courts.
§ 4263. The attendance of county officers is likewise required 
and enforced as in said courts.
§ 4264. Said court is authorized to hear and determine cases 
brought to that court by persons tried and convicted before
the recorder. of the city of Memphis, for offences arising
under the charters or ordinances of that city, or for any
misdemeanor. 
§ 4265. Any person so convicted may demand of the recorder
to have the evidence in said cause taken down in writing
at the time, and certified under the hand and seal of the
recorder, who shall transmit the same, upon the defendant's
entering into bond with approved security in double the
amount of the fine and costs, conditioned as on appeal from
a Justice of the Peace, to the next ensuing term of the law 
side of the said Common Law and Chancery Court.
§ 4266. For taking said bond, and makinz up and certifying 
the record, two dollars and fifty cents sha1l be taxed in the
bi) l of costs. 
§ 4267. No cause shall be removed from before said recorder
into any other or higher court, except as herein provided. 
§ 4268. Upon the removal of the cause to the Common Law
and Chancery Court, the Judge shall try and determine it
upon the evidence so written, together with such other testi­
mony as may be offered by either· party. And if, upon the
trial, the judgment of the recorder is affirmed, the Judge
shall give judgment against' the defendant and his sureties,
for the fine and costs. 
§ 4269. No writ of certiorari and supersedeaa shall be
granted to remove any cause from before said recorder, 
except upon and for his refusal to take down, certify, and
send up the record as aforesaid. 
SECTION I S•cTION 
4270. Clerk elected by the people. 4271. Sheriff shall appoint deputy to
reaide in district. 
§ 4270. The clerk shall be elected by the qualified voters of
that part of the county west of Reel-foot Lake, who shall
qualify, give bond, and discharge his duties aa' other clerks,
with like privileges, and subject to like penalties. 
§ 4271. The sheriff of Obion county shall a1 point one of the
citizens of said county a deputy, who shal qualify as other
deputies, and reside in said distriot. 
SECTION 
S•OTIOH 
4272. Jurisdiction. 
· 4273. Over persons.
4274. Local jurisdiction; counterpart 
writs. 
CHAPTER 3. 
. . 
OF THE COMMON LAW AND CRIMINAL COURT OF OBION
COUNTY. 
CHAPTER 4. 
OF THE LA. W COURT AT CHATTANOOGA. 
4276. Indictments.
4276. Clerk to keep an office at Chat­ 
tanooga.
4277, 4278. Judge to select juries. 
§ 4272. The law court at Chattanooga has general common
law jurisdiction, in all cases at law, of a civil or criminal
character, arising in the fourth and fourteenth civil districts
of Hamilton county. 
§ 4273. Except in real actions, no citizen of Hamilton county 
residing out of said district.ishall be sued in said court, un-
less he waive his right to be sued in the Circuit.Court of said
county, by acknowledging service of the writ returnable to 
said special court. . 
§ 4274. No resident of said districts shall be sued in the Cir-
cuit Court of the county, unless it be in a local action for
property lying- in the county, out of said districts. When the
court has jurisdiction of the cause of action, counterparts of
writs may issue from said court, for joint defendants residing
beyond the limits of said fourth and fourteenth districts. 
§ 4275. No resident of said districts shall be indicted in tlie
Circuit Court, unless the offence was committed in the county
out of said districts. 
§ 4276. The Clerk of the Circuit Court of Hamilton county,
shall be clerk of said court, and keep an office, by himself, 
or deputy, at Chattanoog-a, which shall be constantly open
for the transaction of business. . 
§ 4277. The Judge of the fourth circuit shall select, within
said fourth and fourteenth districts, juries necessary to trans­
act the business of the court. 
§ 4278. But when, from public excitement, or' other cause,
the Judge deems it necessary, he may order the summons of
competent persons to serve as jurors in said court, from the
body of Hamilton county. 
TITLE 10. 
OF THE CHANCERY COURT. 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Jurisdiction of the Chancery Court.
CHAPTER 2. Of the Pleadings in the Chancery Court.
CHAPTER 3. Of the Practice· of the Courts of Chancery. 
CHAPTER 1. 
OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE CHANCERY COURT. 
ARTICLE I. Exclusive Jurisdiction.
II. Concurrent Jurisdiction.
ill. Personal and Local Jurisdiction. 
SECTION 
4279. Existing jurisdiction continued.
4280. Causes of an equitable nature 
over $60. 
4281. But not under that sum.
4282. To aid a creditor to subject 
property, after exhausting le­
gal remedy. 
4288. To subject property held in
trust, except when trust cre­
ated by third person. 
4284. To subject property not liable
to levy by execution. 
4286. The court may order all neces­
sary bonds and transfers. 
4286. Lien upon such equitable assets.
4287. To subject property without 
judgment, when no remedy at
law. 
4288. To set aside fraudulent convey­
ances. 
§ 4279. The Chancery Courts shall continue to have all the
powers, privileges, and jurisdiction, properly and rightfully 
incident to a court of equity, by existing laws.
§ 4280. They have exclusive original jurisdiction of all cases 
of an equitable nature, where the debt or demand exceeds
fifty dollars, unless otherwise provided by this Code. 
§ 4281. They have no jurisdiction of any debt or demand of
less value than fifty dollars. 
§ 4282. They have exclusive jurisdiction to aid a creditor by
judgment or decree, to subject the property of the defendant 
which cannot be reached by execution, to the satisfaction of
the judgment or decree, under the provisions of this Code. 
§ 4283. The creditor, whose execution has been returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, may file a bill in Chancery 
against the defendant in the execution, and any other person
or corporation, to compel the discovery of any property, in-
cluding stocks, choses in action, or money due to such de-
fendant, or held in trust for him, except when the trust has
been created by, or the property so held has proceeded from
some person other than the defendant himself, and the trust
is declared by will duly recorded, or deed duly registered. 
§ 4284. The court has power to compel the discovery, and
to prevent the transfer, payment, or delivery of the property,
and to subject the same to the satisfaction of the judgment  
ARTICLE I. 
EXCLUBIVB JURISDICTION. 
8•0T1ox 
4289. For which purpose, attachment
and injuoction may issue. 
4290. Other creditors may come in by
petition, when. 
·4291. No judgment at law necessary.
4292. Complainant shall have judg­ 
ment for his debt, although
be fail to show fraud. 
4298. Limitation of actions does not
run until right of action ac­
crues. 
4294. Creditors may subject property
of corporation, when fran- 
• ehises not used or transferred.
4296. In which case, receiver may be 
appointed.
4296. Court b.as jurisdiction of suits 
by State against corporations.
4297. To subject property to the satis­ 
faction of foreign judgment,
when. 
or decree, whether such property could, if in the defendant's
possession, or with the title vested in him, be levied upon by 
execution or not.
§ 4285. The court is empowered, also, to order all such 
bonds and other instruments to be executed by either the
complainant or defendant, and all such transfers to be made, 
ae may be necessary to carry the jurisdiction into complete
effect. · 
§ 4286. The creditor has a lien ueon the property from the
filing of his bill, but he may acquire a- lien from the rendi­
tion of the judgment or decree, by causing a memorandum
thereof, within sixty days from its rendition, to be reg!stered
as provided in sections 2984-2985, and by filing his bill with­
in thirty days from the return of the execution unsatisfied. 
§ 4287. In all cases where personal service of process cannot
be made at law, and where no original attachment at law 
will lie, and no judgment at law can be obtained, and also in
cases where the demand is purely of an equitable nature, the 
Court of Chancery has juriqdiction to subject legal and equi­
table interests in every kind of property, with the exception
stated in section 4288, the lien to commence from the filing
of the bill, if the facts are verified by affidavit, and injunction
granted. - 
§ 4288. Any creditor, without first having obtained a judg­
ment at law, may file his bill -in Chancery for himself, or for 
himself and other -creditors, to set aside fraudulent convey­
ances of l?roperty, or other devices resorted to for the pur­
pose of hmdering and delaying creditors, and subject the
property, by sale or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the debt. 
§ 4289. Upon filing the bill, writs of attachment and injunc­
tion may be granted, on complainants giving bond and 
security m such sum as the Chancellor or Judge may order,
conditioned to comply with the orders and decrees of the
court, and to pay such damages as may be awarded, or re­
covered, for wrongfully suing out such attachment or injunc­
tion. 
§ 4290. If the bill is filed by one creditor for himself and
others, the other creditors may make themselves parties at 
any time before final decree, by petition agreeing to join in
the bonds required in the case, and giving bond, with good
security, to the original complainant, and in a sufficient
penalty, to pay their proportional part of the recovery on 
such bonds.
§ 4291. The court has the same power and jurisdiction in all 
respects to set aside fraudulent conveyances and other fraud­
ulent devices, in the cases mentioned in the last three sec­
tions, and to subject the property, by sale or otherwise, to
the payment of debts, as if the creditor had obtained judg­
ment, and execution thereon had been returned unsatisfied. 
§ 4292. And in case the complainant fails to establish the
fraud, the court shall proceed to render judgment on his 
claim, ascertaining the amount, when disputed, by reference
to the clerk and master, or by an issue to be tried by a jury.
But the plaintiff shall pay all costs, except such as are inci-
dent to taking the judgment. 
§ 4293. In no case shall the limitation of actions be held to 
commence _running i~ favor of a fraudulent or voluntary pos- 
sessor, until the creditor to be affected by the fraudulent or
voluntary conveyance, has a right of action to test the validity
of such conveyance. · 
§ 4294. The creditors of a corporation may also; without
first having obtained a judgment at law, file a bill in the 
Court of Chancery, to attach the property of the corporation,
and subject the same, by sale or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of their debts, when the corporate franchises are not used,
or have been granted to others in whole or in part. 
§ 4295. In such cases the court may appoint a receiver, take
an account of the affairs of the corporation, and apply the
property and effects to the payment of debts pro rata, and
divide the surplus, if any, among the stockholders. 
§ 4296. Courts of Chancery have power to hear and deter-
mine all controversies between the State and incorporated
companies, their stockholders or creditors, growing out of
the internal improvement laws of this State, upon bill filed
by the Attorney General on behalf of the State. 
§ 4297. When a judgment has been recovered in atfy other
State against a resident of· such State, and the creditor has 
exhausted his legal remedy, the real or personal property of
the debtor in this State may be subjected to the satisfaction
of such debt, by bill stating the facts under oath, and filed in
the court of the district in which the property is situated. 
SECTION 
CONCURRENT JURISDICTION. 
4298. With County Court, over per­
sons of unsound mind. 
4299. And over inf ante and guardians.
4300. With courts of law, over recov­ 
ery of usury.
4801. With Circuit Court, over pro­ 
ceedings for divorce. 
ARTICLE II. 
8BCTIOM 
4802. With Circuit and County Court,
over partition, and sales of 
land and slaves, and dower.
4803. With other tribunals, of arbi­ 
trations and agreed cases.·
4804. With County Court, to appoint 
an administrator, when. 
§ 4298. The Chancery Court has jurisdiction, concurrent with
the County Court, over the persons and. estates of idiots, 
lunatics, and other persons of unsound mind.
§ 4299. It has also jurisdiction, concurrent with the County 
Court, of the persons and estates of infants, and of the a.p-
pointment and removal of guardians. 
§ 4300. The Court of Chancery has jurisdiction, concurrent
with courts of law, for the abatement and recovery of
usury. 
§ 4301. It has jurisdiction, concurrent with the Circuit Court,
of all proceedings for divorce. 
§ 4302. It has jurisdiction, concurrent with the Circuit and
County Courts, of proceedings for the partition or sale of 
estates, by personal representatives, guardians, heirs, or ·ten­
ants in common ; for the sale of slaves by personal repre­
sentatives or guardians; for the sale of land or slaves at. the
instance of the creditors of the decedent, if the property
other than slaves is insufficient to. satisfy the debts of the 
estate; and for the allotment of dower. 
§ 4303. The Court of Chancery bas jurisdiction, concurrent
with all other judicial tribunals of the State, of arbitration 
and agreed cases under the provisions of this Code. 
§ 4304. The Court of Chancery may, concurrently with the
County Court, appoint an administrator of a decedent's 
estate, six months after the decedent's death, where no per­
son can be procured to administer in the usual way, as pro­
vided in seetioas 2209-2219. 
SECTION 
4306. Jurisdiction ordinarily in per­
sonam, wherever defendant
found. 
4806. Counterpart summons may is­
sue to any county. 
4807. So, with other process.
4808. Causes may be transferred to 
another court, by consent.
4309. Jurisdiction must be resisted 
§ 4305. The Court of Chancery acts ordinarily in personam,
and suit may be instituted wherever the defendant or any
material defendant is found, unless otherwise prescribed by 
law. 
ARTICLE III . 
PERS~NALAND LOCAL JURISDICTION. 
by plea, demurrer, or motion
to dismiss. 
4810. Jurisdiction against sureties,
when had against principal. 
SECTION 
4811. Bills may also be filed:
1. Where any material def end­ 
ant resides.
2. Where any material part of 
land lies.
8. Where suit at law is pending, 
or execution has issued.
4. Where cause of action arose, 
is to be performed, or sub­
ject of suit is. 
5. Where any material part of
property attached is found. 
§ 4306. Counterpart summons, accompanied by copies of the
bill, may be issued to any other counties of the State, for de­ 
fendants not to be found in the county in which the suit is
properly brought. 
§ 4307. In like manner, if the suit is properly instituted,
attachments, injunctions, and all other process known to the 
court, and necessary to attain the ends of justice, may be
issued to any other county. 
§ 4308. Any cause pending in the Chancery Court, may be
transferred, 'by consent of parties, to the Chancery Court of 
another district.
§ 4309. The jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery in which 
suit is brought, can only be resisted by plea in abatement,
demurrer, or motion to dismiss. . 
§ 4310. The Court of Chancery has jurisdiction, in all cases
for the performance of covenants and collateral conditions,
against the sureties in an obligation, when it has juris-
diction against the principal. 
§ 4311. The local jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery is,
also, subject to the following rules: 
1. The bill may be filed m the chancery district in which
the defendant or a material defendant resides; and if, upon 
inquiry at his residence, he is not to be found, he may be
proceeded against by publication or judicial attachment, as 
herein _P.rovided.
2. Bills seeking to divest or clear up the title to land, or to 
enforce the SJ?ecific execution of contracts relating to realty,
may be filed m the district in which the land or any material
part of it lies. 
3. Bills seeking to enjoin proceedin~s at law may be filed
in t e district m which the suit is pen mg, or to w ic exe-
cution has issued. 
4. Bills against non-residents, or persons whose names or
residences are unknown, may be filed in the district in which 
the cause of action arose, or the act on which the suit is pre-
dicated was to be performed, or in which the subject of the
suit or any material part thereof is. 
5. Whenever attachment of property is allowed in lieu of
personal service of process, the bill may be filed in the 
county or district in which the property or any material part 
thereof sought to be attached, is found at the commence-
ment of the suit. 
CHAPTER 2. 
OF THE PLEADINGS IN THE CHANCERY COURT. 
SECTION SBCTION 
4812. Suits commenced by bill, peti- 4314. Substance of bill. 
tion, or motion. 4316. Of answer. 
4818. Form of address, and com- 4816. Pleadings subject to control of
mencement of bill. court. 
81:CTION 
4817. Plaintiff' may wain answer un­
der oath. 
4818. Defendant need not plead spe­
cially, exeept.to jurisdiction. 
4819. Nor demur, but may have ben­
efit in answer. 
4820. Subject to costs f'or not demur­
rbig. Matters of demurrer
in answer, may be set for
hearing. 
4821. The filing of' an answer, waives
objection to jurisdiction. 
4822. No pleading allowed after an­
swer, but cause as upon repli­
cation, unless set on bill and
answer. 
81:0TION 
4828. Answer may be filed a1 a croa­
bill. 
4324. And relief ginn as the case 
may require.
4826. Objection to multif&riousne~ 
miejoinder, and nonjoinder, to
be made by demurrer or mo­
tion to dismiBB. 
4326. Amendments allowed in such
case. 
4827. Uniting in one bill distinct
matters against one def end­
ant, is not multifariousness. 
4828. Cause at issue upon failure to
except to answer, and stands
for trial at first term. 
§ 4312. Suite are commenced in the Court of Chancery by
bill or petition, addressed to the Chancellor of the division
in which the same is filed, specifying the particular court in
which it is filed, or by motion in open court, where that
mode of procedure is allowed by law. 
§ 4313. The address should be followed by the names and
residences of the parties, and may be substantially as follows: 
"To the Honorable S. D. F., Chancellor, etc., holding the
Chancery Court at 
A. B., Citizen of complainant. }
vs. 
C. D. and E. F., Citizens of defendants.
The complainant respectfully shows to the court.".
§ 4314. The bill should contam a clear and orderly statement 
of the facts on which the suit is founded, without prolixity or
repetition, and conclude with a prayer for the required
process and appropriate relief, without averring any formal
combination or confederacy by the defendants or others, the
insufficiency of the remedy at law, or other mere formal
matter. 
§ 4315. The answer should, in like manner, contain a clear
and orderly statement of the facts on which the defence is
founded, without prolixity or repetition, and with a prayer of
dismissal or counter relief, according to the nature of the case. 
§ 4316. It is the duty of the court to discountenance pro­
lixity, and unnecessary and false allegations, in all Chancery 
pleadings; and for this purpose the court may, of its own
motion, or upon application of the opposite party, refer the
pleadings to the master to be revised, or order particular
parts to be stricken out, and charge the party in. fault with 
the unnecessary costs.
§ 4317. The plaintiff may, in his bill, waive an answer from 
the defendant under oath, in which case the answer will be
entitled to no more weight than the bill as evidence. 
§ 4318. The defendant may incorporate all matters of de-
fence in his answer, and is not required to plead specially in 
any case, except to the jurisdiction of the court.
§ 4319. Neither is he required to demur, except for the want 
of jurisdiction of the subject-matter, or of the person, but he
may have all the benefit of a demurrer by relymg thereon in
his answer. . 
§ 4320. And either party may, upon such answer, set down
the matters of demurrer for argument at the next term of the 
court, but not so as "to prevent preparing the cause for a
hearing; and the court may charge the defendant with any
costs occasioned by the failure to rely upon the formal plea
or demurrer, or to set down the sameat the proper time. 
§ 4321. The filing of an answer is a waiver of objection to
the jurisdiction of the court, and the cause shall not be dis- 
missed, but heard and determined upon its merits, although
the court may be of opinion that the matters complained of
are of legal cognizance. 
§ 4322. No replication or other pleading, after answer filed,
is required or allowed, but all cases will be heard as if repli- 
cation had been filed, unless set for hearing expressly on bill
and answer. 
§ 4323. The defendant may, by proper allegations, file his
answer as a cross-bill, and require a discovery from the com- 
plainant, in which case demurrer or pleas may be filed, or
other proceedings had upon the answer as upon a-crose-bill. 
§ 4324. And the court shall act upon all the matters properly
involved in the pleadings, and give such relief, either for the
plaintiff or the defendant, as the nature of the case requires, 
to do complete justice.
§ 4325. Multifariousness, misjoinder, or nonjoinder of parties, 
is no sufficient cause for the dismission of a bill in equity,
unless objection is made by motion to dismiss or demurrer. 
§ 4326. If a demurrer for multifariousness is sustained, the
court may authorize amendments, by directing separate bills 
to be filed without new process as to the parties before the
court, and by the addition of new parties, or otherwise, as
may be deemed necessary for the attainment of justice. 
§ 4327. The uniting in one bill of several matters of equity,
distinct and unconnected, against one defendant, is not mul- 
tifariousness.
§ 4328. If the ~lain tiff do not except to the answer within 
the time prescribed by law, the issue shall be regarded as
made in the same way as if replication had been filed, and
the cause shall stand for trial at the first term of the court
after answer· :filed ; and if at that or any other term the 
cause is continued, it shall stand for hearing at the next term. 
SECTION  
OF THE PRACTICE OF COURTS OF CHANCERY. 
ARTICLE I. Filing and Amending Bills.
II. Process and its Service. 
ill. Proceedings when Personal Service of Process is 
dispensed with.
IV. Proceedings to compel an Answer. 
V. Proceedings in default of Answer.
VI. Appearance and Defence. 
VII. Proceedings at Chambers, or in the Master's
Office, in the Preparation of a Cause for Hear­ 
ing. 
CHAPTER 3. 
YIII. Injunctions, Ne-exeats, Receivers, and other ex­
traordinary Process. 
IX. Evidence in Chancery.
X. Issues of Fact, and Trial by Jury in Chancery. 
XI. Proceedings in the Master's Office after Decree.
XII. Decrees and their Execution. 
XIII. Proceedings on Bill of Review.
XIV. Costs in Chancery. 
ARTICLE I. 
FILING ANu> A.MENDING BIL,LS. 
4329. Bills may be filed at any time.
4330. Before whom bills may be 
sworn to, in the State.
4831. Before whom sworn to, out of 
the State.
4832. Complainant may amend before 
copy issued, and in small
matters afterwards. 
4338. Material amendments may be
mo.de, without application to
Chancellor, before defence or
argument of demurrer. 
SECTION 
4334. But in no other case, without
leave of court. 
4335. Court may allow amendments
at any stage of cause. 
4386. Defendant allowed thirty days
to answer amendment. 
4887. Objection for want of proper
parties, when made· at hear· 
ing.
4338. No objection for misjoinder can 
be taken at hearing. 
§ 4329. Bills in Chancery may be filed at any time, in term
or vacation. 
§ 4330. Bills required to be under oath, may be sworn to in
the State, before any Judge, clerk of a court, or Justice of 
the Peace, whose attestation shall be deemed ~vidence of the
fact. 
§ 4331. They may be sworn to out of the State, before a
notary public, or a commissioner for this State, whose attes- 
tation shall be accompanied by his seal of office ; or before a
Judge or Justice of the Peace of the State, whose official
character shall be attested by the clerk of the court in which
the Judge presides, or by the Clerk of the County Court in
the case of a Justice of the Peace. 
§ 4332. The complainant may amend his bill before the de-
fendant has taken out, or the clerk issued a copy thereof, 
and in small matters not affecting the merits afterwards,
without costs. 
§ 4333. Material amendments may be made as of course,
without application to the Chancellor, after copy bill has 
been issued or taken out, and before defendant has made
defence, upon complainant paying the costs of furnishing a
copy of the amendment to such of the defendants as have
received or taken out copies of the original bill, and of the
notice to be served upon all the defendants of such amend-
ment; amendments may also be made after demurrer and
before argument thereof, upon the 'same terms. 
§ 4334. In all other cases the complainant can amend his
bill only by leave of the Chancellor given in open court, and 
upon such terms as he may impose.
§ 4335. But the court may, at any stage of the cause, even 
after argument, if it be thought necessary to justice, permit
amendments of the bill, upon such terms as may appear 
reasonable.
§ 4336. In all cases where an amendment of the bill is made 
after answer filed, and an answer thereto is necessary, the
defendants are allowed thirty days after the order, or after 
notice of the amendment if notice is required by the order, 
to answer, and failing so to do, or to obtain further time,
the matter of amendment may be taken as confessed, subject,
however, to be set aside, by the master before the cause is
set for hearing, or by the Chancellor at any time, on good
cause shown accompanied by a full and sufficient answer,
and upon such terms as may be imposed. 
§ 4337. If the defendant at the hearing object for want of
parties, not having previously taken the objection by plea, 
answer, or demurrer, the court may render a decree saving
the rights of the parties not before it, or grant leave to amend
on terms not extending beyond the payment of costs. 
§ 4338. No objection for the misjoinder of parties, plaintiff,
or defendant, shall be taken at the hearing, but the court,
in such case, shall decree upon the merits. 
SECTION  
PROCESS AND ITS SERVICE. 
4839. Clerk to issue eubpeens and
copy bill for defendant. 
4840. Form of subpeene,
4841. One subpcena to each county 
for all defendants therein.
4842. One copy of bill to the county 
in which ·bill filed. ·
4848. To nery other county, one copy 
for each defendant.
4844. Clerk must issue copy to de­ 
fendant on demaad.
4845. Other proceaa to any one coun­ 
ty, to embrace all defendants
in that county. 
§ 4339. Upon the bill being filed, and the required security
given, the clerk, after endorsing u:pon the bill the date of 
the filing, and entering the cause m his rule docket, shall
forthwith issue subpoena to answer, and copy of the bill for
the defendant, and all other process ordered. 
§ 4340. The form of subpc:ena may be substantially as fol-
lows : 
STATE OP TENNESSEE, } 
ARTICLE II. 
---county.
To the Sheriff of County: 
8:SCTIOH 
4846. Berviee is made by reading
process, or leaving copy. 
4847. Sheriff shall execute and return
process with reasonable speed. 
4848. Original process may, by rule
of court, be made returnable
to rule day~ 
4849. Other process shall be return.:.
able to rule days. 
4850. Process served fiTe days before
court, binds defendant to ap­ 
pear within first three days of
term. 
4851. Otherwise, to appear on the
first day of suoeeeding term. 
Summon to appear on. or before the day of
next; before the Chancery Court at , to answer 
the bill of , and have you then and there this writ.
This day of 18 . 
E. F., C. and M. 
§ 4341. The clerk issues.only one subpcena to each county,
embracing therein all the defendants in such county. 
§ 4342. The subpc:ena to the county in which the bill is filed,
shall be accompanied by one copy of the bill, to be delivered 
to any one of the defendants named in the subpcena.
§ 4343. The counterpart subpc:ena to any other county, shall 
be accompanied by a copy of the bill for each one of the
d I!: d d . • d h d I!:. d 
eren ants name therein, to be delivere to sue eren ant
when the subpc:ena is served. 
§ 4344. The clerk. shall issue, upon demand, to any one of
the defendants, his agent or attorney, in the county in which 
the bill is filed, to whom no copy of the bill appears by the
sheriff's return to have been delivered, a. certified copy of
the bill, to be charged in the bill of costs. 
§ 4345. Attachments, injunctions, and all other process issued 
to any one county, shall embrace the names of all the de-
fendants required to be served· therewith, residing in such 
county.
§ 4346. The mode of service of such process, shall be by 
reading the same to each defendant specified therein ; and
if the defendant evade or attempt to evade the service of
such process, the officer charged therewith shall leave a
copy at the usual residence of the defendant, which shall be
a sufficient service. 
§ 4347. The sheriff shall, with all reasonable speed, execute
all process issuing from the Chancery Court, and make due 
return thereof according to law, and the requirements of the
process. 
§ 4348. Original process may, by rule of court applicable to
the court where made, be returnable to the rule days, and all 
others except final process may be so returnable.
§ 4349. The return days of all other process in the Chancery 
Court, such as snbpcenas to answer supplemental and
amended bills, and bills of revivor, except final process, 
shall be the rule days of said court.
§ 4350. Service of the original subpcena on the defendant, 
five days before the return day, shall bind him to appear
within the first three days of the term, if the court hold
so long, otherwise on the first day of the term. 
§ 4351. But if the subpcena be served upon the defendant
within five days before the return day, he is not bound to 
appear before the first day of the second term after the
service. 
SECTION PROCEEDINGS WHEN PERSON AL SBR VICE 01' PROCESS IS DIS­
PENSED WITH. 
8BOTI01' 8BOTI01' 
4362. When penono.l service is dis- · 4856. The order may be made at any
pensed with. time after bill filed. 
4868. The fact should appear by oath 4857. Substance of the order.
or return. 4868. When the defendant is un- 
4864. Clerk to make order for publi- known.
cation. 4869. Evidence of publication, is oath 
4866. .And cause copy to be published of printer, or production of
four oonsecutin weeks. newspaper. 
§ 4352. Personal service of process on the defendant in the
Court of Chancery, is dispensed with in the following cases: 
1. When the defendant is a non-resident of the State. 
2. When, upon inquiry at his usual place of abode, he can­
not be found, so as to be served with process, and there is just
ground to believe. that he is gone beyond the limits of the 
State. _ 
ARTICLE ill. 
3. When the sheriff shall make return upon any leading
process, that he is not to be found. 
4. When the name of the defendant is unknown, and can­
not be ascertained upon diligent inquiry. 
5. When the residence of the defendant is unknown, and
cannot be ascertained upon diligent inquiry. 
6. When judicial and other attachments will lie, under
the provisions of this Code, against the property of the
defendant. 
§ 4353. To dispense with process in either of the above
cases, the facts shall be stated under oath in the bill, or by 
separate affidavit, or appear by the return. 
§ 4354. In such case, if the defendant does not cause his 
appearance to be entered, the clerk, as soon as the necessary
affidavit is made, shall enter upon the rule docket an order
requiring the defendant to appear at a certain day therein
named, being a rule day, and defend, or otherwise the bill
will be taken for confessed. 
§ 4355. The clerk shall forthwith cause a copy of this order
to be published, for four consecutive weeks, in the news­ 
paper mentioned in such order, or designated by the general
rules of the court. 
§ 4356. The order for publication in lieu of personal service,
may be made at any time after the filing of the bill. 
§ 4357. The order of publication should contain the names
of the parties, the style of the court in which the proceedings 
are had, and the name of the place where the court is held,
without any brief or abstract of facts, unless directed by the
court. 
§ 4358. When the suit is against an unknown defendant, the
order of publication should describe such unknown party, as 
near as may be, by the character in which he is sued, and
by reference to his title or interest in the subject-matter of
the litigation. 
§ 4359. Evidence of the publication in pursuance of the
order, may be by affidavit of the printer, or actual produc- 
tion of the newspaper in court. . 
SECTION 
~ 
PROCEEDINGS TO COMPEL AN ANSWER. 
4360. If defendant fail to appear,
. complainant may have process 
of contempt.
4861. Which is an attachment.
4362. Returnable to any rule day, on 
which bail may be taken. 
ARTICLE IV. 
8BCTION 
4363. But if defendant fail to appear
upon bail, attachment issues
without. bail. 
4364. If defendant appears and re­ 
fuses to answer, he ml\y be
committed to jail. 
S:acT1011 
4866. No plea or demurrer received
after attachment, except by
order of court. 
4866. On commitment, complainant 
§ 4360. If the defendant, upon whom process has been
served, fails to appear and defend in the time required by 
law, the bill may be taken for confessed, or the complainant
may proceed by process of contempt to compel an answer. 
§ 4361. The only process of contempt is an attachment, 
which is issued upon order of the Chancellor, at the instance
of the complainant, upon the return of the subpcena duly 
served by the proper officer, or affidavit by him of such ser-
vice. 
§ 4362. The attachment may be made returnable to any rule 
ay in term or vacation, an , upon its service, at may e
taken for the appearance of the defendant at the time fixed 
therein. 
§ 4363. If the defendant fails to appear in compliance with
the terms of his bail, a second attachment issues, upon which
no bail can be taken; and the penalty of the bail-bond may 
be decreed forfeited and collected by execution. 
§ 4364. If the defendant appears, and refuses to answer fully,
he shall be committed to jail, there to remain until he purges
himself of the contempt, and complies with the requirements
of the law by filing a full and complete answer. 
§ 4365. After an attachment for contempt, no plea or de-
mu1;er shall be received, unless by order of the court upon 
mob on. 
§ 4366. If the defendant is committed for contempt, the
complainant may proceed with his action as if the bill had 
been taken for confessed, the allegations being taken as in
all respects true. 
§ 4367. But, in that case, all further proceedings for the
contempt shall cease, and the court, or the Judge thereof, 
may discharge the defendant from custody. 
§ 4368. Nothing in the foregoing sections shall deprive the
clerk and master, or the court, of the power of g-ranting to 
the defendant, upon good cause shown, further time within
which to file an answer. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE V. 
PROCEEDINGS IN DEFAULT OF ANSWER. 
4869. When bill may be taken for
confessed. 
4870. When set for hearing on pro
confesso. 
SECTI01' 
SECTION 
may proceed as upon bill
taken for confessed. 
4867. And court may discharge de­
fendant. 
4868. Time may be allowed to answer. 
43il. Effect of order.
4372: Infants and persons of unsound 
mind must appear by guar­
dian, or committee. 
8BOTI01' 
4878. Effect in other excepted cases.
487 4. Depositions, how taken in such 
oases.
4875. Order may be set aside before 
final decree, when. 
4876. Non-resident may appear and
defend before final decree, as
of course. 
4877. Other persons must show merit.a. 
4878. Effect of order pro oonfesso in
attachment cases. 
8BOTI01' 
4879. In all ·other cues, decree not
absolute for three yea.rs . 
4880. Death of defendant, before or 
after bill filed, does not ren­
der decree void. 
4881. Within what time defence may 
be made. 
4382. The court may require com­
plainant to gin bond and se-
curity. · 
4388. Decree will confer good title. 
§ 4369. The bill may be taken for confessed in the following
cases: 
1. When, being duly served with process, as already pro­
vided, the defendant fails to plead, answer, or demur by the
time fixed by law. 
2. When, an order for his appearance having been duly
made and published as above prescribed, the defendant fails
to cause his appearance to he thereupon entered, and to plead,
answer, or demur, or to obtain time to answer. 
3. When, process of contempt having been returned exe­
cuted, or the defendant having been brou~ht into court upon
such process, he refuses to answer the plaintiff's bill, or puts
in an insufficient answer, so adjudged by the court. 
4. When, a plea or demurrer having been overruled, and
the defendant ordered to answer the bill, he fails so to do upon 
a rule given.
5. When, exceptions to an answer having been allowed 
by the clerk and master, and the defendant or his solicitor
notified thereof, and ordered to answer, the defendant fails 
to file a sufficient answer within thirty days, or to appeal from
the order of the master. 
§ 4370. In the first and second of the above cases, the cause
may be set for hearing at the return term of the process ; in
the other three, at tlie next term after the bill is taken for
confessed. 
§ 4371. Whenever an order pro confesso is lawfully had, the
allegations in the bill are to be taken as admitted, except in 
the case of infant defendants, persons of unsound mind,
executors, or administrators, bills for divorce, and bills, with­
out attachment of property, against non-residents, and per-
sons whose names or residences are unknown. 
§ 4372. In the excepted cases of infants and persons of un­
sound mind, the defendant shall appear by guardian or
committee before the complainant can proceed with his cause. 
§ 4373. In the other excepted cases, the complainant may
proceed as if the allegations of the bill had been put in issue
by answer not sworn to, with the right to set for hearing
forthwith. 
§ 4374. And in such cases, when the testimony of witnesses
is required on behalf of the complainant, and the defendant 
does not reside within the State, the complainant may take
'depositions by interrogatories filed ten days beforehand, or 
by the usual notice of the time and place of taking, entered
on the rule docket. 
§ 4375. A defendant who has been served with process, may, 
at any time before final decree, on good cause shown, obtam
from the Chancellor, or clerk and master, an order setting aside 
the decree pro confesso, upon filing a full and sufficient
answer, and the payment of costs. 
§ 4376. A non-resident defendant, or one whose name or
place of residence is unknown, and who is not served with 
process, may appear and defend at any time" before final
decree, as of course. 
§ 4377. All other persons, as to whom personal service is
dispensed with under the provisions of sections 4852-4359, 
shall show merits in order to entitle them to appear and
defend after judgment by default. 
§ 4378. Cases in Chancery, brought by attachment of pro-
perty, under Chapter 10, Title 2, of this Part of the Code, 
are governed in respect to the effect of the decree pro con-
fesso, by the provisions of sections 8529-8534. 
§ 4379. In all other cases, a decree against a defendant with-
out personal service of process, who does not appear to de-
fend, is not absolute for three years from the decree, unless 
a copy of the decree is served upon the defendant, in which
case it becomes absolute if the defendant fails to come for-
ward and make defence within six months after service. 
§ 4380. The death of the defendant proceeded against with-
out personal service, whether the death occur before or· after 
the filing of the bill, does not render the proceedings void, but
his heirs or representatives, as the case may be, have the right,
within three years from the rendition of the final decree, to
make themselves parties by petition, verified by affidavit,
showing merits, and contest the complainant's bill. 
§ 4381. The original defendant, his heir, representative, or
assignee claiming under him by virtue of any act done 
erore t e commencement o t e suit, may, wi m six mon s 
. after service of a copy of the decree, or within three years
after the decree, be admitted to answer the bill, upon peti­
tion showing merits, and giving security for the payment of
costs; and witnesses on both sides may be examined, and
such other proceedings may be had thereon as if the cause
were then newly begun. 
§ 4382. It is no objection to the execution of a decree
rendered against a defendant, that it was founded on a bill 
taken for confessed, without personal service ; but the court
may require the complainant to give sufficient security, in 
such sum as the court deems proper, to abide by and. perform
such order touching the restitution of property, or repay- 
ment of money, as the court may make, upon the defendant
subsequently setting aside the decree, and succesefully re­ 
sisting the complainant's suit. 
§ 4383. The decree, if executed before it is set aside under
any of the foregoing provisions, will be a protection to all
persons acting upon its validity, and will confer a good title
to all property sold under it.
SECTION  
APPEARANCE AND DEFENCE. 
4884. Modes of defence.
4386. No objection to local juriadic­ 
tion after answer.
4886. Causes for diamissiug bill on 
motion.
4387. But court may permit amend­ 
ment.
4888. Causes for dismissing, which 
may be taken by demurrer or
plea. 
4889. Rule may be made on com­ 
plainant to take step in cause.
4390. Proceedings upon failure to 
obey rule.
4391. No step taken by defendant, 
prevents him from moving to
dismiss for complainant's de­
fault. 
4892. Court may relieve from default,
on cause shown. 
4398. Plea or demurrer may be set
for hearing on sufficiency, or
issue taken on plea. 
4394. Plea or demurrer to be set for
hearing at first term. 
4395. No other plea or demurrer after
first overruled. 
4396. Nor after attachment, unless by
order of court. 
4384. Defence may be made-
1. By plea in abatement. 
2. By motion to dismiss. 
3. By demurrer. 
4. By plea in bar.
5. By answer, 
6. By cross-bill. 
ARTICLE VI. 
8BOTI01' 
4397. Costs upon the hearing on plea
or demurrer. 
4898. Before whom answer may be
sworn to. 
4399. Special commissioner to ad­
minister oath. 
4400. Clerk shall give complainant
notice of answer filed; twenty 
days to except..
4401. If no exception, cause at Issue, 
and stands for trial at next
term. 
4402. Clerk to a9t on exception in
ten days, and notify defend­
ant if sustained. 
4403. And complainant, if exceptions
overruled. 
4404. Chancellor may hear appeals
from such ruling, in vacation. 
4405. Costs upon the appeal. 
4406. Proof may be taken pending
the appeal. 
4407. Pro confesso upon second in­
sufficient answer. 
4408. Original bill to be answered
before cross-bill. 
4409. Oath may be waived to answer
to cross-bill. 
§ 4385. After answer filed, and no plea in abatement to the
local jurisdiction of the court, no.exception for want of juris­
diction shall afterwards be allowed. 
§ 4386. A bill may be dismissed, on motion of the defendant- 
1. For want of equity on its face. 
2. Because unknown to the forms of the court. 
3. If it appear on the face of the bill, that the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. 
4. For want of any of the prerequisites to the issuance of
the writ. 
5. For misjoinder or nonjoinder of parties, where the
fact a!)pears on the face of the bill. 
6. For multifariousness. 
7. For such other grounds as may be specially declared
sufficient by this Code. 
§ 4387. The power of the court to allow amendments, and
to permit the complainant to supply defects and omissions, is
not affected by any thing contained in the foregoin~ section. 
§ 4388. The first, fifth, and sixth causes of dismissal may
also be raised by demurrer, and when the misjoinder or non- 
joinder of parties does not appear on the face of the bill,
the objection may be made by plea. 
§ 4389. To procure prompt dispatch of the business of the
court, the defendant may make a rule, in the clerk's office, on 
his adversary to take any step necessary to the progress of the
cause, and the clerk shall give notice of this rule immedi-
ately to the party interested, or his counsel. 
§ 4390. If the party upon whom such rule is made, fail to take
the necessary step, the Chancellor, at the next term, unless
good cause be shown for the failure, shall make a peremptory
rule, fixing the time within which the step shall be taken,
and if not so taken, the cause shall be dismissed. 
§ 4391. No step taken by the defendant shall prevent him
from moving to dismiss for the default of the complainant. 
§ 4392. The court may, however, upon good cause shown by
a avit, re ieve t e comp aman rom t e consequences o
his default, imposing such terms to hasten the hearing of the
cause, as, in its discretion, may be thought just. 
§ 4393. If the plaintiff conceives any plea or demurrer to be
naug t, eit er or t e matter or manner o 1 e may se it 
down with the clerk to be argued; or, if he thinks the plea
good but not true, he may take issue upon it, and proceed to
trial. If the plea be found false, the complainant shall have 
the same advantages as if it had been so found by verdict at
common law. 
§ 4394. A demurrer or a plea shall be set for argument at
the first term. 
§ 4395. Upon a plea or demurrer argued and overruled, no
other plea or demurrer shall be received, but the defendant
shall answer the allegations of the bill ; and, in case he fails
to do so by the next rule day, or by the time prescribed by
the court, the bill may be taken for confessed, or answer
enforced by contempt, as if no such plea or demurrer had
been filed. 
§ 4396. After the return of. an attachment for contempt in
refusing to answer, no 'plea or demurrer shall be received,
unless by order of court upon motion. 
§ 4397. If a plea or demurrer be overruled, costs shall be
paid as where an answer is adjudged insufficient; but if a
plea or demurrer be adjudged g-ood, the defendant shall have
his costs. 
§ 4398. When an answer is required to be sworn to, the
oath may be administered, in this State, by any Judge, Justice 
of the Peace, or clerk; and, in another State, b1, any Judge
or Justice of the Peace, accompanied by a certificate of his
official capacity by the clerk of the court in which such 
Judge or Justice presides. The oath may also be . admin­
istered, in another State, by a commissioner of this State, ap­
pointed by the Governor, or by a notary public, whose attes­
tation shall be under their seals of office ; in any foreign
government, before any officer authorized to take probate of
deeds, and authenticated in like manner. 
§ 4399. The J?OWer of the court or clerk and master to 
appoint a special commissioner to administer the oath, either
in this or any other State, is not affected by the foregoing section. 
§ 4400. When an answer has been filed, the clerk and mas-
ter shall notify the complainant's solicitor of the fact, by 
letter or otherwise, and he may, within twenty days, file ex­
ceptions thereto. 
§ 4401. If the plaintiff fail to except to the answer within
said time, the cause shall be at issue, and stand for trial at 
the first term after the answer is filed.
§ 4402. Exceptions filed shall be acted on by the clerk 
in ten days, and if allowed, he shall, by letter or otherwise,
notify the defendant's solicitor to file a sufficient answer 
within thirty days, from which order he may, within said
time, appeal. 
§ 4403. But if the defendant, in obedience to the order, file
an answer deemed sufficient by the clerk and master, he
shall, by letter or otherwise, notify the complainant's solicitor
of the same, and he may appeal within twenty days after the 
notice. ·
§ 4404. The Chancellor may hear these appeals in vacation, 
and the losing party shall pay such costs as the Chancellor
shall order, and abide by such other order as he may make 
on the matter of the appeal, either in vacation or in term 
time.
§ 4405. Upon exceptions to a defendant's answer being over­ 
ruled, the complainant shall pay three dollars costs ; and if the
exceptions are sustained, the defendant shall pay three dol­ 
lars; which, in each case, shall be paid to the opposite party.
§ 4406. The parties may, pending the appeal on exceptions, 
proceed to take proof., and the testimony taken before the
sufficiency of the answer is determined, may be read on the 
.1 trial, and any additional testimony may be taken, rendered
necessary by the change of pleadings under the decision on
the exceptions. 
§ 4407. If the defendant, upon exceptions sustained to the
sufficiency of his answer, neglects and refuses to put in a 
sufficient answer, or shall put in another insufficient answer,
the complainant may take his bill for confessed as to the
part to which his exceptions relate, and proceed with the 
cause as in other cases.
§ 4408. When the defendant resorts to a cross-bill, he shall 
- rat answer t e or1gma 1 , erore e can require t e com-
plainant therein to answer his bill. 
§ 4409. If the defendant file an answer by way of cross-bill,
Ji:_e may waive the oath of the complainant to his answer 
thereto. 
CHAPTER PROCEEDINGS AT CHAMBERS, OR IN THE MASTER'S OFFICE, IN
THE PREPARATION OP A CAUSE FOR HEARING. 
8BCTI01' 
ARTICLE VII. 
4410. Chancellor's power in vacation.
4411. After decree.
4412. Upon notice given.
4413. Not to determine rights.
4414. May appoint com.missioners to 
take aeeounts,
4415. Or persons to serve process,
4416. May regulate Master's proceed­ 
ings.
4417. Rules of clerk to be entered in 
rule docket .
.«18. Such rules to be made at rule 
days, unless otherwise pro­
vided. 
4419. Rules a.t court to be entered in
rule docket, within twenty
days after term. 
4420. Powers of master at office.
4421. Each day of term, - and first 
Monday of every month, rule
days. 
4422. Clerk shall notify complainant
of answer filed. 
8BCTI01' 
4428. And opposite party of any rule
atf ecting him. 
4424. He eha.11 not set aside or alter
rule, except on notice. 
4425. Upon death or marriage, suit
revived by scire facias. 
4426. Which may be issued at any
time. 
4427. Defence to scire facias same as 
to bill of revhtor.
4428. Substance of scire facias.
4429. Bills of revivor filed at any 
time, and process returnable
to rule days. 
4480. Complainant ma.1 set cause for
bearing on bill and answer. 
4481. In all other cases, clerk sha.n
set for hearing causes at
issue. 
4482. Causes are at issue without re­
plication, and stand for trial
at first term. 
4483. Clerk shall keep memorandum
book. 
§ 4410. The Chancellors have power, as well in vacation as
in term time, to hear and determine all such motions, and to 
make all such interlocutory orders and decrees in any suit,
as may be necessary or proper to prepare the case for final
hearing and determination. 
§ 4411. And when any decree or order shall have been made
in any suit pending m the court, the Chancellors, in like
manner, have power, as well in vacation as in term time, to
make such further orders, and to issue such writs and pro­ 
cess, as may be necessary to carry. into effect such decree or 
order.
§ 4412. But no such motion shall be heard, nor such decree 
or order made in vacation, until reasonable notice shall have
been given the adverse party or his counsel to appear and 
object. 
§ 4413. The power conferred in the foregoing sections, ex­
tends to the making of rules and orders for the preparation
of suits, but not to the making of decrees ordering accounts,
or such like decrees, :fixing or settling the rights of partie,
in vacation. 
§ 4414. The Chancellors, as well in vacation as in term time,
ave power to appoint commissioners to ta e accounts, w ere
the clerk and master is interested, or is unable to -attend, or 
in other cases where it may be deemed expedient,
§ 4415. They may also, in like manner, Jppoint persons to 
serve original, mesne, or final process in particular cases,
upon special application. 
§ 4416. The Chancellor may also, as well in vacation as in
term time, (but if in vacation, on reasonable notice to the
opposite party,) regulate and control all proceedings in the 
master's office, and, for good cause shown, may set aside,
modify, or alter any such proceedings, upon such terms as
may appear equitable. 
§ 4417. Rules, notices, orders, and other proceedings in a 
cause, made with or by the clerk and master, shall be entered
by him in a well-bound book, to be kept for the purpose, 
each entry to be made in order, and with the correct dates
attached. 
§ 4418. Such rules, notices, and proceedings, shall be made
at the rule days, unless otherwise authorized by this Code. 
§ 4419. All rules or orders taken at any one court, shall be
inserted in such rule docket, by the first rule day being: 
more than twenty ays a ter sue term. 
§ 4420. The clerk and master may, at his office-
1. Receive and enter on the rules the suggestion and 
proof of a party's death, and order and issue the necessary 
process o revive.
2. Make orders for _Publication against defendants in 
cases in which publication is allowed in lieu of personal 
service.
8. Take bills for confessed, and set aside the orders pro 
confesso upon good cause shown and the :filing of a. sufficient
answer. 
4. Appoint guardians ad litem for infants, upon its being
made to appear by affidavit that they have no general guar­
dian. 
5. Make orders for the taking of depositions, where such
orders are necessary. 
6. Open causes for proof, on good cause shown, after they
have been set for hearing, in the same way the Chancellor 
might do.
7. Do and perform other acts at office, and make other 
rules authorized by law.
§ 4421. Each day of the term of the Court of Chancery, and 
the first Monday of every month in vacation, is a rule day.
§ 4422. The clerk and master shall give to the opposite 
party, or is so ieitor, notice o t e mg o an answer.
§ 4423. The clerk and master shall also give to the opposite 
party, or his solicitor, notice of any rule, order, or other pro-
ceeding taken at his office, affecting such party. 
§ 4424. The clerk and master shall not set aside, modify, or
alter any rule or order of the Chancellor, where such power 
is given by this Code, or any rule or order of his own at
office, without reasonable notice to the opposite party, or his 
solicitor.
§ 4425. Upon the death of a defendant, or marriage of a 
female defendant, the suit may be revived by scire facias or
notice to the heirs, or personal representatives, or husband, 
without the necessity of filing a bill of revivor.
§ 4426. The clerk and master shall issue this sci re facias or 
notice, at any time, upon motion of the complainant, enter-
ing the same upon his rules, and including in each writ 
issued to any county, all the parties residing m that county.
§ 4427. Persons made defendants under these sections, ma;: 
make the same defence to the revival of such suite, as if 
made parties by the former practice of the Courts of
Chancery. 
§ 4428. The scirc facias need only give the names of the
parties, and recite the filing of the bill, pendency of the suit, 
and death or marriage as the case may be, and thereupon
require the parties against whom it is issued, to appear and
show cause why the suit should not be revived. 
§ 4429. Bills of revivor, amended, and supplemental bills,
if resorted to, may be filed at any time in the clerk's office; 
and the process may be made returnable, and the suit re-
vived at a rule day. 
§ 4430. The complainant may specially set a cause for hear- 
mg on 1 an answer.
§ 4431. In all other cases it is the duty of the clerk and 
master t? set all causes at issue for hearing, and transfer them
to the trial docket. 
§ 4432. A.11 causes are at issue, without replication filed, if
the plaintiff fail to except to the answer of the defendant 
within the time prescribed by law, and shall stand for trial
at the first term of the court after answer filed, and at every 
term thereafter, if not then heard.
§ 4433. The clerk shall keep a memorandum book, in which 
shall be noted every subpoena for witnesses, commissions,
with the day of issuance, and any other proceedings of the
clerk not entered on his records, rule docket, or minutes; and 
such memorandum book shall be open for parties or their
attorneys to make such memorandums for the direction of
the clerk, as inay be necessary. 
ARTICLE VIII. INJUNCTIONS, NE-EXE.ATS, RECEIVERS, AND OTHER EXTRAORDI­
NARY PROCESS. 
SECTION 

4484. By whom extraordinary process
may be granted. 
4485. Not to be granted, except on
oath that it is the first appli­
cation. 
4486. If one application refused, no
other shall be made except to
court in which bill filed. 
4487. The officer should endorse re­
fusal on bill. Penalty for 
erasing.
4488. Officer should envelope, seal, 
and send fiat.
4489. Bond required before issuing 
injunction.
4440. Penalty of bond.
4441. Clerk may appoint commission­ 
er to take security.
4442. Damages may be ascertained 
by court hearing cause.
4443. If defendant evade service of 
injunction, copy may be left.
4444. Motion to dissolve injunction, 
may be mo.de at Chambers. 
§ 4434. Injunctions, attachments, writs ofne-exeat, and other
extraordinary process, are granted by the Chancellors and
Circuit Judges, and Judges of special courts. 
§ 4435. No such extraordinary process shall be granted,
unless the party applying therefor state in his bill or petition
that it is the first application for such process. 
§ 4436. If any application is made for such process and re­
fused, no other application shall· be _granted, except by the 
court in which the bill is filed. 
SECTION 
4445. At any time upon answer, or
for want of equity. 
4446. If exceptions to answer, mo­
tion delayed, unless court
should think they would not
aff'ect the motion. 
4447. Decree against complainant
and sureties, on dissolution. 
4448. Refunding bond may be re­ 
quired.
4449. Upon final decree, court may 
order property to be delivered
up. 
4450. Or give judgment for damages.
4461. Chancellor may regulate pro- 
ceedings under extraordinary
process. 
4462. Receiver may be appointed in
Tacation. 
4453. Clerk will take receiver's bond
when required. 
4454. These provisions apply to all
equity proceedings. 
§ 4437. When an application is refused, the officer to whom
the same is made, shall endorse his refusal on the bill, and
sign his name thereto; and any one erasing such endorse­
ment is guilty, and may be punished as for defacing a record. 
§ 4438. It is the duty of the Judge, upon granting the fiat, to
envelope the bill and fiat under seal, and direct to the clerk 
of the court in which the bill is filed, who alone is authorized 
•i,o open the package. 
§ 4439. Before issuing the writ of injunction, the clerk and
master shall take from the complainant, besides the usual 
bond for the prosecution of the suit, a bond conditioned,
according to the object of the bill, as follows: 
1. When a judgment at law has been obtained, the con-
dition of the bond shall be to pay the amount of the judg- 
ment at law, with interest, damages, and costs, or to perform
the decree of the court, in case the injunction is dissolved, 
and also to pay such damages as may be sustained by the
wrongful suing out of the attachment. 
2. When, before judgment at law, the investization of the
questions mvo ve as een rawn y injunction into t e
Court of Chancery, upon the ground of a concurrent juris-
diction in that court, the condition of the bond shall be to 
pay costs and damages awarded by the Chancery Court on
dismissing the bill. 
§ 4440. The penalty of the bond shall be as follows :
If the object is to enjoin a money demand after judgment, 
in double the judgment or sum sought to be enjoined.
In all other cases, in such sum as the court shall order.
In the absence of any order, in the sum of five hundred 
dollars. 
§ 4441. Whenever the security is to be taken in any other
county than that in which the court is held, the clerk and
master may appoint a commissioner in the county where
security is to be taken, to judge of the sufficiency of the
bond and security, and to take the same as he himself
might do. 
§ 4442. The damages may be ascertained by the court in
which the cause is heard, and injunction dissolved, upon 
reference to the clerk and master, and proof, or upon an
issue of fact to be made up and tried as in other cases of
issues of fact, if the parties elect to have a jury. 
§ 4443. If the defendant evade, or attempt to evade the
service of the injunction, it shall be the duty of the officer to 
leave a copy at the defendant's residence, and state the facts
in his return, which shall be deemed a sufficient service. 
§ 4444. A defendant may move lo dissolve or modify an
injunction in vacation, before the Chancellor of the division 
in which the bill is filed, either for want of equity in the bill,
or upon the coming in of the answer, to be heard upon cer-
tified copies of the un, or bill and answer; but five days'
notice of such application shall be given to the plaintiff or
his solicitor. 
§ 4445. A motion to dissolve an injunction may be made at
any time upon answer, or for want of equity on the face of 
the bill. 
§ 4446. If there are. exceptions to the sufficiency of the
answer, a motion to dissolve injunction upon the answer
shall not be entertained until the exceptions are disposed
of, unless the court should be of opinion that the matte.,.
of exception would not affect the motion. 
§ 4447. Upon the dissolution of an injunction to stay pro­
ceedings on a judgment for money, in whole or in part, the 
decree interlocutory or :final shall be entered against the com­
plainant and his sureties for such amount as the court may
order; and the clerk and master shall issue execution thereon. 
§ 4448. Whenever, by interlocutory order or decree, the in-
junction to stay proceedings on a judgment at law for money,
is dissolved, the Chancellor shall require of the defendant a
refunding bond, in double the amount of the sum allowed to
be collected, payable to the opposite party, and conditioned
to refund the amount collected, if so ordered on final hear­
ing; and the court may render a decree upon such bond,
against any or all of the parties thereto. · 
§ 4449. The court has power, upon final decree, to order
the property which may have been attached to be delivered 
to the party entitled, and, in case of failure, that the persons
liable upon original, replevy, or delivery bonds, shall pay all
or such portion of the penalty as the court may order. 
§ 4450. Or, where the property is not forthcoming in con-
formity to the final decree, the court may enter judgment on
motion, and execution may issue thereon for the whole, or
any portion of the penalty, as the court may direct, against
all or any of the parties thereto. 
§ 4451. Chancellors may, as well in vacation as in term, 
examme t ie procee ngs un er extraor mary process upon 
the answer of the defendant, or upon petition and affidavit,
and discharge or reduce any levy or bond, reasonable notice 
of the application being given to the other side.
§ 4452. Receivers may be appointed by the Chancellors or 
Circuit Judges in vacation, upon reasonable notice of the
time and· place of such application, and of the person before
whom it will be made, or good cause shown why such notice
should not be given. 
§ 4453. The clerk and master, when so directed by the order
of the Judge or Chancellor, will take bond and security from
the receiver, or the complainant, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of the duties or the receiver. 
§ 4454. The provisions of this article will apply- to all cages,
in any of the courts, in which the extraordiuarv process 
herein provided for may be resorted ~· 
SECTION  
Szonoir 
· 4455. ETidence in Chancery as in
other courts, unless otherwise
provided. 
4466. Testimony to be in writing,
.... except in divorce cases. 
4467. When testimony may be taken~ 
. «68 .. Exhibits may be proved by
affidavit, or at hearing. 
4469. Depositiona of subscribing wit­ 
nesses, to have instrument at­ 
tached. 
ARTICLE IX .. 
EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY. 
8BOTI01' 
4460. Time of notice me.y be regu­
lated by court or clerk. 
4461. No new examination without
leave. 
4462. When testimony taken de bene
ease • 
4468. Testimony of party taken by
interrogatories. 
4464. Proceedings in ,case party fails
to answer interrogatories. 
§ 4455. The rules of evidence as to the competency of wit-
nesses, and the methods of obtaining testimony, are the same 
in Courts of Chancery as in the other courts of this State,
except so far as they may be altered by the express provi-
sions of this Code. . 
§ 4456. In all causes in Chancery.except divorce causes, the
testimony of witnesses shall be taken in writing without 
compelling their personal attendance. In divorce causes
either party may examine the witnesses in open court, or
take their proof by depositions as in other cases. 
§ 4457. The complainant may take testimony at any time
after answer filed, or after a decree pro eonfesso, and the de-
fendant at any time after filing a sufficient answer. 
§ 4458. Exhibits to bills or answers may be proven by affi-
davits filed with the exhibits in the clerk's office· at any time
before hearing, or by witnesses at the hearing. 
§ 4459. The depositions of subscribing witnesses to deeds
or other writings, shall be taken with such instruments
annexed thereto. 
§ 4460. The court, or the clerk and master, may, upon good
cause shown, fix the time of notice for the taking of deposi- 
tions, either restricting or enlarging the periods set forth in sections 8851-3853. 
§ 4461. After an examination in chief, or cross-examination
once had, no witness shall be again examined in chief, or
cross-examined, as the case may be, without leave of the
court or master on good cause shown. 
§ 4462. When witnesses are aged or infirm, or are goin~ 
out of the Chancery division, or do not reside in such divi- 
sion, the court or clerk and master, upon affidavit of the facts,
may, at any time after the bill is filed, either before or after
a cause is at issue, authorize the deposition of the witnesses to
be taken de bene esse, on such notice as may be thought just; 
and depositions thus taken may be read as if taken regularly,
unless re-taken by order of the court, upon application of
the opposite party. 
§ 4463. If the party to a suit whose testimony is desired re­
sides beyond the limits of the State, the person wishing his 
evidence may file interrogatories with the clerk and master,
which shall be answered before such party can be allowed to
proceed to hearing. 
§ 4464. Should such person delay to answer in a reasonable
time, to be judged of by the court or clerk, a peremptory
order may be made by the court or clerk requiring the inter­
rogatories to be answered by a given day, and on failure, if
the delinquent is the complainant, the bill may be dismissed,
notice of which shall be given by the clerk and master to
the party or his solicitor; or the answer may be taken off the
:file and the bill taken for confessed, if the defendant be in 
default. 
SECTION 
ARTICLE X. 
ISSUES OF FACT AND TRIAL BY JURY IN CHANCERY. 
4465. Either party may have a. jury
to try facts. 
4466. At the first term, if demanded
in the pleadings. 
4467. If demand made when cause
ready for hearing, how tried. 
SECTION 
4468. Issues to be made by parties
under direction of court. 
4469. Trial as at law. 
4470. The attendance of witnesses
procured as at law. 
§ 4465. Either party to a suit in Chancery is entitled, upon
application, to a jury to try and determine any material fact 
in dispute, and all the issues of fact in any case shall be sub-
mitted to one jury. · 
§ 4466. If the demand is made in the pleadings, the cause
shall be tried at the first term before a jury summoned in- 
stanter, in the same way that jury causes are tried at law. .
§ 4467. If the demand is only made after the cause is ready 
for hearing, the trial will be before a jury summoned in-
stanter, upon the like evidence as a suit at law, together
with such parts of the bill, answers, depositions, and other
proceedings in the cause, as the court may order. 
§ 4468. The issues shall be made up by the parties under the
direction of the court, and set forth briefly and clearly the
true questions of fact to be tried. 
§ 4469. The trial shall be conducted like other jury trials at
law, the finding of the jury having the same force and effect,
and the court having the same power and control over the
finding, as on such trials at law. 
§ 4470. The parties, in all jury trials in Chancery, summon
witnesses and enforce their attendance as at law. 
SECTION PROCEEDINGS IN THE MASTER'S OFFICE AFTER DECREE. , 
8KOTI01' 
4471. Clerk shall file report as or­
dered. 
4472. Trial docket to show orders of
reference. 
44 73. Penalty of neglect. 
§ 4471. A complete report shall be :filed by the clerk and
master within the time prescribed by the order or decree, or 
a satisfactory excuse given in writing to the Chancellor, by
the same- time, in lieu of such report. 
§ 4472. The trial docket of each term shall show in what
cases orders of reference have been made, and at what time; 
and a failure to perform the duties required by such order,
or to give a valid excuse in writing under the foregoing sec-
tion, is a misdemeanor in office. 
§ 4473. The Chancellor shall punish such neglect by :fine in
each case of default, not exceeding :fifty dollars; and for con- 
tinuous or repeated neglect of the duty, shall remove the
clerk from office. 
§ 4474. The clerk and master, in all matters of reference,
whether for account, sale, or otherwise, shall proceed with 
the least practicable delay to comply with the terms of the
reference. 
§ 4475. The clerk and master shall promptly pay, ori de-
mand, to the party entitled, all moneys in his hands, accord- 
ing to the directions and decrees of the court ; and a wilful
disobedience of the provisions of this section is a misde­
meanor in office, for which he may be removed by the Chan­
cellor. 
ARTICLE XI. 
ARTICLE XII. 
DECREES A.ND THEIR EXECUTION. 
4476. Decree need not recite facts.
4477. But facts may be recited.
4478. Decrees are enforced by process 
against person or property.
4479. Attachment issues upon affida­ 
vit of service of decree, and
that defendant has failed to 
comply.
4480. May issue without actual ser­ 
vice, if defendant keeps out of
way. 
BscTIOX 
4474. Clerk to execute orders without
delay. 
4476. And promptly pay money on
demand. 
8SCTION 
4481. No bail allowed upon such at­
tachments. 
4482. But court may grant habeas
corpus. 
4488. Upon notice to adverse party.
4484. Decrees may dinst and vest title to property.
4485. Or appoint some person to make 
conveyances, etc.
4486. Decree effective without convey­ 
anoe, when. 
• 
8BCTJ01' 
4487. Sequistra.tion of defendant's
esta1e, when. 
4~8. Court may use other customary 
proeess. 
8BCTIOK 
4489. And may sell property free 
from equity of redemption. 
§ 4476. Decrees need not recite the facts upon which they
are based, but only the conclusions to which the court has
come. 
§ 4477. The foregoing section does not l?rohibit the :parties
from stating the facts in the decree, plamly and succinctly, 
nor the court from directing it to be done.
§ 4478. Courts of Chancery may enforce rules, orders, or 
decrees by process against the person in default, or by process
against his property. 
§ 4479. An attachment issues by order of the court upon the
officer's return or affidavit of the service of a copy of the
decree ten days beforehand, and that the party has failed or
refused to comply with the terms thereof. 
§ 4480. If the defendant in execution keeps out of the way
or absconds, so that a copy of the decree cannot be served 
upon him, or if he evades receiving the decree, affidavit of
the .fact, and that a copy of the decree was tendered him, or
left at his last place of abode, will authorize the issuance of
the attachment without actual service of the copy. 
§ 4481. All attachments for the non-performance of decrees
are in the nature of an execution, on the service of which
no bail is taken, but the party shall be committed to jail,
there to remain until he performs the decree. 
§ 4482. But the court, or a Judge thereof, in vacation, may,
in such case, grant a habeas corpus, and discharge the party,
if he shall purge the contempt, upon such conditions in
respect to his compliance with the decree as the Judge may
think proper. 
§ 4483. The adverse party, his agent or attorney, is entitled
to reasonable notice of the hearing upon the writ of habeas
corpus, if in the State, and may interrogate the party in con­
tempt upon his oath, and controvert the truth of his state­
ments by other proof. 
§ 4484. The decree may divest the title, to property, real or
personal, out of any of the parties, and vest it in others, and
such decree shall have all the force and effect of a con ,ey­
ance by such parties, executed in due form of law. 
§ 4485. The court may also appoint a commissioner to exe- 
cute all necessary conveyances, releases, and acquittances,
either in his name or in the name of the parties, as the court
may think ~roper; and the instrument so executed wi11 be
as valid as if executed by the party. 
§ 4486. If the decree direct a conveyance, release, or acquit-
tance to e ma e, an t e party against w om t e ecree is
rendered fails or refuses to execute the same in the time 
specified in the decree, or in a reasonable time, if no particu­
lar time is thus specified, the decree operates in all respects 
as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance was made. 
§ 4487. If the court see proper in the first instance, or if,
upon issuance of the attachment, the delinquent cannot be 
found, a writ of sequestration may issue against the estate
of such delinquent, to compel obedience to the decree. 
§ 4488. Courts of Chancery are further authorized to issue
such process, mesne and final, as has been used in such 
courts; and all writs for the collection of money, or to 
obtain the possession of real or personal property, muse in
the common law courts, may be adapted to the execution of
decrees in the Courts of Chancery. 
§ 4489. Where, upon the foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed
of trust, or in any case, the specific land to be sold is men- 
tioned in the decree, the court, upon application of the com-
plainant, may order- 
1. That the property be sold on a credit of not less than
six months nor more than two years. 
2. That when the sale is made and reported, and con­
:firmed, no right of redemption or repurchase shall exist in
the debtor or his creditors, but that the purchaser's title shall
be absolute. 
3. That the surplus of the purchase-money, or the bonds
or notes taken therefor, over and above what is necessar>7 to
pay the complainant's debt, be paid to the debtor or his other
creditors entitled to the same. 
ARTICLE XIII. 
PROCEEDINGS ON BILL OF REVIEW. 
4490. Upon bill of review, court may
grant or refuse stay of pro­
ceedings. 
SEOTI01' 
4491. Security required as upon in­
junctions. 
§ 4490. The court may, upon bill of review, and the circum-
stances of the case, stay proceedings on the decree until 
final bearing or further order, or refuse such stay, as shall
seem right. 
§ 4491. In either case, the court may direct such security to 
be given, and in the same way, as in the case of injunctions,
or such other security as shall· seem reasonable. 
ARTICLE XIV. 
COSTS IN CHANCERY. 
4492. Costa, when paid on interlocu­
tory proceedings. 
4493. Adjudged on final hearing, in
discretion of court. 
§ 4492. Costs shall be paid upon interlocutory proceedings
in the following cases : 
1. When the plaintiff amends his bill after copy issued, he
shall pay all costs occasioned thereby. 
2. When the defendant's answer is excepted to for insuffi­
ciency, and a rule is given him to file a sufficient answer
within one month, a sufficient answer offered within the
month is to be received without costs; but if the defendant
neglect or refuse to put in a sufficient answer, or put in
another answer which is adjudged insufficient, no further or
other answer shall be received but upon payment of costs. 
3. On overruling or sustaining exceptions to an answer,
the unsuccessful party" shall pay the other three dollars. 
4. Upon a plea or demurrer argued and overruled, costs
shall be paid as where an answer is adjudged insufficient;
but if a plea or demurrer be allowed, the defendant shall
recover the same amount from the plaintiff. 
§ 4493. Upon the final decree, the costs shall be paid by the
party a~inst whom the court shall adjudge them, according 
to its discretion.
§ 4494. Where the bill is dismissed for want of prosecution, 
the plaintiff shall pay the costs. 
811:CTIOll 
§ 4494. Plaintiff' pays costs on dismissal 
ot bill for want of prosecu­
tion. 
CHAPTER 1. Of the Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
CHAPTER 2. Of the Practice of the Supreme Court. 
8:&CTION 
TITLE 11. 
OF THE SUPREME COURT. 
CHAPTER 1. 
OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT. 
4496. Concurrence of two Judges ne­
ceeaary to decision. 
4496. Jurisdiction appellate, not orig­
inal. 
4497. Agreed cases may be, by con­
sent, adjourned to Supreme 
Court.
4498. Court may recommit and re­ 
mand offenders, taking recog­
nizance. 
4499. May give judgment upon bonds
and recognizances taken in
progress of cause. 
8BOTION 
4500. Scire facias may issue, and
issues of faot be made and
tried thereon. 
4501. The court may, on its own mo­ 
tion, vacate judgment inad­
vertently made, when on face
of record no cause of action. 
4502. And correct mistakes apparent
on record. 
4508. And issue all process necessary
to the exercise of its jurisdic­ 
tion. 
§ 4495. The concurrence of two of the Judges is necessary 
to a decision in every case.
§ 4496. The court has no original jurisdiction, but appeals 
and writs of error, or other proceedings for the correction of
errors, lie from the inferior courts of Iaw and equity, within 
each division, to the Supreme Court held for that division.
§ 4497. Agreed cases may, by consent of the parties, be 
adjourned to the Supreme Court for decision.
§ 4498. The court may recommit offenders in State cases, 
when it may appear necessary, and remand them to the 
inferior court from which their cases were brought to the
Supreme Court, taking recosnizances from such defendants, 
when the offence charged is bailable, with such security as
the court shall judge proper. 
§ 4499. The court may give judgment upon any and all
bonds or recognizances, whether in civil or criminal cases, 
executed in the progress of the cause, under the general
provisions of law, or by lawful order of the court, either in
the inferior or Supreme Court, and enforce the same by exe­
cution or otherwise, as in the case of other judgments and
decrees of the court. 
§ 4500. Process of scire facias may, in all such cases, be
issued as is proper in similar cases in the inferior courts,
and, upon appearance of the defendant, and issue of fact made
thereon, the court may order a jury to be summoned forth­
with, to determine the issue, and may give judgment thereon,
as the inferior courts of law might do in similar cases. 
§ 4501. In all cases in which the Supreme Court may give
judgment through inadvertence and oversight, when upon 
the face of the record no cause of action existed against the
party, the court may, upon its own motion, vacate such
Judgment. 
§ 4502. The court may likewise, at any time after final
judgment, correct mistakes apparent on the face of the
record, as provided in section 2878. 
§ 4503. The court may issue all writs and process necessary
for the exercise and enforcement of its jurisdiction. 
SECTION 
CHAPTER 2. 
OF THE PRACTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT. 
4604. Supreme Court may make rules
of practice. 
4506. May class the circuits so as to
set causes on certain weeks,
and make publication thereof. 
4606. Either Judge may adjourn from
day to day, in the absence of
the others. 
4607. So may the clerk or sheriff', for
one week, if neither Judge
attend. 
4608. The clerk, at the end of the
week, or either Judge, may
adjourn to court in course. 
4609. Such adjournments work no
discontinuance. 
SECTIOK 
4610. Judges to hold term until busi­
ness disposed of. 
4611. And sit, upon their own ad­
journment, at any time. 
4612. Either Judge may supersede
execution from the court. 
4618. Or interlocutory order of infe­
rior court. 
4614. Appeals before court, stand for
hearing at the first term with­
out notice. 
4616. Appeals during term, may be
prosecuted on five days' no­
tice. 
4616. No decision of inferior court
shall be reversed except on
merit.s. 
§ 4504. The Supreme Court may make rules of practice for
the better disposal of business before it. 
§ 4505. It shall so class the circuits of the different divisions
as to set the causes from each circuit for trial on certain 
weeks of the term, and make publication thereof three
znorrtha before the beginning of the term. 
§ 4506. Either Judge in attendance at any tfme may adjourn
court, in the absence of the other Judges, from day to day, 
until they are able to attend. '
§ 4507. The clerk or sheriff may also adjourn the court from 
day to day, for one week at the :first of the term, if .neither
Judge attends. 
§ 4508. The clerk, at the expiration of the week, or the
single J udse in attendance in the case mentioned in sec­
tion 4506, if satisfied that a quorum cannot be had, may 
adjourn to the court in course.
§ 4509. Such adjournment works no discontinuance in any 
case, but the business stands over until the next term, and
may then be disposed of, and all process, recognizances, or 
other obligations enforced, as if no such continuance had
been made. 
§ 4510. It is the duty of the Judges of the Supreme Court 
to hold its terms at the different places designated by law,
until all the causes are determined or otherwise disposed of,
or until it becomes necessary to adjourn to hold court at
another point. 
§ 4511. But the court may sit upon its own adjournments,
and hold its term at any time, for the purpose of hearing and
deciding the unfinished business. 
§ 4512. The Judges of the Supreme Court, or any one of
them, on a proper case being made out, shall have the 
authority to grant the process of supersedeas to an execution
returnable to their own court, in the same manner the
Supreme Court whilst in session can grant such process. 
§ 4513. They may also grant superaedeas to the execution
.of an interlocutory decree of an inferior court in the cases 
provided for in sections 3933, 3934.
§ 4514. All appeals, and appeals in the nature of a writ of 
error, taken from the :final judgment or decree of an inferior
court, at any time before the sitting of the Supreme Court,
shall stand for hearing at the first term, without notice to
the opposite party. . 
§ 4515. An appeal, appeal in the nature of a writ of error,
or writ of error, may be prosecuted from any final judgment 
or decree rendered m an inferior court during the term of
the Supreme Court, the record being filed in the court, and
the opposite party, or his counsel, notified :five days before
the hearing. 
§ 4516. No -judgment, decision, or decree of the inferior
courts shall be reversed in the Supreme Court, unless for 
errors which affect the merits of the judgment, decision, or
decree complained of. 
CHAPTER 1. OF THE COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS. 
General Rules in regard to the Compen­
sation of Officers. 
CHAPTER 2. Of the Compensation of the Officers of the
Executive Department of Government, of
the Superintendent of the Hospital for the
Insane, Public Printer, and Commissioner
of Roads. 
·CHAPTER 3. 
CHAPTER
4. 
CHAPTER
5. 
CHAPTER 6.
CHAPTER 7. 
CHAPTER
8.
CHAPTER
9. 
CHAPTER 10. 
CHAPTER 11. 
TITLE 12. 
Of the Compensation of Judges and Chan­
cellors. 
Of the Compensation of the Attorney Gene­
ral and Reporter, and of the District·
Attorneys. 
Of the Compensation of Justices of the
Peace. 
Of the Componsation of Clerks of Court.
Of the Compensation of Sheriffs, Tax Col­ 
lectors, County Trustees, Coroners, Con­
stables, and J ailors. 
Of the Compensation of Notaries Public.
Of the Compensation of Surveyors, and 
Sealers of Weights and Measures.
Of the 'Compensation of Special Commis­ 
sioners, and Printers.
Of the Compensation of County Registers, 
and Rangers. 
GENERAL RULES IN REG ARD TO THE COMPENSATION OF
OFFICERS. 
8BCTI01' 
§ 4517. No officer can demand other
fees than those expressly pre­
scribed by law. 
§ 4518. Penalty for demanding other
and higher fees than those
allowed by law. 
§ 4519. Officers entitled to fees, must
keep a list of fees posted up in
their offices. 
§ 4520. And must, on demand, make
out a bill of fees in any
case. 
§ 4517. No officer is allowed to demand or receive fees or
other compensation for any services further than is expressly 
provided by law. 
§ 4518. If any officer demands or receives any other or
higher fees than are prescribed by 'law, he is liable to the
party aggrieved in the penalty of fifty dollars, to be recovered
before-any Justice of the Peace, and is also guilty -of a mis- 
demeanor in office. · 
CHAPTER 1. 
SECTION 
4521. No officer is entitled to fees
until the service is performed,
unless otherwise expressly
provided by law. 
4522. Collecting officers are ncrt. al­
lowed commissions on costs. 
4523. The court, upon application,
must decide any question
arising under compensation
law. 
§ 4519. The clerks of the several courts, sheriffs, Justices of
the Peace, and other officers entitled to fees under the pro- 
visions of law, are required to keep posted up in a conspicu-
ous place in their respective efflces, .a complete list of all the
fees allowed them by law, and shall also keep a copy ready
to be produced on the application of .any person demanding
to see the same. 
§ 4520. Such officers shall also, on demand, make out a bill
of fees and costs in any case or matter, stating each item
distinctly, without charge therefor. 
§ 4521. No officer is entitled to demand and receive fees
allowed by law, until the duty or service for which they are 
granted is performed, unless otherwise expressly provided
by law. 
§ 4522. Collecting officers are not entitled to charge com-
missions on the costs of a cause collected by them. 
§ 4523. It is the duty of the several courts of the State to
de~i~e, upon ap:plicati?i:1 by the officer entitled to c011~p~n- 
sation, any question arrsmg under the law, and such decision
will protect the officer acting under it. 
CHAPTER 2. OF TUE CO~IPENSA TION OF TIIE OFFICERS OF THE EXECUTIVE
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT, OF TI-IE SUPERINTENDENT
OF TI-IE HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, PUBLIC PRINTER, AND
COMMISSIONER OF ROADS. 
8ECTIOK 
 
4524. Salary of Governor, $3000.
4626. Salary of Tre&8urer, $1500, 
and commission on hospital
moneys. 
4526. Salary or Comptroller, $2750.
4527. And tees for issuing State 
bonds, and under free bank­
ing law. 
4628. Salary of Secretar1 or State,
$800, a11d as internal improve­ 
ment commisaioner, $500.
4629. .And fees for services enume­ 
rated.
4580. Books, stationery, and postage 
paid by State tor these officers. 
81:CTIOl!f 
4531. Salary of Superintendent of
Weights and Measures, $300. 
4682. And $250 compensation for
collecting and keeping public
arms. 
4588. Salary of State Geologist,
$1500. 
4684. The .Assayer is entitled to a fee
not exceeding $5 for each
assay. 
4686. Salary or Superintendent of
hospital for the insane, $2000. 
4686. Compensation of Public Print­
er. 
4537. Salary of Commissioner of
Roads, $2000. 
§ 4524. The Governor of the State is entitled to a sa1ary of
three thousand dollars per annum, payable quarterly. 
§ 4525. The Treasurer of the State is entitled to a salary of
fifteen hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly, and 
three-fourths of one per cent. for receiving and disbursing
moneys which may come into his hands for the use of the
hospital for the insane. · 
§ 4526. The salary of the Comptroller shall be twenty-seven
hundred and fifty dollars per annum for all services, payable
quarterly out of the treasury. 
§ 4527. He is entitled to fees for services in issuing State
bonds, and under the laws to authorize and regulate the busi­
ness of banking, as now prescribed by law. 
§ 4528. The Secretary of State is entitled to a salary of
eight hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly out of 
any money in the treasury, upon the warrant of the Comp­
troller, and to five hundred dollars, payable semi-annually in
the same way, for services as internal improvement commis­
sioner, and to certain fees of office provided for in the next section.
§ 4529. The Secretary of State is entitled to demand and 
receive for the following services the fees annexed:
For each search in his office,
For each copy, for every hundred words, 
30 10
10 
60
For each certificate, with seal of State, 
For each certificate without seal of State,
For each ~rant issued,
For entermg in a book the number and date of each 
grant, with the numberof acres, and grantee's name, 10
For each memorandum of incorporation under the 
provisions of this Code, required to be filed and
recorded in his office, 5 00 
For each copy of such memorandum, 1 00
For each copy of township or other plats from the 
maps in his office, 50
§ 4530. The Treasurer, Comptroller, and Secretary of State 
are also enti tied to an allowance each year for the expenses
incurred for the necessary books, stationery, and postage in 
the discharge of their official duties.
§ 4531. The salary of the Superintendent of Weights and 
Measures shall be three hundred dollars a year.
§ 4532. The Superintendent shall have an additional com- 
pensation of two hundred and fifty dollars for his services in
collecting and keeping the public arms, to be paid out of 
the treasury ..
§ 4533. The State Geologist shall receive an annual salary of 
:fifteen hundred dollars, payable quarterly upon the warrant
of the Comptroller; which warrant shall not issue without a 
written statement of the officer .that he has devoted his
whole time to the duties of his office. 
§ 4534. The Assayer shall receive no salary from the State,
but shall be entitled to perquisites of office by charging and 
receiving for each assay a fee not exceeding five dollars, to
be paid by the person for whom the work is done. 
§ 4535. The Superintendent of the hospital for the insane
shall receive a salary of two thousand dollars per annum, 
payable quarterly out of the treasury, upon the warrant of
the Comptroller. 
§ 4536. The compensation of the Public Printer is prescribed
m seenons a.n .
§ 4537. The salary of the Commissioner of Roads is two 
§ 4538. Each of the Judges of the Supreme Court of this
State is entitled to a salary of twenty-five hundred dollars 
per annum, payable quarterly out of the State treasury.
§ 4539. Each Chancellor, Circuit, and Criminal Judge, and 
Judge of special courts, except County Judge, is entitled to
a salary of eighteen hundred dollars per annum, payable 
quarterly out of the State treasury.
§ 4540. Each County Judge of a county where such judge 
is provided for by law, is entitled to receive five dollars per
day during the sitting of the monthly and quarterly courts, 
and such additional compensation as the several quarterly
courts may appropriate for his services, to be paid quarterly
out of the county treasury upon his own warrant. 
CHAPTER OF THE COMPENSATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND
REPORTER, AND OF DISTRICT ATTORNEYS. 
S•cTION 
CHAPTER 4. 
4541. Salary of Attorney General and
Reporter, $1500, and the copy­
right of decisions. 
4542. Fees of District Attorneys.
4643. To be taxed in bill of costs.
4544. When paid out of State or 
county treasury.
4545. Pee to be paid by county in any 
misdemeanor case, limited to
$2 50. 
8BOTIOH 
4546. When several defendants make
joint defence, only one tax fee 
allowed.
4547. If they sever, one tai fee for 
each defence.
4548. No tax fee when indictment ig­ 
nored, or prosecution fails for
defect in pleading. 
§ 4541. The Attorney General and Reporter for the State is
entitled to a salary of fifteen hundred dollars per annum, 
payable quarterly out of the treasury, and also to a copy-
right in the reports made by him of the decisions of the
Supreme Court. 
§ 4542. The Attorneys General for each judicial district are
entitled to demand and receive for services the following 
fees, and none other:
For each conviction where the punishment is death, $20 00
For each conviction for selling, wearing, or using 
bowie-knife and Arkansas tooth-pick,
For each conviction for perjury,
For each conviction for any felony,
For each conviction for a misdemeanor,
For felonies, if the defendant is tried but acquitted,
For misdemeanors in the like event, 
20 00
15 00 
10 00
5 00
5 00 
2 50 
For each prosecution where the grand jury finds
a true bill, but the cause is terminated with­ 
out a trial,
For motions or actions successfully prosecuted 
against delinquent officers and their sureties,
or either, 
For recovering penalty prescribed against breaches
of the revenue laws in relation to licenses, 
double fees.
For similar motions or actions unsuccessfully pro­ 
secuted,
For prosecuting forfeitures against witnesses, ju­ 
rors, or overseers of roads,
For professional attention to prosecutions instituted 
by clerk for penalties under inspection laws,
For attending to prosecution for importing convict 
slave, to be paid out of proceeds of sale of
slave, 
For proceeding against clerk for delinquency in
enrolling cause, 
For proceedings successfully prosecuted against
persons violating any of the provisions of the
revenue laws where the penalty amounts to
:five hundred dollars, 25 00 
For successfully prosecuting venders of lottery
tickets, 20 00 
For all other proceedings in behalf of the State,
where, by the judgment of the court, the
defendant pays costs, 5, 00 
§ 4543. The fees contemplated in the foregoing section are
to be taxed in the bill of costs, and collected from the de- 
fendant whenever the prosecutions or proceedings have been
successful. 
§ 4544. Where the prosecutions and proceedings have been
unsuccessful, or the money cannot be collected from the de-
fondants, or the prosecutor is charged with costs, the fees
allowed the Attorney General are paid out of the State or
county treasury, as other costs in criminal cases. 
§ 4545. In no case of misdemeanor, however, where the
county pays the costs, shall the Attorney General's tax fee 
be more than two dollars and :fifty cents.
§ 4546. If there are two or more defendants in a criminal 
prosecution, or any action or proceeding on behalf of the
State, and the defendants do not sever in their defence, the 
Attorney General is entitled to only one tax fee.
§ 4547. When the defendants make several defences, he 
will be entitled to one tax fee for each defence.
§ 4548. No cost or tax fee is allowed the Attorney General 
when a bill of indictment is ignored by the grand jury, or
the prosecution fails by reason of any defect in the plead-
ings. 
$3 00 
. 10 00 
5 00 
2 50° 
10 00 
25 00 
5 00 
ARTICLE OF TUE COMPENSATIOY OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
ARTICLE I. In Civil Cases.
II. In Criminal Cases. 
S•CTION 
CHAPTER 5. 
ARTICLE I. 
IN CIVIL CASES. 
4649. Fees of Justices in civil cases. 
§ 4549. The Justices of the Peace in this State are allowed
to demand and receive, for their services in civil cases, the
followins- fees, and none other:
For issumg a warrant against one defendant,
For issuing a warrant for each additional defendant,
For issuing a subpoena for a single witness,
For issuing a subpcena for each additional witness,
For entering a continuance,
For rendering judgment where there is no litigation,
For rendering judgment where there is litigation,
For docketing eac~ case, filing papers, making out bill 
of costs, and entering stay, if given,
For issuing execution and copy of cost,
For each search for any paper or record,
For each garnishment,
For each scire facias,
For affidavit and bond in attachment cases, and issu- 
ance of attachment,
For an order of publication,
For every other order required by law,
For entry of an appeal and taking appeal bond,
For taking any other bond in the discharge of his 
official duties, for which the fee is not fixed,
For making out copy of costs in appeal cases,
For a commission to take depositions,
For taking a deposition,
For issuing a warrant in forcible entry and detainer,
For trying forcible entry and detainer case, each day,
For issuing writ of replevin, with bond and affidavit,
For rendering the judgment therein,
For probating- an account, 
For every written affidavit not included in some other
service, 15 
For every certificate not included in some other service, 20
For recording the papers and proceedings in an action, 
where required by law, per hundred words, 10 
$0 10 
05 
10 
05
10
25
50 
15 
20 
10 
25
25 
1 00
25
10 
50 
50 
10 
25
1 00 
25
1 00 
1 00
50 
10 
For a certified copy of any record or paper in his office,
per hundred words, $0 10 
For receiving petition and granting an order for dis-
covery, 50 
For services touching stallions and jackasses running
atlarge, 1 00 
For issuing order to freeholders to examine partition
fences, and ascertaining' amount to be paid for
erecting same, 50 
To the Justices of the quorum, such compensation as
the court may allow. 
§ 4550. And for their service~ in criminal cases the follow-
ing fees : 
For taking written affidavit to procure a warrant, $0 10
For issuing a warrant, _ 25 
For each judgment, 75
For docketing, filing papers, and making bill of costs, 15
For each recognizance bond or mittimus, 50 
For taking acknowledgment of sureties for fine and
costs, under small offence law, 10 
For each execution for fine and costs, or costs and copy
of costs, 25 
For any other services required by law in criminal
cases, the same fees allowed for similar services in
civil cases. 
CHAPTER 6. 
OF THE COMPENSATION OF CLERKS OF COURT. 
ARTICLE I. Fees common to all Clerks.
II. Fees of Supreme Court Clerks. 
III. Fees of Clerks of the Circuit and Criminal
Courts. 
IV. Fees of Clerks and Masters in Chancery.
V. Fees of County Court Clerks. 
SECTION 
FEES COMMON TO A.LL CLERKS. 
4651. Fees ot the several clerks for
the servieea attached. 
4662. The court may make an addi­ 
tional allowance on sales, 
when.
4558. And may make allowance when 
no fee fixed by law.
4554. Clerk employs auctioneer at his 
own expense. 
ARTICLE I. 
§ 4551. The clerks of the several courts of this State are
allowed to demand and receive for the following services the 
fees thereto attached : ·
For every original process, summons or subpcena to 
answer, $0 75
For entering security of record, 25
For each prosecution bond, 25
For each attachment, replevin, or injunction, or refund- 
ing bond in equity case,
For registering prosecution, attachment aud injunction, 
and replevin bonds, in a book to be kept for that
purpose, 
For each attachment or injunction,
For receiving, filing, and entering on docket any bill, 
petition, declaration, plea, demurrer, or other plead­
ing, each, 
For taking and filing an affidavit to any: pleading,
For taking and filing any other affidavit in a cause,
For each order or motion, and order thereon,
For issuing su bpcona for witnesses, for each witness,
For issuing subpceua to bring in paper or record, etc.,
For taking each deposition,
For eve.ry order of publication,
For entering each cause upon trial docket,
For each continuance dulv entered,
For issuing any notice to ·the parties required by law,
For each rule made at office and entered on docket,
For dismissing a cause out of term time,
For entering a nolle prosequi, or dismissal,
For entering an issue of fact in an equity case, empan­ 
elling a jury, receiving and recording- verdict, and
other proceedings attending trial by Jury, 1 00 
For entering special verdict, or judgment on demurrer,
or plea in abatement, 
For entering fine against juror, 
SECTION 
4655. Blank and record books of
clerks paid by county. 
4666. No clerk entitled to any fees 
chargeable to State or county 
by his neglect. 
4557. Nor to any fees for imperfect
transcripts. 
50 
25
1 00 
25
25 
05 
25 
1 00
50
10 
10
25
25 
25 
50 
For setting same aside, 80 25 
For empanelling a jury, 10
For entering a final judgment at law, and ordering exe- 
cution,
For entering a judgment for costs only,
For entering a judgment nisi,
For reference to arbitrators,
For judgments or decrees in equity cases, or actions in 
the nature of equity cases, for each hundred words, 10
FQr every fieri facias, 40
For every renditioni exponas, writ of possession, dis- 
tringas, or other writ in execution or enforcement
of judgments or decrees, 
For issuing order to sheriff to summon jurors or com­
missioners to divide land, 
For every scire facias,
For copies of any pleadings, papers,' and proceedings 
in a cause, per hundred words,
For enrolling, as required by law, per hundred words,
For a transcript. of a record, per hundred words,
For affixing seal of court to a record,
For motion for new trial, and orders thereon,
For entering an order of appeal, and taking appeal 
bond, 75
For filing the record or papers brought up from a lower 
court for the correction of errors, 75
For receiving and filing petition, and issuing the neces- 
sary process on writ of error coram uobis,
For writ of error, if actually issued,
For writ of certiorari,
For writ of supersedeas,
For prosecution bond ou writ of error or certiorari,
For taking prosecution bond on appeals,
For making out and entering on execution docket each 
bill of costs, 50
For copying bill of costs on back of execution, 25
For each search of record out of court, 10
For receiving and paying over all taxes, fines, forfeit- 
ures, and amercements, two and a half cents on
the dollar, 
For each probate of a witness,
For each witness ticket, to be paid by the party apply- 
ing for the same, 05
For proceedings of legitimation, or adoption, 1 00
For proceedings to change a name, 1 00
For transcript of judgment and bill of costs for Comp- 
troller or treasurer, per hundred words, 10
For drawing deeds of conveyance under orders of 
court, reciting all proper facts, 2 00
For reports, taking and stating accounts, etc., in which 
four figures are to be counted as a word, and in 
75
25
50
25 
75 
50
50 
10
10
10 
50 
25 
75
50
50
50
50
25 
2! 
05· 
which, so far as practicable, figures must be used
for words, per hundred words, 81 00 
For examining a party in interrogatories, 1 00
For deciding upon exceptions to answer, for each ex- 
ception, 10
For proceedings to transfer guardianship or to transfer 
funds to foreign guardian, 2 00
For selling property under decree of court, and receiv­ 
ing, collecting, and paying out the proceeds, com­
missions at the rate of four dollars for the first one 
hundred dollars, three dollars for every hundred
over one and not exceeding three hundred dollars,
two dollars for every hundred over three and under
five hundred dollars, and at the rate of one dollar
and fifty cents for all over five hundred dollars,
until the fees amount to one hundred dollars. 
§ 4552. And if the amount of sale exceeds six thousand
dollars, the court may make an additional allowance, not in 
any case to exceed two per cent. on the whole amount of sale.
§ 4553. And the court may make allowances to the clerk or 
other person acting as trustee, receiver, or commissioner
under the appointment of the court, where no fees are fixed
by law. 
§ 4554. If the clerk employ an auctioneer or other person
to cry the sale of property, it shall be at his own expense. 
§ 4555. The Clerks of the Circuit, Criminal, Chancery, and
County Courts are entitled to be paid out of the county
treasury of their respective counties, the necessary cost of
all blank or record books, required by them in the discharge
of their official duties. 
§ 4556. No clerk of any court in this State shall be entitled
to any fees which become chargeable to the State or county,
in consequence of any omission or neglect of duty on the
part of such clerk. 
§ 4557. Nor shall such clerks be entitled to any fees for im­
perfect or incorrect transcripts made out and transmitted to
a superior court, but such fees shall, on motion, be stricken
out of the bill of costs, and such clerk moreover charged
with costs of the certiorari awarded to bring up a more
perfect record. 
ARTICLE II. 
FEES OF SUPREME COURT CLERKS. 
SECTION I SECTION 
4558. Fees allowed Clerks of Supreme 4559. Blank and record books paid 
Court. for out of State treasury. 
§ 4558. The Clerks of the Supreme Court, in addition to the
fees allowed in the preceding article for any services therein 
mentioned, performed by them, may demand and receive
for the following services, the fees attached thereto :
For docketing causes upon the Judge's docket, each 
cause, $0 10
For entering suggestion of diminution of record, 25
For each motion entered, 20 
For entering suggestion of incompetency of Judge, 25
For every order entered, . 25
For each procedendo, 50 
For copy of opinion to accompany the. same, per hun- 
dred words, 10
For motion and judgment against sureties, 25
For copies of opinions for the State Reporter, per hun- 
dred words, 10
For entering judgment in criminal cases against the 
State or county, when the defendant is shown by
execution to be insolvent, 75 
§ 4559. The Clerk of the Supreme Court is also entitled to
be paid out of the State treasury the cost of all blank or
record books, required by him in the discharge of his official
duties, for which the Comptroller shall issue his warrant
upon the production by the clerk of his account for such
books, duly sworn to. 
§ 4560. The Clerks of the Circuit and Criminal Courts, in
addition to the fees allowed for any services performed by 
them as J>rovided in Article I. of this chapter, may demand
and receive for the following services, the fees attached: 
For each eapias, 80 75
For presentment or indictment, charging prisoners and 
pleas, - 25
For entering and filing every recognizance, 25
For taking recognizance of record, 25
For every certified copy of order, 25
For motion in arrest of judgment, and order thereon, 25
For entering a judgment against the State or county, 
where the defendant is shown by execution to be
insolvent, 7 5 
For entering judgment of condemnation of land on
a Justice's execution, 1 50 
For copyin~ indictment in cases of felony into the
minute book, per hundred words, 10 
For jury in cases of felony, 50 
For filing and recording declaration in naturalization
case; with copy and seal of court, 81 50 
For entering final decree in, with copy and seal, 1 50
For rendering account to county trustee for fines and 
. forfeitures each year, 1 00
For recording and countersigning each license, 25
For receiving and paying all moneys from defaulting 
officers, at the rate of six per cent.
For taking revenue bonds, same as CountyOonrt Clerk, 
for similar services.
For services touching changing names, adoption or 
legitimation of children, 1 00
For receiving money from delinquent collector, report- 
ing same to Comptroller and paying it into treasury, 
six per cent. 
SECTION 
4661. Fees of clerks and masten in Chancery. 
§ 4561. The clerks and masters of the Chancery Courts are
allowed to demand and receive for services the fees attached 
to such services as provided in Article I. of this chapter. 
SECTION 
FEES OF CLERJrS .AND MASTERS IN CHANCERY. 
FEES OF COUNTY COURT CLERKS. 
4662. Clerks of County Court are al­
lowed fees for services at­
tached. 
§ 4562. The Clerks of the County Courts, in addition to the
fees allowed for services as prescribed in Article I. of this chapter, are entitled to demand and receive for the following
services the fees attached: 
For taking and certifying the probate or acknowledg-
ment of a deed or other instrument, $0 25 
For taking privy examination of feme covert, 25
For a commission to take the acknowledgment of a 
feme covert, and all services therein,
For certifying to the official character of a Justice of 
the Peace, without the county seal,
For a similar certificate with the seal attached,
For entering on the minutes the probate of a will, 
For recording a will, per hundred words,
For recording report of commissioners to 'lay off year's 
provision, 
ARTICLE IV. 
ARTICLE V. 
SECTION 
4663. For settlement or" guardian,
where minor's estate is under
$200, $1. 
50 
25
50 
50 
10 
25 
For qualifying an executor or administrator, and enter-
ing the appointment on record, 81 00 
For taking and recording administration bond, 1 00
For recording letters testamentary, or of administration, 50
For copy of same, 50
For recording in a well-bound book all inventories and 
accounts of sale, counting four figures as a word,
per hundred words, 10 
For copy of same, per hundred words, 10
For marriage bond and license, registering the same, 
and the return on license, 1 00
For copy of license and bond, 50
For taking and recording each license bond, 1 00
For all proceedings in a case of bastardy, 3 00
For each apprentice indenture, 1 00
For qualifyin~, taking and recording bond, and enter- 
ing appointment of constable, 1 00
For similar services in regard to sheriffs, 2 00
For similar services as to other official bonds, 1 00
For each revenue bond, 1 00
For recording mark or brand, and making index 
thereo( 25 
For issuing warrant, 50
For rendering to the county trustee each year an ac­ 
count of fines, forfeitures, and other county revenue
by him collected, to be paid by the county, 1 00 
For taking bond and affidavit, and issuing merchant's
license, 2 00 
For issuing license to exhibit shows, 1 00
For issuing tippling license and taking bond, 1 00
For issuing license to stand stallion or jack, 50
For issuing license to hawk and peddle, 1 00 
For issuing boat license to sell goods, 1 00
For taking and stating accounts of guardians, execu- 
tors, and administrators, four :figures to be counted
one word, and figures to be used where practicable,
per hundred words, 10 
For recording same, per hundred words, 10
For copy thereof, per hundred words, 10
For filing- and recording refunding bond from legatee 
or distributee, 50
For receiving and filing the suggestion of the insol- 
vency of an estate, and order of publication, 50
For receiving and filing each claim against same, 10
For receiving and recording schedule of available assets, 
per hundred words, 10
For taking and stating account, making a pro rata dis­ 
tribution, counting- four figures to the word, and
using figures as far as practicable, per hundred
words, 10 
For recording same, per hundred words, 10 
For copy thereof, per hundred words,
For orders of court confirming settlements,
For orders on executors, administrators, or guardians 
to pay money into court,
For receiving and recording tax list, and computing tax 
on same for each civil district, to be paid by
county, 
For copies of same for sheriff or tax collector for each
civil district, to be paid by county, 1 00 
For entering in tax-book the list of any person failing
to return his taxables, 
For each road order, to be paid by county,
For receiving petition, making an order for a jury of 
view, and recording return and the order of coort
thereon, in road cases, 
For entering of record venire facias, and copy,
For entering an allowance for pauper, and copy,
For recording settlement with himself, or Clerk of Cir- 
cuit Court, for county revenue only, each, to be paid
by county, 1 00 
For entering of record any allowance, and copy thereof,
when necessary, to be paid by the party in whose
~ocm~~ li 
For settling with trustees of county academies, to be
paid by county, 2 00 
For issuing jury tickets, to be paid by the county, each, 05
For recording on minutes of court each bill of costs 
from Circuit Court, to be paid by county,
For each certificate for wolf-scalp,
For settling with county trustee for common school 
fund, to be paid by county,
For all other services in relation to common schools, 
to be ;i.mid by county, 5 00
For recordmg petition for incorporation of city or town, 2 00
For all services in relation to the emancipation of a 
slave, 3 00
For receiving and paying over State and county revenue, 
two and a half per centum on the amount collected
and paid over, 21 
For makmg out abstract of each civil district's taxable
property, for each district, 
For ex officio services the court may make him an allow-
ance not exceeding 50 00 
For the probate and acknowledgment of each mem­
orandum of private incorporation, under the pro-
visions of this Code, 1 00 
For the record of any memorandum, or other writing
relating to private corporations, required to be
filed or recorded in his office, 2 00 
For each copy of any document embraced in the last
two items, 2 00 
80 10 
25 
50 
3 00 
10 
30 
50
50
50 
15 
25 
2 00 
75 
For services touching changing names, adoption or
legitimation of children, 81 00 
For recording petition and certificate Of election to be
incorporated as a town, and making and deliver-
ing copy to register, 1 00 
For taking acknowledgment or probate of deed, or article of limited partnership, or renewal of same, 1 00 
For taking bond and issuing license to keeper of tobacco
warehouse, 1 50 
For issuing license to sell merchandise, or exercise a
taxable privilege, and taking bond, 1 00 
For attending to prosecutions _for penalties under the
provisions of the inspection laws, ten per cent. on
sums collected and paid into State treasury. 
For services in the recovery of penalty prescribed
against breach of revenue laws in relation to
licenses, double fees. 
For services touching probate and acknowledgment
of deeds, the fees prescribed in section 2088. 
For copy from original register's book deposited in his
office, and certificate, 50 
For copy of probate or acknowledgment of deed, and
certificate, 12! 
For services touching the receipt of a legacy, distribu­
tive share, or interest in an estate, the fees pre­
scribed in section 2324. 
For services in the administration of insolvent estate,
the fees prescribed in section 2355. 
For services m allotment of dower, the fees prescribed
in section 2419. 
For copy of emancipation proceedings, per hundred
words, .1 10 
For copy of register of free person of color, and certifi-
cate and seal, 25 
For registering abstract of Justice's execution to enforce
. mechanic's lien, . 25 
For services touching voluntary enslavement of free
persons of color, 10 00 
§ 4563. Whenever the distributive share of any minor does
not exceed two hundred dollars, the Clerk of the County 
Court shall not be entitled to more than one dollar for any
one settlement he may make with the guardian of such 
·minor. 
ARTICLE OF THE COMPENSATION OF SHERIFFS, TAX COLLECTORS,
COUNTY TRUSTEES, CORONERS, CONSTABLES, AND JAILORS. 
ARTICLE I. Fees of Sheriffs.
II. Fees of Tax Collectors. 
8BCTI01' 
III. Fees of County Trustees.
IV. Fees of Coroners. 
V. Fees of Constables.
VI. Fees of Jailors. 
ARTICLE I. 
FEBS OF SHERIFFS. 
4564. The Sheriff' reeelree for eerncea the fees attached. 
§ 4564. The Sheriff is allowed to demand and receive for
the following services the fees attached:
For executing every capias, summons, or other lead- 
ing process,
For returning: any of the above writs, not found,
For every bail-bond,
For serving a declaration in real action,
For serving a subpama for each witness,
For returning same not found, for each,
For serving every scire facias,
For returnmg same not found,
For commitment and release,
For summoning and empanelling jury, in each case 
in which a jury is sworn,
For special venire by order of court, each juror,
For summoning each Justice and juror,
For serving each notice of application for dower or 
partition,
For executing and returning writ of dower or parti- 
tion, and all necessary service,
For each day's attendance on premises,
For executing writ of possession,
For serving and attending any person on writ of 
habeas corpus, each day,
For levying an attachment,
For summoning a garnishee,
For levying- an execution on propertv,
For collecting money on execution, on the first hun­ 
dred, 
CHAPTER 7. 
81 00
25 
25
1 00 
zs 
10 
1 00 
25 
50 
50
25
15 
15 
8 00
2 00
1 00 
2 00
1 00 
50
1 00 
4 00 
For every hundred over one and not exceeding three,
For every hundred over three,
For collecting State and county tax, at the rate of six 
per centum on the amount collected,
For distress in collecting taxes,
For each tract of land advertised for taxes,
For keeping each head of horses, mules, or jacks 
levied on by execution or attachment, per day,
For each head of cattle per day,
For each day's attendance on court,
For serving J ustice's warrant, each defendant,
For removing any criminal from one county to 
another, per mile going and returning,
For guards, not exceeding two, per mile going and 
returning,
For conveying prisoner arrested on eapias from one 
jail to another, per mile as above,
For each guard in this case, as above,
Kor carrymg to prison and guarding defendant ar­ 
rested by Justice's warrant, each day,
For conveying a convict to the penitentiary, for every 
twenty-five miles he may necessarily travel in
going and returning, 
For each guard,
For each convict,
If the convict is conveyed by the sheriff, by railroad, 
the compensation to the sheriff shall be for him­
self eight coots a mile, for each guard six cents,
and for each convict five cents per mile, going
and returning. In this case, also, one of the
guards is dispensed with, unless otherwise or­
dered by court. 
For executing every condemned person, including
every necessary expense and service, 
The County Courts may allow the sheriff for ex
officio services not exceeding 
The sheriff may also be allowed by court for addi-
• tional trouble in removing goods levied on by 
attachment.
For delivering to Superintendent of hospital for the 
insane a defendant committed thereto by court,
the same compensation as is allowed for trans­
porting a convict to the penitentiary, to be paid
out of the estate of the lunatic, if sufficient; if
not, out of the treasury. 
For summoning each witness to appear before the
Clerk of Count,r Court to prove deed, to be paid
by the party smng out subpcena, 
For summoning each defendant in forcible entry and
detainer, 
For summoning each Justice or witness in same, 
83 00
2 00 
06 
50 
1 00 
25 
05
1 50 
50 
10
05 
10 
05
1 00 
3 00
1 50 
1 00 
30 00
50 00 
25 
1 00
25 
ARTICLE II. 
FEES OF TAX COLLECTORS. 
S:10TIOlf I 8BOTION 
4666. Commissions on collections of 4666. Commissions for collecting and
State and county tax. paying over railroad tax. 
§ 4565. The compensation of the Collector of State and
County Taxes shall be at the rate of six dollars for every hun­
dred dollars collected, accounted for, and paid into the State
and county treasuries, up to ten thousand dollars; and at the
rate of three dollars ou every hundred dollars over that
amount. 
§ 4566. His fees for collecting and paying railroad tax are
provided for by section 1164. 
ARTICLE III. 
FEES OF COUNTY TRUSTEES. 
S.ICTION I 8:ICTION 
4667. Commissions on county revenue 4668. Commissions for receiving and
paid into his hands. disbursing railroad tax. 
§ 4567. The compensation of the County Trustees shall be
five per cent. upon all sums received from the Collector and
paid over, up to ten thousand dollars ; and two per cent. on
all sums over that amount. 
§ 4568. His fees for receiving and disbursing railroad tax
are provided for by section 1164. 
ARTICLE IV. 
FEES OF CORONERS. 
•
SECTION 
4669. Fees ot coroner are the same as
those of sheriff for similar
services. 
SECTION 
4670. For each inquisition, $6. 
§ 4569. The Coroners in this State are allowed to demand
and receive the same fees as the Sheriffs for similar services. 
§ 4570. They are also entitled to demand and receive for
each inquisition five dollars. 
SECTION 
4671. Constables receive the same fees 4678. Only one levy or attachment fee
as sheriffs for similar services. allowed. 
4672. Also fees for services attached. 
§ 4571. Constables are entitled to demand and receive the
same fees as sheriffs for similar services performed b;r them 
according to law, where not expressly modified m this article. 
§ 4572. They are entitled to demand and receive for services
as follows: 
For the levy of an attachment or fieri faeias, 80 50
For serving a scire facias issued by Justice, 50
For executing each notice, 50
For summoning and swearing a jury of view in road 
cases, to be paid by county, 1 00
For summoning each defendant in forcible entry and 
detainer, 1 00
For summoning the Justices to try forcible entry and 
detainer,
For each witness summoned in same,
For executing writ of replevin,
For attending on grand jury, or waiting on court, per 
day, 1 50 
§ 4573. No constable shall be allowed more than one levy
fee on any one execution or attachment. 
ARTICLE V. 
FEES OF CONSTABLES. 
ARTICLE VI. 
FEES OF JAILORS. 
46i4. Jailors receive fees for services attached. 
§ 4574. The several jail ors in this State are entitled to 
demand and receive the following fees for services:
For each prisoner for whom he provides good whole- 
some water, diet, and bedding, each day, 80 40
For each turnkey, 50 
25
25 
1 00 
SECTION 
4676. Services and fees of notary. 
§ 4575. The notaries public of this State are entitled to de­
mand and receive the following fees and compensation for 
services:
For recording in a well-bound book, to be kept by him 
for that purpose, each attestation, protestation,
and other instrument of publication, 81 00 
For every acknowledgment or probate of deed, or
other instrument of writing, 
For each deposition taken,
For any other service legally performed by him, the 
same fees allowed other officers for like services. 
CHAPTER 8.OF THE COMPENSATION OF SURVEYORS, AND SEALERS OF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
8J:OTI01' 
 
OF THE COMPENSATION OF NOTARIES PUBLIC •. 
CHAPTER 9. 
4576. Services and fees of surveyors.
4677. Sealer of weights and measures 
receives tor sealing, 15 cents.
4678. Fees for other serviees.
4679. He is also allowed compensa- 
8BOTI01' 
tion for correcting weights
and measures. 
4680. For leaving his office to prove,
seal, and adjust weights and
measures. 
§ 4576. The several surveyors in this State are entitled to
demand and receive the following compensation and fees for
services:
For each search, to be paid by applicant,
For each search and copy required,
For recording a plat and certificate in a well-bound 
book, furnished by him, 50
For services per day, computed from the time of leaving 
home, and including the actual time necessary for
calculating the area of such surveys, 3 00 
For all services ordered by a court, at the above rates,
to be taxed in the bill of costs. 
For summo?in~ and qualifying jury to try dispute in 
processioumg case, 1 50
For services in alloting dower, see section 2419. 
1 00
1 00 
$0 10 
25 
§ 4577. The sealer of weights and measures is entitled to
demand and receive for sealing, 15 cents. 
§ 4578. The fees of a standard keeper and sealer of weights
and measures shall be the following: 
For proving and sealing each balance beam, patent
balance, platform scales, steelyards, or other weigh-
ing apparatus, requiring less than one hundred
pounds to test, 80 10 
For such as require from one hundred to five hundred
pounds to test, 25 
For such as require five hundred pounds or more to 
te~ 00
For proving and sealing each yard measure, 05 
For proving and sealing each capacity measure of less
than one gallon, 05 
Of one gallon or more, 10
For proving and sealing each weight or poise of less 
than ten pounds, 05
Of ten pounds or more, 10 
§ 4579. He may also charge a reasonable compensation for
labor and materials employed in making or attempting to 
make such weights, measures, or balances as are not correct,
conform to the standards ; and he may retain such weights
and measures as are brought to him for adjustment until his
fees are paid. 
§ 4580. He shall also have a reasonable compensation for
leaving his office to prove, seal, or adjust weights or measures 
not brought there for the purpose. 
CHAPTER 10. 
OF THE COMPENSATION OF SPECIAL COl\lMISSIONERS, AND
PRINTERS. 
811JCTIOlf 8BCTIOJf 
4681. Special eommlsaionera appoint- 4688. Fees of commissioners to ex-
ed to take accounts, etc., are amine turnpikes, etc.
entitled to same fees allowed 4684. Fees of commissioners to settle
officers for similar serviees, with officers. 
4682. Fees of commissioners to allot 4685. Printer's fees.
dower, partition land, etc. 
§ 4581. Special commissioners appointed by court to sell
proper y, ta e accoun , examinations, epositions, or per- 
form other services, are entitled to demand and receive the
same fees and compensation allowed other officers for similar
services. 
§ 4582. Commissioners to allot dower, and make partition
of land, and for other similar services, where no compen­
sation .is fixed by law, are entitled to demand and receive:
For each day's actual service, $1 00
For every mile of necessary travel, · 05 
§ 4583. Superintendents or commissioners appointed by the
County Court to examine turnpike roads under the provi- 
sions of this Code, are entitled to demand and receive from
the turnpike com:pany, for each day's service, $2. 
§ 4584. Commissioners ~pointed by the County Court to
settle the accounts of o eers, are entitled to receive from 
the county treasury, for each day's actual service, $2.
§ 4585. Printers are entitled to demand and receive for 
printing, the following fees:
For advertising sales under a decree, unless otherwise 
ordered by court, in no case exceeding $3 00
For publishing any order of court, in no case exceeding 3 00
For each tract of land advertised for nonpayment of 
taxes, 1 50
For advertising each estray, 1 00
For advertisement or notice of sale of land or negroes 
under mortgage, judicial process, etc., per square
for first insertion, 80 
For each subsequent insertion, per square, 40 
SECTION OF THE COMPENSATION OF COUNTY REGISTERS, AND RANGERS. 
8BOTION 
4586. Fees of register. 
CHAPTER 11. 
I 
SBOTION 
4587. Fees of ranger. 
§ 4586. The. register of each county is entitled to demand
and receive for services, the following fees :
For registering each sheriff's deed for land, $1 25
For registering a deed of conveyance, grant, or other 
assurance of title, including only one tract, piece,
or parcel of land, or one warrant, 
For each additional tract, or town lot,
For each warrant contained in a grant more than one,
For registering each certificate or order of registration,
For registering decrees for title, under one hundred 
words, 50
For each hundred words in such decrees over one hun­ 
dred, at the rate for each additional hundred,
For registering the transcript of a judgment,
For registering any other instrument, 
75 
25 
15
15 
20
1 00 
50 
For registering certificate thereof, 80 15
For each search of his books, 10 
For all copies from the office the same fees as for regis-
tering. 
For certifying such copies, 15
For each memorandum of incorporation or other docu­ 
ment relating to private corporations, registered
under the provisions of this Code, 2 00 
For each co:py of such memorandum or document, 2 00
For registermg copy of petition and certificate of elec- 
tion to be incorporated as a town, 1 00
For registering deed or article of limited partnership, 
or renewal of same, and certificate of probate or
acknowledgment thereof, · 1 00 
§ 4587. Rangers are entitled to demand and receive the
following fees : 
· For each search, 80 15
For each mare, horse, gelding, colt or mule, entered in 
his office, including certificate, 75
For eltch head of cattle, 50 
For each head of hogs or sheep, 10
Fo.r each bond, 25 
